Seven years after, Government Secondary School (GSS) in Chibok, Borno State, where Boko Haram insurgents kidnapped 276 female students in April 2014, has risen from its ruins. Remodelled and renovated structures of the school undertaken by the Borno State Government, with support from the Federal Government, were early last week commissioned by the Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen. The school is also now renamed Government Secondary School, Chibok, having been converted into a mixed institution from its all-female secondary boarding school status when the insurgents struck. The renovation was delivered six years after Coordinating Minister of the Economy under the former Goodluck Jonathan administration, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, laid foundation stones for the construction of an international standard secondary school in place of the local standard structures destroyed in the attack by insurgents. When the central government failed to carry through with that project under the Safe Schools initiative (SSI), the administration of Governor Babagana Zulum stepped in some seven months ago to remodel and renovate the existing structures. The move came against the backdrop of more than 100 of the kidnapped schoolgirls remaining in Boko Haram captivity. At the commissioning on Monday, last week, Tallen, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari, said the occasion evidenced improvement in the security of the area and marked the triumph of the townsfolk’s desire for education. Governor Zulum said the abduction of the Chibok girls seven years ago and other attacks on educational targets would not deter his administration from investing in, and improving the sector. “The reconstructed Chibok school has state-of-the-art classrooms, library and laboratory, computer and ICT centre, a sports arena and a clinic. For security, it has a gate house and observation post to be manned by well-equipped security agents,” he explained, assuring that the state would work with the Federal Government to rescue girls remaining in captivity. In her address, the school principal, Hajiya Asabe Kowbla, said there was revived momentum  in the school’s operations as students were writing their external exams there this year – first time since 276 girls were abducted on the night of April 14, 2014, with 57 escaping days after the attack and 104 later rescued by government, leaving 115 schoolgirls still in the hands of insurgents. According to her, besides the abducted schoolgirls, teachers were as well affected and had not been compensated. “Fifteen teachers’ houses were completely burnt down by the insurgents. Till date, they have not been compensated and nobody has cared to know about their well-being,” she stated. Zulum, in his own address, had said teachers affected by the insurgents’ attack would be provided houses from the 200 housing units newly constructed by government, “while other property shall be provided to boost their productivity.” It is commendable that the Zulum administration has remodelled and renovated the ill-fated Chibok school, and it is hoped the security arrangement now in place is sufficiently formidable to forestall a recurrence of the 2014 incident – not just in terms of on-site security posts but also proactive intelligence. But questions need be answered by the Buhari presidency on what happened to the $30million mobilised from donors under the SSI spearheaded by former British Prime Minister Gordon Brown, following the Chibok attack, to kit some 500 Nigerian schools with new classrooms, fences and armed guards. The Federal Government ought to have built an international standard school in Chibok under that initiative but could not, which was why the state settled for renovation. No other project is known to have been executed with the funds and government needs to explain where the money’s gone. Meanwhile, last week’s commissioning marked a reawakening to getting Chibok schoolgirls remaining in captivity out. Much more needs to be done beyond mere promises to bring those girls back. Besides, it is imperative for government to keep track of the girls rescued (beyond the few who’ve been in the news for educational feats within and outside this country, what is happening to others?), those still in captivity as well as the surviving parents of those yet to be rescued, given reports that some have died of trauma from their children’s uncertain fate. These are issues that should be integral to rehabilitation and restoration efforts in Chibok.