It’s no news that Burna Boy was nominated by the organisers of the Grammy Awards event and won the award with his popular album “Twice As Tall”. The award remains a highlight for all the nominations, awards won and every other achievement so far in his musical career. The self-acclaimed African Giant was out clubbing with friends over the weekend and made sure to take along his Grammy award plaque. In the viral video which surfaced on the internet, the “Kilometer” singer was seen in the club in the company of friends as they celebrated his taking receipt of his Grammy win. In the course of their celebration, “Odogwu” held out the gold plaque as champagne was poured into it after which he drank the entire content. The video has got social media users talking and expressing diverse opinions. While a popular blog have criticized the Afro-fusion singer for taking his plaque to a club noting he and his plaque have begun a nationwide tour; and may visit all 774 local governments in Nigeria. Social media users have become defense ministers to Burna Boy as they have slammed the blog while hailing their fav; noting the Grammy win was well deserved and he can celebrate and do whatever makes him happy with his plaque. Damsonkc said: “Celebrate your wins! You worked for it, you deserve it and no one can tell you otherwise!” emperor_m.cole wrote: “He brought it to the people, respect!” kiingjaja stated: “If he doesn’t celebrate it to the moon, who will?” keith.7802 said: “Well deserved He has the Bragging rights to do so, who E vex go hug transformer.” chasiseverything wrote: “Allow him celebrate however he likes. He can decide to celebrate in every street in Nigeria. He’s earned it and he deserves it in every sense of the word. Don’t be sarcastic @instablog9ja. Yes I’m drinking water right now- you can do that too.” missglorie_o stated: “He can decide to tour all states, districts and regions in Africa, he worked hard for it and can celebrate anyway he likes.” omalivingshow said: “Allow him o. If he decides to visit the entire world with it, no issues.” _bellanin wrote: “Please they should handle it well so it can reach my local government in one piece, thanks.” bamphotographyng stated: “Worldwide tour sef is allowed. He earned it.” man_like_candy said: “Allow him celebrate in peace please, if it was easy everyone will have it.” asilarex wrote: “No template for celebration. Burna celebrate however you wish. It’s a very big deal! Dear mature people, when you win your own, hide it under a bushel and let nobody hear about it. Trying to tame people and tell them how much is allowed to celebrate their win is subtle envy/jealousy! Live and let live.”