Saudi Arabia announced yesterday that this year’s hajj pilgrimage will be limited to no more than 60,000 people, all of them from within the kingdom, due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. The announcement by the kingdom comes after it ran an incredibly pared-down pilgrimage last year over the virus, but still allowed a small number of the faithful to take part in the annual ceremony. A statement on the state-run Saudi Press Agency quoted the kingdom’s Hajj and Umrah Ministry making the announcement. It said this year’s hajj, which will begin in mid-July, will be limited to those in ages 18 to 65. Those taking part must be vaccinated as well, the ministry said. “The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which is honored to host pilgrims every year, confirms that this arrangement comes out of its constant concern for the health, safety and security of pilgrims as well as the safety of their countries,” the statement said. Confirming the development in a statement issued by its Head of Public Affairs Fatima Usara yesterday, the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) said: “NAHCON respects the decision of Saudi Arabia in this regard no matter how painful that decision may be to us and to intending pilgrims worldwide. “We have accepted that it is Allah’s divine design that multitudes will again this year not perform the Hajj: the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is only playing out a script ordained by our Maker long before creation of the universe. “Our prayer is that we collectively turn to Him in repentance so that He admits us for Hajj in the coming years. “One of the lessons from these two years’ cancellations of Hajj for foreign pilgrims is in the Prophet’s hadith urging Muslims to perform Hajj while they can before they are prevented from doing so. Again, it impresses on us that it is only Allah that selects those who will be His guests for Hajj. May we not be deprived of Allah’s mercy. “May we be among those who will be chosen to perform Allah’s worship in future.” The Chairman of NAHCON, Alhaji Zikrullah Hassan, commended the resilience of Nigerian intending pilgrims and the support they have shown in what he described as long and tortuous wait. Usara said: “The Chairman is particularly impressed and humbled by the level of support and respect displayed (by the pilgrims), evidenced by their adherence to each instruction given by the Commission. “An example is the total compliance in receiving COVID-19 jab with the hope of performing the 2021 Hajj. “Equally, the Commission appreciates cooperation of States’ Pilgrims’ Welfare Boards in its decision-making processes. “As in the previous year, those pilgrims who request for refund of their Hajj deposits will be granted such without unnecessary delay. “As for those who would still wish to roll-over their funds, the Commission strongly urges them to wait for further advice and decisions by the board.” The statement said consultations would be held with all Hajj managers on the way forward in the nearest future, adding that the development would be communicated to them in due course. In last year’s hajj, as few as 1,000 people already residing in Saudi Arabia were selected to take part in the hajj. Two-thirds were foreign residents from among the 160 different nationalities that would have normally been represented at the hajj. One-third were Saudi security personnel and medical staff. Each year, up to 2 million Muslims perform the hajj, a physically demanding and often costly pilgrimage that draws the faithful from around the world. The hajj, required of all able-bodied Muslims to perform once in their lifetime, is seen as a chance to wipe clean past sins and bring about greater humility and unity among Muslims. The kingdom’s Al Saud ruling family stakes its legitimacy in this oil-rich nation on overseeing and protecting the hajj sites. Ensuring the hajj happens has been a priority for them. Disease outbreaks have always been a concern surrounding the hajj. Pilgrims fought off a malaria outbreak in 632, cholera in 1821 killed an estimated 20,000, and another cholera outbreak in 1865 killed 15,000 before spreading worldwide. More recently, Saudi Arabia faced danger from a different coronavirus, one that causes the Middle East respiratory syndrome, or MERS. The kingdom increased its public health measures during the hajj in 2012 and 2013, urging the sick and the elderly not to take part. In recent years, Saudi officials also instituted bans on pilgrims coming from countries affected by the Ebola virus. Saudi Arabia had closed its borders for months to try and stop the spread of the coronavirus. Since the start of the pandemic, the kingdom has reported over 462,000 cases of the virus with 7,500 deaths. It has administered some 15.4 million doses of coronavirus vaccines, according to the World Health Organization. The kingdom is home to over 30 million people.