The Nigeria Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self- Determination (NINAS) has urged the Yoruba people to courageously rise up to defend themselves against Fulani terrorists and herdsmen attacking them in their homeland. The group which is the umbrella body for all self-determination groups in the Southern and Middle Belt regions of Nigeria also urged the people not to wait for the police or Amotekun to defend them anymore. NINAS spoke Thursday in a statement signed by the chairperson of its Central Steering Committee, Otunba Folashade Olukoya and the spokesperson for the alliance, Mr. Tony Nnadi. The group faulted the 1999 constitution of Nigeria, saying it was designed to render state governors powerless on security-related matters so that all states and regions can be at the mercy of the central government. NINAS, chaired by Emeritus Professor Banji Akintoye, has the Ilana Omo Oodua for the Southwest, Lower Niger Congress for the South East and South-South as well as the Middle Belt Forum for the Middle Belt, as founding members, had earlier declared the December 2020 Constitutional Force Majure against the Nigerian Government. The statement, entitled; “Information for Activating Self Defense” read in part “the apex leader of the umbrella body of Yoruba Self Determination groups, Ilana Omo Oodua, The Alana, Professor Banji Akintoye, who also doubles as the Chairman of NINAS, on Monday issued a red alert on security all over Yorubaland, one of the nations that make up NINAS. “A few weeks ago, the Nigerian Defence Minister, Magashi, urged all Nigerians to defend themselves with whatever they can lay their hands on. They should refuse to be sitting ducks, waiting to be killed. “The fraudulent 1999 Constitution is deliberately wired to enable our governors, the supposed Chief Security Officers of their states to fail us in times of need. They have failed us woefully time and time again, being unable to activate or empower the various security agencies, including the Nigerian Police. “Therefore, we all have to come to terms with the reality that our lives are literally in our hands. All households are to be in charge of their own safety. Please do not wait for Police or Amotekun etc to come to your aid. Their phones are likely to be switched off at the time of your need. As happened in the attack on Igangan 6th June 2021. “Community Vigilante should now not be limited to night time, but should be 24/7, with each adult member of the community taking part in rotation.” The group also added that the rotation should be on hourly shifts of three or four hours or as determined by individual communities with whistles, car rims or any other appliance that can be used to alert or wake up residents at the first sign of danger made readily available. “Look out points should be set up and changed from time to time because of internal saboteurs. If possible, safe havens/bunkers should be constructed for children and the elderly. “If necessary, that is, if you get unwholesome security reports, withdraw all children from schools, Creche to University and lock down your community. We cannot predict when these marauders will strike. We need to be vigilant at all times,” the group added.