Some members of Ekiti chapter of All Progressive Congress(APC) have warned the party may lose the June 16, 2022 governorship election should the alleged display of arrogance of power by Governor Kayode Fayemi continue. The members, under the aegis of South West Agenda for Tinubu 2023 (SWAGA) Ekiti chapter, said the actions and inactions of the Governor towards them pose a threat to electoral fortunes of the party. The group, in a statement by its chairman, Senator Tony Adeniyi, alleged Fayemi has created confusion in the party and frightened members because of their uncompromising sympathy for APC National leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Adeniyi said despite the perceived
hostile environment by Ekiti government before and during the SWAGA’s inauguration in the state, APC members across the 177 wards trooped out to identify with the cause against all odds. He condemned government for its refusal to allow SWAGA erect its billboards in the state after obtaining clearance from Ekiti State Signage Agency. Adeniyi regretted party leaders at the ward level, allegedly acting on the instruction of Fayemi, had been hounding and persecuting some APC members perceived as enemies. He condemned the recent suspension of two leaders in Oye Council Area over their sympathy for SWAGA, warning any further attempt to muzzle the group’s activities would be duly resisted. “We are abashed by the unfriendly reception of SWAGA, a wing canvassing the Leader of our party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to contest the forthcoming presidential election for the general good of our party and Nigeria. “As we speak, some members of our party who are supporters of SWAGA are going through series of frustrations and victimisation by an APC government that is supposed to embrace and support them for the enormous patronage, credibility and acceptability that SWAGA is lending our party. “Rather than accommodate and unite members, what we see daily is a seemingly deft attempt to decimate and plunder the party ahead of coming elections. “As we speak, the Ekiti state government has masterminded the suspension of two of our key members in Oye Local Government while it has refused SWAGA to host its billboard after due process had been observed and clearance secured from the Ekiti State Signage Company. “The company had in one fell swoop, turned against SWAGA, to pull down a billboard that had been placed, just because it bears the picture of Asiwaju Tinubu, and bar us from further erection of billboards. “We wondered why a group set up to boost the electoral viability of APC in coming elections would become an enemy of a self acclaimed progressive within the party. “It is so appalling that a government can rise against itself in greed and aggrandizement to the extent of demanding for the testicles of the father as therapy for his child’s ailment,” the statement reads. Adeniyi appealed to the party’s National Caretaker Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni to urgently call Fayemi to order and intervene to save the chapter from collapse and ensure a united house that could sustain victory in the forthcoming elections.