Natives of Midim community in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State have denied being members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Eastern Security Network (ESN). They lamented that young men and even traditional rulers in the community have been wrongfully branded, stigmatised and arrested over the allegation that they belonged to IPOB and ESN. Rights activist and spokesperson of Midim community, Mr Victor Udom during a chat with reporters at the weekend disclosed that politicians bent on resuscitating a dreaded cult group, ‘Akwa Marine’ were behind the smear campaign against the image of the community. Udom said those opposed to the clandestine activities of the gang were now framed up as being members of IPOB and ESN through the wrong information to security agencies. “Thanks to God that without the help of government we have brought the gangs to their knees in our community as evident in the many repentant members that have turned out to seek pardon from the community, an exercise that is still in process till date. Midim community started this war for peace since 2015 when all levels of governance were still in deep slumber. “We are therefore very displeased that, despite our efforts, we are being targeted with some mischievous blackmail as IPOB/ESN secession agitation sympathisers to intimidate us in our continuous engagements against the politically-motivated cult gangs that invaded our communities. This is nothing but a ploy by our politicians to reposition criminal formations in preparation for the 2023 elections. “The ongoing diversionary tactics is counter-productive. We must have the courage and the political will to see the truth, tell ourselves the truth and use the truth to fight criminality and injustice. Our community is today blackmailed and given an IPOB colouration when that is not true. Akwa Ibom would not have had the security challenges it has witnessed recently if the government had stopped playing politics with cultism, insecurity and public safety.” Udom alleged that the state government’s disposition on partisan consideration by condoning and protecting both criminals and known suspects was fueling the worsening security situation in Essien Udim. “The state government must be sincere to admit that its disposition that tends to create the impression that it condones crime, criminals and protect known suspects due to partisan considerations have also helped in worsening the security situation, especially in Essien Udim. “Over 80 per cent of those named by the Directorate of State Security (DSS) report as being cultists, sponsors and major financiers of various cult groups in Akwa Ibom State are today serving as either elected or appointed officials of the AKSG. Can anyone with conscience fault our claim that the government is to be blamed for the security crisis we face today in Essien Udim?” Udom urged the security agencies to reject their source of intelligence in the person of one Boniface who was busy bragging about having ‘black book’ that he put down names of people that he wants to eliminate, noting that he was using that list to threaten and defraud those who disagreed with him. He appealed to security operatives to rely only on a discreet investigation to sieve out the fake information and also guard against torturing anyone wrongly arrested but should give a level playing ground for fair hearing.