Friends, family members, colleagues and well-wishers‎ on Tuesday, paid last respect to late Hon Rafiu Olorunfunmi Olatunji who passed on Monday night. At the burial rites held in accordance with Islamic rite at his residence in Sangotedo, Ajah, Lagos on Tuesday morning, tributes, eulogies and tears poured in freely for Olatunji, who until his demise was the Chairman of Eti-Osa East Local Council Development Area (LCDA). The Nation reports Olatunji died after battling with a long-term illness. Olatunji, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos, had won the APC primary to run for the forthcoming July 24 election. In a condolence message by Lagos APC signed by its Publicity Secretary, Seye Oladejo said the party received the news of his demise with shock. “The Lagos State APC commiserates with the entire leadership and membership of our party on the shocking and untimely passage of the chairman of Eti-Osa East LCDA, Rafiu Olufunmi Olatunji. “He was a committed party man who was totally committed to the development of his Local Council Development Area. “Our heart goes to his immediate family, the good people of Eti-Osa LCDA and the entire APC family on this colossal loss. May Almighty Allah repose his soul, forgive his sins and grant us all the fortitude to bear this loss,” Oladejo said in a statement. The Chairman Bariga Local Council and ALGON National President, Hon. Kolade Alabi prayed for the forgiveness of Olatunji’s shortcomings. He also directed that any form of campaign should be halted for the next 48 hours as a sign of honor for the deceased. The Chairman Eti-Osa Local Government, Hon Saheed Bankole described his death as a “Colossal loss”. Bankole promised to stand with the family of deceased. He said “I and the entire cabinet of members of Eti-Osa Local Government will stand behind you through this difficult time. Know that you are in our thoughts and prayers. May Almighty Allah Grant His Soul Aljannah Fridous.” The Chairman Somolu Local Government, Hon. Abdul Hamed Salawu in his tribute described Olufunmi as a generous politician and a peaceful friend of many. He said, “Hon. Rafiu Olufunmi is a generous politician who is so much loyal to our party, All Progressives Congress and the leaders. He is a peaceful friend of many with his charming smiles and eloquent approach to issues.”