A strong warning by President Muhammadu Buhari against those bent on destroying his government has set many tongues wagging. Buhari, according to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, vowed to shock those bent on destroying his government. He said attacks across the nation were targeted to show his administration has failed. Buhari recalled that he visited all the 36 states before the 2019 elections  “and majority of the people believed me, and the election proved it.” He pledged to continue leading the country in accordance with Constitutional provisions. He said those misbehaving in certain parts of the country were obviously too young to know the travails and loss of lives that attended the Nigerian Civil War. “Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand. We are going to be very hard sooner than later.” Supporting Buhari’s statement, the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo via his twitter handle said: “I hope some elites who couldn’t find their voices to rein in their wards when their region burnt, will not suddenly find their voices against Mr. President! “Those who screamed that it’s Mr. President’s duty to maintain law & order should NOT try to teach him how to do his job now.” But many berated the President for not tackling the issues at hand systematically especially dialoguing with aggrieved Nigerians rather than issuing threats. Some others carpeted Buhari who once appealed to bandits. Commentator, Dr. Dípò Awójídé said: “I would like to see a last minute dialogue between the federal government led by President Buhari, South Eastern leaders, and representatives of this separatist group. “The alternative would be destruction, death, pain and suffering. Just one last peace effort. Just one” Azeez Ishola said: “At the end of Buhari’s 8 years in office, every Nigerian alive deserves and should get a certificate of survival.” Ayo Sogunro lamented: “Buhari’s reputation is already sealed for all of posterity, but what saddens me are the people around him who will forever be tarnished by their association with his genocidal statements.” Rights activist, Comrade Deji Adeyanju said, “Buhari says he will deal with us in the language we understand. Does he want to off light, remove the cameras at the Tollgate again & kill citizens again?” Co-convener of the Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) movement, Aisha Yesufu said: “Someone needs to tell Buhari that this is not the era of the 60s and government no longer has monopoly of violence.”