‘Galala’ singer, Daddy Showkey has caused a stir among fans and social media users as he recently relived an old habit. The ghetto dance singer, born John Asiemo recently took to social media on Sunday, June 6, 2021 to inform fans of his intention to trek from his house at Ojodu to Ajegunle. According to Daddy Showkey trekking such long distance was a way of life for him when he was growing up. The 50-year-old noted the journey was to last for six hours. The singer made several live videos while trekking from his house at Ojodu Berger till he eventually arrived Ajegunle in the evening. He said: “I’m about to do something. I’m about to walk from my house to Ajegunle, today. I want to surprise everybody. That’s about 5 hours….6hours of walking to Ajegunle but I’m gonna make it shorter. “I will tell them that I used to do it when I was still growing up and I can still do it again. I want to surprise my guys. They won’t know, I will tell them to come and pick me. They’ll be surprised, just dey watch, una go see today.” In his last video, which showed that it was already dark, the singer was heard saying: “Right now, I’m about to get to my final destination. I am in front of Ajeromi Police Station like this. Any moment from now, I will get to Aunty Ego’s place.” He further added that he began his journey around 2:30pm. Meanwhile, social media users have hailed his determination and drive; noting they are proud of him godsfavor.1 said: “Oh my God still on the move wahoooo what a great determination this is huge.” Chixonnexus wrote: “OMG!!! This touches me… There must be reasons behind this legendary sacrificial walk. And that reason must be accomplished. God bless ur spirit sir. U never neglected the place of ur little beginning. I am happy I know u.” lawrenzoville stated: “Boss you did the talk and you walked the talk. Johnny Walker.” afrojuicewills said: “Hailings Baba! Person wey know you, really know person. You dey inspire us.” betty_akpan wrote: “Yes he made it, was with him on IG all the way congratulations.” samsonahonsi stated: “Naa real talk and do you be, 7 gbosa 4 u gbosa,gbosa, gbosa,gbosa, gbosa, gbosa, gbosa.” abubakarlukmon said: “Baba you be legend.” frank_de_nero_ wrote: “You are 1 of a Kind, Congratulations.” kcjombo stated: “Congratulations , you made it, Confrim Made.” adedejioluwasegun said: “Baba u valid aswear.” francisbenneth wrote: “The realest man i know… Any celeb wey de claim street.. Make dem try am….. Baba i respect you.”