Spain’s national soccer team has faced criticism for its performances at the European Championship, and now the players have to defend themselves from accusations that they snubbed their own fans. A video of players ignoring supporters in Seville has put the squad in a tough spot ahead of its final group match against Slovakia today. The video was posted by Spain’s national team on its Twitter account. It was shot by the Spanish soccer federation as the squad left its hotel ahead of Saturday’s 1-1 draw against Poland. In the short video, several dozen fans are seen outside the hotel as players make their way to the bus that will take them to the nearby La Cartuja Stadium. The crowd, which includes many youngsters and children is waving Spanish flags, applauding, cheering and loudly chanting some of the players’ names. But as the squad goes from the hotel to the bus, many players are indifferent to the crowd. Most don’t even look to acknowledge them and some go by while looking at their phones. Only a few players are seen saluting the fans, in addition to coach Luis Enrique, who in separate images was seen waving to them. Spanish media said six of the 24 players in the squad saluted fans while on their way to the bus — Rodri Hernández, Sergio Busquets, Jordi Alba, Pablo Sarabia, José Luis Gayà and Aymeric Laporte, who is debuting with Spain’s national team after playing with France’s youth squads. César Azpilicueta, one of Spain’s most veteran players, tried to defend the squad on Monday. He acknowledged that “not all the players were saluting the fans at that time,” but said the national team has tried to be as close as possible to the fans. He blamed the coronavirus pandemic for the less-than-perfect relationship between players and fans at the moment. “We are the first ones who want be closer to the fans, to be signing autographs and taking photos with them,” he said. “But unfortunately, because of the COVID-19 situation, we can’t do these types of things. It’s in these difficult moments that we miss the fans the most.” A draw or a loss against Slovakia in its final Group E match could mean elimination for Spain as it would depend on other results to advance to the next stage. It would be an embarrassing setback for “La Roja,” which is playing its group matches at home at Euro 2020.