NIGERIA’S soccer has a date with destiny on July 4 in Los Angeles, the United States of America (USA) when the country’s senior team, Super Eagles faces better-ranked Mexicans who are 11th in the world compared to the Nigerians who are 32nd in the last FIFA ranking in an international friendly meant to keep the Mexicans busy. The country’s opponents are preparing for the South American version of the Nations Cup meaning they would be confronting the Nigerians with their armada of stars. Many have written off the Nigerians based on how poorly managed the domestic game has been in the last decade. Conversely, the South Americans would be playing against the former African champions with products from the country’s domestic game who have been in limbo in terms of been exposed to top-flight football at the international levels. The domestic league has been lying comatose making these players and coaches unable to compete with their counterparts in the African continent despite the deluge of potentials abound in the 774 Local Government Areas in the country. Aside from the fact that those who would file out against the Mexicans are greyhounds, they would be playing together as a team for the first time, making them vulnerable for whiplash from their superior opponents. Clearly, this is an unfair challenge but football is a very cruel game when it comes to churning out results from such lopsided pairings. But the game must be played with players and coaches who are being owed salaries, match bonuses running into billions  of naira, no proper welfare packages, medical facilities for the players and coaches are nothing to write home about, not many can tell who the insurance firm of the league is  nor can anyone vouch for the insurance policies of the clubs in the event of death, permanent disabilities, etc to the participants just as the quality of coaching in the team being of the lowest standard. Match venues for the local game turned into battlefields with referees dragged on the turfs by urchins of the home teams with some players being made to jump over high stadium fences for their dear lives. Sadly, the disciplinary body for the league has churned out verdicts which leave much to be desired. In one breath the homes side are indicted for bringing the game to disrepute without commensurate application of the rules on such matters as crowd encroachment. Clubs are punished but the real hosts of the games, the States’ FAs walking away with a smile. The punishment for crowd encroachment is clear. Why the disciplinary body chose to say that a game that was goalless before the fracas ended 1-1 after the unruly acts remain laughable because video recordings of the game didn’t show any goals scored during the ill-fated match. What the Mexico friendly offers to home-based players if the organisers in Nigeria knew their onions is a platform to attract attention from foreign scouts without recourse to the country’s managers who are fixated on the players they have selected as if the pool of talents available for selection must come from Europe and the Diaspora. Need I waste space to mention many great Nigerian players who did well for the Super Eagles through their efforts to here before heading to Europe? Picking home-based players for the July 4th game wouldn’t have attracted such resentments from league followers in the country if we had organisers who did the weekly and monthly awards of the past where the best players were selected for the period by a group of renowned soccer experts. This exercise had Pepsi sponsors and the coaches, players administrators, and journalists looked forward to the verdict from the panel. Winners cherished their awards and it was easy to pick the best 16 players at any period for selection. The lucky 25 home-based players who would wear the country’s jerseys would be driven by their individual desire to change their fortunes by giving their best against the Mexicans. It is good to know that NFF’s Technical Director, Austin Eguavoen has been chosen to lead the team on July 4. Eguavoen isn’t a stranger to home-based players. He routinely watches the domestic game venue before he was picked as the federation’s Technical Director. Eguavoen’s choice is faultless having won the domestic league and the country’s longest soccer competition the Challenge Cup as coach of Enyimba FC of Aba. The home-based players should be reminded that the Mexican game won’t be points scoring, meaning that they should freely express themselves when they get the ball. Football is like biscuit, nobody knows where it would crack, according to the Sierra-Leoneans. A few have questioned the rationale behind NFF not asking Gernot Rohr to handle the team on July 4, since he is the national team’s manager. What does it matter for as long as we seize the opportunity to open a new vista for our best players and coaches through such friendly games as the Mexicans’. However, Rohr told the media here on Tuesday that: “That’s a team for CHAN and is good preparation for them, it will be difficult to ignore Mexico because they are a wonderful team, I have to go there and see if I can get new players for the Super Eagles. “I think they have a chance, I’m not the coach of the CHAN I’m only an adviser to the team, I call in Austin Eguavoen and two other coaches from Nigeria, it’s actually the technical director of the soccer federation that selected 25 players with the help of Yusuf and former coaches, club coaches and Imama who gave advice after watching a lot of games to select the best players,” he said. “The game against Mexico will not count for FIFA ranking, it’s not our A team, friendly in the Summer do not count for FIFA Ranking, so, for me as a coach to win isn’t vital in the friendly game but trying and testing new players, change the system and tactical style. This is what I want to do as a coach and not go there for the result, we want to progress and in this year matches is not the result that’s important.” Rohr is a funny man. He hates defeats. He likes to err on the side of caution by relying on foreign-based. Yet, when they are not doing well, he is first to remind us that he has average players to pick from as if he didn’t know that before he applied for the Eagles job. Rohr’s submissions on his team when things don’t go well further exposes his inabilities making it imperative to ask why he is still on the job. Not been on the bench on July 4 would affect the boys psychologically knowing that he is the main man in the Eagles. Of course, Rohr doesn’t look like one to rely on anyone’s verdict to pick his players. If he can afford to be in Los Angeles, he should sit on the bench to bark out instructions to the boys. The obvious question would be if Rohr is Eguavoen’s boss or not to pick the matches he should handle? Rohr said he isn’t the coach of the CHAN team making one ask the NFF who the coach of this side is? Is it also right to have the same backroom staff if the coaches are different? The game must be played while the posers remain unanswered if one is to follow how things work here. Indeed, Rohr told the CHAN team what he expects of them pointing out that: “What I want to see is collective football, not to do a one-man show. I’m watching out for players that would play for the team.” Yet, he isn’t the coach of the side. One isn’t shocked that questions have been raised about how the players were selected. But Eguavoen has stated that: “It was a bit difficult because the information came a bit late but even at that, it is our country. I have been to few league games in the NPFL, the NNL, and even the NLO and I pencilled down a whole lot of players. I had to rely on information from fellow coaches that are in the league. It wasn’t that easy because I have seen a lot of criticism in the pages of newspapers and electronic media as well.” Fair enough. I hope that Rohr can emulate Eguavoen if in the future he is asked the same questions by concerned Nigerians.