Gospel artiste Adeyinka Alaseyori has sued for peace amid the viral Tope Alabi’s criticism of popular Christian song ‘Oniduro Mi eseun o’ sung by singers, Tolu Adelegan and Yinka Alaseyori at different times. The Nation reports in a video making the rounds on social media, Tope Alabi said God isn’t her guarantor because He’s more than a guarantor. Tope Alabi’s comment elicited negative reactions from music lovers especially on social media platforms. She said: “God is beyond being a guarantor to man. I’m not saying that the song is not beautiful. However, when we receive heavenly inspiration to sing, there are some deliberations we must have with the Holy Spirit before we can bring out such a song. ”If we keep singing the gospel just as the Spirit-inspired, there is the possibility that we all will be singing absurdly. As gospel singers, God has given us the brain to digest, chew, and fully comprehend the inspiration given to us before we bring it to life.” But reacting in an Instagram post, Alaseyori said: “If you love God, please in God’s name, don’t comment otherwise. May the peace of God and the God of peace fill our hearts. May we receive grace to rise above all weaknesses. “May the hand of God wrap and shield us all. May the power of God do the unimaginable in our lives. May the mercy of God speak forth where we have lost our voices. May the love of God return to our hearts and altars. “May the fresh fire of revival of the spirit not elude us. May we all come to the real knowledge of God and his power. May we receive help to remain in the secret place of the Most High. ‘’May the unity of faith be achieved in my own lifetime. May we not pray and praise amiss. May we begin to tap into new realms of glory. “May the gate of hell not prevail against the church. We receive help not to submit to the will of the flesh. All in Jesus name I pray and believe. Please share and pray along. #PeaceBeStill.” Also at a virtual ceremony to mark her birthday on Tuesday, Alaseyori said: “I am delighted to worship and praise God. I want everyone all over the world to join me and I will like to say this. “Please, let peace reign. Mummy Tope Alabi is our mother. Let us embrace peace and be happy in God,” she added. Tope Alabi is yet to make any clarifications about her comments on the song. The Nation gathered that many of Alabi’s fans are expecting to see a message of peace from her.