Owing to a series of inconclusive elections that heralded his arrival as the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Yakubu Mahmood was initially perceived as someone who would not be able to match the achievements of his predecessor in office, Prof. Attahiru Jega. But, six years after, he appears to be making efforts to leave a lasting legacy. Correspondent NDIDI OKODILI reports Despite recent attacks on its offices and other critical infrastructure, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is still upbeat on delivering credible elections that will meet the yearnings of Nigerians in 2023. No fewer than 42 offices of the commission in 14 states were either burnt or vandalized by hoodlums, raising fears that the attacks may impede the smooth conduct of the next general elections. But, the commission has remained focused on the task ahead, even though it has repeatedly warned about the implications of continued attacks of its facilities. From what the commission has done so far, which include the expansion of existing polling units, the partial introduction of technology and auditing of the staff and materials, among other laudable steps, the tone is already set for credible election in 2023. National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye said as part of preparations to ensure a hitch-free election in 2023, the commission has embarked on the auditing of its materials, equipment and staff in its 774 local governments and 37 state offices. Okoye added that the audit will allow the commission to know ahead of time where there are shortfalls and gaps in relation to non-sensitive materials and make up for the gaps well ahead of the election. The audit has been completed and the commission is reviewing all the submissions and will begin the replacement of the said materials and equipment ahead of the election. The INEC National Commissioner said the commission will put the country on a firm electoral trajectory as part of its strategic repositioning ahead of the preparations for the 2023 general election. He said: “To this end, the commission has deepened the use of technology in the electoral process. The commission initiated and deployed candidates’ nomination portal wherein political parties file the list and personal particulars of their nominated candidates and this obviated human interface and challenges with the domestic problems of political parties.” He also disclosed that the commission has completed the review of its Strategic Plan and Strategic Plan of Action (2022-2026) and that it has commenced its comprehensive and strategic planning for the next general elections. Okoye said the possibility of deploying technology in the conduct of the next general election, to reduce most of the human errors and other hiccups that often mar manual elections. His words: “For the 2023 general elections, the commission is working towards the use of Electronic Voting Machines. We are hopeful that the National Assembly will complete work on the constitutive legal framework that will pave the way for the additional use of technology in the electoral process.” He, however, stressed that, “political parties must understand and realise that sovereignty belongs to the people and allow them to determine electoral succession”. He added: “Due process and due diligence by political parties will reduce the current resort to aggressive litigation in the electoral process. Political parties must practice what they preach. They cannot use a different standard in judging the commission and brazenly violate their constitutions and guidelines in candidate’s nomination and party organization.” Okoye, however, assured that “this commission is determined to reposition the electoral process and bring it at par with regional and international standards”. He said: “We solicit the cooperation of all the critical shareholders in the electoral process. The commission has the courage and determination to reposition the electoral process. This commission will not leave any person behind.” Chief Press Secretary to the INEC Chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi hinted that the commission has already commenced preparations for the next general elections, scheduled to hold in 2023. He, however, observed that the commission needs the cooperation of all stakeholders to succeed. Oyekanmi said: “Since Prof. Mahmood Yakubu’s re-appointment on December 9, 2020, the commission has embarked on several activities to prepare the ground for the 2023 general elections. Based on the commission’s already established principle that general elections will hold on the third Saturday of February of the election year, all Nigerians are now aware that the 2023 general elections will begin with the presidential and National Assembly version on February 18, 2023, to be followed by the governorship and state assembly elections two weeks later. “The 2022–2026 Strategic Plan/Strategic Programme of Action Committee has been inaugurated and has since started work. The committee will develop the 2023 Election Project Plan that will provide the roadmap to the next general elections. “To enable more eligible Nigerians participate in the electoral process, the commission embarked on the Expansion of Voter Access to Polling Units initiative back in March this year. We consulted widely, having learnt valuable lessons from the previous failed attempts on the same issue. With the cooperation of all stakeholders, the commission has now concluded the process with the conversion of 56,872 Voting Points and Voting Point Settlement to full-fledged polling units. The total number of polling units in Nigeria has now increased from 119,974 to 176,846. “With this development, many more Nigerians will be able to vote with ease in the 2023 general elections. The last time polling units were created in the country was in 1996. What could not be done in 25 years was achieved in about four months! This is a piece of evidence that when stakeholders cooperate with INEC, nothing is impossible. “All plans have been concluded to resume the Continuous Voter Education (CVR) on June 28. Recall that the total number of registered voters for the 2015 general elections was about 70 million. Between July 27, 2017, and August 31, 2018, INEC carried out the CVR in the manner prescribed by the law for the first time and registered over 14 million voters. “The Register of Voters currently stands at over 84 million. We are projecting that by the time the commission suspends the CVR in August 2022, the number of registered voters could get to 100 million. “For the CVR, the commission has, for the first time, introduced an online pre-registration facility to give eligible Nigerians who have attained 18 years and those who are over 18 but had never registered the opportunity to begin their registration process online. “This is part of the commission’s effort to deepen the use of technology. However, registrants will be required to complete the process at one of our designated centres in compliance with the law.” Oyekanmi continued: “In result management, recall that the commission last August introduced an online INEC Result Viewing Portal  (IRV) for the Nasarawa State Constituency bye-election and both Edo and Ondo governorship elections held in September and October 2020 respectively. The portal enabled Nigerians to view the polling unit results of the three elections in real-time, as they are released and uploaded after the close of poll on election day, directly from the respective polling units. “All interested Nigerians with an email address can log on to the portal, register with a username, a password and click on any polling unit in any local government where the elections were held. The portal will be used for the 2023 general elections in an improved manner. “Also, the commission has submitted a robust body of recommendations to the National Assembly on specific areas of the 1999 Constitution and the 2010 Electoral Act, where amendments are required to give the commission the power to operate more efficiently. Also, for the first time, the commission held a two-day workshop with committees on INEC of both chambers (of the National Assembly) on the Electoral Act amendment process.” 