To boost access to medical care and ameliorate the medical conditions of the residents of Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State, the Royalty Club of Egbaland (RCE) has donated drugs and medical consumables to some public hospitals in the state. According to the RCE President and Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Economic Planning and Budget, Adebayo Sodade, the hospitals include the Federal Medical Centre, Idiaba; Sacred Heart Hospital, Lantoro; and Olikoye Ransome Kuti Memorial Hospital, Asero. Appreciating the support given by RCE, the Head of Clinical Services at the Federal Medical Centre, Dr. F. E. Ojebienu, in a letter signed on behalf of the medical director of the centre, noted that the donation came at the appropriate time. The items will be put to judicious use for the staff and patients, Ojebienu wrote. Sodade said that the club, formerly known as Ake Royalty Boys, was established about 14 years ago with the main goals of fostering social, economic, cultural and sporting developments of Egbaland, Ogun State and Nigeria. “Since its establishment, the club has been at the forefront of alleviating the sufferings of the masses, and encouraging the youth to develop their potential, most especially in Egbaland,” he said. He noted that as part of its contributions to impacting positively on the squash clinic in Ake palace in Abeokuta, nurtures the youth and promotes the game of squash with impressive results – an initiative which aligns with the interest of  the Alake and paramount ruler of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo. “Through our mentoring efforts, the Ogun State Squash Youth Team has become one of the best in Nigeria, while some of their wards have since become full-rated professionals,” he said. He further disclosed that from 2018 to date, the club has been running a squash academy at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library Squash Complex, Abeokuta, in collaboration with the Ogun State Squash Racquet Association, with the approval of former president of Nigeria, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo. According to him, in view of myriad health challenges faced by the residents of the state, about 1,000 people were given free medical consultations last year by the club at an outreach organised in Ake Palace, Abeokuta, to commemorate the 34th Lisabi Festival, where those who attended were screened for hypertension, diabetes and visual impairment. “Those screened were given medications and referrals to secondary and tertiary health facilities, while 15 people were sponsored for sight restoration/preservation surgery for cataract or glaucoma.  We decided to donate drugs and medical consumables to the hospitals this year in lieu of the medical outreach which was planned as an annual event, but had to be stepped down, because of the cancellation of the 2021 Lisabi Festival, due to the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said.