The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations and the Federal Government have signed two Technical Cooperation Programmes (TCPs) with the aim of strengthening sustainable and inclusive food and agriculture systems and food safety. The signing ceremony held in Abuja yesterday, was presided over by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Ernest Umakhihe and FAO’s Representative in Nigeria and to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Mr. Fred Kafeero. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Kafeero said FAO had secured funds for implementation of three TCPs which are in line with the priorities of the Federal Government of Nigeria as outlined in the FAOs Country Programming Framework (CPF) for Nigeria 2018-2022. Among the TCPs, is the one that will focus on the implementation of the Hand in Hand Initiative in Nigeria for sustainable and inclusive food and agriculture systems to build resilience and alleviate poverty, hunger and malnutrition. “The Hand in Hand initiative in Nigeria aims to enhance the capacity of communities and rural institutions to take advantage of the unexploited opportunities effectively and sustainably but also address structural constraints and build resilience of populations in territories under crisis’’, he said. On the other hand, the other TCP aims to provide technical support to aflatoxin management and mitigation in Nigeria. It is expected to help the Government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to address food security and nutrition issues, support the national economic diversification drive, ensure food safety, and provide import substitution, among other benefits, Mr. Kafeero added. Explaining further on the TCPs, Assistant FAO Nigeria Representative, Abubakar Suleiman, said it is a country owned initiative developed by FAO that works across stakeholders to develop and identify Investment gaps and develop territorial approaches that will target specific value chains, specific commodities and specific entry points. He said Nigeria through the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and rural Development expressed interest to join the hand-in-hand initiative, and for that, if you have constituted a core team and a technical task team that is deployed to support Nigeria. He also noted that this technical cooperation programme is a facility that will support in releasing constraint, and bottle necks to the implementation of hand-in-hand in Nigeria. “Essentially, the hand in hand would work very closely with the participating Ministry. There are three main Ministries and other offices, the main Ministries include the Ministry of Agriculture and rural Development, Ministry of Trade and Investment and Ministry of humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. “The hand in hand has a two-track approach that would focus on investment and impact Program implementation in defined crops and other Commodities that would be later developed and identified and prioritized in the course of the implementation. “The second track is the humanitarian track that will fast-track resilience building a livelihood recovery programme in particular in territories that are facing different forms of crisis.