The Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on COVID-19 pandemic has said the Federal Government would enforce penalties, including deactivating the travel passports of violators of recent travel advisory for travellers from India, Brazil and Turkey. The Federal Government, in the last three weeks, had published names and other travel particulars of more than 220 alleged violators of the travel advisory, who evaded protocols set for travellers from the said countries of concern. Speaking during the PSC’s media briefing in Abuja yesterday, Chairman of the Committee and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, also said Nigeria had been taking the precautionary measures to ensure that the country is kept safe from experiencing a third wave of the pandemic. According to Mustapha, besides deactivating passports of the Nigerian violators, the foreign offenders would have their visas revoked and prosecution, where applicable, would be an option. “Pursuant to the travel advisory issued, I wish to inform you that the PSC has initiated series of sanctions against those that have violated the 2021 Health Safety Regulations. “To this end, the PSC has published the names and particulars of over two hundred violators that evaded the quarantine requirement. “This is considered a serious infraction and the PSC will proceed to do the following: deactivate the passports of Nigerians involved for a period of not less than one year; revoke the visas of foreigners that have abused our hospitality; and prosecute the violators where necessary,” he said. Meanwhile, the PSC has explained that the country would sustain to be vigilant with the national response process to prevent an outbreak of a third wave. It urged Nigerians to continue to take responsibility by continuing to observe the non-pharmaceutical interventions. “The PSC, therefore, appeals to all Nigerians to continue to observe the non-pharmaceutical interventions diligently. Similarly, Nigerians must eschew sentiments by ensuring that friends, relations and associates arriving from countries of concern and indeed all countries obey the quarantine and post arrival protocols. It is our duty to make sure this occurs. “Nigeria will continue to monitor the unfolding events and will deal with them as applicable. Nigeria cannot afford a third wave and thus will do everything to protect our territory. “In the next couple of weeks, the PSC will focus on three major things, increase testing especially in the states; increase oxygen reserve capacity in case there is a third wave and increase vaccine acquisition drive. “While we watch and study developments around the world, we must continue to disseminate the messages of compliance with the protocols prescribed and to get vaccinated when the opportunity arises. “The philosophy is for us to keep out the virus as much as possible. India is still quite high in a number of cases and in the last week, the numbers in Africa experienced a spike, especially in South Africa”, he said. On the faceoff between the country and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) flights restrictions, he said Nigeria is still in talks with the authorities, assuring that the outcome of the parley would be in the interest of the country. “For some times now, Nigeria has been discussing with the authorities of the United Arab Emirates on the resumption of flights between the two countries. “The PSC will urge the United Arabs Emirates to remove its specific and discriminatory practices against Nigeria. Discussions are, however, ongoing and we can assure Nigerians that the outcome will be in the interest of the country,” he assured. On vaccination front, Mustapha informed that around 2 million Nigerians had so far been vaccinated, adding that much progress had been recorded in the campaign against vaccine hesitancy in the country. “Some 12 weeks ago, the NPHCDA commenced the administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine across the nation with about 2 million persons vaccinated so far. “We have since then intensified the creation of awareness to achieve a reduction of vaccine hesitancy and encourage all eligible persons to come out and take their second dose. “Over the weekend, His Excellencies, the President and the Vice President received their second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Today, members of the PSC will receive their second dose during this briefing. This transparency is to underscore the safety of the vaccine,” he said.