Last week, 36 state governments, under the auspices of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), as well as the Federal Ministry of Finance, took a step that would ordinarily have been inconceivable were things to be normal:  the governors dispatched a 30-man delegation to Lagos to study its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) template, and from that to exchange ideas on how to address their economic challenges. Team leader, Olanrewaju Ajogbasile, said of the mission funded by the World Bank and Federal Ministry of Finance: they were in Lagos to learn from the innovative strategies of the Lagos State government and to adopt and follow the state’s template in revenue generation. Much as the current challenges with particular respect to a diminished accretion into the federation account might have rendered the move somewhat compelling, the spirit nonetheless deserves plaudits. First, it speaks to the dawn of new reality in the face of a shrinking pie from the crude oil account. Second, it attests to the readiness by the governors to embrace new ideas and best practices to grow their IGR as indeed their eagerness to adopt a template that has been proven to work. Here, we are referring to a template developed by one of their own – Lagos State – and which has not only served her so well in a little more than two decades but has established her as a clear leader where its peers, and even the Federal Government, have faltered. The latter point is worth noting in an environment where foreign solutions, no matter how outlandish and unsuitable, are usually preferred over local initiatives. Third, that the governors and no less the World Bank found the model praiseworthy is itself noteworthy; even more so is the soundness of the philosophy and the financial engineering underlying it, which began in 1999 with the innovative imagination of the Bola Ahmed Tinubu administration and sustained by succeeding administrations. Here again, the facts speak for themselves. From a paltry N14.6bn in 1999 when the Tinubu administration took off, the IGR more than quadrupled at N83.0bn at the point of its exit in 2007.  By 2015 when the successor Fashola administration left, the state’s IGR had risen to N276.6bn. Last year, it stood at N418.99. Differences among the states, in comparative terms, are no less stark; whereas Lagos State contributed 32.08 per cent of the total IGR of N1.31 trillion realised by the states in the country in 2020, that of its closest peer, Rivers, with N117.19 billion IGR in 2020 comes to a mere 8.97 per cent; just as the FCT with N92.06 billion IGR is 7.05 per cent, and Delta N59.73 billion – 4.57 per cent and Kaduna with N50.77 billion – 3.89 per cent. To that extent, it could be said that Lagos, aside earning the bragging rights, has also demonstrated that it has a lot to teach its peers in the other states of the federation. To be sure, nothing in the Lagos model can be said to be rocket science. Much as its IGR infrastructure is truly to beat in terms of the quality of its human capital and the Information Technology base, what separates her from the rest is the factor of focused leadership. A leadership with acute understanding of the imperative of taxation in the governance process, and one imbued with discipline and commitment to push the process through. Without the latter imperative, the resources expended on developing capacity, will in the end be laid to waste. The point here is quite simple: while it is important for states to seek to understand the Lagos template for possible adoption; it will require a lot of hard work to deliver the expected results. It will also require that governors in particular shed the current mindset of depending wholesale on the monthly allocations of unearned money from Abuja. Only then can the template be expected to work and endure.