The founder, Penpushing Media, Prince Dimeji Kayode-Adedeji, has warned media practitioners to guard against the get-rich-quick syndrome, stressing that love of money might endanger the credibility of the profession. He spoke at the maiden lecture of the Association of Mass Communications Students (AMACOS) of Kola Daisi University, Ibadan, Oyo State. He noted that journalists could attain greater heights through their passion for their job, adding that journalism remained a noble profession. Kayode-Adedeji, who spoke on the topic: “Fake news and journalism: Issues, challenges and way forward” urged  budding  journalists to be professional in their duties. The former Zonal Secretary of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) urged practitioners to do away with fake news to avoid loss of credibility. He recalled that fake news was responsible for the 1967 civil war in the country. “A responsible journalist must always avoid disseminating falsehood, which is better described as ‘pregnancy stage’ of fake news,” he said. The media practitioner said fake news could cripple a nation and  cause an unending war, adding that it could also damage the reputation of a person or an entity. Kayode-Adedeji lamented that the use of social media had also contributed to the spread of fake news because there are many anonymously-hosted fake news websites. He said effective self- and legal-regulation of social media and web search engines were needed to curb fake news, adding that individuals needed to confront false narratives when spotted, as well as take care when sharing information via social media. “Clearly, we need effective self-regulation and legally-enforced regulation of social media and web search engines.The information space needs to be flooded with accurate news to displace fake news. Individuals need to actively confront false narratives when spotted, as well as take care when sharing information via social media. “Multiple strategies for fighting fake news are currently being actively researched, and need to be tailored to individuals’  types of fake news,” he said. Earlier, Deputy Registrar of the institution, Mrs. Yetunde Alagbe stated that students need to focus on their area of specialisation in journalism. She said passion towards the profession will make them  succeed. “Many things are associated with journalism, you have to decide on your area of specialisation. You need to think well and decide wisely, you need to understand the passion you have for journalism and this will help you a lot in achieving your dream,” she said. Mrs Alagbe, however, urged students to think out of  the box and serve as voice to the voiceless in the society. Kayode-Adedeji  presented a book entitled: “Battlelines: Adventures in Journalism and Politics”  written by  Chief Olusegun Osoba, and a  foremost veteran journalist. He said the book will be beneficial to  the students.