MTN yesterday said the report warning its subscribers of a possible service disruption was misleading as it related to a notice sent to a select group of its enterprise customers on June 15 about potential service disruptions. The company had in a message, informed its customers of possible disruption in service delivery. “Sadly, we must inform you that with the rising insecurity in different parts of Nigeria; service delivery to your organisation may be impacted in the coming days. “This means that in some cases, our technical support team may not be able to get to your site and achieve optimum turnaround time in fault management as quickly as possible,’’ according to Reuters. But its CEO, Karl Toriola, in a statement, said: “Maintaining network stability and high levels of customer service remains a key priority for us. In line with MTN’s standard practice, this includes communicating to and informing customers of any potential disruptions in a timely manner, whether due to maintenance on the network, outages due to faults or other circumstances that may pose a risk, enabling them to plan appropriately and put in place business continuity measures. “The notice in question was a routine notification to a small group of businesses affected by a specific challenge in very few specific locations. These notices are regularly distributed to partners and are not out of the ordinary. “Small, medium and large enterprises are key to driving economic growth in Nigeria, and with the rise of digital solutions, are becoming more reliant on secure and reliable connectivity solutions. We recognise and understand the importance of service availability and strive to deliver a seamless and uninterrupted high-quality network experience, so that they are able to meet their customer’s needs. “As a responsible Nigerian company, we remain committed to supporting the sustainable growth and development of our country. We are dedicated to delivering the highest levels of service possible, and steadfast in our drive to ensure our customers have the information they need to make critical personal and business decisions and will continue to update them on relevant developments.” MTN Group also announced its intention to fully test and ultimately deploy OpenRAN across its African footprint According to MTN the benefits of OpenRAN include diversifying the vendor landscape, disrupting the cost flow, and removing dependencies on proprietary suppliers. It also promises cost savings and flexibility as it allows operators to use generic hardware and open interfaces. It enables a so-called ‘Lego architecture’ where many different vendors supply the components and software products that together make the end-to-end radio network work. The telecoms firm, in a statement, said it plans to modernise its radio access networks using OpenRAN. “This is in line with one of five vital enablers of our strategy: to build technology platforms that are second to none, thereby allowing for the rapid expansion of 4G and 5G population coverage across our markets,” according to the statement. It expects to reduce its power consumption and associated carbon emissions, which supports Project Zero, MTN’s plan to decarbonise its network and achieve net zero emissions by 2040. MTN explained that OpenRAN allows for the disaggregation of hardware and software elements of a network, enabling telcos to build a network using components with the same specifications and scale from a diverse base of vendors. A disruptive trend, it is gaining popularity as the industry seeks to promote an open and interoperable ecosystem between various vendors, the operator added. The intention is to collaborate with partners Altiostar, Mavenir, Parallel Wireless, TechMahindra and Voyage and roll the technology out by the end of 2021. “As an early adopter, MTN first rolled out open-source technology in 2019 to improve rural coverage. This was in line with our belief that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. To date, we have deployed over 1 100 commercial sites in more than 11 countries and were among the pioneers of open-source adoption, facilitating cost-effective deployment in unconnected areas. For all mobile network operators, radio access network (RAN) makes up the bulk of capital and operating costs. By applying OpenRAN, MTN targets further innovation and cost efficiencies,” the company stated. Group Chief Technology and Information Officer Charles Molapisi, said: “At MTN we are alive to the potential of open interfaces. There is a lot of value that dominant players bring to the business, but telecommunications today is as much about the stability of the network as it is about new services. Customers measure us against the speed with which we can deploy the latest technology and we are committed to finding faster and better ways to do that.” MTN Group Executive, Network Planning and Design, Amith Maharaj, said while OpenRAN brings a new architecture to mobile networks and more suppliers to deal with, it gives telcos much-needed flexibility. “This means that MTN can now look at building a network that can meet cost and capacity requirements of specific markets, or even rapidly deploy 5G and/or 4G seamlessly with existing legacy services. This is a real game-changer for mobile advancement in emerging markets,” he said. In efforts to drive OpenRAN standardisation, MTN is also participating in Facebook’s Telecom Infra Project. “Early adoption gives us the ability to improve and deploy appropriate network architecture underpinned by technology, both tried and tested, and disruptive, to ensure we continue to deliver an exceptional experience, and ultimately play our part in harnessing the power of technology to lead digital solutions for Africa’s progress,” Molapisi added.