 When in 2019, the Federal Government declared that it was investing N180 billion on the oil palm industry to increase its production from 600,000 tonnes a year to five million tonnes, to meet the country’s domestic palm oil demand by 2027 and double the palm oil estate to six million hectares and provide 225,000 direct and 450,000 indirect jobs, many peple hailed the move. In addition to this bold step, many stakeholders have also risen to the challenge. One of them is the Executive Director, Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR), Dr. Celestine Ikuenobe. He has been involved in activities aimed at building more inclusive value chains that support the upgrade of smallholder oil palm production. Last year, NIFOR  signed  an agreement with OCP Africa Fertiliser Nigeria  Limited (OPC Africa) to support site and crop specific fertiliser formulations to enhance soil fertility status and improve farmers’ productivity. He is not alone. Country Technical Lead, Solidaridad, Sam Ogallah, is active in this crusade. He decried the inability of the country to meet the domestic demand of the produce. To him, the $500 million yearly import bill showed the huge gap to cover to meet the  local demand. Speaking at a seminar and inauguration of its Multi-Stakeholders Platform (MSP) in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, Ogallah assured farmers of a transformed oil palm sector in the country, if only stakeholders followed guidelines and best management practices. According to him, the objectives include “promoting synergy among stakeholders towards the protection of the oil palm landscape and ecosystems; promoting inclusion, gender-sensitive access to inputs and oil palm markets with strong emphasis for traceability and standardisation.” Ogallah said the country’s palm oil would be readily acceptable in the international market when its origin could be attributed to traceability and standardisation regulations by authorities which determine how a product is presented in terms of quality and quantity. It was a cheering news that Okitipupa Oil Palm Plc is on the path of profitability. The Company’s Managing Director, Mr. Tunde Adewole, said the company had been working to substantially liquidate most of its indebtedness. After 27 years of struggling, he announced that the company was going to pay dividends to stakeholders. He said the company had embarked on some measures to re-strategise and put it on a solid footing, to respond effectively to emerging challenges and return it to its past leading role in the industry. According to him, the company was working with partners to run its plantations, as well as meet other critical business needs. He added that the investment demonstrated confidence in the local economy and the future of the sector. He listed the great potential for Nigeria in the palm oil sector, adding that it was ready to demonstrate to the rest of the world that palm oil can be grown competitively. Earlier, the Chairman, Chief Alice Osomo, said in 2019, the company recorded a turnover of N281 million compared to N272 million in 2018. This, according to her, was a marginal seven per cent increase in revenue. In the same period, she said the company made a profit-after tax of N3.5 million in 2019 against a loss of N68 million in 2018. According to her, the company has been through several experiences that created so much instability. She noted that the company was looking at full resuscitation plan in five redevelopment phases. These include full plantation repossession and rehabilitation phase, development of its existing 5,800 hectares of a new green field, replanting of 9,000 of brownfield, upgrading of its 40 metric tonnes per hour mill at the company’s headquarters and the 4.5 metric tonnes per hour mill at Ipoke as well as development of refining capacities. She praised the Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, for the assistance that has helped to take the company out of the wood. She said the state government had established a security task force to secure the plantations. Okitipupa Oil Palm Company was established in 1968 and was served by oil palm estates scattered across the three local governments of Okitipupa, Irele and Ese-Odo in Ondo. Also, Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc, which faced  a number of challenges, from infrastructure to coronavirus, is taking steps  to overcome them. Its Managing Director, Graham Hefer, said: “We have the largest oil mill in Africa, rated at 70 tonnes/hour at peak, and a rubber factory delivering 2.5 tons/hour of dry rubber. We’re also erecting two more oil mills to cope with the increased yields, adding 60 more tons/hour to our oil mills in the next two years. Our crude palm oil (CPO) is all sold locally and all of our rubber internationally. We produce 48,000 tons of CPO/annum and this is set to double in the next three or four years. “Currently, we’re the only large volume seller of CPO locally. We’re also proud of our three ISO certifications, 9001:2015, which is for management of quality; 14001:2015 for environmental management and 45001:2018 managing occupational health and safety. We’re also certified by the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).” 