With a somewhat biblical declaration of the popular book of Ecclesiastes Chapter 3, “For everything under the sun, there is a time, a time to be born and a time to die…”, the very charismatic Pastor Temitope Balogun Joshua ended his pastoral duties on earth in the morning of June 5, just days away from his 58th birthday on June 12.  He ironically provided a biblical denouement for his family and followers with his last sermon. T.B Joshua was a pastor, televangelist and philanthropist and founder of Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN). His life was dogged by a series of controversies and applause. He was loved and despised almost on an equal measure. He had an almost cult following by his church members and, as the name of his church implies, he had followers across continents and had a strong social media presence. He had three million fans on Facebook and more than a million on YouTube. He spread his powerful sermons across the world through his Emmanuel TV. Even though he had little education, having stopped after just a year in secondary school, his phenomenal rise in evangelism stood him out. He garnered many awards locally and internationally. His critics often mocked the fact that he claimed to have been called to evangelism in his mother’s womb, a seeming euphemism for how early his interest in the bible and the message started. There are in fact reports that he was called a “small pastor” when he was much younger. It therefore speaks to his commitment and steadfastness, despite operating in a field where there was little acceptance for the poorly educated. We regret the early demise of this son of Nigeria that was awarded an Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic (OFR) in 2008  and once voted Yoruba Man of the Decade by Pan Yoruba media outlet, Irohin-Odua.  The African Report and New African Magazine named him one of the 50 most influential people in Africa. In essence, his constituencies home and abroad recognised his efforts. T.B Joshua might have had his controversies when he was alive, but he led quite a remarkable life. His SCOAN was in one location and, as such, he was different from some other pentecostal churches that had a proliferation of branches in and outside Nigeria, making the often famous General Overseers (GOs) more like mini popes to their organisations. He was more than a pulpit evangelist. He connected in some ways to his thousands of followers and had a personality that addressed both their spiritual and material needs. He was accessible, according to a report, which is far from the attitude of some pastors even in the orthodox churches. He appeared very modest in outlook unlike the luxury lives seen amongst his peers. We commend his brand of social evangelism and philantrophy that addressed in his unique ways the human angle issues of his followers. His organisational ability, given his background is a study in excellent logistical arrangement.  His contribution to religious tourism is unmatched by any other church, as, according to the Nigerian Immigration Services, six of every 10 tourists to Nigeria went to his church. However, we equally acknowledge that there was a series of controversies that trailed both his alleged miracles and spiritual works. We believe that most of his claims had no scientific proofs and, just like many other pastors in a country where governments do not protect the people from excessive fatalism, there are assumptions and exaggerated super powers that he claimed to have that we find questionable. The collapse of one of his guest houses that killed more than a hundred followers, majority of them foreigners, remains a dent on the church and his name. While that might have been a construction error that he could not have anticipated, his reaction after the deaths was far from the miracle worker and prophet he claimed to be. All said, we mourn with his family and followers but plead that other pastors borrow a leaf from his good works but avoid the negatives. Humans need more than the spiritual or the material. T.B Joshua seemed to have endeared himself to his followers and even neighbours not just as a pulpit pastor but as a regular human. That is what religion should do for people. Jesus started that and his real followers must do same. Love and help the vulnerable.