JACOB: My name is Jacob. I retried from the Ministry of Agriculture, Omu Aran Kwara State. My complaint is short payment of monthly pension/salary since September 1, 1998 till date. ESTHER: Good day ma, I am sending this message on behalf of my father whose name is Kafaru from Osogbo, Osun State. He retired from Ministry of Works and Transport, Osogbo in August 2006. He is yet to receive his federal share gratuity and pension arrears while others in the same category with him have received theirs. Prior to the directives he was given by the staff on the PTAD helpline, he attached the required documents which includes his bank statements from 2006 to date, his verification among others to the official email address of PTAD via the email folabomiesther@gmail.com. I will be grateful if this can be looked into and the action be expedited so he can get his pension arrears and gratuity on time because he has been on this issue for quite a long time and he is aged now. I look forward to getting a favourable reply from you. MRS ADETUTU: Dear Omobola, I am writing on behalf of my mother, Mrs Adetutu. This is my fourth time of putting my complaints on The Nation newspaper; it is all about her pension arrears of four years – 2006 to 2010. She has not been paid. She retired from the Federal Ministry of Works in 2005. Her gratuity was paid in February 2007. After which her monthly pension should followed. But she did not get any monthly pension until August 2010, so they owe her four years’ arrears with her other benefits to follow. She was verified in Lagos in 2018. PTAD has all my data computerised with all my complaints, yet after getting back to Abuja they demanded for my statement of bank account again which I sent to them. The worst part of it is that in 2019, they again demanded for another statement of account from 2007 to 2019, making it 13 years’ statement. I sent again and they replied me through my emails address that it was received on February 2020. But up till now, nothing has been done. I am 76 years and the time is going, we only have the grace of God after 70. The remaining one is overtime. Please help me out before it is too late. Thank you. ESUME: My name is Esume. I will like to inform you that the minimum wage of 24 months is not correct. I was paid N103 and the increase monthly is N15,907:34. Kindly help to correct it. DORATHY: I am Mrs Dorathy. I reported that my name was removed from payroll since May 2018. I was verified and captured on May 31, 2019, but till date, I have not been paid and my name has not been restored to the payroll. That I worked with the then P&T. My date of first appointment is September 22, 1962 and my date of retirement is June 1, 1986. I am an old and frail looking woman with bad sight and has difficulty in moving around. Please, do come to my assistance. EKONG: Dear Omobola, I thank you for the effort your organisation put in place to help us. I retired fro ALSCON. I spoke with PTAD staff on June 15, 2021 and she asked me to scan and send a document I was given when verified in 2019 which I did. But since then, I have not been able to reach her on her phone again as her number could not be reached. Kindly help me communicate with PTAD so I can get a response from them. ZAKARI: Dear Omobola, my name is Zakari from Niger State. I am the next of Kin (NOK) who seek for your intervention concerning my late father’s death benefit from PTAD after my verification in 2017. I sincerely appreciate your effort. I received a call from PTAD Staff following your intervention. I was told to forward another statement of account of my late father which I have done that in October last year. But up till now, nothing is happening. Please Omobola, kindly seek audience with the Executive Secretary of PTAD and ask why are they not paying the Next of Kins (NOKs). Thank you. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore, JACOB, ESTHER, MRS ADETUTU, ESUME,  ZAKARI,  DORATHY, EKONG, should look out for the newspaper next week for responses.