The St. Raphael Divine Mercy Specialist Hospital (SRDMSH) has reaffirmed its commitment to medical excellence. The hospital stated this at its 10th Anniversay, when an ultra-modern intensive care unit and orthopaedic theatre with C-arm  were inaugurated. Founded by Anthony Cardinal Olubunmi Okogie, SRDMSH aims to cater for the poor around the suburbs of Ikorodu. The event held recently at the hospital’s premises at Ijede, Ikorodu, Lagos. Okogie said SRDMSH’s commitment to excellence has resulted in many accomplishments over the past 10 years. “It will interest you to know that there was only one primary health centre in Ikorodu at the time. The place was like a satellite town. The poor ones living around then would come all the way to the heart of Lagos to receive medical attention. More so, there was a need for a good/major hospital owned and operated by the Archdiocese of Lagos. “So, we decided to build the hospital to close this gap in Ikorodu. Among our intentions for the hospital, profit-making was not considered a factor. More so, there are so many modern-day hospitals in these other places. Ikorodu had no good medical facility,” the retired senior cleric said. Despite the hospital’s achievement, Okogie is not pleased. “I recognise that the hospital is still evolving. With the recent acquisition of some state-of-the-art facilities and engagement of specialist qualified personnel, I would measure the hospital’s improvement to about 40 per cent from where they used to be.But, coming from that turbulent history, I am glad that today, the hospital has better facilities, more qualitative personnel, etc. We believe the hospital will gain more grounds in the next 10 years,” he added. The Catholic Archbishop of Lagos, Most Revd Alfred Adewale Martins noted that the upgrade of the facility met with the commitment of the hospital management to raise the service delivery capacity of missionary hospitals to international standards to save lives of the people, adding that the project will complement the effort of the hardworking and dedicated personnel in the hospital to save more lives. Revd. Martins, however, urged the  management to keep seeking for well-trained medical personnel who are knowledgeable in modern medical practices and also be mindful of the impact they make in the lives of poor and frail patients.