These are not the best of times for students of polytechnics. From Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) to Delta State Polytechnic, Oghara; to Osun State Polytechnic, Irene, among others, the story is the same: Students who have completed their programmes are finding it difficult to be mobilised for the yearly National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) programme because their admissions have not been ‘regularised’ by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB).  ‘JAMB regularisation’ A JAMB official, who preferred anonymity, explained that  the Board’s regularisation was the process of ensuring that it validated candidates admission details with the insitution that offered them admission. He noted that it was done in their database to either grant candidates gateway to securing admission via direct entry or proceed for service. He said: “It also involves the reconciliation of your OND/ND/NCE/HND admission between your institution and JAMB. “The purpose of regularisation is to ensure that JAMB has your admission details that tally with the admission/registration record in the school that offered you admission. “This allows candidates with admission but with no prior record with JAMB ability to regularise and get admission letter from JAMB. “The  process is either called JAMB regularisation, condonement of illegitimate admission or late application method.” He said a candidate who gained admission without a JAMB registration number or his/her mode of admission does not require a JAMB registration number to go through the process of regularisation’ to be able to serve or apply for Direct Entry. He added that a registration number given to candidates in their insitutions needed to be changed to JAMB’s for their admission to be valid.  Students want urgent action from JAMB However, students who completed their various programmes, have urged the Board to validate their admission for them to be mobilised for NYSC. Adesina Oluwaseyi, who just completed his programme at the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), said he did his ‘regularisation’ early this year and submitted to the appropriate office, but his JAMB portal still reads: ‘No admission.’ ” I did my  regularisation January 2021, signed and submitted to the appropriate office.Till date, “no admission” is what I see on my JAMB portal, it is disheartening that after several years of struggling in school, we still have to wait before we get our admission letter. JAMB claims that our admission is illegal despite writing UTME. And this will prevent  us from  being mobilised for NYSC,” he said. Anaro Hope, a Business Administration graduate of Delta State Polytechnic, Ogwashi Uku, said:” I did my JAMB regularisation early January. I want to have  my PIN, so I can register for this NYSC Batch B. We need JAMB to grant our request so that we can go for service. We graduated last year, we are tired of sitting at home.” Chaotuodi Iheme of Delta State Polytechnic, Ozoro, lamented: “Honestly, I am confused. I wrote UTME in 2015 and scored 252. I was happy when  my first choice institution gave me admission. “Shockingly, I couldn’t find my name on JAMB Matriculation List. When I asked for the way out, I was told to go and regularise my admission and that it could only be done at JAMB state offices. I went there in March, last year and was told that the staff members went for a meeting. Hence, no work that period. “The second time I went,  I was told that I must book an appointment before coming again which I did. “However,  after paying N5,300 and passing through all the stress, it was time to fill the indemnity form. A JAMB official then told  me I  met all criteria for admission, but wondered why it didn’t reflect on the list. “JAMB puts regularisation on hold, but why collect money from people for registration? “My plea is that JAMB should regularise our admission so that we can join our colleagues in service.” For Olorunlambe Saobana, a graduate of the Kwara State Polytechnic, he is tired of waiting for approval, having registered for ‘regularisation’ since 2019. ” I had registered at the JAMB office in Ilorin since November 2019, and have lodged several complaints as regards  the approval, but it has not been approved. No reason was given. It seems they are  just extorting us with the so called regularisation. If they want to discontinue this activity, they should do and let us not waste our time,” he said. Onoja Sunday, who graduated from Benue State Polytechnic, Ugbokolo, said: “Many of us did the  JAMB regularisation last year. Since then, we have not received any message regarding the approval. This has caused  delay for us. Our names have not been updated on  the NYSC Senate list. “We are appealing to JAMB to help us look into the issue.’’ A graduate of LASPOTECH, Ajao Segun Isaiah, wondered why JAMB would not regularise students admission despite it legality. “I don’t understand why JAMB would refuse to regularise our admission when it’s not that we  got admitted illegally into our various institutions.Their failure to regularise our admission has delayed our mobilisation for NYSC and we want a change to that effect. “Apart from that, it would also affect those who want to apply for Direct Entry admission for further studies.” Another graduate, Adeola Deborah Daniel, said: “I finished from the University of Ibadan  affiliate school in Oyo State. I did  my regularisation in November last year, reprinted and submitted, but I’ve not been regularised. It is  quite frustrating seeing my colleagues (we graduated together) going for service while I am still at home waiting for admission regularisation. I have stayed at home for two years.” Adeleye Tobiloba, who graduated from Ogun State Institute of Technology, Igbesa, Ogun State, said: “Education is the bedrock of any nation. Today in Nigeria, there are too many forces against the  youths. Unfortunately, JAMB regularisation recently has added to the list. Despite the increasing number of applications unattended to, we urge those in charge to urgently attend to our regularisation as our future is important to us.” To Sunday Adeniyi,  a graduate of Osun State Polytechnic, Iree: “JAMB regularisation is our right. Officials of the exam body should come to our aid because without regularisation, we will not be able to serve our father land. We are calling on the government to look into this issue as a matter of urgency.” But Ernest Rosemary Omotunde of Heritage Polytechnic, Eket in Akwa Ibom State, claimed: “I did my regularisation last November, but I have not got admission regularised. “Sadly, I was not  able to register with the previous NYSC batch that went to camp because   my details showed I have not been matriculated.” Ajoboh Peace Ibhade, a graduate of Delta State Polytechnic, Ozoro, added: “I submitted the regularisation printout since March 2020 to the school, but I heard nothing. I re-submitted  in January 2021. I learnt it was submitted to JAMB. Up till today, no PIN, no message from JAMB. “I can’t keep waiting like this.They should either do it or give us access for NYSC. The school  gave  us their own admission letter and we even graduated. So, what is stopping JAMB? They should do something fast. “Later, they will say we are disqualified from serving because of age.” Adewunmi Taiwo, a graduate of Computer Science, is unhappy with the system. To her, the whole system is sickening. She said: “I  did my regularisation since January 2020 and have submitted the indemnity form to the school three times. I also learnt that it has already been submitted at JAMB office in Abeokuta. But JAMB is  yet to send me a pin or even  registration number.” Ayegboyin Adeleke Azeez, a graduate of Federal Polytechnic Ilaro, said: “I did my JAMB regularisation last November. Since then, I have not received any message from JAMB. I went  to JAMB office in Ibadan where I did my regularisation several times to complain, still  nothing was done.They should just consider the fare  I spent from Lagos to Ibadan. It is sad. “I went to Ibadan because someone told me it will be done there. Unfortunately, all my efforts were fruitless. While my mates with whom I  graduated are in camp, I am here battling with JAMB regularisation, it  is unfair. “Nevertheless, I want the authorities at JAMB to look into the matter urgently. I am tired of  the  challenges being  faced as a result regularisation.” David Stella Endurance, an Accounting graduate is also displeased. Having done her regularisation last year, it has not been approved. “I did mine  last year. As of now, no admission letter, no mail, text message,  nothing from JAMB. It is saddening,” she said. Njagwani Grace, a graduate of Marketing said: “I did my JAMB regularisation January 2020. It so sad seeing my colleagues embarking on the  NYSC programme and I am at home because of regularisation. “I am appealing to authorities in JAMB to regularise my admission and give me admission letter.”  JAMB reacts In an interview with CAMPUSLIFE, JAMB’s Public Relations Officer, Dr. Fabian Benjamin, noted that the examination body was not responsible for the woes of students who had not been mobilised for NYSC because their admission was not validated. Benjamin reminded the students that JAMB scrapped ‘Regularisation’ in 2017. Hence, affected students should go to their institutions to sort out the issue. He said: “JAMB is not to be held responsible for their regularisation because we scrapped it in 2017. They should go and complain to the authorities in their schools and sort out the problem. And for those who claimed, they paid money on JAMB office, they should report those who collected money from them for regularisation.”