Floyd Mayweather earned a staggering $1.5million per punch in his exhibition bout with Logan Paul. The retired boxer returned to the ring to take on the YouTube sensation in Miami in a fight that sold one million pay-per-view buys in the United States. Paul surprisingly lasted all eight rounds to hear the final bell with Mayweather unable to knock out his inexperienced opponent despite dominating the contest. The undefeated fighter threw 43 punches during the fight meaning every time he did so he was earning over $1m. Paul’s purse is believed to be $14m and so earned $500,000 for each of the 28 punches he threw. Mayweather’s colossal earnings stemmed from claiming 50 per cent of the pay-per-view sales, making his share around $25m.  He is also believed to have received a $10m flat fee and said he earned $30m from the sponsors on his shorts, taking his total earnings to $65m. Mayweather was keen to highlight his ‘Money’ nickname before and after the contest as he confessed taking on Paul was largely a financial exercise. “I believe in working smarter, not harder. So if it’s something easy like [the Paul fight], a legalised bank robbery, I’ve got to do it. I have to do it,” he said before the fight. “My nickname is ‘Money’ for a reason… I worked extremely hard for years and years to get to a certain level. A level where we can start calling everything an event.” And following the final bell, he added: “They say, ‘It’s not all about the money.’ Well, your kids can’t eat legacy. The patches on my trunks, [earned me] $30 million alone. “So who’s really the smartest one in the sport of boxing? When it comes to legalised bank robbing, I’m the best.” Meanwhile Paul’s advisor has vowed that his next bout will be bigger than taking on Mayweather. Guadalupe Valencia told ESPN: “We have to see what makes the most financial sense, but it’s going to be something big. “Everything he does from this moment forward, he’s the ‘A’ side. It’s always going to be big. That’s just the way it is. That’s just the reality after today. “The next fight is going to be bigger. Bigger than Floyd. He went eight rounds with Floyd. His next fight is going to be even bigger because now he’s the person they want to see the fight. “I don’t know what Floyd is doing next, but people want to see what Logan is doing next.” 