Niger Police Command has debunked reports Registrar of National Examination Council(NECO) Professor Godswill Obioma was assassinated by gunmen in Minna. The Police, in a statement by its spokesman, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, said the reports are “totally false, untrue and a pure piece of fake news.” Many media organisations(not The Nation) had reported Obioma was assassinated on Monday evening. But The Nation reported he died after a brief illness, which the police confirmed. The statement reads: “It is important to state categorically that on 31st May 2021 the family of the Registrar/CEO National Examinations Council (NECO), Prof Godswill Obioma formally announced that he passed to eternal glory after a brief illness at National Hospital Abuja. “Members of the public are hereby urged to disregard the fake news and news reporters are advised to always verify their report before publication to avoid creating unnecessary panic and fear in the public domain.” NECO, in a circular on Tuesday by its Director of Human Resource Management, Mustapha Abdul to Directors, Zonal Coordinators, Liason Officers, State Officers and all staff, corroborated that Obioma died after a brief illness. The Circular titled: “Death of NECO Registrar/Chief Executive” explained the Registrar died on Monday after a brief illness. “I am directed to inform all staff of the Council of the death of Prof. Godswill
Obioma, Registrar/Chief Executive of the National Examinations Council (NECO),
who according to family sources, died yesterday 31st May 2021 after a brief illness. “While staff are enjoined to remain calm, the Council prays for the peaceful repose of his soul.” The family also confirmed the Professor Obioma was not assassinated but died from a brief illness. Family sources said the Registrar slumped in his room and was discovered by his wife and driver who took him to the National Hospital where he was certified dead. In a message to Director, Human Resource Management in NECO, Mustapha Abdul by son of the late Registrar, Prince Godswill Obioma the 2nd, the family confirmed that the Registrar died after a brief illness. The message reads: “Dear Sir, this is to formally inform you that my father Prof. Godswill Obioma, the Registrar/Chief Executive of NECO passed to eternal glory yesterday 31/5/2021 after a brief illness. “We request that you kindly notify the Board, Management and the entire staff of the Council of this development. We shall keep you duly informed.”