Although they appear to be two different, unrelated and contrasting scenarios, they can both be traced, fundamentally, to the pervasive poverty that plagues our otherwise abundantly resource-endowed nation. In the first case, the Borno State governor, Professor Babagana Zulum, in a statewide address to commemorate this year’s Democracy Day, as well as his second anniversary, on June 12, made the startling revelation that the Boko Haram Islamic extremist group lures recruits with as low as between N5,000 and N10,000. While it professes to be pursuing a religious cause, the Boko Haram insurgency and other acts of criminality across the country such as banditry, kidnapping for ransom, armed robbery, herdsmen-farmers’ clashes etc, have been attributed to the protracted economic crisis that, over the years, have bred mass unemployment, hunger, lack of shelter, ignorance and illiteracy, as well as dearth of affordable and qualitative health care. Professor Zulum illustrated how the insurgency has worsened the poverty problem that engendered it in the first place by forcing thousands displaced from their communities and deprived of their livelihood and property, to live in Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP) camps. In his words, “On the other hand, there was the risk that insurgents could, after making IDPs socially and economically vulnerable, also explore that vulnerability by offering food and cash incentives to recruit fighters who could even serve as spies in their communities. From records, we have experienced instances when insurgents offered as low as N5,000 and N10, 000 to recruit some spies and smugglers of weapons”. It must indeed take a desperate level of material deprivation for people to be willing to put their lives at risk for such paltry sums of money. This shows that the economic mismanagement, poor leadership, rampant corruption and ineffective policies largely responsible for the widespread poverty in the land constitute a serious threat to the stability and very existence of the society. For, the desperation for survival makes large numbers of people vulnerable to being lured to aid the activities of criminal elements intent on creating anarchy through the offer of ridiculously low sums of money. People who will put their lives on the line for reward of no more than N10,000 at the most already place a low premium on themselves and consider their present conditions of existence as virtually worthless. The second instance involved a housewife in Ogun State, Mrs Blessing Ebuneku Agoro, who sold her two daughters to a childless couple in Port Harcourt for the sum of N300,000. Her husband, Oluwaseyi Agoro, on his return from a trip on June 8, reported to his church leadership at the Redeemed Camp divisional headquarters, as well as the police, that he could not find his daughters and all attempts to locate them had proven unsuccessful. When she was apprehended, the suspect reportedly told the police that she committed the act because her husband had left home for two years and she was finding it difficult to cater for the two girls alongside two other children she has had for another man. This is only one of increasing cases of parents who sell their children, utilise them for forced labour at tender ages or allow them to be exploited in the commercial sex trade for monetary gain. We find it inexplicable that a mother who went through labour pangs to give birth, would willingly sell such children, and this again demonstrates the extremes that economic deprivation and insecurity can drive people to. However, we are also aware that sometimes the problem is that of greed and lack of contentment rather than poverty. For, there are parents who, no matter the extent of their material need, will never go to the extremity of selling their children. This is why the suspect in this case must be made to face the full consequence of the law if found guilty. And if it is true that the husband abandoned his responsibility to his family for two years, there should be consequences too, to deter others. It has become more important than ever before for governments at all levels to take more seriously the need for better management of the economy, reduction of waste and corruption in governance, as well as enhancing the material wellbeing of the majority of the citizenry. Nigeria is too abundantly endowed to have the level of poverty that currently exists in the country. And this is further compounded by the high level of inequality between the minority very rich elite and the vast majority of impoverished Nigerians. Incidentally, in Borno State, Governor Zulum must be commended for showing exemplary seriousness and a sense of purpose in governance, including provision of infrastructure, poverty alleviation measures and proactive responses to the security emergency in his state. We commend this spirit to others.