The Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA) has disclosed that the state currently has 20 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps across the state. The Director-General of the Agency, Alhaji Ibrahim Inga, disclosed this to newsmen on Saturday when the Victims Support Fund (VSF) made an assessment tour of the Gwada IDP camp in Shiroro Local Government Area. According to Inga, the burden of taking care of the IDPs is taking a toll on the state government because of the dwindling resources of the state government, stressing that the government resources can no longer sustain the displaced people for long. “The Niger State government is having serious concern over the IDP situation in the state. That is why we are looking outward to call on kind-hearted individuals and NGOs to come and help us because this situation is not easy and has overwhelmed us, especially with the lean resources and economic hardship in the country. Inga further explained that the majority of the displaced persons are still in the camp because their communities are not safe for them to return. “Most of them are from Kaure, which is where Boko Haram have hoisted their flag and we have not yet gotten security clearance that the place is safe for them to return. The government does not want to gamble with their lives by telling them to return when their homes are not safe,” he said. The Executive Director of the Victim Support Fund (VSF), Professor Nana Tanko, after taking an assessment tour around the Gwada IDP camp said the organisation whose Chairman is Rtd. General Theophilus Danjuma will come in to assist the IDPs in the area of education, food and look at ways to provide means of livelihood for them. She expressed concern over the fact that it is only the state government and the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs that have reached out to the displaced persons in the camp, calling on other humanitarian agencies and development partners to reach out to the people. “I am calling on all other agencies that ought to be rendering support along with the government agencies to reach out to the displaced persons in Niger State.