New students of the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Effurun, Delta State, have been advised to focus on their studies to enable them achieve their goals on the campus. Its Acting Principal/Chief Executive, Dr. Henry Adimula, gave the advice during the matriculation of 1,901 fresh students last Friday. He said they should count themselves privileged that of 2,831 candidates who applied for admission, through the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), and their subsequent success in the PTI’s Post-Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), they were among those chosen. He noted that PTI is neither a university, nor a polytechnic, but rather is a specialised institute for training manpower for oil, gas and allied industries. “You have advantage over your peers in the other educational institutions of higher learning in Nigeria in that you have about the latest technology domiciled in the institute’s laboratories and workshops that is on the wish list of many institutions,’’ he noted. He urged them to  make  academic excellence, innovation, resourcefulness and character development their watchword. Adimula said the institute was poised to develop inventors, technologists, technicians and hands-on personnel among the matriculants to fill gaps in the industry in development and cloning of technology, manufacture of solar devices, motorised electric powered devices, among others. He said the institute was committed to providing conducive learning environment for them to  excel. He advised them to be guided by the Students’Handbook, warning that offences such as exam misconduct, cultism, drug peddling and smoking of Indian hemp on campus; certificate forgery, physical and sexual assault and stealing would be severely  sanctioned. He said they should also take advantage of the various certification programmes being offered by PTI to enhance their competence and give them better opportunities for employment. “Entrepreneurship Development is another area that we are building the capacity of our students,” he added. 