The Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has said President Muhammadu Buhari’s support for devolution of powers is an indication he is not averse to true Federalism or restructuring. He gave this verdict in Abuja while reacting to the President’s Democracy Day address. The VON boss, who is a founding member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), lauded President Buhari for supporting the devolution of powers, which he said will arise from the ongoing constitutional amendment exercise. Okechukwu said the President’s action has denounced the negative narrative that he was averse to restructuring or true federalism. He said: “I singled out Mr. President’s pledge to play critical role in the constitutional amendment exercise and his acknowledgment and recognition of notions of marginalisation among various segments of our population. “I’m impressed with Mr President who is an unsung hero of Agro-Infrastructural Revolution and am also happy that he has nailed doubting Thomases with his uncommon pledge to play a critical role in the devolution of powers via the constitutional amendment exercise as he did eloquently in the 8th National Assembly. “Mr. President has denounced the negative narrative that he is averse to restructuring or true federalism. He capped it up by saying that Nigerians will be happy with the outcome.” Okechukwu recalled that Section 121(3) of the Constitution, an amendment which granted financial autonomy to state legislatures and judiciary, is the child of Mr. President. This, according to Okechukwu, shows that there exists near national consensus for dual-restructuring. Asked what restructuring got to do with the palpable insecurity challenge in the land, Okechukwu explained that security is achieved via kinetic and civil strategic means. He posited the civil strategic means comes handy when the chorus over restructuring has taken the center stage, adding that “today, it is akin to medicine that will cure all our ills.” He expressed optimism that Mr. President’s pledge will definitely calm down nerves, especially when some pundits have spewed the negative narrative that he is averse to restructuring. But when reminded that the President has shifted the task of restructuring to the National Assembly, Okechukwu quipped: “Oh my God Almighty save us! Let’s not be so pessimistic or hapless that our perception on Buhari will not truncate our rational sense of reasoning.”