As the campaign for the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti State gathers momentum, the Atayero of Aramoko, M’oba Olusegun Aderemi has cautioned politicians in the state against playing politics with hatred and bitterness. He urged them not to see politics as a do-or-die affair but instead to go about their politicking with all sense of decency by focusing on issues while carrying out campaigns. Aderemi spoke in Aramoko-Ekiti in Ekiti West Local Government Area during an empowerment programme where over 5000 individuals including widows were given food packs in commemoration of his birthday anniversary. He implored politicians to educate their overzealous supporters to eschew any action or utterance that could heat up the polity and play according to the rule of the game. He also cautioned political parties and their followers against resort to violence before, during and after the elections so as not to worsen the insecurity situation in the country. He called on agitators championing the balkanization of Nigeria along ethnic lines to jettison the idea and work for the unity of the country. He said that it was better for the country to remain united despite the myriads of challenges plaguing Nigeria, saying there were more to gain in being together than segregating as different entities. The Monarch added that the agitation for the breakup of the country is a result of insecurity facing the country and frustration being experienced by unemployed graduates, saying “idleness and restiveness pushed them into unproductive engagements. “The issue of secession is all about insecurity. When people are not secured, so many things come to play. But if there is sanity, people will be very busy. When people are busy, there will be progress. There won’t be time for division, secession. Those things are just a waste of time when things are not going on. “By the time things come back to normal, most people will forget about separation. US is more than Nigeria in terms of population and till tomorrow, they are still united and that is why they call the United States of America. Nigeria is not too big to be united,” he said.