Armed men numbering about 35 were on rampage yesterday in Ikire and Apomu communities in Irewole and Isokan council areas of Osun State. They attacked two banks, a divisional police headquarters and an Oba’s palace. Four policemen and three other residents were reportedly killed in the assault, The Nation learnt. The gunmen shot repeatedly at the palace of Akire of Ikire, and also threw dynamite into it. Our correspondent who visited the scenes in both communities observed that  shops and businesses around the palace were under lock up. Police spokesperson Yemisi Opalola confirmed the death of the four policemen and three residents. Police said the robbers were unable to cart away money from the banks as they were repelled by local hunters. A resident said, “The armed robbers were in the community hours before they attacked the banks. They stationed themselves around Ikire. They were at Sabo, a beer parlour, a lotto shop in front of the palace and one of them sat in front of this petrol station with a polythene bag. When we heard gunshots around the Sabo area which is like 300 meters from the bank, the man who sat close to our petrol station brought out a gun from the bag he was holding and started shooting indiscriminately. We ran into the outlet of the filling station throughout their operation.” “They later came to our filling station and dispensed fuel of N9,310 into their vehicles before they escaped. They attacked a police station, kill officers and some residents in Apomu. They used guns and dynamite during the attack and they damage the automated door of the bank and their properties.” At the palace of Akire, bullets damaged the gate and the palace mosque. The effects of three dynamite that was launched into the premises were shown to The Nation by chiefs on Thursday. Speaking with the Aremo Omooba of Ikire land and the press Secretary of Akire’s Council, Chief Falana Muritala lamented that the community experienced robbery attack in 2012, 2014 and 2021, blaming the happening on weak security architecture. A source in Access Bank, Apomu who pleaded not to be named told our correspondent that they are moving out the bank out of the community.