Workers in the telecommunications and communications sector have threatened to embark on a three-day warning strike over what they described as the insecure working conditions and gross disregard for laws by their employers. The workers under the union, Private Telecommunications and Communications Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PTECSSAN), issued the warning after the National Administrative Council (NAC) meeting in Lagos on Thursday. In a statement by President Comrade Opeyemi Tomori and the General Secretary Comrade Okonu Abdullai respectively, the workers said the warning strike will commence on the 16th of June, 2021. They said the strike becomes inevitable because of growing insecure working conditions in the sector and gross disregard for the laws and its institutions. Some of the affected companies, according to the union, include: HUAWEI Technologies Nigeria Limited, ATC, 9Mobile, Globacom, Smile, IHS, AIRTEL, IPNX Nigeria, SPECTRANET, MAINONE, ntel, Swift and others. The union said: “This is the 21st century but workers in the sector are still being treated like slaves even though slavery has long been abolished all over the world. “We have made series of efforts in the past, including but not limited to escalating the issues to Minister of Labour and Employment, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy and the House Committee on Communications, yet, these employers believe they are bigger than the nation and would not respect our institutions. “Our other demand by the union include: Immediate recall of the severed officer in NOKIA and other workers sacked in Huawei Technologies Nigeria Limited; Immediate withdrawal of warning letters and threats issued to the leaders of the workers in Huawei Technologies ;Immediate commencement of discussion and negotiation of Procedural Agreement and Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Union for the workers in Huawei Technologies and other companies in the sector; Immediate regularization of employment of all the casual workers in the sector. “We reject casualisation of workers in the sector under any form of guise be it sub-contracting or outsourcing. Also, a stop to continued abuse of expatriate quota policy in the sector.”