The Army has appointed Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu as the new spokesperson of the Service. The Service also appointed Major General C.G. Musa as the new Theatre Commander of Operation Hadin Kai. Until his current appointment, Nwachukwu was the Acting Director Defence Information. He also served as the Deputy Director Public Relations, Headquarters Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole, now Operation Hadin Kai Nwachukwu, a seasoned Public Relations Officer, is an alumnus of the University of Ibadan and a member of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations(NIPR). He also holds a Masters Degree in International Affairs and Strategic Studies from the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) Post Graduate School Kaduna and a Post Graduate Diploma in Advertising and Public Relations from the International Institute of Journalism (IIJ) Abuja. He has also attended several military and professional courses as well as seminars within and outside the shores of Nigeria. Some of these courses include: Deputy Spokesman/Media Operations Course at the Joint Information Activities Group, Royal Air force, Holton United Kingdom and Special Operations Command Course at the Shijiazhuang Military Academy, China. Nwachukwu also attended Strategic Communication Course at the Nigeria Army School of Public Relations and Information, Lagos and the Counter Terrorism Course, at the Infantry Corp Centre, Jaji, Kaduna State. The new Army spokesman served as Assistant Director Defence Information (NA), at the DHQ, Chief of Staff Headquarters, Directorate of Army Public Relations and Public Relations Officer of Nigeria Defence Academy. In addition, he served as the Media Coordinator, Joint Task Force Operation Pulo Shield, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. He equally participated in the United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) as Military spokesperson. Musa takes over as new Theatre Commander of Operation Hadin Kai following the appointment of Major General Faruk Yahaya, as the new Chief of Army Staff. General Yahaya succeeded Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru who died in a plane crash in Kaduna.