Super Eagles defender William Troost-Ekong has been talking about realising his dream of playing in the English Premier League after helping to gain promotion for Watford. Troost Ekong, 27, said promotion to English top flight is one of the absolute highs of a career that has included top-flight Italian football as well as the World Cup, the Olympics and the African Cup of Nations. “It’s amazing. I can’t really put words to it now,” said the Nigerian,  speaking during his first interview since Watford sealed promotion with a 1-0 win over Millwall. “It’s one of the best days in my life and in my career so far. We worked so hard for it and now we’ve done it, so I’m really pleased for all the boys.” Troost-Ekong sacrificed life in Serie A with Udinese for a chance of Premier League football, and the defender said it’s thanks to a combined effort from top to bottom that that dream has become reality. “Credit to everyone from the backroom staff, to the media staff, to the manager, to all the physios, to the owner, to everyone. It’s amazing and it’s been a team effort,” he said. “A lot of the times when you have are relegation it’s difficult to pick yourselves up. Everyone at the club did amazing to give us the best chance and now we’re here, so we’re all really happy.” MOMENT AFTER THE PROMOTION He added: “It’s crazy in there [the changing room]! I had to step out for a minute just to catch my breath. There’s a lot of partying and I think deservedly so. So much hard work has gone into this, so this is the pinnacle. “I think we have to enjoy it because you don’t get moments like this very often. At the start of the season everybody said we wanted to do it, but it’s one thing saying it and another thing actually doing it.” Coming from a family of Watford fans, Troost-Ekong made time during the celebrations for a FaceTime call with his loved ones. “I had a moment [with them] on the pitch. My phone’s been going crazy but that’s normal, I’m just trying to enjoy the moment,” he said. “My family home is bouncing and everyone’s having a massive party, so I can’t wait to get home and join in with that too.” The only thing miss ing was the Hornets’ supporters, but Troost-Ekong is hopeful they’ll be back at Vicarage Road when Watford walks out for their first home game back in the top flight. “This day would’ve been complete if we had a full stadium, because it would’ve been a special day,” he said. “It might not have been the prettiest football today, but I don’t think anybody will have cared. The three points are all that mattered and we managed to do it. “We can still hear the fans [outside the stadium]. We went out to see them, which was amazing. “The exciting bit of all of this is that next year we should be able to get fans in the Premier League and it will have been like we never left. If there was ever a year for us to not be in the Premier League, this was it. Now we’re back and hopefully the fans will be back, and it’ll feel like we never left.” ALWAYS A FAN Looking back Troost-Ekong has always been a fan of Watford because he spent his academy days there and his father-in-law is also a fan. The Hertford resident has been a Hornets season ticket holder for 15 years and even brought Troost-Ekong to a famous game in December 2015. “I came with him a few times when I didn’t have to play myself,” said the 27-year-old defender who has joined from Udinese. “The best game was probably when Ighalo was on fire against Liverpool. I heard about the interest a few weeks ago and was excited about it. I’ve been waiting for it to happen the last seven days and now I’m excited to be here. I met the lads, there is a good vibe and it’s easy to settle in.” The presence of Ben Wilmot at Vicarage Road will help Troost-Ekong settle in even quicker. The pair struck up a friendship at Udinese when Wilmot spent the second half of the 2018/19 season on loan with the Serie A outfit. “He’s a younger lad and I tried to help him out as much as I could,” said Troost-Ekong. “I know how difficult it is to arrive there and not speak the language. I feel at home in Hertfordshire [as my in-laws are here] and he’s from Stevenage so we had a connection, also with him playing at the back. It’s good to see him again and hopefully we can play a lot together.” LEAVING UDINESE Troost-Ekong had to bade something of an emotional goodbye to some good friends in Udinese, particularly some ex-Hornets who filled him in on life at Vicarage Road and at the training base in London Colney. “I am quite close with Marvin Zeegelaar and Stefano Okaka and they know the club inside out,” said Troost-Ekong. “And then there was [Valon] Behrami before that. I’ve listened to their experiences and now I want to make my own. They all had good things to say and I’m excited to be here. It was really great to be part of an exciting time at Udinese for two years, but there comes a time to take the next step and for me it felt the right next step in my career.” Describing himself as “quite athletic, comfortable on the ball and strong in the one-v-one duels”, Troost-Ekong arrives with a rich pedigree. He has played against Lionel Messi, Cristiano Ronaldo and Neymar; can boast wins over Juventus and AC Milan; has 42 caps for his country; has been part of a World Cup squad in 2018; helped Nigeria to bronze at the 2016 Olympics; captained the Super Eagles and finished third in the African Cup of Nations. “They were all amazing experiences, particularly getting a medal at the Olympics,” said Troost-Ekong. “But I’m not there yet, the best is still to come and I want to try and win the Championship and then play in the Premier League with Watford.” Troost-Ekong arrived England in the summer of 2020 from Pozzo-owned club Udinese in Italy with high credentials. Born in the Netherlands to a Nigerian father and a Dutch mother, William Troost-Ekong played youth football at Tottenham and Fulham in England before starting his professional career with Groningen and Dordrecht in Holland. He subsequently went on to play top-flight football with Haugesund in Norway, Gent in Belgium, and Bursaspor in Turkey before completing a move to Udinese in the summer of 2018. Troost-Ekong has registered 66 appearances for Udinese in all competitions over the past two seasons, establishing himself as a regular starter in the playing XI. A full international for Nigeria since 2015, the towering centre-back has accumulated 42 senior caps for his nation, representing the Super Eagles at the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia and also at the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations. His coming was expected to reinforce Watford  at the heart of the defence, with Craig Cathcart, Christian Kabasele, Ben Wilmot, Craig Dawson and Francisco Sierralta not doing badly. However, the Hornets’ needed to bring in another considering the rigours of a 46-game season in the Championship. While Cathcart, Dawson and Wilmot have previous experience in the EFL Championship, new signing Sierralta has only featured just over 50 times in his club career so far. William Troost-Ekong, to that end, represented an instant upgrade on the Chilean, while he also fitted the bill as a tried and tested performer in one of the top leagues in Europe. Troost-Ekong featured for Tottenham and Fulham in his youth career, so that made it easy for him to settle down in England and had an instant impact in the Championship. “Already I feel like family here (Watford). It would be great to play in the EPL. I look forward to it,” he added.