Participants at the maiden African Local Content Roundtable, organised by the African Petroleum Producers Association (APPO), have resolved to develop regional oil and gas investments and renegotiate the COP-21 Climate Change Agreement. The event held at the Nigerian Content Tower in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. Stakeholders in the energy sector contended that the agreement would propel the move by developed countries to disuse fossil fuels (oil and gas) as the preferred source of energy for transportation and embrace renewable sources. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, in a keynote address at the two-day retreat, charged African oil-producing countries and their oil and gas firms to cooperate in developing and sharing capacities and capabilities that would optimise hydrocarbon deposits and achieve economic growth and development. He also advised that it was time to “quickly create innovative funding mechanisms for major projects using local resources and break away from the yoke of depending on foreign lenders who are becoming increasingly reluctant to fund hydrocarbon-related projects”. Sylva expressed the hope that the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) would make it possible for well-established local manufacturing, operating and service companies to operate across the continent’s hydrocarbons industry without hitches. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Wabote, hinted that the roundtable is a key initiative of the Board’s “Nigerian Content 10-Year Strategic Roadmap” and the intent is to extend Local Content across the African continent and ensure access to market for capacities that have been developed locally. According to him, one strategy for growing Local Content on the continent is by creating an Africa Local Content Fund that could be utilised to set up a bank or finance institution to provide funding for the development of oil and gas projects in Africa. This, he noted, had become necessary in view of the declaration of some countries and banks to stop funding hydrocarbon related projects in their push for a shift towards renewable energy. “These funds can also be utilised to part-finance infrastructural projects in support of production and evacuation of oil and gas products for use by the African populace,” he said, adding that there was an urgent need for African oil producers to invest in research and development.