Super Eagles rough road to the 2010 World Cup participation and the march towards the third AFCON title in South Africa have some spiritual undertones as a former Super Eagles’ pastor and current chairman of Imo Chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Reverend Eches Divine Eches revealed to TUNDE LIADI.   Nigerian teams have excelled in the time past winning titles and accolades in various sports including football. Besides what goes on in the pitch, there are other factors responsible for the triumphs that are behind the scenes. But the Super Eagles were eliminated in the race for the 2006 World Cup in Germany and the same scenario nearly reoccurred in the build-up to the 2010 World Cup hosted in Africa for the first time by South Africa. In the final round, the Eagles were not certain of qualifying with Tunisia ahead in the group until the final moments when Mozambique scored a late goal to beat the Carthage Eagles in Maputo and Obafemi Martins’ late strike secured maximum points against Kenya. The away victory lifted Nigeria above the Carthage Eagles who needed just a draw to sail through. Nigeria finished with 12 points while Tunisia came second with 11 points. As the combatants were slugging it out on the pitch other warfare was going on in the spiritual realms as explained to NationSport by the incumbent Chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Imo Chapter, Rev’d Dr. Eches Divine Eches. Eches said God used him to play a prominent role in some of the successes recorded by the Super Eagles between 2009 and 2013. Eches who was recently honoured with an Ambassador of Football Excellence Award by the Imo Football Association during its recent congress held in Owerri, Imo State said he was elated to be recognised by the football community for the first time since he got involved in the sport over a decade ago. He said: “I was very fulfilled and satisfied. It was a day I had been waiting for.  It was an award that I would call the best out of all that I have got in my life because it was an award given to me by the football family after my toiling and labouring in that family for so many years. “It was the recognition of my input and contributions towards the 2010 FIFA World Cup held in South Africa and the qualification for the 2013 African Cup of Nations and lifting of the trophy in South Africa. “It was way back in 2009 when we were in the race for the 2010 World Cup, we were to qualify for the World Cup but the road was so tough.  We did everything humanly possible to qualify. The then President, Goodluck Jonathan desired that we don’t miss out on the 2010 World Cup he appointed the then Governor of Rivers State, Rotimi Amaechi who was the then Chairman, Governors’ Forum as Chairman, Federal Government Task Force to ensure Nigeria qualifies.  It was a mission to be carried out by the Federal Government Task Force and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) jointly but the Task Force became distracted and problems erupted between both parties regarding who should take the glory for the team’s qualification. “Sanni Lulu, who was then the President of the NFF came to Owerri with Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam and discussed with me. Before their visit, they had played the fourth game of the third round of the qualifier against Tunisia which ended in a 2-2 draw in Abuja.  I was in Abuja for that game and after the game, I went to their hotel. I told them the Lord revealed to me that we would qualify. “With that home draw (and the last-minute home win over Mozambique in Abuja), it would have been impossible for them to qualify with Tunisia who were on top as at the time playing against Mozambique in Maputo and Kenya hosting the Super Eagles at home. Tunisia must lose and Nigeria must-win for us to qualify. It was a herculean task.”  Eches said that he gave specific instructions on what must be consistently done for the Eagles to qualify and that he never demanded money from them in his quest to help Nigeria get out of the quagmire, adding that the aftermath of the Super Eagles’ surprise qualification for the South Africa 2010 World Cup was overwhelming. Eches also explained how he got a recall from Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to come and assist once again in the build-up to the 2013 AFCON after the Eagles failed to qualify for the 2012 edition in Equatorial Guinea. “In 2012 they appointed the late Stephen Keshi as a coach. I was invited to come and assist them to qualify because Super Eagles’ rating dropped significantly after the 2010 World Cup that people didn’t reckon with the team again. “Even after the team qualified, Nigeria was not rated among the teams that would lift the trophy in the 2013 AFCON because we had not too many recognised stars besides Mikel Obi. Sunday Mba was a local player that God used to help the team. “I was reluctant because they reneged on a previous agreement of praying together with the players and honouring God every time and I didn’t want a repeat but I was told the situation would be different. I went to Calabar and was introduced to Keshi and Shuaibu Amodu who said they had heard about me beforehand. Eches disclosed that he prophesied in Calabar during the qualifiers for the 2013 AFCON that the Eagles would not only qualify but would lift the trophy and he gave insight on why he believed the prophecy. “I told them we would win the 2013 AFCON because South Africa owed us a trophy. They took away our trophy through the late Sani Abacha. We would have defended the AFCON we won in 1994 again in South Africa in 1996 because we had a golden generation but South Africa took away our trophy and God revealed to me that we would win the 2013 AFCON,” Eches pointed out. “They were shocked to hear this. We eventually qualified for the AFCON and Nigeria paid for my trip to South Africa with the arrangement that I would be in the team’s hotel, go to the stadium with them, enter their bus, and eat together with them, and also pray together. “The Eagles struggled to qualify from the group stage after they played two draws against Burkina Faso and Zambia but I assured them we would qualify. I told them they should start expecting goals from the 70th  minute upward against Ethiopia and Victor Moses scored two penalty goals in the 80th  and 90th minutes and we qualified for the quarter-final where we were to face Cote ‘d’ Ivoire. “It was the strongest of all their opposition because Cote ‘d’ Ivoire had a golden generation that ought to have lifted the trophy in South Africa but the Lord revealed to me that they were owing us a trophy and there was nothing anyone could do about it. “We were able to beat them and I repeated the same prophecy that we would beat our opponent in the semi-final (Mali) and that we would lift the trophy. I prophesied that I would be the first Pastor to lift the trophy. “With the help of God, we were able to beat Burkina Faso in the final and I had the honour of lifting the trophy.” Meanwhile, the clergyman said the outpouring of encomium to God after the AFCON conquest was massive and that the reception from all and sundry when the Eagles returned from South Africa was overwhelming and grand. Eches however, noted with dismay how he was prevented from getting the recognition of the Presidency even when he was informed that he was listed among those to be recognised and given a golden handshake by then President, Goodluck Jonathan. “It was agreed that the team would take me along to anywhere they were going after the AFCON conquest. I was with them at Chief Mike Adenuga’s house when he hosted us. “It was the turn of the Presidency to host the team the following days. The technical crew told me my name was among those to be presented to the Federal Government for a handshake. I was on the protocol list. But somehow somewhere, somebody deleted my name for reasons best known to him. “The Lord told me to keep quiet and that someday something will bring this out,” he noted. 