The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has released April 2021 data for global air cargo markets showing that air cargo demand continued to outperform pre-COVID levels  with demand up 12  per cent. According to the data, comparisons between 2020 and 2021 monthly results were  distorted by the extraordinary impact of COVID-19, which followed  normal demand patterns. Global demand, measured in cargo tonne-kilometres (CTKs), was up 12 per cent compared to April 2019 and 7.8 per cent  compared to March, this year. The strong performance was led by North American carriers contributing 7.5 percentage points to the 12 per cent  growth rate in April. Airlines in other regions except for Latin America also supported the growth. Capacity remained 9.7 per cent below pre-COVID-19 levels, April 2019 due to the ongoing grounding of passenger aircraft. Airlines continue to use dedicated freighters to plug the lack of available belly capacity.International capacity from dedicated freighters rose 26.2 per cent  in April, this year compared to the same month in 2019, while belly-cargo capacity dropped by 38.5 per cent. Underlying economic conditions and favourable supply chain dynamics remain supportive for air cargo. Competitiveness against sea shipping  improved as  cargo rates have stabilised since reaching a peak in April, last year, while shipping container rates have remained relatively high in comparison. Meanwhile, longer supplier delivery times as economic activity ramps up make the speed of air cargo an advantage by recovering some of the time lost in the production process. “Air cargo continues to be the good news story for the air transport sector. Demand is up 12 per cent  on pre-crisis levels and yields are solid. Some regions are outperforming the global trend, most notably carriers in North America, the Middle East and Africa. Strong air cargo performance, however, is not universal. The recovery for carriers in the Latin American region, for example, is stalled,” said Willie Walsh, IATA’s director-general.  