Former President Olusegun Obasanjo; ex-Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar; Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Adewusi; Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III and other eminent Nigerians met yesterday in Abuja to proffer solutions to the worsening insecurity in the country. Former Catholic archbishop of Abuja, Cardinal John Onaiyekan, also joined the meeting. The meeting, which held at the Transcorp Hilton, lasted nine hours. It was learnt that the meeting also deliberated on other national issues, such as unity, peace, integration, economic revitalisation and development. Last Sunday, Obasanjo asked Nigerians to seek divine intervention to end the security crisis in the country. Reporters were not allowed into the venue of the meeting on Thursday. One of the organisers, who spoke in confidence, told our correspondent that media houses were not invited to cover the event. The meeting, which started at 11 a.m, ended around 8:30 p.m. But many of the attendees declined making comments about what transpired as they swiftly left the venue into their vehicles to avoid interviews. After several promptings, Obasanjo told reporters that a communiqué would be issued later. When asked about the outcome of then parley, Onaiyekan said: “We all discussed how to make the nation better.” A former Agriculture and Rural Development Minister Audu Ogbe also said the meeting discussed Nigeria’s progress and unity. Also present at the meeting were the National Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Joseph Daramola; his Royal Majesty, Prof. Ortese Iorzua James Ayatse; President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor; Afenifere leader, Chief Ayo Adebanjo and spokesman of Northern Elders Forum (NEF), Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed. Others sighted at the meeting included the President of Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Ayuba Wabba; Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede; Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahya Abubakar, former Minister of Agriculture, Audu Ogbe; many other politicians and traditional rulers.