Residents of Pegi Community in Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja have urged the FCT Administration to end the continuous kidnapping of people in the area by gunmen. A security town hall meeting to find a lasting solution to the lingering insecurity in the area held yesterday. The town hall meeting which attracted religious, political leaders, Civil Society Organisations, and representatives of security agencies was said to have been long overdue. At the meeting convened by residents and some critical stakeholders, the people said their tears of anguish have never been wiped off after many years. They said since their problems have remained unsolved, they will not be ashamed of crying and also calling for help. Findings by our correspondent revealed that in the past three years, the Pegi community, apart from contending with lack of basic amenities has become training cum slaughter field to kidnappers. It was alleged that no week had ever passed without any case of kidnapping or heartbreaking report of bizarre crime. A retired civil servant, Madam Ruth Bature and resident in the community, complained that kidnappers no longer ambush their victims, but now move from house to house picking their targets. Bature also noted that she would have abandoned her property if she had any alternative. She disclosed that moving in and out of the community is becoming a dangerous torment. On the plights of the resettlement, Chairman, Pegi Community  Development Association  (PECDA), Aderibigbe Taiwo said while kidnapping and killings of innocent people had remained serious concerns, government’s indifference was even more perplexing. Taiwo noted that though the Federal Capital Territory Administration  (FCTA) had commenced the construction of the only road linking the community with other parts of Kuje, more efforts were required to ameliorate their plights. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT ) Police Command had scaled surveillance in the area, as a measure to tackle the kidnapping. The Divisional Police Officer in charge of the Community, Magit Solomon, confirmed that FCT Police Commissioner had released additional four patrol vehicles to the community.