Ibeno community in Akwa Ibom State has urged Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to comply with the judgment of a Federal High Court in Abuja to pay it within 14 days the N82 billion oil spillage damages. Reacting to the Federal High Court’s judgement, the oil-rich community said their victory in the case, instituted since 2012 has justified their pursuits for justice and fairness. The community threatened dire consequences against MPN unlimited and NNPC if they fail to pay within the stipulated deadline provided by the court. Speaking at an emergency town hall meeting with stakeholders of Ibeno Community in his palace at the weekend, the paramount ruler of Ibeno Local Government Areas, HRM Owong (Dr.) Effiong Bassey Archianga, said over the years: “multinational oil exploration and production companies have been in conflicts with host communities over oil spillages and with consequences of environmental degradation, negative socio-economic impacts, health hazards coupled with pollution of our ecosystem which affects our occupation as fishermen and farmers.” The traditional ruler, who is Immediate Past National President, Traditional Rulers of Oil Mineral Producing Communities of Nigeria (TROMPCON), warned “failure to pay within the stipulated time would attract an accruable interest of 8 per cent on the principal sum annually.” The community observed a minute silence for five dead members of the 10-member plaintiffs, who represented themselves and on behalf of the people and members of Ibeno Clan in Ibeno Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State in the case: Suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/54/2012 filed through their lawyer, Lucius Nwosu, SAN with a claim of N100billion. The plaintiffs are HRH Obong (Dr.) Effiong B. Archianga, JP; Obong Daniel A. Udomfiok; Obong Daniel Peter Ekpo (Late); Obong Bassey I. Akpanika, JP, (Late); Chief Owon Sunday Akpanowong (Late); Williams Henry Mkpah; Obongonwan Besie O. Nyakpa (Late); Chief Edmond N. Okon; Chief Isuamdono l. Okon (Late) and Chief Okutinyang H. Inyang.