Former secular musician Emmanuel Ifechukwude Okose aka Soul E Baba has opened up on the huge financial loss he experienced while evading the call of God on his life. The one-time hit-maker made great songs like “Soul E Baba Dey Here”; “Esoji Ejasi” and collaboration with 2Baba titled “No Be Small Thing o” before he eventually yielded to the call of God on his life and went into full-time ministry. In an interview with Vanguard, he shared his struggles as a secular musician, how his spiritual father, Apostle Johnson Suleman instructed him to relocate to Lesotho in South Africa to start a church and his journey back to Nigeria to start his own ministry. He said: “I lost N500 million in court cases and a few other things I was facing at the time I refused to listen to God’s call. My music career went down so bad that I couldn’t understand what was going on. “My record label that used to love me deeply suddenly turned their backs on me. I started making wrong investments, the list is endless. “All these happened just because I refused to answer the call of God. I remember I was coming from an event in Sheraton Hotel here in Abuja and I had a fatal accident. “My Jeep somersaulted 4 times. It was the craziest experience I have ever had. When I finally came out with my driver unhurt, a young boy at the scene of the accident said to me you better listen and stop being stubborn to your Creator. That was the last time I was stubborn to God.” Soul E added he eventually went to Lesotho by divine instruction from his spiritual father. He noted that even though he knew no one there but God came through and has made him a force to reckon with in Lesotho and keeps performing great miracles through him. He went further to state that after he received an instruction from God to relocate to Nigeria, it was a difficult decision but alas, he obeyed completely and did the needful. Soul E Baba, now Apostle Emmanuel Okose, is General Overseer, New Evidence Christian Church of God aka The Evidence Place. He is married to Prophetess Linda Okose.