MERCY: My name is Mercy. This is a reminder to you of my late husband’s unpaid benefit. He died on October 5, 2019. The savings account is with First Guaranty Pension Limited. Please, I am really suffering with my children. The aviation authority threw me out of the quarters since April 3, 2020. I am appealing to you in God name to help me. You are my last hope. May God continue to bless you for your kindness. PENCOM: You are required to provide your late husband’s RSA PIN to enable the commission properly investigate your complaint. ANTIGHA: I just retired from the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) but no verification from PenCom because of COVID-19. My PFA has refused to attend to me. Kindly help. PENCOM: The National Pension Commission recently developed an online enrolment application for retirees and it is in the process of being deployed for activation.  For update on actual activation date, you are requested to frequently visit your pfa and pension desk officer. AJETOMOBI: I lost my sister to the cold hand of death on February 16, 2016. Her pension manager was Legacy Pension and we have been going there to claim her contribution since she was not pensionable. She worked at Secondary Education Board, Abuja for about five years. We submitted the documents for over a year ago. But anytime we go there, they kept telling us that they were doing one verification or the other. It’s been frustrating. Please we need your help. Kindly assist us. PENCOM: You are required to provide your late sister’s RSA PIN to enable the commission investigate your complaint. BLESSING: Dear Omobola, my name is Blessing and I am the next of kin to my late husband, Okolie. He worked at the Nigeria College of Aviation, Zaria. His date of first appointment is November 19, 2002. He died on July 11, 2018. He was on Grade Level 15/5 and his PFA was First Guarantee Pension Limited. I want you to help me get his benefit. I am suffering with five children and no house to stay. Aviation authority have sent me out of the house since August 3, 2019. I am appealing to the newspaper to help me and the children. I have no job. You are my last hope. Please help me. PENCOM: You are required to provide your late husband’s RSA PIN to enable the commission  investigate your complaint. ABUBAKAR: My name is Abubakar. I was with a private international organisation where I served for five years and contributed to Premium Pension. I later joined a government institution with Leadway Pension as my PFA for 12 years. How can I get back my contribution from Premium Pension? PENCOM: From the above, the complainant has two retirement savings accounts. He is advised to  write to the National Pension Commission so that the issue of multiple registration can be resolved. He should also attach relevant documents such as the registration slip from the two pension fund administrators. ADODO: My name Adodo.The approval of payment of my retirement benefits is not forthcoming for more than two months. My PFA kept on telling me that PenCom was yet to give approval. Kindly find out the reason for the delay. PENCOM:The complainant is hereby advised to provide his RSA PIN as well as indicate if it is programmed withdrawal or annuity that is being sort for. ANONYMOUS: I want to remain anonymous. My PFA is Premium Pension Limited. My problem: On  September 16, 2020, I received a text message that says: ‘’Please be informed that people have received approval from PenCom regarding your pension benefit payment. Contact 09-4615700 for further information. The following day, another text message came as follows: “Dear member, kindly disregard the SMS received on approval from PenCom. This was sent in error. We apologise for any inconvenience caused as a result of this.’’ Please help me because the benefits are overdue to be paid. PENCOM: Kindly ignore messages on pension payments, claiming they are from the Commission, PenCom does not contact individuals; only Pension Fund Administrators are allowed to contact retirees to notify them on such related issues. Kindly furnish the Commission with your PIN for further investigations to be conducted. EYO: My name is Eyo. I am on Grade Level 12 at the Nigeria Immigration Service. I retired on November 25, 2019. My PFA is Premium Pension Limited. Please, nothing is written about Premium, my pension administrator in your newspaper. One year, after I retired, my benefits are not yet ready. PENCOM: Information from our database indicate that both your Accrued Rights and Pension Contributions have been paid into your Retirement Savings Account. You may liaise with your PFA to check the status. EKANEM: My name  is ASP Ekanem (rtd). I want to inform you that I applied for transfer which I did this month. But NPF Pension has not paid me. What am I to do to get my money? Kindly help me. PENCOM: You are required to provide your PIN, previous PFA and the new PFA to enable the Commission resolve your complaint.