The Federal Government on Thursday announced that three states – Lagos, Ogun, and Nasarawa – have demonstrated the highest ability to utilise available vaccines, thereby quickly vaccinating their residents. It, therefore, said to avoid vaccine expiration, which is due on June 28, and the end of July, it will channel more vaccines to those states and others. The states will also get facilities that have huge capacities to absorb the COVID-19 vaccines faster than others. It stated that it has extended the administration of the second dose of the vaccine until July 5, to ensure that more Nigerians get full protection against COVID-19. Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NHCDA) Dr. Faisal Shuaib stated these in Abuja, during a joint news conference on vaccination updates, with the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United Nations Children Emergency Fund (UNICEF). He said: “We have been tracking the utilisation of all vaccines, making sure that those vaccines that have an earlier expiration date are given priority in terms of administration. There are those that will expire by the 28th of June, and those that will expire by the end of next month. So, we are prioritising vaccinating Nigerians for those ones that are going to expire much earlier, so that at the end of the day, we do not lose a single vial of the vaccines due to expiration. “Based on the monitoring of the absorption rate that is going on country-wise, we believe that there is no vaccine that will be left unutilised and allowed to expire. We have been able to map out the different states and health facilities, and we are more aware of those states that have a huge ability and capacity to absorb the vaccines faster than others. “For example Lagos, Ogun, Nasarawa states have demonstrated the ability to quickly vaccinate individuals. Those particular states are the states where we are giving vaccines that will be absorbed in good time. Being very mindful of the fact that it is a waste if we allow any vaccine to expire before it is utilised, and given the trend of the vaccination that we track on a daily basis, that is not likely to happen in Nigeria. “As of today, June 24th 2021, our data shows that 2,099,568 people have been vaccinated with their first doses, while 1,005,234 have received their second doses of the Oxford/AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. You would recall that the government reopened administration of the first dose to address the increase in vaccine demand by people who were yet to be vaccinated at all. This resulted in the increase in the number of clients vaccinated with the first doses. “Let me further clarify that full vaccination does not exempt people who have received their second doses of the vaccine from observing the infection prevention and control measures. It is very important for everyone, including those who have received their second doses, to continue to wear face masks and observe other non-pharmaceutical measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “We understand the constraints of time arising from our various economic and social engagements and because of that, we decided to extend the administration of the second dose of the vaccine until 5th of July 2021. You would recall that the initial closing date for second dose administration was 25th of June, 2021. Even though we have extended the timeline for the second dose administration until 5th of July 2021. However, those who have received their first dose no later than May 13th are advised to visit the nearest vaccination site to receive their second dose as soon as possible, for full protection against COVID-19. “Furthermore, we continue to receive requests from Nigerians who have taken the first dose of the vaccine outside the country, but want to take the second dose back home. They should walk into the nearest designated health facility to receive the jab. Health workers are hereby requested not to turn them back.” He added: “So far after more than three million vaccinations, 13,267 people have experienced mild to moderate side effects, while 4,708 have experienced moderate to severe side effects. “It is however important for me to repeat that Nigeria has not recorded any case of death directly linked to COVID-19 vaccination. Cases of mild, moderate and severe reactions that have been recorded are expected from normal vaccination and people who experienced any of these have since recovered and are doing well. Therefore, we should not allow the fear of side effects to discourage us from taking the vaccine, as the long term benefits of getting vaccinated far outweighs the risk of brief side effects.”