Front line stakeholders in Gombe State including lawmakers, traditional rulers, religious leaders and top politicians on Saturday turned down the decision of Senator Mohammad Danjuma Goje (APC, Gombe Central) not to contest for elective position in 2023. The All Progressives Congress (APC) Senator represents Gombe Central in the Senate. Goje who is a third termer at the Senate had in December 2019 announced his decision not to contest for any elective position again. A motion to compel Goje to contest future elective positions was moved and seconded by the stakeholders during the unveiling of Goje’s legacy of service as a former minister, governor and senator in Kumo, Akko LGA of the state, at the event on Saturday. The stakeholders who took turns to speak, amidst thousands of politicians from across the 11 LGAs of the state, threatened to take legal action if Goje refused to heed their calls to stand for future elective positions. A former Deputy Governor of the state, Senator Joshua Lidani, in his submission, said Senator Goje’s interventions cut across Gombe and the entire North East geopolitical zone. Goje, he said, played critical role in the establishment of the North East Development Commission. Lidani urged Senator Goje to heed to the calls of the people of the senatorial district. Chairman of Akko LGA, Alhaji Abubakar Barambu, on his part said the entire people of Gombe Central Senatorial District have rejected Senator Goje’s retirement from active politics. “He said, Our people in the grassroots have mandated me to announce their endorsement of Senator Goje to continue to represent them in Gombe Central in 2023.  If he is tired, we are not tired of his representation,” A member of the House of Representatives, Aishatu Jibril Dukku (APC, Dukku/ Nafada), who also spoke at the event said Senator Goje has contributed immensely to the development of Gombe State, North-East and the country at large. Dukku, a former minister of State for Education, urged  Goje not to quit active politics come 2023.