Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth Council OYC has said President Muhammadu Buhari, has pushed Ndigbo to the point not good again to the people As a result, the group has petitioned the International Criminal Court (ICC), the United Kingdom and United States of America USA among others to intervene Ohanaeze alleged that the President’s tweet was another subtle plan for attack against Ndigbo that they want to destroy his government In a statement by the group Wednesday in Awka, which was made available to The Nation, the National President of OYC, Mazi Okwu Nnabuike, said ‘enough is enough ‘ He said the President had in a statement warned that those who wanted to destroy his government would receive the shock of their lives as they would be treated in a language they would understand. According to him, Buhari said Whoever that wanted the destruction of the system would soon have the shock of their lives. “We’ve given them enough time.” The alleged tweet read, “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. “Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand.” However, Ohanaeze Youths said the President had prepared the ground for another attack on Ndigbo by security forces. Nnabuike, said that the President had pushed Ndigbo to the wall enough for them to react . “We write to alert the international community on another planned attack against Ndigbo. “This is sadly coming few days after Ndigbo held a memorial in honour of over 5 million lives wasted, including children, during the civil war. “We are more concerned that this is coming from the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces and President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “It is quite sad that while the same Buhari presidency is busy romancing with Boko Haram and other bandits in the North, it has in another stroke threatened massacre of Ndigbo simply for agitating to have their own country. “We are, therefore, alerting the United Nations, the United States of America, the International Criminal Court, ICC, UK, and other international organizations of this looming attack in Igboland, as Mr. President has given the security agencies license to wipe our people out as can be deduced from his recent statement. “Already, several innocent Igbo youths have been murdered by security forces under the watch of Buhari, under the guise of hunting ESN, yet his Government is still looking for more blood. “It is thus imperative that we send this SOS message to the international community as Buhari’s hatred for Ndigbo has now reached extreme level,” Ohanaeze youths further claimed.