 The bill sponsored by Hon. Olusegun Odebunmi to amend the Press Council Act 1992, gave him out as a closet dictator, masquerading as a democrat. If the bill scales through, I will dare not write this piece. For Hon Odebunmi can get the executive secretary of the proposed press council, to summon me. And if the friends of the executive that will populate the proposed council consider my referring to Odebunmi as a dictator as blameworthy, they will ask me to apologise. And if I hesitate, I could be slammed with N250,000 fine, while this newspaper would be asked to pay one million naira as fine, under section 17(1)(c) and (3)(a) and (b). Of course, while by the bill Hon. Odebunmi has exhibited a dictatorial tendency, in spite of being a democratically elected legislator, the council sitting as a quasi-judicial tribunal, could hold my reference to him as a closet dictator, as blameworthy. Even more dangerous for me, and this medium, is that my assertion could be termed fake news. If they come under that part of the dreadful bill, I will dare not write a column again, as I may spend years working to pay the fine for writing that a democratically elected legislator is acting dictatorial. What could be more “fake” than that? By the provision of section 33(3) of the bill, I could be slammed with a N5 million fine in favour of the state, as well another N2million, for Hon. Odebunmi, in addition to a jail term. So, I may not even be able to work, to pay the fine. The medium which published the “fake news” would further pay a whopping N10 naira for the high crime, in addition to a handsome N20 million to the Honourable. To further assuage for the high crime, the news medium could be closed for one year. Surely, if Hon. Odebunmi has his way, publishing a “fake news” would be more dangerous than rigging election to be become a legislator. If the bill succeeds, life would become extremely difficult for most print mediums, as the bill intends to regulate them in a most stringent way. By the provision of proposed section 3(1), the council shall regulate the print and related media, ensure truthful, genuine and quality service by the print media (emphasis mine). What the council will consider truthful will surely prove a tough knot for the media. For instance, it will be dangerous to speculate why President Buhari cancelled his shelved visit to London for his medicals. Those who have speculated that the president wanted to avoid the embarrassment from Nigerians demonstrating in London, would be asked to prove the truthfulness of the allegation. Even more challenging would be to speculate the medical status of the president. With the presidency refusing to come clean on what ails our president, no news medium will dare comment. The Minister for Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, may also love the passage of the bill, because no news medium would ever refer to him again as “Lie Mohammed.” Of course, even a rookie lawyer can easily establish beyond reasonable doubt that his name is not Lie but Lai, and those who call him “Lie Mohammed” would stand guilty of untruthfulness. With the enormous powers granted the minister under the bill, the journalist and the print medium, would pay dearly for that. One way to deal with such recalcitrant print media will be to revoke the licence or refuse to renew it. And by the proposed section 3(1)(e) and (f) the Hon. Minister and the council would be acting within their powers to deal with the media house. By the provision of section 3(3) of the bill, upon conviction, the fine to be paid by ‘the liar’ would be as much as N5 million, and the amount would increase as the days go by. There are several other provisions in the bill that give out Hon. Odebunmi as a closet dictator. For instance, the act seeks to create the position of an executive secretary and a council with quasi-judicial powers. And in some cases, the council can actually be a judge in its own cause, and if they are not satisfied that a complaint has merit, dismiss same. Many would frown at such a bizarre attempt to imbue an administrative body with the powers reserved for the courts by section 6(6)(b) of the 1999 constitution (as amended). Thankfully, the constitution clearly makes a mincemeat of the dubious intentions of the dictatorial legislator. Section 39(1) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) provides that: “every person shall be entitled to freedom of expression, including freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information without interference.” The derogation allowed by the constitution is with respect to the regulation of television or wireless broadcasting. Furthermore, it allows any law that is reasonably justifiable in a democratic society, in limited circumstances. So, from where did Honourable Odebunmi and his co-travellers, gain the constitutional impudence to seek to place the fourth estate of the realm on a death knell? Or don’t they care about what the constitution provides? If the bill becomes law, does it occur to the sponsors, both the person in the open and the others beating the drum, for him to dance, that the constitutional responsibility placed on the press by the constitution would be fettered? From the provisions of the bill, it can safely be concluded that Odebunmi may never have read section 22 of the 1999 constitution, which enjoins that the mass media should be free, so it can “uphold the responsibility and accountability of the government to the people.” If the intense strangulation of the print media as proposed by the legislator scales through, would it not defeat the constitution, by which he answers a legislator? It is reassuring that both President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Information Lai Mohammed, have both disassociated themselves from the draconian bill sponsored by Hon. Olusegun Odebunmi. This column urges the House of Representatives to massively defeat the bill and the other surrogate bill seeking to strangulate the electronic media. All bills seeking to strangulate the media, must be called by their name: draconian bills. Both chambers of the National Assembly have no need for draconian bills, as the executive can even use it to hunt them down. Any legislator who supports such bill should look up the root word of draconian. It came from Draco, a legislator in ancient Athens, who loved to propose severe punishments like death penalties. We urge Hon. Olusegun Odebunmi to immediately withdraw the bill, unless he is the Draco of the 21st century.  