Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has urged on Nigerians to rally together in the fight against terrorism, banditry, and mass poverty. Describing these challenges as “our common enemies,” he advised citizens to stop seeing one another as enemies that must be fought. The governor also commended the military for their professional, roles in internal security and protecting the territorial integrity of the country. He said the military remains a standing symbol of national unity. AbdulRazaq expressed appreciation for the troops and other security agencies in the spirited fight against terrorism and banditry, observing that they are sometimes caught between strict adherence to evolving rules of engagement and keeping the country safe from elements that are bent on terrorising the people and tearing Nigeria apart. Speaking at the closing ceremony of 2 Division Inter-Brigade Corporals and Below Competition 2021 held at Sobi Barack, Ilorin, the governor also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for his strategic patience, support for the security agencies to discharge their duties, and commitment to national peace and security. He said: “The Nigerian security agencies, particularly the military, continue to symbolise the unity of the Nigerian people and the strength of the Nigerian state. “Everything must be done to continue to keep the Nigerian state united, stronger, and more successful. Our diversity should be deployed to our maximum advantage, while we join hands to fight our common enemies.” The General Officer Commanding, 2 Division of the Nigeria Army, Major General Gold Chibuisi, said the platoons were selected from each of the divisions to compete in five areas of military competence, including drill, weapon handling, point-to-point, and obstacle crossing. The GOC explained that competition was organised to prepare the officers for the present security challenges in the country. He said: “We are in very serious time now. Almost all the regions of our beloved country are having challenges and it behoves us to ensure that this is brought to the level when everybody will go about their lawful duties without being molested by criminals and other enemies of the state. So, with that training you have done, I believe you are better fine-tuned for the present-days challenges”.