The Secretary to the Delta State Government, Chief Patrick Ukah, has called on old boys and girls associations in the state to mentor the pupils to regain lost values in addition to providing critical infrastructure in schools as key stakeholders in the educational development of the state. The SSG, who spoke during the handover/inauguration of a water scheme executed by St. Anthony’s College, Ubulu Uku, Old Boys Association (SACOBA) in their alma mater, bemoaned the dwindling value system in schools and called on them to visit the school often to mentor the students. Ukah noted that it was not only through flogging or cutting of grass that discipline could be instilled in the students but also through proper guidance and counselling and mentoring. He praised members of SACOBA for providing what they did not enjoy as pupils. The SSG said the state government would continue to provide the needed infrastructure in schools. He however called on communities where schools are sited to own the schools and stem the rising tide of vandalism of school properties provided by the state government in the schools. Earlier, the Chairman of the handover/inauguration committee and former Head of Service (HoS) in the state, Sir Okey Ofili, said the old students drilled the borehole to a depth of 640ft equipped with a pumping machine of 7.5HP, a 42ft stanchion carrying water tanks with cumulative capacity of 5,000 gallons. This is in addition to reticulation of water supply from the main service point to various nooks and crannies of the college premises with 12 water fetching points dotted all over for the benefit of staff and students. Ofili stated that the water scheme went through a test-run period of over three years to  ensure that they had provided a good project which would serve the college for many years because drilling a borehole in Ubulu Uku could be difficult because  of its terrain. The highpoint of the ceremony was the inauguration and handover of the project to the principal by the SSG. 