The African Democratic Congress, (ADC), has sacked its Chairman in Rivers State, Amb. Solebari Sampson, who was earlier suspended by the party for his alleged anti-party activities. The State Working Committee (SEC) took the decision following the resolution of the National Working Committee (NWC), which reviewed the suspension of Sampson. The decision was contained in a document signed by Egbagiri Ode Lawrence ( Deputy State Chairman), Eugene Eke (Secretary), Hamza Victor Chukure (Legal Adviser), Irene Kaladappa Jumbo (Woman Leader), Ogbuga Sherry (Welfare Officer), Emmanuel Deinma (Youth Leader), Richard Uranta (INEC Liaison Officer) and Chief Luckyman Egila (Publicity Secretary). Reading the decision of the SEC in Port Harcourt, on Friday, the Secretary of the party, Eugene Eke, said the removal of the chairman follwed his failure to adhere strictly to the directives of the party’s NEC after his suspension. The NEC following a report of a committee it set up to investigate the allegations that led to the suspension of Sampson ordered him to address a press conference in the state within seven days using some specified media platforms amongst other conditions. The NEC reportedly told him that if he failed to fulfill the conditions, he would be removed as the party’s chairman in the state. But the SEC said Sampson refused to comply with the directive and subsequently took a decision to remove him. The SEC said: “Out of all media houses enlisted by the resolution of the ADC National Working Committee, Leader Solebari Sampson decided to pick and chose only two for his purported press conference and abandoned the rest as against the directive contained in the resolution of the ADC National Working Committee. “Amb. Solebari Sampson was not remorseful and unwilling to follow directive of a constituted authority as the ADC National Working Committee (NWC). “The resolution of the ADC National Working Committee spelt out that if he fails to meet with the conditions he will be removed as Chairman of ADC Rivers State Chapter. “Amb. Solebari Sampson is hereby removed from office as Chairman of the ADC rivers State chapter with immediate effect. The independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RISEC), all the security agencies and party members should take note and refrain from regarding Amb. Soleb Sampson as the Chairman of ADC, Rivers State Chapter. “Whoever deals with him as the Chairman of ADC Rivers State does so at his or her own risk. That the Deputy Chairman Engr. Lawrence Ode Egbagiri is to take over
affairs of the party in acting capacity pending when a mini congress is organized by the National.”