  It was as if the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Mamood Yakubu, saw the violence in the southeast geopolitical zone coming, when he hinted at the possibility of adopting electronic voting (e-voting) for this year’s governorship election in Anambra State, as a trial for e-voting in Nigeria. Yakubu spoke while defending the commission’s 2021 budget proposal before the House of Representatives Committee on Political Parties and Electoral Matters. Several INEC facilities had been burnt or destroyed in the region. Ordinarily, with all its operations computerised, the commission would have little to worry about as its presence does not have to be felt all over, to give room for such destruction of its facilities. Obviously, Yakubu ‘s position was informed by the fact that elections in Nigeria have always been characterised by violence, intimidation of voters, falsification of results, thuggery, arson, rigging, ballot snatching and other vices that often result in election results being discredited. All these are facilitated by the manual conduct of elections. One major factor responsible for electoral malpractice, especially in Nigeria,  is the dominant nature of the human factor in the electoral process. This leaves room for compromises with desperate politicians who want to win elections at all cost. It is in a bid to reduce such human influences to the barest minimum that many countries have opted for electronic voting (e-voting). It is true that INEC too has computerised several of its activities, including the deployment of electronic card reader to authenticate  voters for elections. But this is not enough. We need to go a step further by making it possible for voters to vote electronically. Nigeria has a lot to gain by embracing e-voting. Inasmuch as INEC seems ready to go the whole hog, that is digitalise all its operations, including making voters vote electronically, the commission is being hampered by legal frameworks and funds needed for this transition. A major fear of some people in the journey to digitalised voting in the country is the possibility of hackers compromising the electoral process. But this is only possible if voting is done online or when voting is internet-based; not with stand-alone balloting machines that work independently of the internet or other local area network. Also, the fear that voters who are not literate in English language would be disenfranchised if e-voting is adopted is also a non-issue as the electronic voting machine (EVM) makes provision for alternate Nigerian languages like Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba as well as other major Nigerian languages. The same applies to blind voters and others with physical disabilities whose peculiar interests have also been taken into consideration. The fact that despite these concerns about EVMs, companies continue to develop them even as countries continue to adopt them is indication of the huge advantages the machines offer. In the first place, Nigeria, like other countries that have adopted the use of the EVMs would make substantial savings from such endeavour. Elections cost a fortune here. The last general elections cost the nation a whopping N69bilion, the bulk of which was expended on all manner of ad hoc staff, printing of ballot papers, ballot boxes, construction of cubicles, etc. A lot of these costs would be eliminated if INEC is allowed or assisted to adopt e-voting. It is true that the initial cost of embracing Direct Recording Electronic (DRE) voting machines is high. For instance, there is the high cost of installation, procurement of the voting machines, testing and maintenance of the infrastructure, as well as security of the premises. But the long-term saving is enough attraction as ballot paper and polling units results sheets’ printing are eliminated. Also, paper votes require all manner of assistants who count and transport votes, with the attendant risks, especially in the riverine areas. With e-balloting, only the result sheet is taken to collation station. The durability of the EVM is an added advantage, as it can be used for three to four General Election cycles. Moreover, EVM reduces voters’ difficulties in making their choices; it makes spoiled ballots impossible as well as make unintentionally blank ballots difficult. That is; it has the capacity to minimise ‘lost’ votes. Its advantages also include making votes counting and tabulation faster and more accurate. In our kind of clime, the idea of waiting endlessly for election result will be a thing of the past; and so are the manipulations that come with such delays. Electronic voting also has the ability to reduce fraud by eliminating the opportunity to tamper with the ballot. Elections are unique in that they change the fate of nations, influence participation and activism in politics, and deeply affect the lives and attitudes of citizens. Ipso facto, election systems must not only be credible, they must be so seen and assessed by the electorate. We know that there are always fear of the unknown when innovations are being introduced. We had the same apprehensions about electronic card reader. Today, we have overcome such fears. The same will apply to e-voting. It is the way to go. We urge the Federal Government and the National Assembly to do the rightful to enable INEC cross this hurdle.