High blood pressure or hypertension is a serious condition that can lead to life-threatening problems like heart attack and stroke, especially if left unmanaged or untreated overtime. But diet and lifestyle modifications are part of treatment regimens that can be used to manage or control hypertension. This was the position of medical experts during a webinar to commemorate the World Hypertension Day (WHD). As part of activities to mark this year’s World Hypertension Day, Neimeth International Pharmaceutical Plc has championed an awareness aimed to highlight the importance of using lifestyle modifications and drugs in managing hypertension so as to prevent cardiovascular diseases and untimely death. The campaign brought together over 90 participants in a webinar to commemorate the WHD. The webinar, which held on May 17, focused on new guidelines in the management of hypertension. The theme of the World Hypertension Day is, “Arresting hypertension, The silent killer.” High blood pressure, also called hypertension, is a condition in which the force of the blood against the artery walls is too high. Usually hypertension is defined as blood pressure above 140/90, and is considered severe if the pressure is above 180/120. More than one billion people around the world live with hypertension, which is a major cause of cardiovascular disease and premature death worldwide. In his presentation, “Effective hypertension management – Current trends,” Isezuo, a professor of medicine, who is also a consultant physician/cardiologist at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), Sokoto, said the development of high blood pressure in blacks was multifactorial. Hypertension development involves interactions between obesity, salt sensitivity, among other causes, he said. The understanding of how these factors influence blood pressure will guide the development of treatment protocols and future therapy, he added, stressing that low salt dietary approach to stop hypertension plus diuretic and calcium channel blockers are effective treatment in the management of hypertension. In his presentation, “Are diuretics still relevant in managing hypertension,” Charles Ekokotu, Product Manager of Neimeth International Pharmaceutical, said using medications to control hypertension could similarly reduce stroke risk. According to him, anti-hypertensive medications, including Amlover, Mini Plus, Norduet and Numoretic, are some of the medications that could help in the control of hypertension. In his presentation, “Isolated systolic hypertension refractory hypertension and HBP Management Guidelines: The role of calcium channel blockers in achieving BP goals,” Dr. Kayode Adesola, said it is important for people to pay more attention to their health. Adesola, an ambassador of Neimeth in Managing the Fight Against Hypertension in the last three years, said a lot of lifestyle modification should be promoted, including the reduction of alcohol intake, using non-pharmacological interventions such as exercise and the consumption healthy diet and stress management, in efforts to control hypertension. BP-lowering medications should be recommended for BP that is 140/90, he insisted. “A more continuous monitoring of BP is necessary, using the right measurement to ensure diagnosis. It gives the advantage to know when one has sustained an elevated BP,” he said. The Neimeth ambassador said further that pharmacological intervention is also necessary to control HBP. While urging both health workers and non-health workers to be sensitive to blood pressure measurement, Adesola noted that most people do not access health facilities where the tracking of BP can be done. To remain safe, he called for lifestyle changes. “Following up on patients is also key. Patients with high BP should be placed on BP control drugs and monitored closely,” he added.