 Aero Contractors of Nigeria said yesterday that it had concluded plans to expand its aircraft maintenance facility at its headquarters at the Lagos Airport. It said its resolve to expand its aircraft repairs centre is to meet the demand by both indigenous and foreign carriers to fix their aircraft hitherto ferried overseas for major maintenance repairs known in aviation parlance as C- check. Its Managing Director/Accountable Manager, Capt Abdullahi Mahmood,  spoke in Lagos while unveiling plans by the airline to launch  flight services  into  Bauchi, Maiduguri and Calabar. The new routes, the Aero boss said, were chosen following demand by passengers, who are yearning for reliable and prompt flight services. He said the airline as part of its growth plan was consolidating on its strategy of using aircraft just released from maintenance to match passenger demand for services in routes considered unserved. He said: “It is a proud moment for us in Aero Contractors, Nigeria’s oldest commercial airline, as we announce the launching of flight services into Bauchi, using the Boeing 737-400 just released from C-check. We are confident the flights will serve our customers well and give them more choices and flexibility in planning their business, family and leisure trips. “We believe that these routes will add fresh breadth to our schedule and complement the quest to rebuild our network to other cities as part of our strategy to expand. Bauchi and Maiduguri are some of the underserved cities in Northern Nigeria.” “As mentioned, the Boeing 737-400 aircraft, which will be used for these new routes, has just been released from C-Check by  our MRO team. We are proud of our team for their expertise and the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) for their professionalism and support. “Our Aircraft Maintenance Organisation (AMO) allows us to handle total repair with a certified maintenance facility where commercial and private aircraft maintenance can be completed. The airline’s foundation is built on proven safe, reliable and on-time transportation while delivering to customers the highest standard of safety and efficient services.” He said in the last four years, Aero aircraft maintenance facility has carried out 17 C- checks on aircraft belonging to Air Peace, Max Air, Dana Air and airlines from Democratic Republic of Congo. The Aero boss said many carriers were finding the Aero maintenance facility attractive for their aircraft repairs because of the huge cost of ferrying aircraft overseas. Besides, the huge cost of fueling the aircraft overseas, difficulties in securing foreign exchange, allowances for technical representatives / crew, overflights, navigational charges , challenges of securing slots and other issues are factors that would encourage airlines to fix their airplanes in – country instead of taking them abroad. To meet up with the high demand by airlines for the Aero aircraft repair centre, Captain Mahmood said the management has invited a construction company to take measurements to assist in expanding its hangar at the Lagos Airport to accommodate more airplanes. Besides, he said Aero was also seeking the approval of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to certify another hangar in Abuja to boost its aircraft repair capacity. He said the Aero facility has secured the endorsement of civil aviation authorities in Nigeria, Ghana, Congo, Tunisia, Malta and  Mongolia to carry out heavy maintenance checks on aircraft registered in those countries. He said the carrier was rebuilding its fleet of aircraft to enable it cater to the needs of underserved cities. He said: “Since the beginning of the year, we have carefully reviewed our operations to identify areas we need to deploy aircraft according to need. This is the reason we are taking on a few routes to match our equipment.” He said Aero has also trained about 45 aircraft engineers to keep their skills up to speed with the types of brand new airplanes brought into the country by fledging operators. He said: “We have capacity to fix the new Embraers and other aircraft types being brought into the country. We will continue to train our engineers to take advantage of opportunities opening up in such areas.” 