 Fidson Healthcare Plc has listed its debut commercial paper (CP) on the FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited, providing investors with opportunity to trade on their holdings. Fidson Healthare listed its N4.50 billion Series 1 Commercial Paper, which was issued under the company’s N10 billion commercial paper issuance programme. Chief Financial Officer, Fidson Healthcare, Mr. Imokha Ayebae, said the debut CP issuance would allow Fidson Healthcare to broaden its sources of funding and lower its overall cost of borrowing. He added that the issuance would also strengthen the company’s commitment to the vision of building sustainable brands that will foster expansion and growth plans in the pharmaceutical industry across West Africa. “We acknowledge the support of the investor community in ensuring the success of the CP issuance. We will continue to assure their confidence in us as we deliver on our objectives of innovation and development within the Nigerian healthcare space,” Ayebae said. According to him, Fidson Healthcare is a leading pharmaceutical manufacturing company that is engaged in manufacturing and sale of pharmaceutical and healthcare products in Nigeria. “With more than 35 registered pharmaceutical products, across different therapeutic areas, in the pharmaceutical industry, the proceeds from this issuance will be used by Fidson Healthcare to finance its short-term working capital requirements,” Ayebae said. Head, Investment Banking, FSDH Capital Limited – sponsor of the CP on the Exchange and Registration Member of FMDQ Exchange – Mr. Taiwo Olatunji, said FSDH Capital Limited was hand-picked by Fidson Healthcare to act as sponsor and lead arranger on the company’s debut CP issuance. “We believe that the CP Issuance has provided the company with access to a wider pool of well-informed investors, increased liquidity and increased visibility within the Nigerian debt capital market,” Olatunji said. FMDQ Exchange assured that it would continue to lead the revolution in the development of the Nigerian debt capital market by providing credible market structures to corporate and commercial businesses with the opportunities to meet their short-term funding requirements, whilst building their profiles. “FMDQ Exchange remains positive about the possibilities of the Nigerian debt capital market and will continue to implement, with the support of its stakeholders, initiatives to improve and make the Nigerian debt capital market globally competitive, operationally excellent, liquid and diverse, in line with its GOLD Agenda,” FMDQ stated. FMDQ Group is a vertically integrated financial market infrastructure (FMI) group – with its wholly owned exchange, central counterparty and depository – is a one-stop platform for the seamless and cost-efficient execution, risk management, clearing, settlement and depository services, as well as data and information services across the debt capital, foreign exchange and derivatives markets in Nigeria.