Senate President Ahmad Lawan has said the National Assembly will work with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to properly delineate electoral constituencies across the country ahead of the 2023 general elections. Lawan spoke yesterday in Abuja when he hosted a delegation from INEC, led by its Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu. A statement by the Special Assistant (Press) to the Senate President, Ezrel Tabiowo, recalled that the last exercise, which led to the creation of electoral districts and constituencies across the country, was carried out 25 years ago, in 1996. The Senate President said the delineation would enhance democracy as well as provide equitable and fair representation in Nigeria’s governance structure. Lawan said: “The issue of delineation or creation of more electoral constituencies is like the previous one on the polling units. “But unlike the polling units, this is going to be more difficult because you need more information, especially on the population. “(And) because we didn’t have a census after the 2006 exercise, now we have to find a way of getting information about our population size because that is very important and significant in taking any decision in that respect. “But I want to assure you and Nigerians that we will go all the way with you to finding solutions on getting the delineation of electoral constituencies done before the end of our tenure. “It is not going to be easy, by no means. But we sit here as parliamentarians to deal with the issues of developing Nigeria and, of course, elections determine a lot of things in this country and, indeed, in any country. “This is one way of giving Nigerians the opportunity to vote for their leaders, and we cannot joke with that. We are all products of elections.” “If the delineation of constituencies – whether state or national – will give Nigerians better opportunities and enhance our democracy. I’m sure it would. We must work hard to do that. So, we would work with you in INEC.” Yakubu said the delineation of the constituencies requires an Act of the National Assembly, adding: “The major consideration for revision of the country into constituencies is the population quota. “The National Assembly has powers under the constitution to actually request INEC to delineate constituencies by an Act of the Assembly. “No Act of the National Assembly has asked INEC to delineate constituencies since the last delineation in 1996.”