In continuation of his tour of Southern Borno, the Borno State Governor Babagana Umara Zulum on Tuesday inaugurated a Government Technical College and a primary health care centre in Mbalala Village of Chibok Local Government Area. Zulum left Maiduguri on Sunday, passed the night in Chibok and inaugurated the remodelled Government Secondary School, Chibok, moved to Damboa on Monday, passed the night there and supervised distribution of food and social protection cash to displaced families on Tuesday. The Governor then returned to Chibok the same Tuesday for the inauguration of the college and health centre in Mbalala before moving to Askira Town in Askira-Uba Local Government Area to pass the night. During his activities in Damboa on Tuesday, the Governor assessed the ongoing construction of 500 low-cost houses to be used for the resettlement of some families displaced by Boko Haram. Also in Damboa, Zulum was at the Government Technical College where the state government has completed the construction of 20 classrooms. He was also at the Damboa Police Divisional Headquarters and police personnel quarters, which was recently rehabilitated by the state government. Governor Zulum also inspected the ongoing construction of Damboa- Chibok Road on which Borno’s Commissioner of Works, Yerima Saleh gave an update that the project was at 75 per cent completion stage. Zulum was accompanied in the ongoing tour by the Senator representing Southern Borno, Muhammad Ali Ndume, state chairman of APC Ali Bukar Dalori and members of House of Representatives, Usman Jaha and Haruna Mshelia whose constituencies were visited, as well as other top government officials from Southern Borno. In another development, Governor Zulum has unveiled two schools, health centre; starts 300 houses in Askira-Uba yesterday. The schools were Comprehensive Junior Secondary School in Yamirali and Government Secondary School in Rumirgo, both in Askira-Uba Local Government Area. Zulum also opened a 50-bed-capacity primary health centre in Wamdio also in Askira-Uba Local Government Area to increase access to public medical services. Governor Zulum laid the foundation for the construction of 300 new houses in Rumirgo. The Governor gave a completion deadline of six months without compromising engineering standards. The people of Askira-Uba thanked and commended Governor Zulum for the provision of health facilities and schools in their communities. The Governor was presented with a traditional gift by members of the community through the District Head of Wamdio. Zulum was accompanied by the Senator representing Borno South, Mohammed Ndume, state party Chairman Ali Bukar Dalori, members of state and National Assembly, commissioners and other top government officials.