He may protest otherwise, but at times this season it has felt like Bukayo Saka has been carrying Arsenal’s attack. During what has been a disappointing campaign for his side, Saka has been a shining light — and being named Young Player of the Year at the London Football Awards on Tuesday night is recognition of that. The 19-year-old has continually stepped up to the plate for Arsenal and will be expected to do so again tonight, when the Gunners take on Villarreal in the first leg of their Europa League semi-final in Spain. But Saka is not about to fold under the weight of expectation. “I don’t feel pressure from external voices,” says Saka. “I’ve always wanted to have the courage to play, to be the one that’s visible when everyone’s heads are down. “I don’t think that I’m the player that’s carrying Arsenal. In football, it is 11 men. I don’t think that I can do anything just by myself. It’s a team sport.” The versatile winger admits that representing his country at the finals would be “an honour”. It would round off a whirlwind period that started last July, when Saka ended speculation about his future by signing a new long-term contract at Arsenal. He had been about to enter the final year of his deal and, unsurprisingly, clubs from around Europe were watching intently to see what he would do. But his heart was always set on staying at Arsenal, where he has been since he was seven. “For me, it was just to think about what was best for my career and I felt what was best for my career was to continue playing with Arsenal,” says Saka. Before he was starring in the first team under Unai Emery and then Mikel Arteta, Saka was in the Arsenal academy and he highlights Freddie Ljungberg as a key influence during his time there. The Swede, who coached Arsenal’s Under-23s and was interim manager before Arteta was given the job, helped mould Saka into the man he is today and the pair have stayed in touch since Ljungberg left the club last summer. “Freddie texts me sometimes, just to encourage me,” Saka says. “If I have a good game, he’ll say, ‘Congratulations Bukayo, well done’. “We still keep in touch because I had a really good relationship with Freddie. Just because he’s no longer part of the football club, it doesn’t mean that the relationship should die.” Saka also holds Emery in high regard. The Spaniard gave Saka his first-team debut in 2018 and the teenager has not forgotten that. “For me, Unai deserves a lot of credit for the belief and trust he put in a lot of us,” says Saka. “He is a good guy and a good manager,’