To create more cashless alternatives for the public, Advans La Fayette Microfinance Bank has launched two new cashless centres in Offa, Kwara state, and Iseyin, Oyo State. The two new agile branches brought the number of Advans cashless centres serving hundreds of financially undeserved in Nigeria to three, and a total of 17 branches. Managing Director, Advans La Fayette Microfinance Bank, Gaetan Debuchy said the expansion was one of the company’s innovative approaches to providing seamless, affordable and transparent financial services to micro, small and medium scale enterprises in the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. “It will help us as a bank to make more impact with less resources so as not to increase the cost of service to clients,” Debuchy said. He added that Advans is a model microfinance institution that has continued to promote private sector-led economic and social development in Nigeria, and nine other countries. Speaking on the decision of where these cashless branches are situated, the Chief of Business & Strategy, Elvis Oheneba quipped that factors like proximity to small businesses, and convenience for individuals and business owners, were put into consideration. “We intend to increase the number of cashless branches from three to six by the end of the year 2021,” Debuchy said. Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Advans La Fayette Microfinance Bank, Jean-Luc Nzoubou,  who also oversees the business activities for the bank network across Nigeria, explained that ‘a cashless centre’ can do everything a full branch can do. “Customers can apply for loans, open savings and current accounts, get access to business advisory, and also carry out other transactions without having to travel long distances,” Nzoubou said. According to him, the cashless centres will also provide an extensive array of other products and services and wealth management services which underscores the bank’s mission to provide client-centric financial services to under- served populations in a sustainable and responsible manner. Advans Nigeria is a member of the Advans group, which provides innovative financial solutions to over 1.1 million clients in nine countries. The group offers a complete range of financial services that have helped to build over five million small businesses. 