A technology company, Western Digital Corp has said flash technology has become critical to enhancing the gaming experience. Tech industry host of The Game Awards, Geoff Keighley, who spoke at a virtual Flash Perspective event for unveiling of three new SSDs for its WD_BLACK portfolio of products, said gamers not only need more storage, they need speed for quick access so they can instantly step into these rich game worlds and experience games the way they’re meant to be played Keighley said: “Over the past few years, the graphics and fidelity of immersive game worlds have become more intense, and flash technology has become critical to enhancing the gaming experience. Gamers not only need more storage, they need speed for quick access so they can instantly step into these rich game worlds and experience games the way they’re meant to be played.” He said the products provide gamers around the world with fast, high-performance storage solutions to upgrade their PC and next-gen console gaming experience. Also, Executive Vice President and GM, Flash Business, Western Digital, Rob Soderbery, said:  “Our WD_BLACK brand delivers a clear and simple promise to gamers – fast and reliable storage that enhances their gameplay. With today’s new products, the WD_BLACK portfolio has diverse flash-powered solutions so that every gamer – whether they’re just starting out or more advanced – can explore the rich worlds of today’s most inventive games.” He said living at the intersection of technology and entertainment, the newly introduced WD_BLACK gaming portfolio products delivers innovative storage solutions customized for the gamer. The WD_BLACK SN750 SE NVMe SSD allows enthusiast gamers level up their PC or laptop gaming experience with PCIe Gen4 technology and storage space for more games. With up to 30 per cent less power consumption than its predecessor, laptop gamers can expect longer playtimes between charges. For console gamers looking to minimize game load times, the WD_BLACK D30 Game Drive SSD features read speeds up to 900 MB/s. Gamers can spend more time playing games and less time deleting them with expanded storage for up to 50 games with capacities up to 2TB. Designed to perfectly complement next-gen consoles, the drive has a detachable stand for placement next to a system. Also, the WD_BLACK D30 Game Drive SSD for Xbox is built to complement the Xbox console gaming experience. This officially licensed version of the WD_BLACK D30 Game Drive SSD offers accelerated speeds and capacity packaged in a compact Xbox-inspired design. Gamers can plug in their drive and quickly begin building their game library or making room on their console for new titles, while also being able to play legacy Xbox One favorites directly from the drive. Included with purchase is a 1-month membership of Xbox Game Pass Ultimate with access to 100+ games on consoles and PC, plus online console multiplayer. With the introduction of the new SSD Storage drives, Western Digital continues to lead in data infrastructure, driving innovation needed to help gamers capture, preserve, access and transform the gaming experience.