As preparations for the 2021 edition of the prestigious Keffi Ranch Polo tournament gets to its feverish heights, the executive Government of Nasarawa State Governor, Engineer Abdulahi Sule has pledged the support of his administration to the initiative of Keffi Polo Ranch in supporting the improvement of education and empowering the less privileged in the state. Revered as one of the biggest humanitarian polo platforms in the country, the Keffi Ranch polo event is scheduled the blast off from June 21 to 28, with over 20 teams battling for the honours in four different cups categories. Nationsport gathered that the governor who is a regular visitor to the polo ranch recently lauded the management of the ranch for putting the state on the map as one of the major tourism centres in the country affirmed his support for the forthcoming 2012 Keffi Polo Ranch tournament in Keffi. Sule averred that sports was not only a veritable tool for fostering friendship, national unity and cross-cultural understanding but also a magnet for international diplomacy and global investment, adding that sports is a catalyst for business. He said that the state was proud to host and support the Keffi Ranch and its choice sport of polo as a way of showcasing to the world that the state welcomes prospective investors as the polo would serve as a world-class recreation and quality hospitality. Keffi Polo Ranch Proprietor, Honourable Aliyu Wadada told the Nationsport that Keffi Polo Ranch project has achieved all its set goals as a commercial entity and as a charity platform that supports education and the less privileged, orphans in Nasarawa State. “I’ve always believed in giving back to society. It’s a huge pleasure to champion the birth of polo here and use the proceeds to benefit the orphanages and education in Nasarawa State and I’ve been lucky my little efforts are yielding results,” Wadada declared. Tournament Manager, Babaduna Kaloma Ali told the Nationsports on Friday that the 2021 edition would be better as he disclosed that many teams have indicated interests in vying for top laurels during the weeklong fiesta. Our checks reveal that as teams scramble for the restricted slots, the planning committee maintains that only three slots are opened for the 10-15 handicap goals category, just as four ambitious teams will jostle for the titles in the 4-7 medium-goals. A record six goals have so far entered for the crowded low-goal handicap cup, but there are indications of the field may further expand to about ten when the battle for Keffi Ranch polo fiesta gets underway. With pre-tournament speculations and tensions reaching the sky, the duo of Jos Malcomines and Lintex from Abuja loaded with foreign “Hired Assassins” from Argentina and Europe are bracing for war as they dare many times champions, Keffi Ponies in a winner-takes-all top laurel. We also confirmed that while all COVID-19 protocols will be strictly followed throughout the tournament, only the participating teams, invited guests and those with face masks would be admitted to be part of the prestigious fiesta that stands alone as the first and the only polo grand slam in Nasarawa State. “We are excited to welcome your prestigious teams to this fantastic tournament again and we have put everything in place for an exhilarating week of exciting and rewarding time in the ranch, while we raise funds to support the orphans and education across the state,” one of the managers enthused.