Economic hardship, extreme poverty, lack of opportunities and insecurity have continued to push many Nigerians to gamble their lives away through irregular migration, faith-based organisation, Symbols of Hope Project Nigeria, has said. It also noted that seven, out of every 10 young people, are either returned migrants or already contemplating travelling out of the country illegally. The Country Coordinator of the Project, Rev. Emmanuel Gabriel, who made this known at the economic empowerment for returned and potential migrants in Asaba, Delta State, said Nigeria is ranked the highest in records of irregular migrants moving from Africa and the 8th in global slavery index. “This is a grave concern to the future of the country”, he said. The Country Coordinator, in a statement issued by the organisation, said they were in Delta State to offer psychosocial support to survivors of human trafficking and victims of irregular migration. “We are here to help reintegrate returned migrants back into the societies they once called home. “Some of the factors that account for human migration are economic hardship, extreme poverty, lack of opportunities, conflicts, political persecutions, religious and cultural discriminations, climate change and natural disasters. “The Lutheran World Federation (LWF) in collaboration with the Lutheran Church of Christ in Nigeria (LCCN), set up the Symbols of Hope Project Nigeria to create awareness on the dangers of human trafficking and irregular migration”, he added. Also, Archbishop of the Lutheran Church of Christ in Nigeria and President of the Lutheran World Federation, Most Rev. Musa Panti Filibus, called on Nigerians to turn towards each other and find ways to address the problems rather than the use of swords. While noting that the government has the constitutional obligations to provide necessities of life for the citizens, he said providing such basic amenities will no doubt contribute immensely to reducing the incidence of irregular migration where young people take the risk to venture into the desert and Mediterranean Sea in search of greener pastures. “It is supposed, or they are lured into believing that as soon as one leaves the Nigerian border in whatever way, they are steps ahead to greener pastures. “Our governments must intentionally address the needs of our youth by providing jobs and business opportunities”, he said.