Three children were on Sunday, rescued from suspected kidnappers and child traffickers by police operatives in Delta State. The police have also arrested two gadget thieves, recovering a total of 64 sophisticated phones, three laptops and a bulletproof charm while carrying out stop and search duties along Warri-Sapele Road and the Ughelli Patani Expressway, respectively. The Command confirmed both incidents in a statement by acting Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, Tuesday. One of the rescued children, Jamila Shagari, 16, was reportedly seen roaming around church premises in Asaba, drawing the attention of residents of the area who alerted security operatives. On investigation, it was discovered that the young girl, alongside three other children, were kidnapped while they were playing in their village in Niger state, by unknown men with a car, four years ago. “She was kidnapped and brought to one Mrs. Gloria Ugbebor ‘f’ age 39 years resident of No. 15 Kingdom Hall Umunede community and her name was changed to Dorcas Peter by the said suspect and taken to Lagos where she was handed over to one Azubuike. “She served him as a house help for two years, after much suffering in Mr. Azubuike’s house, she then returned to Mrs. Gloria Ugbebor in Umunede who later handed her over to one Mrs. Vera Olunwa ‘f’ age 62yrs resident of opposite Koka junction Asaba-Ibusa expressway Asaba. “The two suspects Mrs. Gloria Ugbebor ‘f’ age 39yrs and Mrs. Vera Olunwa ‘f’ age 62 years were arrested while two other children Nuhu Yohanna ‘m’ age 12yrs and Abednego Joshua ‘m’ age 11yrs who were in the custody of Mrs. Gloria Ugbebor were also rescued,” parts of the statement read. The statement further disclosed that one of the suspected gadget thieves identified as Bernard Aloba, 26, was apprehended with “20 exotic phones, three Laptops suspected to have been stolen, and one charm bulletproof” while traveling in a commercial transport bus. Similarly, one Iliyasu Hamzat ‘m’ was arrested after his crony, a suspected phone thief, escaped from a vehicle that was being searched by police operatives along the Ughelli-Patani Road, Sunday. A thorough search of the escaped suspect’s luggage revealed 24 Android phones. However, Hamzat, a gang member ” who kept calling the suspect’s phone to find out what is delaying the delivery of the stolen phones, was tactically lured and arrested by the police,” the statement said.