Minister of Labour and Employment Senator Chris Ngige has rejected the election result. He called on the election committee to shift the process till June 29 to give the party ample time to resolve some issues. Ngige said: “…as I write you now, 4.25pm June 26, I’m in my hometown, Alor, with two electoral wards, and there is no sign of any governorship primary election. “My inquiries and investigations show that the story is the same in the 326 wards of the 21 local government areas. As a result, most party members have left for home, having waited since 8am. “I discussed with your member, Senator Ken Nnamani, and I’ll advise you call the panel members to shift the exercise to June 29 to also enable you tidy up some issues raised by aspirants.” The 11 governorship aspirants also rejected the ‘purported result reportedly released by the committee. They said no election held in any part of the state, and insisted they would not accept results written in the corners of bedroom and published on Facebook. Spokesperson for the aspirants Chief George Moghalu, at a news conference yesterday, said it was disappointing for a governor to spearhead an election capable of endengering the party in the state. He said: “We’re here to reaffirm the fact that election did not take place in Anambra as planned. All of us have been on the road reaching out to our supporters to vote for us. Primaries are not conducted in the bedroom but in the field. “They started distribution of materials after 3pm, and in some cases got to their designated places about 6pm. Someone is bold enough to announce a result on Facebook. It’s so sad and hurting because what they’re trying to do is to endanger our party in the state, and that we can’t accept. “We’re following due process. There are many options, including channeling our rejection of the purported results through the proper avenues. There certainly will be an appeal panel, and we’ll channel our grievances there to seek justice as long as it’s legitimate,” he added. Ward chairmen across the state’s three senatorial districts also corroborated the aspirants, saying no elections held. They said they were surprised to read results on WhatsApp platforms. Anthony Atuenyi (Nnewi North), who spoke for others, said: “We’re embarrassed and disappointed that a sitting governor could go against his oath to declare results of elections that did not hold. It’s very unfortunate.” APC Elders’ Forum, led by Chief Innocent Obi, also called for the cancellation of the results. A statement by the Director of Media and Publicity, Chief Joe Offorkansi, tiled ‘Re-Towards a credible APC Primary Election in Anambra State’, reads: “…the picture of the general complain depicts the existence of undemocratic practices in the said primary election, as numerous reports indicated that election was not held in any of the 326 wards in the state. “The charade could least be described by anyone as fair, credible or acceptable by any of the thousands of our party members who trooped out to cast their votes for any of the 14 aspirants. This, therefore, painted any reported outcome of the primary election as dubious because, in actual fact, there was no primary election. “We, the members of the APC Elders’ Forum in the state, call on the National and state executives to review the primary election and create a medium for appropriate measures to be taken in ensuring that aspirants re-align their commitment to the party for the sake of unity. “Except urgent steps are taken for understanding and cooperation, the party may experience very unpleasant situation too difficult to ameliorate.” Other key members of the party, including council chairmen and lawmakers, led by Chief Bona Oraekwe, described saw the primary election as ‘an attempt to destabilise the party to lose the November 6 governorship election’. The group said ‘till 6pm on June 26, no official or materials came to the centre, even till date’.