One person was reportedly injured after an early morning fire engulfed parts of the National Youth Service Corps offices at the Federal Secretariat complex, Asaba, Delta state on Tuesday. The complex, which is located along Okpanam Road in Asaba, capital, houses most annex offices of Federal ministries, departments and agencies in the state. It was gathered the victim, now receiving medical care at a hospital in Asaba, is one of the firefighters deployed to put out the inferno. The fire was said to have started around 6:55am, causing workers who had resumed duty to scamper for safety. According to reports, the fire was brought under control after reinforcement from the Asaba International Airport fire service. It was learnt that documents and other valuables in the affected offices were completely destroyed in the raging inferno. Though the cause of the fire outbreak is yet-to-be ascertained, sources claimed it was caused by a power surge. Delta State Coordinator of the NYSC, Mrs Olutayo Samuel, said it was a colossal loss. “What happened this very early morning is very unfortunate. I got a call that our office was on fire this morning and I quickly rushed here. I don’t know how fire gutted the office. Nobody can ascertain what exactly the cause of the fire. “Everything here got burnt, everything in the office got damaged. All the documents bunt to ashes but we have back-up. You know this is technology age, so everything is in our system. “Coincidentally, we took some of our system to the camp and they are still in the camp, so there will be no setback because we have them in our system. “I cannot cost it now but it is a colossal damage. But by the Grace of God, there is no life lost because that is the most important thing. I feel good because whatever damage will be replaced but if life had been lost, we couldn’t have replaced it,” she said. She also dismissed insinuations that unidentified hoodlums were behind the fire outbreak. Acting Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Bright Edafe, could not be reached for comments as of the time of filing this report.