The office of the Presidential Amnesty Programme has been cautioned against having dealings with Mr. Henry Binidodogha, allegedly “parading himself as paramount ruler” of Egbema kingdom, which spread across areas in Delta and Edo states. Youths drawn from the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), Egbema Youth Progressive Foundation (EYPF), as well as other bodies, made the call in a statement made available to newsmen at the end of the Egbema Youth Council meeting. The statement signed by former IYC chairman, Western Zone, Chairman IYC Egbema clan and President Egbema Youth Council, Comrades Freedom Atigbi, Peter Toruwei and Messiah Ebidouwei Miyenpirigha, respectively, warned of threat to peace in their communities following activities of the “self-styled” monarch. The youths restated Binidodogha’s disbandment from all socio-cultural and political activities within Ijaw territories in Edo State following “his continuous sacrilegious acts on the cultural, traditional and social well-being of the Ijaw people. “Mr. Henry Ekebeligha Binidodogha self styled ‘Ojuaga l’ and his cohorts have constantly and persistently truncated the peace of the people by usurping the powers of the Agadagba of Egbema kingdom and the traditional institution generally. “It is no more news that he has been parading himself as a paramount ruler without installation and without the consent of the people and therefore contrary to the customs and traditions of the Ijaw people,” parts of the statement read. The statement further stressed that the leadership structure in the kingdom, as is practiced across the Ijaw nation, is such that the Ijaw National Congress (INC), the IYC among other allied bodies are representatives of the people. It added, “criminal elements have little or no place in Ijaw leadership structure and issues bothering on the very existence of the people including, traditional, cultural, political and developmental issues can only be discussed with the leadership structure as adumbrated above.