Facts have emerged that scores of persons suffered gunshot injuries from accidental charge that came from a riffle of a Policeman attached to an appointee of the Cross River State Governor at a rally held in Echumofana community, Yala Local Government Area last Saturday. The rally was part of the events marking the defection of many former members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressive Congress APC in the area. Sources said about seven persons were injured by the incident and also revealed that “it occurred in the midst of the cheering crowd when Mr. Alphonsus Ogar Eba Esq, the Cross River State Director General of Due Process and Price Intelligence Bureau came to the venue to meet many others at the venue who all joined him to defect from the PDP to the APC.” Eba confirmed the incident in a release to newsmen on Tuesday wherein he said “it was an unfortunate incident – an accidental discharge. We thank God, no one died.” He did not give the number of victims but he called for calm over the incident noting that he has visited the victims severally in the hospital and had taken responsibility of all the medical bills. Eba also absolved the Police Orderly of negligence stated that “it was purely a spiritual battle by evil doers but God showed up to put the devil to shame as always.” He warned “those spreading unnecessary rumors of death and distorting facts to stop the falsehood.” According to him some political opponents have been calling the hospital staff to demand for hospital bills. He warned those doing such to stop playing politics on the lives of “our people. By the grace of God I have the means to pay the medical bills of the affected persons and to cater for their well-being afterwards.” He said he is still in shock over the incident and sympathized with victims and prayed for quick recovery. To the families of the victims he also appealed for calm and requested that they pull back from any contrary steps but allow measures instituted to address the collective pains to play out. His words, “I urge our People to stay vigilant because we cannot allow those who always celebrate bad news to destroy our collective will to develop this place,’’ he said.