The wife of the Niger State Governor, Amina Abubakar Bello has drawn the ire of the residents of Minna who are questioning her involvement in selling borehole water to residents of Minna, the state capital. It was learnt that the Governor’s wife allegedly received N100 million from partners to drill the borehole and buy the water tankers which supply water to prospective customers. The residents lamented that while the populace is suffering from water, the Governor’s wife is selling water to the people her husband should be providing water for free. One of the complainants, Ahmed Muktar told The Nation that one of the responsibilities of the government is to provide water for the citizens, describing it as unfortunate that the Governor’s wife should be selling water instead of giving water for free to the residents who are crying for water. “Imagine the governor’s wife selling water to the society that her husband should be providing water for. This should be the responsibility of her husband, the Governor but she is determined to make money out of it,” he said. Another complainant, Sadiya Umar described it as a misplaced priority of the government, saying that with the money used to provide the facility, the government would have been able to use the money to fix the problem of water in several parts of Minna. “Selling water to people? This is really ridiculous. Several areas do not have water in the state, why can’t they provide water for these areas instead of giving money for such project and selling the water.” The Nation further learnt that it costs N2, 700 for the blue trucks used in conveying water to those who request it. When The Nation contacted the Press Secretary to the wife of the Niger State Governor, Rabi Bello, she explained that the project is done under one of the interventions by RAISE Foundation which is the non-governmental organisation of the Governor’s wife. “It is Raise Foundation project and it has nothing to do with the governor’s wife. The project is being done to raise funds for the organization,” she said. When contacted, the Chief Executive Officer of the Raise Foundation, Mrs Toyin Dawodu also explained that it is a sustainability project for the Raise Foundation and not a project for an individual. “It is a sustainability project for Raise Foundation. There is an empowerment arm to it, the tanker riders are being empowered by the water they sell. After each sale of a tanker of water, there is a percentage that goes to the rider, a percentage goes to maintaining the actual project and the third percentage goes into all the interventions done by the Foundation. “The project is for the NGO and not for an individual. It is just like other interventions that Raise Foundation has been doing such as cancer treatment and VVF. “We assure the people that the project is not for the Governor’s wife but for Raise Foundation which has a board of Trustees. It belongs to the NGO and not an individual,” Dawodu said.