Police have arrested a man in Ondo for allegedly having carnal knowledge of his grandmother at knifepoint. Emmanuel Joseph, 35, reportedly burgled his way into his 80-year-old grandmother Alice Mogbonjubola’s room and forcibly had sex with her. The incident allegedly happened in Ondo West Local Government Area. Emmanuel entered the woman’s room through a window and threatened her with a dagger, police said. A source said he collected her phone and money. Adding that it was the octogenarian’s cry that attracted attention of people who broke down the door opened and saw the suspect naked. A resident said the suspect has been using dangerous weapons to rob people in the area. Joseph asked for forgiveness. “Please, forgive me,” he said.” I didn’t know what I was doing that time. Something would tell me to steal or rape and I would do it. After that, I would be blaming myself. “I don’t know what has come over me. I was just released from prison before the strike because of this bad behaviour. I have been doing it for long. Please, forgive me,” he pleaded. Police sources said the suspect confessed to the crime while different phones, charms and dagger were recovered from his house. Ondo Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo Ikoro, could not be reached for comments. The Police have arrested one Adesina Adebowale for raping  a- 60-year old woman in Idanyin area of Ogun State. Adesina, 40, allegedly broke into the apartment of the woman around 4:pm on Sunday,  wrestled the sexagenarian to the ground and raped her afterwards. He was arrested same day when the victim’s son lodged a complaint against the suspect at Idanyin divisional police headquarters. The son who accompanied her mother to the Police Station told the police that   the suspect broke into the apartment, and had sex with her forcefully. Police spokesman in Ogun state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this in a statement yesterday,  said the Divisional Police Officer,  Idanyin division, Olayinka Kuye, a Chief Superintendent of Police(CSP) despatched detectives to arrest the suspect. Abimbola said that the suspect was traced and apprehended while the victim was taken to hospital for medical treatment. The suspect said he committed the offence, police said.