The Federal Government’s failure to renew the contract of a foreign firm – Societe International Telecommunication Aeronautiques (SITA) – providing automation for check-in facilities at airports has led to delays in processing passengers for boarding, writes KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR Traveling procedures at the  Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos have been difficult for passengers and airlines. Reason? The check-in facilities at the  airport are experiencing hitches, making airlines, passengers and other profiling agencies to spend more then the required time to prepare travellers for boarding. Though there are complaints by some carriers and passengers, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN),  investigations have shown, is scaling up efforts to fix them. Investigations by The Nation further showed that disruptions in passenger facilitation at the MMI for temporary downtime in the check-in system was as a result of the expiration of a 10-year deal between FAAN and Societe International Telecommunication Aeronautiques (SITA). It was  learnt that SITA’s contract with FAAN was extended by six months, but the Geneva-based organisation was not ready for further extension, a development, which has caused hitches in passenger facilitation at the nation’s gateway. A source said SITA was aware that its contract, which covered Lagos and Abuja airports, was due for  renewal. The source said: “SITA is fully aware that their 10-year contract covering Lagos and Abuja airports alone expired and they failed to participate with proper documents in the subsequent procurement. Another company, RESA did, with better offer that covers the five major airports. “SITA declined to sign the six  months’ contract extension that FAAN requested to avoid service disruption during the transition they signed for only  two  months, paving the way for the disruption that they obviously planned for.” Investigations show that SITA in March wrote to suspend check-in services, offering an extension of two months, insisting on full payments of outstanding invoices by  May 30. FAAN stated the dates when the processing of the payment could be completed. But  SITA rejected this. A follow up letter, it was learnt, was dispatched to SITA, promising to fast-track the processing further with only a five-day difference from the proposed date by SITA. But the company again rejected this. According to the source, FAAN has engaged RESA and is expediting action in deploying their solution to ensure services are restored at the airports but needs the transition period to get RESA started and avoid the  problem. Last March, FAAN, in a letter signed by General Manager, ICT, Charles Nwachi, to station managers in Lagos, Abuja, Kano, Port-Harcourt, entitled, “Smart app project implementation in Abuja, Port-Harcourt, Lagos and Abuja” tried to get airlines to join the smart app project. It added: “We wish to bring to your notice that with effect from May 1, 2021, the current common use passenger processing system being managed by SITA at the Abuja and Lagos airport shall cease to be operational. “It is, therefore, imperative that all international airlines integrate with the Arlington/ICT SmartApp solution immediately as agreed in our last meeting of December 11, 2020 with FAAN top management to avoid service disruption. “Once again, the Arlington/ICTS SmartApp solution can be linked to any airline’s DCS directly through WBS and is a complete check-in system with support for various airline print configurations for both boarding pass and baggage tags. This connection is a direct  integration with airlines and is also fast and seamlessly.”. Nwachi further said  the Arlington/ICTS Smart App integration was free as FAAN had paid associated costs and the introduction of the SmartApp solution. “You may wish to note that the Arlington/ICT SmartApp solution will not attract extra charges beyond the ones in existence,” he said. FAAN has appealed to airlines and passengers for patience and understanding over the problem. In a statement signed by its General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu,  FAAN said it had mobilised  resources to address the challenge, and that all hands were on deck to restore normalcy in passenger facilitation. To avoid flight delays, Mrs. Yakubu  advised passengers to leave their homes early, to complete check-in formalities on time. notice that with effect from May 1, 2021, the current common use passenger processing system being managed by SITA at the Abuja and Lagos airport shall cease to be operational. “It is therefore imperative that all international airlines integrate with the Arlington/ICT SmartApp solution immediately as agreed in our last meeting of December 11, 2020 with FAAN top management in order to avoid service disruption”. “Once again, the Arlington/ICTS SmartApp solution can be linked to any airline’s DCS directly through WBS and is a complete check-in system with support for various airline print configurations for both boarding pass and baggage tags. As this connection is direct  integration with airlines is also fast and seamlessly”. Nwachi further disclosed that the Arlington/ICTS Smart App integration is free as FAAN has paid for all associated costs and the introduction of the SmartApp solution will not attract extra charges beyond the one in existence. “You may wish to note that the Arlington /ICT SmartApp solution will not attract extra charges beyond the ones in existence”. The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has appealed to airlines and passengers for patience and understanding following a temporary downtime in the check-in system of Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos. In a statement signed by its General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu,  FAAN said  it has already mobilized necessary resources to address the challenge, and all hands are presently on deck to restore normalcy in passenger facilitation. To avoid flight delays, Mrs Yakubu  advised passengers to leave their homes early, so as to complete all check-in formalities in good time. 