Standard Chartered Bank (StanChart), alongside three other banks, has acted as the Joint Lead Manager (B&D bank) in and the Sole Sustainability Structuring Agent for Ecobank Transnational Incorporated (ETI) on its US$350million Tier 2 Sustainability Notes Issuance. The bond was priced at a yield of 8.950 per cent and coupon of 8.750 per cent. The net proceeds from the notes will be used by ETI to finance or re-finance new or existing assets in the ETI’s Sustainable Finance Framework, on which DNV has issued a Second Party Opinion. This transaction represents the first-ever sustainability notes by a bank or corporate institution in Sub-Saharan Africa as well as the first Tier 2 issuance to have a Basel III-compliant. The transaction attracted  interests from global investors across United Kingdom, United States, Europe, Middle East, Asia and Africa, with an orderbook in excess of $1.3 billion, which represents a 3.6 times over subscription. The success of this deal is a strong testament to global investors’ confidence in ETI as well as Standard Chartered’s deep knowledge of the banking and financial markets industry, access to diverse global and local investor pool and strong relationships with the key stakeholders. Standard Chartered Bank has led and served as Joint Lead Manager on  eurobond transactions by banks in Sub-Saharan Africa since 2017, underscoring our leadership in the space. Standard Chartered’s Executive Director, Corporate, Commercial and Institutional Banking, Nigeria, Olukorede Adenowo noted: “Standard Chartered is proud to partner  ETI on this innovative and landmark transaction. The success of this issuance demonstrates investors’ confidence in ETI’s strategy as a leading banking group out of Africa, particularly as this represents the bank’s second issuance within the last three years. ‘’We continue to work with our clients across Africa to deliver on their growth aspirations and also use our market leading position in the international bond markets and sustainable financing space to drive inclusive growth and development in Africa. ‘’