Kogi Governor Yahaya Bello has dismissed campaigns for rotational presidency, hinting he might heed calls from Nigerians to contest the 2023 presidential election. Bello stated this during a chat with State House Correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. The Kogi Governor also said competence and capacity should be the criteria for electing the next president and not his ethnicity or region. He also likened his presidential ambition to the June 12, 1993 elections, saying dashed hopes will be revived and actualised in 2023. Speaking on the needs to end the rotational Presidency regime, Bello said: “For once let’s get Nigeria fixed. We have practised as seemingly rotational presidencies since 1999 to date, let us evaluate our successes or achievements from this seeming rotational presidency between then, and now. “Why don’t we simply go for the best after all, we copy this democracy from America and some of the developed world? How many of these countries are practising rotational presidency? You see, we are where we are today not because we are practising rotational presidency. “If you want to go by that rotational presidency, then do perfect zoning. Go by perfect rotation. And if you go by rotation and whichever way you come from, I don’t think you should exclude where I come from. That’s number one. “Number two, let us get a credible, sincere, patriotic Nigerian to fix it. If you’re flying an aircraft, you don’t ask who is the pilot? If you take the operation in a hospital, you wouldn’t ask which doctor is this? “Is he from your zone, your tribe, your religion? All you want is the best pilot to fly you safely to your destination. All you want is you want the best doctor to handle you and deliver you safely from the operation. “I think Nigeria is at that point now of seeking the best from anywhere in this country, irrespective of where he comes from. Thereafter, you balance you remain in position to reflect equity, fairness and justice. That is my position.” On his presidential ambition, Bello said: “There’s no doubt that Nigerians, the youth, the women and people of thoughts, are urging me, asking me to run for presidency in 2023. “These are the wishes and aspirations of Nigerians urging me to run. And I have said that in the days to come, weeks and days ahead, I am going to give a resounding response to this overwhelming majority of voices across the length and breadth of Nigeria. And I did promise that I will not disappoint Nigerians. “Well, I will give resounding response to the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians. Surely, Nigeria will not be the same again by the grace of God. That is number one.”