Barring any distortion, the country’s gas sales is projected to hit 2.2 billion cubic feet (bcf) by the end of the year. In view of this, the Federal Government has said the country has begun the search for a $40 billion direct investment in the gas sector, anchored on its “Decade of Gas” initiative declaration earlier in the year. The Chief Operating Officer, Gas and Power, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mr. Yusuf Usman, at a virtual forum organised by the Association of Local Distributors of Gas (ALDG), tagged, “The Decade of Gas: Unlocking opportunities in the domestic gas market.” According to Usman, the corporation is targeting between 7.4 billion cubic feet and 10 billion cubic feet of gas in the next couple of years, compared to 1.6 bcf supply capacity. He, however, noted that a major constraint in achieving local content through the programme is the difficult conditions placed by foreign lenders. According to him, the corporation expects to grow about 10 gas-based industries as it works towards the 10-year target. He added that the figure on the quantum of funds needed is based on the submissions NNPC has received from potential investors. About 39 thermal power plants were being targeted as compared to 33. By his projections, by end, the corporation would have increased gas sales to about 600 mmscfd, compared to 1.6 bcf , which will take the figure to the 2.2 bcf projection. “In terms of benefits, we will generate 45,000 megawatts of power in terms of gas use, creating massive employment and import substitution. There are changes we need to look at to actualise the decade of gas. We see the huge amount of investment, both Foreign Direct Investments (FDI) that will come into the country upward of $40 billion or much more than that in order to achieve all the aggressive plans that that are outlined in the decade of gas. “This investment will come in the upstream, midstream and downstream, but there are challenges as well because there have been a lot of announcements around funding for fossil fuels and these are some of the things we have to look at as we go forward and we need to figure out the announcement vis-a-vis the foreign estimate that we expect,” Usman said. He added that the NNPC has a supply plan to deliver up to 4.5 bcf of gas into the market and subsequently, increase to 7.4 bcf of gas. He said there were urgent plans to complete ongoing gas projects, including the Ajaokuta-Kaduna-Kano (AKK) project, which he described as one of the most aggressive and biggest pipeline infrastructure ever embarked upon by the country. The pipeline spans 614 km. He said the ongoing gas activities were being handled by local construction firms and service providers to due to the COVID-19 restrictions. “Going forward into 10 years, we expect to do another big pipeline that will take up gas from south, all the way into Ajaokuta and possibly we extend it all the way to Maiduguri,” he said. Usman stated that by NNPC’s projection, the demand for gas to generate electricity will consume between 60 and 70 per cent of the commodity produced, with plans to generate 45,000MW of electricity. “The other challenge we have is the liquidity in the power sector, and there’s a lot of work going on because it is a very huge market. If you see the demand projections that we have done, it is going to consume 60 to 70 per cent of the gas that we have. “Not only that; without power, all the development programmes we are thinking of will be a mirage. It is an inevitable equation that we have to solve to move towards development and issues around it have to be resolved,” he stated. He urged policy makers to answer the questions surrounding gas pricing, since Nigeria is interested in using gas as a source of revenue as well as balancing between investment and local content drive. “All these FDI come with conditionality before taking the money. That will put a limit to our local content drive. As you all know, the restrictions by itself affect the kind of projections that we look at,” he added. He stated that if Nigeria would achieve the decade of gas, it must transit to a willing-buyer, willing-seller market.