As Nigeria joins the rest of the global community to mark World Drug Day, a faith-based organisation: Christ Against Drug Abuse Ministry (CADAM) has called on governments to intensify healthcare support for people living with drug use disorder. Specifically, CADAM called on governments to develop evidence-based prevention programmes that would reach inaccessible populations in rural areas. Besides, the group called on the government to equip enforcement agencies on how to mitigate the rise in the illicit drug trade. CADAM’s Director-General, Dr Dokun Adedeji who disclosed this at a briefing in Lagos said the growth in illicit global drug supply and demand poses a great challenge to law enforcement, compounds health risks and complicates efforts to prevent and treat drug use disorders. He said efforts made by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) and National Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control (NAFDAC) may just not be adequate at a time the country is set to reduce drug demand and usage, particularly amongst the population. Adedeji said CADAM will continue to raise the stakes in scaling up efforts in increasing awareness on the rising menace of drug abuse and illicit trafficking and its effects on global public health and peace. Riding with the theme of 2021 World Drug Day: “Share Facts on Drugs, Save Lives”, he said there was an urgent need for all players in the war against drug abuse to combat misinformation and promote sharing of facts on evidence-based solutions to tackle the world’s drug problem. “This includes sharing research findings, evidence-based data, life-saving facts and tapping into a shared spirit of international solidarity. To be effective, balanced solutions to drug demand and supply must be rooted in evidence and shared responsibility. ” As an intervention, he said CADAM, which is a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) under the auspices of the Redeemed Christian Church of God has its 30 years existence catered to the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts without bias for gender, nationality, ethnicity and religion. He said: ”About 3,000 people with drug use disorder have been rehabilitated in our facility, most of whom are standing tall in society and are doing well.” He said CADAM offers rehabilitation and treatment services free to all beneficiaries at a facility in Epe, Lagos which runs for one year.” Besides, he said CADAM’s prevention programmes had engaged many communities with well thought out evidence-based preventive care programmes, including Teens Against Drug Abuse (TADA), a programme in secondary schools in Lagos and its complement for university students, Youth Against Drug Abuse (YADA) in private universities.