Crusaders, under the auspices of the 21st Century Youths of Niger Delta and Agitators with Conscience (21st CYNDAC), have handed stern warning against alleged attempts by some youth groups to truncate the inauguration of the incoming board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). For some months now, youths and stakeholders in the Niger Delta have been at daggers drawn with the management of the NDDC and the supervising minister of the commission, Senator Godswill Akpabio, over non-constitution of a substantive board for the agency. The agitations snowballed into #OccupyNigerDelta protest by Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) which lasted three days before another ultimatum issued by an ex-militant leader, Government Ekpomupolo, alias Tompolo, before the Federal Government’s promise of constituting the board before the end of June. It was reportedly learnt that some persons’ names had been penciled down for the incoming board among whom is a former Commissioner for Finance in Delta State, Chief Bernard Okumagba, as the new Chairman of the reconstituted board. The 21st CYNDAC in a statement on Saturday by its Coordinator, Izon Ebi, condemned in strong terms the purported statement and underground move by a Warri, Delta-based group to truncate the inauguration of the incoming board. It viewed the move of the group as another “failed attempt and insane vituperations” capable of creating unnecessary chaos and acrimony. The group said the choice of Okumagba as the boss of the NDDC board was well-thought out, describing him as a round peg in a round hole. It said: “Bernard Okumagba is a distinguished personality and leader that has been tested and trusted by the people of the Niger Delta. The region is so proud of his stewardship as a Commissioner for Finance in Delta State. “We, therefore, call on President Muhammadu Buhari to disregard the insane vituperations of the so-called Delta to cause another confusion to ignite tribal sentiments. “The good people of the region are so proud of Okumagba as a distinguished personality, leader and a core gentleman with a proven track record of prudent management of resources and charismatic leadership style. “We therefore use this medium to ask the youth group to involve in a meaningful venture of development rather than singing songs of tribal sentiments that will do the region no good.”