The United Nations (UN) celebrates June 5 yearly as World Environment Day (WED).The commemoration of the day provides the world with an opportunity to extend the basis for an enlightened opinion and responsible behaviour by individuals, businesses, and societies in preserving and enhancing the environment. This year’s theme: ‘Ecosystem restoration’, focused on resetting relation with nature, writes OKWY IROEGBU­-CHIKEZIE. Celebrated on June 5 every year, the World Environment Day (WED) is the United Nations (UN’s) day for promoting awareness and environmental action globally. It has become the largest global platform for discussing  environmental issues such as global warming, marine pollution, human overpopulation, wildlife conservation, and sustainable consumption. Celebrating the event in Lagos, stakeholders decried the decaying state of the environment due to inadequate awareness and challenges arising from climate change and global warming. Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu called for a proactive action that would protect humanity against the effects of climate change. He spoke at opening session of the Eighth Lagos International Climate Change summit with the topic: “Adapting health, energy, agriculture, transportation and waste infrastructure to the long-term impacts of climate change in Lagos.” Sanwo-Olu, who launched the state Climate Action Plan (CAP) at the event, called for an action to mitigate the impact of climate change, which, he said, is evident for all to see. The world, he said, was at a point where climate change is not only a territorial threat but also a common phenomenon, playing out in our eyes. The governor noted that last year was adjudged the worst in  climate change because the world experienced extreme climate event. According to him, it was imperative to address climate change because of its pivotal impact on  agriculture, health and sustainable  growth. He reiterated that the world faces an environmental emergency, which leads to depravation of food, water and other necessary resources needed for human kind to survive. The onus, he said,  was on us to collaborate to save the environment and mitigate the adverse effects of climate change as well as make the climate more livable. The governor promised that his government would implement recommendations at the summit to tackle climate change in the state. Also, the Minister of Environment, Mr. Mohammad Abubakar, noted the  danger of climate change and its attendant consequences, stressing that its adverse impact is on the rise as well as  threatening human existence globally. The minister, who was represented by Federal Controller for Environment, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Agboola, said the Federal Government has through the Federal Ministry of Environment has joined the global communities in tackling the challenges of climate as well as adapting green house solutions and adaptations. He noted that the president recently approved the revised national climate change policy and the national climate change programmes for Nigeria to capture ongoing input not reflected in the previous policy. The action plan, he said, is expected to run through 2021-2030. He implored Nigerians to do everything possible to use the carbon footprints and adopt sustainable for the sake of generation yet unborn. Earlier, Lagos State Commissioner of the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello said the Lagos International Climate Change Summit since inception in 2009 had become a meteting place for researchers, investors, academicians and stakeholders in the environment and economic sectors where notable decisions and actions are taken With the return to the summit, he said the state was reviewing an adaptation of some previous themes  of their importance to the government’s THEMES’ agenda. He noted that climate change is one of the defining challenges of our time. According to him, receding forests, biodiversity loss, changing rainfall patterns, drought, increase in dust storms, increase in temperatures and rising seal levels are grossly increasing economic, political an humanitarian stresses, as well as affecting human development in all parts of the world. A don from the University of Lagos Linkage Centre for Environmental Human Resources Development, Prof. Babajide Alo, said Nigeria’s environment was still confronted by deforestation, poor management of biodiversity and climate change impacts. He listed others as drought and desertification, flooding, soil and coastal erosion, water and crude oil pollution, industrial contamination of air and water bodies, urban decay and poor municipal waste management. He attributed some of the environmental problems causing security breaches in the country to herdsmen’s migration to the South in search of fodder for their cattle. He charged government at all levels, the private sector and other stakeholders to use the WED’s message to consider restoring degraded environment and impoverished populace. “They should take steps to implement strategies in the National Policy on Environment, sectoral policies and action plans on different environmental issues and embark on enforcement of desirable environmental laws,” he said. Director, Health of Mother Earth Foundation, HOMEF, Nnimmo Bassey, stressed that the violence in the country had direct negative impact on the environment, adding: “Some citizens and corporate bodies have used the prevailing situation to wreak havoc on ecosystems at dramatic levels. “There is an ongoing plunder of forest resources and ecosystems through illegal logging for export. This is happening in daylight and the systems of government that ought to protect the forests and communities appear to be either comatose or complicit.” Bassey advised Nigerians to stop environmental recklessness, saying: “This can be done by ensuring the teaching of environmental responsibility and health at all educational levels.” Also, Director of the Centre for Climate Change and Development, Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Ndufu-Alike, Prof. Chukwumerije Okereke, said Nigeria is not on track to achieving Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) target.