It was an outpouring of commendations as academics and political leaders eulogised the good legacies left behind by the first elected Governor of Lagos State, Late Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, while calling on Nigerian leaders to learn from his selfless style of leadership. At a memorial lecture organised by the Federal Social Democrats in honour Jakande, at Radisson Blu Hotels, Ikeja, leaders from all walks of life extolled his virtues. Delivering a lecture titled “Selfless Leadership and Good Governance: Jakande as an Examplar”, the Keynote Speaker and Former Chairman of Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Attahiru Jega, described Jakande as an impactful leader who touched many lives. He said Jakande championed good democratic governance, not for pecuniary gains, but for the good of society. The Chairman of the occasion and vice-presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in the 2019 elections, Peter Obi, extolling the prudent management of resources for which Kayode Jakande was known, urged  leaders to imbibe such virtues. Obi said Jakande prioritised the critical areas of development, which are education, health and support for poverty alleviation, noting that such visionary level of governance is lacking in the country today. Panelists at the event: Prof Pat Utomi, Obadiah Mailafia, and  others agreed on the visionary leadership, good governance and prudent management of resources which Jakande was known for, as Lagos State Governor, saying that such virtues are lacking in our nation today. This consensus on Jakande’s leadership qualities was reflected in the contributions of other participants, including Sonny Iroche, a highly respected Development Analyst, who said Late Jakande showed true leadership and made sacrifices to ensure the development of society. Mr Iroche thanked the FSD group for the choice of Peter Obi as the Chairman of the occasion. He noted that Peter Obi was legendary in cutting the cost of governance as the Governor of Anambra State, a virtue being celebrated in Jakande today. Speaking for the Jakande family, Mr Deji Jakande, the first son of Late Alhaji Jakande, emphasized their Father’s frugality, revealing that he lived in his house at Ilupeju throughout his Governorship days and until his death, used only his own vehicle as Governor, and never allocated any public land to himself directly or indirectly. Highlight of the event was the presentation of “Selfless Service Award” for Late Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande to his wife, Alhaja Abimbola Jakande, by Mr Peter Obi. 