‘Sacking’ appointees and dissolving executive councils by Governors is not new but what surrounds the sacking/dissolution seems to be a mystery to many political observers. Governors including AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara; Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia; Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe; David Umahi of Ebonyi and some others have either dissolved their cabinets and retained some persons or sacked their political appointees. Checks by The Nation revealed that many Governors see this process as ‘rejigging’ their cabinets. Some others for the best reason(s) known to them change their cabinet members altogether. · AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq(Kwara): AbdulRazaq in January announced the dissolution of the State Executive Council but the dissolution took effect from December 31, 2020. · Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia): Ikpeazu in January approved the immediate dissolution of the State Executive Council. He stated that those affected by the dissolution are to handover all government properties in their possession, together with their handover notes, to their respective Permanent Secretaries. · Inuwa Yahaya (Gombe): Yahaya in March, sacked three commissioners and reassigned portfolios to six others. The sacked Commissioners were: Alhassan Ibrahim Kwami Information & Culture; Dr. Ahmed Mohammed Gana Health and Mela Audu Nunghe (SAN) Special Duties. Yahaya said the cabinet rejigging was part of efforts to further consolidate operations in his administration. · David Umahi (Ebonyi): In May, Umahi dissolved the State Executive Council with immediate effect. Umahi noted that the dissolution was to be done in phases, pointing out 83 of the 106 members of the council being affected in the first phase. He also explained that the dissolution was aimed at enabling the government to carry out an appraisal of their performances. · Bello Matawalle (Zamfara): Matawalle in June dissolved the State Executive Council with immediate effect. The Secretary to the State Government, Chief of Staff and Deputy Chief of Staff were also sacked. He also relieved all chairmen and members of Commissions and Boards of various agencies. · Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta): Okowa in May dissolved the State Executive Council shortly after the Council’s meeting presided over by him. Okowa asked all commissioners, special advisers, Chief of Staff, Secretary to the Government (SSG), senior political adviser and the chief strategist to handover to the person next to them. The Governor thanked all members of his government for their contributions both those who have been there in the past six years and those who joined the train two years ago. · Bala Mohammed (Bauchi): In June, Mohammed dissolved the State Executive Council with immediate effect. He also sacked Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Sabiu Baba, the Chief of Staff (CoS) Government House, Dr. Ladan Salihu and all Special advisers. · Ben Ayade (Cross River): Ayade in May sacked four commissioners from his cabinet. Ayade also relieved five other appointees – Leo Inyambe, Orok Duke, Victor Okon, John Bassey, and Mbeh Agbiji – of their appointments. While no reason was given for the Governor’s action, he thanked the affected commissioners and appointees for their services to the state and wished them well in their future endeavours. · Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna): El-Rufai in May, approved the disengagement of 19 political appointees The Governor explained that the 19 disengaged staff are the first phase of public servants who will depart the public service, in continuation of rightsizing the workforce. · Hope Uzodimma (Imo): Uzodimma in May also dissolved his cabinet relieving 20 of his 28 commissioners of their duties. The Governor said the dissolution became necessary to rejig and re-energise the system for maximum productivity. Uzodimma thanked the affected Commissioners and assured them that they will still be found relevant in other areas if eventually they did not make the new cabinet he said will be reconstituted soon.