 The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Financial Institutions Training Centre (FITC), Chizor Malize, has said the financial services sector has come under intense pressure from FinancialTechnology (FinTech) firms leveraging  technology to meet customers’ needs. She spoke ahead of the virtual  TechNovate Conference 2021, an innovative conference themed, ”Repositioning the financial services sector, The rise of Fintechs, new Technologies, and innovative solutions” would hold on June 23 and 24. The event will be attended  key players in the financial services sector, technology and financial technology firms scheduled to be in attendance for a robust industry engagement. Malize noted that the use of smartphones, internet penetration, large unbanked and underbanked population, among other factors, have also led to rising acceptance of FinTech services by bank customers. Still, the Fintech sector remains unregulated, with stakeholders yet to develop an acceptable regulatory framework for the sector. She further noted that the  conference would attract thebrightest minds in the financial system, within and outside Africa. ”The landscape of financial services is undergoing a paradigm shift, giving rise to new technology innovations, process disruptions and a landscape redefined by FinTech disruptors. To take advantage of the opportunities ahead, financial institutions must implement novel strategies that will give them a competitive edge in today’s business environment. “The two-day virtual conference will provide opportunity for participants and speakers to discuss topical issues in the FinTech and financial services ecosystem. It will also provide an opportunity to have quality conversations with the most experienced digital transformation decision-makers in finance,” Malize said. The FITC TechNovate Conference speakers are made up of local and international C-suite Executives, Subject Matter Experts, Thought Leaders, regulatory agencies, Digital Transformation specialists, insurance, investment companies, tech units of banks, financial inclusion specialists, and payment systems leaders from the financial services and Fintech industry, who will be sharing their wealth of knowledge and experiences on the highly competitive financial technology and innovation environment, and how their operations are constantly evolving and being impacted* The distinguished host for the programme is Aishah Ahmad, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Deputy Governor Financial System Stability while the keynote speaker is Adebisi Shonubi, CBN Deputy Governor, Operations. The TechNovate Conference 2021 speakers include Konstantinos Tsanis, Digital Transformation & Fintech Specialist, International Finance Corporation (IFC), Ganiyu Musa, Managing Director/CEO Cornerstone Insurance, Niyi Ajao, Deputy Managing Director, Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NBSS), Mitchell Elegbe, Founder & Group Managing Director, Interswitch, Ashely Immanuel, Managing Director/CEO Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA). Also on the list of speakers are Fara Jituboh, Co-Founder & Chief Executive Officer/Chief Technology Officer, Okra Inc., Ade Bajomo, Executive Director, Operations & IT, Access Bank, Tokunboh Ishmael, Co-Founder & Managing Director, Alitheia Capital Limited, Musa I. Jimoh, Director Payment System Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), and Femi Adeoti, Managing Director/CEO Inlak Computers, amongst others. It would be recalled that FITC hosted the largest Cybersecurity and Employee Engagement and Experience Conference recently.