A proposed bill seeking to criminalise ransom payment for kidnap victims is currently pending before the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, sponsored by Senator Ezenwa Onyewuchi (PDP-Imo East), scaled second reading at plenary on May 19, before being referred to the committee and is expected back within four weeks. The bill seeks to amend the Terrorism (Prevention) Act, 2013 by outlawing payment of ransom to kidnappers for release of their hostages. While leading the debate on the bill, Onyewuchi said it would substitute Section 14 of the principal act with a new section that reads: “Anyone who transfers funds, makes payment or colludes with an abductor, kidnapper or terrorist to receive any ransom for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped is guilty of a felony and is liable on conviction to a term of imprisonment of not less than 15 years.” He argued, inter alia, that kidnapping had become the most pervasive and intractable violent crime in the country and was putting all segments of the citizenry at risk, adding: “However, history has shown that even where a ransom is proven to have been paid, the life or safe return of a kidnap victim may not be guaranteed.” Senator Adamu Aliero (APC-Kebbi Central), who supported the proposal, said payment of ransom was counterproductive because it encourages more kidnappings. While the Senate is brewing such legislation, students of private-owned Greenfield University in Kaduna State who were kidnapped on April 20 regained their freedom penultimate Saturday after 40 days in captivity. With Kaduna State Government having insisted on not paying ransom or even negotiating with the kidnappers, parents of the abductees said the release followed their paying N180million ransom to the abductors. “One hundred and eighty million naira, that is what they (kidnappers) collected, without any help from government,” one of the parents said on camera. Another parent, a woman, said 10 motorcycles were also handed out to the kidnappers. An unspecified number of students had been kidnapped by gunmen on April 20, from Greenfield University. Five of the hostages were found dead after the kidnappers threatened to kill them if ransoms were not paid. On May 4, a spokesman for the kidnappers threatened that other abductees would be killed if a ransom of N100million and 10 motorcycles were not delivered within 24 hours, claiming at the time that 17 students were being held. Reports said the parents engaged those kidnappers to plead for time; and when the students were freed May 29, 14 of them returned from captivity. Upon their release, both President Muhammadu Buhari and Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufai expressed great relief but avoided comments on the alleged ransom payment. The Greenfield students were barely back before another mass abduction occurred – this time, at the Salihu Tanko Islamic School at Tegina, Rafi council area of Niger State. Nearly 200 Islamiyya students were reported kidnapped at the day-school said to be owned by a retired Immigration officer, when gunmen stormed in at mid-noon last Sunday. One person was shot dead during the attack and another seriously injured, while 11 of the children taken by the abductors got let-off because they were reportedly too feeble to walk. Early last week, reports emerged that the abductors wanted N110million ransom for the pupils. There was, however, some element of class irony compared with the earlier case because whereas the Greenfield parents could muster a huge ransom payment, there seems little hope of parents of the Islamiyya students doing same, thereby leaving the Islamiyya students’ fate dangerously in the balance. These latest kidnappings followed after earlier cases of mass and isolated abductions across the country; they also indexed the challenge as deep-rooted and beyond immediate control of the security forces. Meanwhile, the law the Senate proposes seeks to make self-help criminal for kidnap victims when official protection isn’t there. This is double jeopardy brewing, because it would compound the ordeal of the victim by incapacitating him from ad hoc remediation, even when he remains exposed to the source of the ordeal. Ransom payment should by no means be encouraged, but the proposed law is totally unwarranted because you do not punish victims for seeking reprieve from a crime you have not shielded him from ab initio. Some things are better left in realm of willful connivance, and we think this should be one of them. There are indeed indications of fundamental systemic incapacity that makes recourse to self-help overly tempting. It is confounding, for instance, that Greenfield parents mustered the alleged N180million ransom and 10 motorbikes through the economic system without catching the attention of security operatives who could’ve stealthily trailed them to tackle down the kidnappers at collection point. And government appears resigned from taking justice post-facto to the criminals, such that there will be no accounting for those five Greenfield students killed. If you couldn’t take on the kidnappers when they had the hostages to avoid collateral casualties, are they also beyond reach now that the students are out? Tendencies as these undermine public confidence in official capability to deal with the kidnap menace and make self-help through ransom payment compelling.