It was touted as a Pandora box when chieftains of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) including the then President Alhaji Sani Lulu along with his 1st Vice President Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam as well as the then NFF’s secretary-general Dr. Bolaji Ojo-Oba and late Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi, a former executive committee member were all charged to court for allegedly misappropriating over $900 million in 2010, being the fund for the Super Eagles World Cup campaign in South Africa. Besides, the quartet were explicitly accused of siphoning over $125,000 through shoddy hotel bookings in South Africa during the 2010 World Cup, $250,000 lost as a result of booking the wrong airline for the trip, $400,000 allegedly expended on the Nigeria/Colombia friendly match and $236, 000 which vanished from the coffers of the Glass House in 2009. They were also accused of flouting due process in the purchase of two Marcopolo buses for the national teams as well as sharing of N185 million amongst state FA chairmen. In and out of the Federal High and Appeal Courts in Abuja, it took the foursome almost a decade to be discharged and acquitted of any wrongdoing with both late Ogunjobi and Uchegbulam being the last to be left off the hook on June 9, 2018. But despite their clearance, the dramatis personae had over the years kept sealed lips over their saga. “We choose not to speak over the unfortunate trial because we least deserve such treatment despite the fact that we gave our best to the service of Nigerian football,” Uchegbulam, the chairman of the Imo State FA told NationSport. “But as it wisely said, ‘ there is time for everything ‘ and we feel it is about time we let Nigerians know all that transpired but what still baffle us what the lies told the public in order to hang us.” In separate interviews with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN, the former NFF bigwigs as well as the wife of late Ogunjobi, took their turn to speak about the celebrated trial.  Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam , the erstwhile 1st Vice president of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) is known within the football fraternity as a man who calls a spade a spade and even no matter whose ox is gored. He fingered the former Director General of defunct National Sports Commission (NSC) Dr. Pat Ekeji as one of the architects of the crisis that befuddled the NFF pre and post 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa. “ Ekeji was a kill joy and only him can explain why he masterminded the crisis that engulfed the NFF in 2010,” Uchegbulam, the erstwhile Vice President of Confederation of African Football (CAF) Board of Appeal, told NationSport in Lagos. “ He was just sheer wickedness on his part because I’m still at loss why he along with the then Sports Minister Ibrahim Bio orchestrated such a wicked plot of wanting to send us to jail for no just cause. “ But for the sake of posterity, I will give a brief background to the crisis because their motive all along was to come and take over the World Cup money and once they were unable to achieve that they came up with cock and bull story that we’d embezzled the 900 million USD approved for the World Cup. “They advised President Goodluck Jonathan to set up a Presidential Task Force(PTF) and that the situation going into the last round of matches in our group and we needed to beat Kenya away in Nairobi and Tunisia was to play against Mozambique. “There was this panic that we would not qualify but there was the conspiracy theory from the leadership of the ministry of sports and that was how the idea of a PTF came about. “ But the PTF came and added more problem to our problem by promising the players $10,000 USD for a win and that was even at a period we were struggling to play $5,000 USD. The PTF was a huge distraction but we did our best to qualify without any input from the so-called PTF. “Sani Lulu was co-opted into the PTF but he wasn’t getting along with them and that became the issue because they wanted to hijack the functions of the NFF. “ We went to the World Cup and unfortunately, we lost our first game (1-0) to Argentina and we had it on good authority that at a meeting that evening at the Nigeria Embassy , President Jonathan was fed lies about the NFF and that the Super Eagles lost the match because the money meant for the team was embezzled. “This high-level meeting before our second game against Greece reportedly had in attendance President Goodluck Jonathan, the sport minister Alhaji Ibrahim Bio; Ambassador Buba Marwa, Rotimi Amaechi, who was the chairman of the Presidential Task Force for the World Cup; DG of sports, Dr. Patrick Ekeji, and several others. “We were made to understand President Jonathan was told that we lost to Argentina because we embezzled the money that was given to us for the World Cup but as at that time, the allocation for the World Cup was still in Nigeria “ But in actual sense, the World Cup money about $900 million USD was still with the ministry by the time we arrived South Africa for the World Cup because we facilitated our preparation and other logistics for the World Cup through our sponsorship money. “ Yet President Jonathan was told that we had mismanaged the money that had not yet been released by the ministry; they said I used my own proceed to buy a house in Durban and claimed that was one of the reasons we couldn’t get a good accommodation for the Super Eagles whereas Lulu had rebuffed the idea of accepting an accommodation sourced by officials of the Nigeria Embassy in South Africa. “ Rather, we moved to a FIFA approved facility at Richards Bay. So the rank and file of the PTF was made up of people who were aggrieved because we were not ready to do any deal with them. Unfortunately, the Super Eagles didn’t do well and as soon as we came back from South Africa, we were dragged before security operatives and Economic and Financial Crime Commission(EFCC) and later charged us to court with spurious allegations. “ The then NFF President Alhaji Sani Lulu along with Uchegbulam as well as the then NFF’s secretary-general Dr. Bolaji Ojo-Oba and late Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi, a former executive committee member and chairman of chairmen, were all charged to court for allegedly misappropriating over $900 million , being the fund for the Super Eagles 2010 World Cup campaign in South Africa. Besides, the quartet were explicitly accused of siphoning over $125,000 through shoddy hotel bookings in South Africa during the 2010 World Cup, $250,000 lost as a result of booking the wrong airline for the trip, $400,000 allegedly expended on the Nigeria/Colombia friendly match and $236, 000 which vanished from the coffers of the Glass House in 2009. They were also accused of flouting due process in the purchase of two Marcopolo buses for the national teams as well as sharing of N185 million amongst state FA chairmen. “ There was no iota of truth in all the allegations,” Ojo-Oba, the former Commissioner for Sports in Oyo State, told NationSport from his base in Ibadan. “ They actually got some aggrieved football people to write petition against us and all the allegations were obtained from our memos from the sports ministry ; and these were things we ensured we got approval for. “ Quipped Uchegbulam: “We were dragged before the court on a 10-point charges but later reduced to nine. Out of the nine charges, four was about the two Marcopolo buses. The others were about accommodation; the 900million USD World Cup money and getting a bad plane to ferry the Super Eagles from London to South Africa for the World Cup. “ But all through the eight years that we were in court, they didn’t raise the issue about any missing money because our record was intact for all to see. “I didn’t believe my eyes when I saw Ekeji in court as a prosecuting witness. They lined up 10 witnesses but it was only Ekeji and the EFCC chief interrogator that were available. It was when I saw Ekeji that I believed what we were long being told that he was the architect of the whole thing against the NFF and particularly against me. “We were in court for eight years between 2010 and 2018 and the four of us (Lulu, Ojo-Oba; the late Taiwo Ogunjobi and Uchegbulam) were left to fight to clear our names. “ So, Nigerians must be told that we were only persecuted for no just cause; no money was misappropriated or embezzled by anybody.” Lulu, an architect by profession , is a man versed with figures and he told NationSport from Abuja, that he ensured that the NFF was fiscally responsible under his watch. “ With all modesty, we did manage our resources so well and that was why they couldn’t rope us in throughout the court trial,” Lulu explained with further insight into the finances of the NFF at that time. “ We actually inherited a debt of N300m(three hundred million Naira )from the Alhaji Galadima Ibrahim –led board but we left about N2.8 billion Naira in the coffers of NFF as at the time our tenure was forcefully terminated in July 2010. “ This alone is enough for us to be given the chance to continue but we faced wicked machinations from the ministry of sports. “ Don’t forget that it was our board that introduced the national U-13 competition where the likes of Kelechi Iheanacho was discovered. “ Even despite our lean resources, our board qualified Nigeria for all major competitions international competition including the FIFA World Cup; FIFA Women’s World Cup; FIFA Under-17 men’s winners; FIFA under-17 Women’s World Cup and FIFA Under-20 Women’s World Cup and FIFA Beach Soccer . “This feat was equalled only by Brazil at that time and this explains why the then FIFA President Sepp Blatter commended Nigeria for this remarkable achievements and it was also under our tenure that the Super Eagles had the best rating as world’s number 9 since being fourth best in 1994.” Those landmarks notwithstanding, Ojo-Oba who obtained a leave of absence from the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to serve as Secretary General of the NFF , said the powers that be then were only hell bent in destroying the fabrics of Nigerian football by dragging the quartet before the law court. “ The people that wanted us out at the ministry of sports cared less about the achievements of the board and it may also interest the public to know that they had no proof to the effect that we had taken any money rather they got some people to manufacture petitions to the EFCC based on the usual briefs we sent to them, “ Ojo Oba further explained. “ They wanted a total control of the NFF to the detriment of the NFF statues and our problem stemmed from the fact some wicked individuals who wanted a score to settle to the detriment of our football.” One of the vexed issues between the then leadership of the NFF and the sports ministry as well as the PTF was about the management of the Super Eagles at the World Cup. Whereas the NFF wanted to stick with the late coach Amodu Shaibu that laboured to qualify the team for the first World Cup to be played on the African continent, the MOS and PTF wanted a foreign tactician to tinker the team hence they subsequently hired Swede coach Lars Lagerbäck. “ The NFF also fell out with the ministry because they insisted that the late coach Shaibu Amodu was not competent enough to take the Super Eagles to the World Cup but we felt that wasn’t fair enough because the same Amodu was denied by the MOS to lead the Super Eagles to the Korea/Japan World Cup in 2002,” Ojo-Oba noted. Uchegbulam was even more forthcoming, adding it was Ekeji who was at the centre of the drama that led Amodu being denied the chance of leading the Eagles to the 2010 World Cup . “I wished I had the minute of the NFF meeting where Amodu’s fate was decided with me because Ekeji came to the meeting and said it is was directive from the government that Amodu should not go to the World Cup with the team and they would bring a foreign coach which they did,” Uchegbulam stated. “Yet the MOS and indeed Nigerians held us (Lulu-led NFF board) responsible for the 2010 World Cup failure. “We wanted Amodu to coach because so many of the boys including Yakubu Aiyegbeni were the boys he brought up and it was apparent the boys were generally not happy that he was sacrificed for Lagerbäck “Amodu did a good job and qualified us and that was the second time they did that to Shuaibu Amodu and some of us were not happy . “What did Lagerbäck do at SA 2010 World Cup that Shuaibu wouldn’t have done? Lagerbäck with all his so called expertise didn’t take us to the second round and we didn’t win a match just played two draws yet it was the NFF that was criticised and not the MOS or PTF that foisted Lagerbäck on us.” Ojo-Oba was also of the view that the MOS needed to give the NFF a bad name in order to stop the return of the Lulu-led board for a second time. “Apart from all the lies about stolen funds, we also believe that the MOS were uncomfortable that we would be returned for another four years because we had concluded all the process for the election but because some of their friends had lost out in the screening, they rallied and dragged us before the EFCC and court for no cogent reasons,” noted Ojo-Oba. For almost a decade, the case dragged on and on and not until June 9, 2018 that both Uchegbulam and Ogunjobi were cleared of any wrong doing after both Ojo-Oba and Lulu had earlier being given carte blanche by the Court of Appeal in Abuja. “June 9 is like June 12 to us; I mean me as well as Lulu, Ojo-Oba and late Taiwo Ogunjobi,” Uchegbulam noted. “Every June 9 is a day of victory for us and it’s about time we allow Nigerians and indeed the world to know that we were tried for no just cause because throughout the trial, no question regarding supposedly lost money and erroneously fed the public was asked. “We were discharged and acquitted with no case submission after wrongly being dragged before the court for almost ten years by petulant officials from the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development led by the former Director-General of National Sports Commission (NSC), Dr. Patrick Ekeji.” Yet in the June 9 milieu, wife of late Ogunjobi (Mrs. Bukola Ogunjobi) is perhaps the happiest, saying her joy stemmed from the fact that her husband was able to clear his name before his passage on February 11, 2019. “ Of course, we have to give glory to God for everything, “ she said with some philosophical hue.“ But the most important thing for us as a family was the fact that he was alive to clear his name. “ It was a very traumatic experience though we knew all along that he was not guilty as charged but the whole experience was not nice at all particularly in our society where people believe in rumour and hear say. “ It was apparent that somebody just wanted to deal with them and I mean the four of them because it was apparent no money was stolen yet they were accused of embezzlement. “ But thank God we still have some good Nigerians and as I said in my tribute during the commendation for my late husband, we are most grateful to one particular person that provided them with the initial funding for both my husband and Chief Amanze to prosecute the case. “ Though he is no longer with us now but I’m happy that he was discharged and acquitted on June 9, 2018,” she noted.