An official of a law enforcement agency Popoola Abayomi has been arrested for selling assorted illicit drugs to students of a federal university in Ogun State, spokesman of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) Femi Babafemi said in a statement on Sunday. He said the suspect was arrested on Wednesday, but did not reveal which security outfit he is attached to. Babafemi said, however, that the suspected drug dealer serves in the Lagos State command of the security agency, and was under surveillance for days. It was alleged that Abayomi’s wife’s shop in Abeokuta served as his sales point. The spokesman said one of Abayomi’s salesmen, a motorcycle rider known as Ogah, was trailed to the location where he was arrested with six pinches of Colorado weighing 1.17grams. This was before Popoola, who has been on the Agency’s watch list, was allegedly apprehended with different illicit drugs including codeine (17 bottles); cannabis (22.26grams); tramadol (230-98grams), and sex enhancement drugs, among others. The statement said after the arrest of the two suspects, some student union officials of the institution blocked the NDLEA team with their vehicle. Babafemi said the narcotic agents however restrained themselves and after hours of standoff succeeded in moving the suspects to custody. He also said a Nigerian returning from Pakistan, Ezenyeche Kingsley Ebuka, was arrested at the Murtala Muhammed International Airpirt (MMIA), Ikeja Lagos with five pellets of heroin weighing 250grams. The drug was discovered in his anus, Babafemi said, adding that the suspect arrived at the airport on June 14 on a Turkish airline flight from Pakistan. One Adelodun Kamaldeen was also arrested in Ilorin, Kwara State following the interception of a parcel containing cocaine and heroin that weighed 10.5grams and 4.8grams. “The following day, two ladies; Mary Peter, 40, and Mercy Oladele, 39, were arrested at Total Garden, Ibadan when NDLEA operatives acting on a tip-off intercepted their car. The two women were arrested with seven bags of cannabis weighing 77.23kg brought in from Ogbese, Ondo State, to supply to a man they simply identified as Alhaji. Suspects were also arrested in Ibadan and Kaduna with hard drugs, Babafemi said.