“What  matter  has  TWITTER  matter  got  to  do with health matter?” Better Effiong Happiness, the 14-year-old girl who types article for this page, asked, playing with words, when I announced the subject. To this question, my  reply is: “Twitter matter becomes health  matter  when  14th  century  thought  and  actions  ruin 21st century life patterns, disturbing the mind and head, and causing all sorts of illnesses which would,   otherwise, be in their  sheaths.  Didn’t  our  fore-fathers  experience  things  like this, when they said: TI A BA N GUN ‘YAN NI INU ODO,TI A N SE ‘BE NI INU EEPO EPA, ENI MAA YO A YO (If we pound yam  in  a  mortar,  if  we  cook  soup  in  a  groundnut  shell, whosever will have a full stomach will have it)! The Twitter question   should be interesting to anyone who strives to  live in  the  PRESENT.  I visited this  subject  in  a number of posts on Facebook which I will share in this series. Nigeria and Twitter (1) WITH four of Nigeria’s six political regions agitated, and the  fifth  managing  to  keep  calm,  the  Federal  Government must be extremely nervous. Nervousness is  one or few steps away from anger and misplaced aggression. Anger exposes absence of clarity, a few steps from fear. Anger stems from fear of inadequacy, causes hatred, precursor of anything, including murder. Anger severs all   links with reason.    President Muhammadu Buhari has been angry with the Southeast region  since  the  election  of  2015  in  which  the  voters  massively rejected him. He could not hold himself  in public when once or twice he wrote the constituents off his bread and butter list. But he would seem  persuaded to let sleeping dog lie when he accepted the second Niger Bridge and the West-East railway projects for which he went abroad to borrow money. Nevertheless, the constituents are not persuaded the President loves them. They remember him as one of the Nigerian Army officers who quashed the Biafran dream of 1966-70 in which  their  grandparents   died.  They  also  remember  their kinsmen were massively and brutally murdered in the North from where the President comes in a prelude to the war. So, we have been witnessing collisions of two quantum negative discharges. How will these annoyances be peacefully resolved? They read President Buhari’s revulsion for the Igbo in his public appointments which they say marginalise the Southeast.  The  roll  call  of  Army  Generals  who  are  likely  to  go because their Junior has become their boss   is another example which justifies their claims. Before this, the President was sending troops of one operation or the other to quieten dissent  in  the  Southeast  and  to  frighten  into  submission  this region that is well known for its ruggedness and resourcefulness. Irrespective of the President Eastern policies, I do not think the President believes all Igbos are threats to Nigerian unity. But his fear and dislike of IPOD may have made him to bunch them all up. Constitutionally, there are Igbos in his cabinet who should speak for their people. Even if he had a revulsion for the Igbo, wouldn’t it have paid him better to pretend he doesn’t while he sorts out problems in all Nigeria’s agitated political  zones?  Whoever  wins  multiple  wars  at  the  same time?  Otto  von  Bismark,  the  Iron  Chancellor,  negotiated French  neutrality  before,  through  war,  he  pulled  out  Germany from the Austro-Hungerian Empire. French Emperor Bonaparte  Napoleon  and  German  Adolf  Hitler  lost  several wars because they took on many opponents at the same time. If some Northern generals and troops are Boko Haram sup- porters,  if  some  generals  and  troops  are  pro-banditry,  how will President Buhari get Southeastern Generals and troops to  match  in  the  Southeast  or  to  help  him  in  the  Northeast, Northeest and Northcentral?   I believe, as some people have said, that the President may not have seen the war-threaten- ing TWIT before it was posted in TWITTER. He is an aging and busy man, who may entrust many matters to his trusted aides who, may not have been clearing routine matters with him. And once the feathers flew, he would be obliged to pro- tect them. President Buhari is not known to sacrifice his aberrant staff. He would rather do house management. We have seen many public officers, including a former Finance Minis- ter,  stay  in  office  longer  than  when  they  should  have  been shown the door. So, if President Buhari didn’t read the TWIT before it was published, he would pretend he did, and take responsibility as a “gentleman officer”. I was a young journalist when I was told a similar thing happened in the govern- ment of General Yakubu Gowon. Defence Headquarters was too  close  to,  I  believe,  the  American  and  British  embassies. The government encouraged them to move, but they would not. General Gowon would appear to be too soft. So, one day the radical Muritala Muhammed and Olusegun Obasanjo, who would later edge him out, surrounded the diplomatic neighbourhood with troops to enforce the movement, against dip- lomatic norm. Would General Gowon disown his own boys? Silent war The reaction of the government in suspending or banning TWITTER activities is an indicator that a silent war is going on in Nigeria. There is a ricochetting rumour that the Presi- dent has passed, and that a decoy of him has been put in Aso Rock  by  people  who  hijacked  power  from  him.  Recently,  I was an odd-person-out in a discussion group. I reminded the other people that the President has been travelling abroad to meet with government functionalists and that the media of those countries would have been too glad to report that Ni- geria had a Dummy Leader if this rumour was correct. This persuaded some people to change their opinion. Some of Presi- dent Buhari’s aides are not helping matters about the fear of a quiet war going on in Nigeria, which has found a new peak in the TWITTER problem. The Attorney-General and Justice Min- ister recently made a provoking statement equating Igbo spare parts business in the North with Northern cattle rampaging food  crop  farms  in  the  South.  Former  Borno  Governor Shettima took it up from there in a video call interview with former Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun. Shettima said the Igbos were lucky that Muhammadu Buhari became Presi- dent. He said Buhari was not the choice of the North for Presi- dent.  The  choice  of  the  North  was  former  Kano  Governor Kwakwanso.  Shettima  said  the  Igbos  were  taking  over  the economy of the North and Kwakwanso was better positioned than Buhari to take the economy back from tbem and give it to  Northerners.  Then,  he  said  this  would  be  done  after  the 2023 polls. This is an indication that the hawks in the North and in President Buhari’s cabinet may have hijacked power, as Aisha Buhari claims. Is it not possible that the hawks planted the TWIT? The impression the TWITTER SUSPENSION or BAN had created is that a whole Federal Government cannot with- stand the President being humiliated while Nnamdi Kanu of IPOD is on his feet, laughing. General Gowon said there were bad  advisers,  but  no  bad  leaders.  Boot  lickers  may  have misadvised the President to hammer TWITTER in a mood of self-preservation  before  their  boss  whose  spirit  must  have been down. It is at such a time the President should have been closer  to  his  wife,  Aisha,  a  well  educated,  bright,  much- younger and more-proactive person. It is not for nothing that she is his wife and mother of their children. When  men  are down and out while storming the mountains, it is from their wives they draw succour and energy to continue the battle. They are not given to us by our Creator to be mere decora- tions  in  our  living  rooms  and  bedmates  in  the  other  room. They are meant to be our worthy companions. They defend us to the hilt, even when we are aberrant, if we are good to them.  All  men  should  know  this.  WOMAN  is  psychically stronger than MAN, who is physically stronger. Spiritually speaking, the inner core or essence of WOMAN is finer and more sensitive than   MAN’s. That makes WOMAN to easily connect with higher and final realms of existence for HIGHER GUIDANCE  than  MAN.  In   flowering  plants,  for  example, aerial  part  are  fragrant,  fruity  and  bears  flowers.  The  roots system which secure the plants is rugged and obtuse, like the body of MAN. That is why Wise People Of Old who discov- ered WOMAN to be a store house of strength for MAN tell us that BEHIND A SUCCESSFUL MAN, THERE IS A WOMAN. Young people Aisha may have told him TWITTER suspension would be one more battle the President is waging not on TWITTER or Nnamdi Kanu but on Nigeria’s young people, especially in the South.  Nigeria’s liquid cash is evaporating. Governments and the private sector are sacking workers. Unemployment is growing.  Young  people  are  denouncing  their  country  and fleeing  abroad,  saying  it  is  better  to  be  slaves  over  there, where they can get jobs to full their pockets and stomachs. Providentially,  digital  currency  platforms  brought  succour to young Nigerians who stayed behind for love of country or for want of opportunity to escape from its stranglehood. Many of them no longer even cared for paid white collar jobs. They were legitimately making money  undreamt of. But, suddenly, the government came to smash their dreams of financial free- dom in the guise of fighting terrorists and kidnappers who were  using  the  same  platforms  to  grow  their  businesses.  I once asked if it was not better to regulate the business than to abolish it. Can we abolish the police or the armed forces sim- ply because they have some bad eggs?.   In any case, haven’t we witnessed more school children kidnapping since the ban- ning of crypto currency business in the banks? Didn’t the kid- nappers negotiate and collect raw cash and even have some motorcycles bought for them to empower their vocation? Has the Boko Haram Army not been paying its soldiers since the crypto ban? Aisha  may  also  have  told  her  husband  how  TWITTER  is transforming the business lives of many young people. I am sure the President will soon discover the ban is a wasted ef- fort. Young people are irrepressible and, like water stopped from flowing in one direction, will soon find a new level and direction. Twitter One of the lessons TWITTER   may learn is that a building designed and constructed on a rocky foundation cannot be exhumed,  transported  and  implanted  on  marshy  land  and expected to not sink. TWITTER may have deleted President Donald  Trump  in  the  United  States  without  much  ado  because that country has solid public institutions to prevent or to absorb “tremors”. The African terrains is still largely one man show, irrespective of the mouthing of Democracy  The Igbo The Igbo are right to exercise their free will for self-determination. Freedom from the neighbour is a gift the Almighty Creator gave to all creatures. We observe it well in babies. A baby may not like the cuddle of a certain adult. Human be- ings  ignored  this  inalienable  rights  in  the  greedy  quest  for territorial expansion which brought together many disparate tribes of men in a single Nation state. From here, irreverent man  trampling  on  the  loss  of  nature  which  organised  men into groups on the basis of their inner homogeneity conquered more territories to establish incongruous empires. These in- cluded the outdated Roman Empire, British Empire, Byzan- tine  Empire,  Ottoman  Empire,  Oyo  Empire,  Benin  Empire, Songhai Empire etc. In modern times, the Russians established Soviet Empire which has crumbled. Nigeria was a member of the now defunct British Political Empire. If Nigeria exercised self-determination  to  free  herself  from  the  British  Empire, why can constituent parts of Nigeria be not free to go their individual ways if they believe they can achieve their exis- tential objectives by doing so? If we do not split, we would have to learn to treat one another with mutual self respect as a husband and wife treats each other if they are not to sepa- rate  or  to  divorce.  In  their  presents  predicament,  the  Igbos have  many  lessons  to  learn.  They  hated  Chief  Obafemi Awolowo because he did not allow them to govern the West- ern  region  after  the  Western  region  led  the  Nigerian  Inde- pendence Campaign against Britain and won freedom for the whole country. Why would the Igbos want the Yoruba’s to replace a foreign colonial master with a local colonial master from  the  East  of  Nigeria  when  they  have  more  competent sons and daughters who can govern them? All through the colonial  constitutional  conferences,  Chief  Awolowo  fought for regionalism for which he was branded a tribalist because he  did  not  want  ethnic  domination  in  Nigeria.  After Independence, he asked Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, the Igbo Leader, to become Prime Minister while he, Awolowo, would be Fi- nance Minister under him, so  they could give Nigeria a solid start up foundation against feudalism and nepotism. But Dr. Azikiwe preferred to be powerless or Ceremonial President and Tafawa Balewa, from the North, became Prime Minister, and the most powerful man in Nigeria. Irrespective of this, Chief Awolowo won through with a 1960, and 1963 constitu- tion which properly regionalised Nigeria so that one group would not dominate the others. A Northern and Eastern Federal  coalition  government  conspired  against  the  fast-devel- oping Western region and broke it into two parts after caus- ing a crisis in the ruling Action Group Party. This led to the crisis which caused the first military coup, Igbo killings in the North and the Biafran War. Major-General J.T.U. Aguyi Ironsi, an  Igbo,  who  took  over  from  the  coupists  abolished  the regional constitution and imposed a unity constitution under which Igbos had unlimited access to all Federal opportunities after they and the Northerners had successfully pushed the Yoruba’s out of the civil services, armed forces and the police. This was why the West was militarily impotent at the outset of  the  Nigerian  civil  war,  surrounded   by  Northern  troops after the Igbos had withdrawn from all parts of the county to the East. The Ironsi unitary constitution opened the eyes of the  North  to  how  it  could  use  constitutional  power  to legitimately conquer the entire country. That is what the South is still suffering from   and which is causing agitation in the East.  Somehow,  because  of  the  private  sector  economic advances  which  Chief  Awolowo  brought  to  the  West,  the Yorubas  hardly  agitate  that  they  are  left  out  of  Nigeria  at government level. The Igbo flowered at Federal Government level  under  Obasanjo,  Yar  Adua/Jonathan  and  Jonathan. Buhari  became  the  Igbo  headache  because  his  government opened  the  door  more  to  call  Northerners,  especially  the Fulanis. Every part of the country is feeling the present pinch and would like more freedom than at present obtains. Again, the  Igbos  shut  themselves  in  the  foot  under  Obasanjo  and Jonathan when they rejected regionalism and state police sim- ply because the Southern President who favoured them did not want more state power in the West which was again, as in pre-colonial times, pushing for regionalism and state police. We are all in it together, we can do it peacefully or violently. Violence will pay no one. The peace process will pay everyone. The United Nations has a Peace Process plan. Britain peace- fully pulled out of the EUROPEAN UNION. YUGOSLAVIA did it peacefully. SCOTLAND lost the self-determination battle against the United Kingdom by a few votes a few years ago. Britain rejoiced and conceded more freedom to loser SCOT- LAND. But Scotland is not done yet, it has launched another peaceful move for a separation from Britain in order for its people  to  remain  an  homogeneous  people  within  its  own boundaries  as  the  Almighty  Creator  made  us  all.  We  can learn from this Peace Process rather than cause more blood to be shed in a country already overflown with blood since the 1960s. My dream for Nigeria, if the various part stick together, is a country where the natural order of life is well respected. In this order, all tribes were created by God. Each tribe was led by him to its own territory where resources it would need to sustain  itself  had  been  specially  prepared  for  it.  No  tribe will see itself as superior to others. All tribes will see them- selves  as  meant  to  grow  according  to  the  WILL  of  the  Al- mighty Creator from child tribe to adult tribe so that, individuals in each tribe would be able to return to Paradise, our home as flowering and useful human spirits. The strong tribes will unconditionally help the weak. No tribe will withhold its  resources  from  others  who  need  them.  But  they  would have to negotiate the terms of exchange which bring joy to all parties. Anything short of this will cause agitation.