Leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ondo State have sent a Save our Soul message to National Chairman of the party, Prince Uche Secondus, ahead of the 2023 general elections. In the message, the Ondo PDP leaders asked Secondus to urgently intervene in the affairs of the party in the state to avoid it sinking further They urged the PDP National Chairman to call its party’s governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, to order. The Ondo PDP leaders who spoke under the auspices of the Ondo PDP Unity Group accused Jegede of creating factions in the party by sponsoring social media attack on party chieftains. In the message signed by Coordinator, Omosanya Omolere and Secretary, Comrade Ayomikun Adeleke, the group also called for resignation of the state executive of the party led by Hon Fatai Adams. According to the group, “Mr Chairman, we are sorry to say that Mr Eyitayo Jegede (SAN) hasn’t learnt any lesson since 2016 till date. In 2016, we lost the governorship election due to imposition, internal wrangling and his (Jegede) inability to reconcile all the warring factions within the PDP. “Again, on October 2020, we lost the election due to internal wrangling and unnecessary factions created by Eyitayo Jegede and his group and his inability to unify the party via genuine reconciliation after winning the ticket of the party. “Mr Chairman, as we write, the core values of the PDP and the chances of winning future election in Ondo State are under serious threat due to Jegede’s undemocratic practices, where people loyal to him now take to the social media on daily basis to attack respected leaders of our party without any word of caution by Jegede and Adams, the state chairman of the PDP in Ondo State who has also compromised his office for presenting himself as the factional leader of Jegede’s camp rather than being the PDP state chairman and acting in like manner. “During the 2020 governorship election, we lost many of our foremost leaders in Ondo State to opposition parties because the Emperor and candidate of the party was busy pursuing a personal vendetta against leaders who do not support his aspiration during the last party’s primary election. “It is no more news in Ondo State that the PDP has now become a laughing stock on several APC’s platforms and the social media as people loyal to Jegede now carry out daily attacks on party leaders mostly on Facebook and Whatsapp in their quest to diminish and pull down party leaders who are obstacles to their 2023 agenda in Ondo State. “It is our resolve to bring this to your attention to as a matter of urgency, call Eyitayo Jegede to order before he destroys the PDP in Ondo State ahead of the 2023 general election.”