Chris Okotie, head Pastor at the Household of God Church, in classy Oregun, Ikeja, was tackling TB Joshua, of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN), in seedy Ikotun, Lagos. Trapped, in the crossfire, was the other Chris, and neighbour of Chris: Pastor Chris Oyakhilome — classy peers both, at their classy Oregun base. Poor Oyakhilome had dared to join Joshua — Joshua, the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) pariah! — to pray for a man in a wheelchair.  What heresy! Ripples’ interest, back then, wasn’t really the holy men of God, their holy beefs, their holy spite.  It was rather own peers’ uncritical attitude to a potential story, being explored and discussed, at The Anchor on Sunday editorial suite. The modal view, in that chirpy, frenzied ensemble, was clear: PFN had decreed Joshua a pariah.  A pariah he must be.  Let the story validate that sacred creed! But Ripples cautioned: shouldn’t we first sound out both sides, and let the readers decide?  We will, came the riposte!  But we all know where all this would lead! The story did lead to the answer — and no prize for guessing right: TB Joshua got thoroughly roasted!  But Ripples wrote a “rebel” piece: an analytical side bar, insisting on fairness to both parties.  The editor graciously published it, with the story. A grateful Joshua would, the following Monday, seek out Ripples, at The Anchor: his followers bearing tonnes of ”Synagogue” literature, evangelizing video cassettes and allied souvenirs.  Still, the newsroom buzzed: beware of Joshua and his hypnotism! For a barely educated prophet — he had only one year of formal secondary education — TB Joshua boasted rare organizational savvy! So, if the dandy, the trendy, the lyrical, the musical, the handsome, the winsome, and above all, the lexically flamboyant Chris Okotie crowed at Joshua’s death, you know that beef didn’t come overnight. “The wizard at Endor who assumed the title Emmanuel,” Okotie gushed, in his now (in?)famous joy at Joshua’s death, “has been consumed by divine indignation. And now his disciples bewail his ignominious exit.” To boot, the lexical juggernaut signed off with trademark heavy artillery diction: “Operation Hupopodion (footstool) has commenced. The day of the vengeance of our God has fully come to Nigeria. And they shall not escape.”! To the excitable — and converted — that was classic Prophet Elijah, thundering down the miserable prophet of Baal and Ashera, at the biblical crunch!  But really, it was the classic dross of man, seeping through the man of God, playing the god of man! Joshua is dead.  Okotie still kicks.  But God, who they both claim to serve, knows who is who. Much earlier, Ripples — indirectly — had crossed TB Joshua’s path.  It was 1993, around the June 12 annulment crisis.  Mother-in-law, Madam Felicia Omosipe (beautiful and gentle, God bless her soul!), was down with terminal illness. Her distraught daughter, after fruitless hospital rounds, heard of “TB Joshua”, the new seer in town, about whom everyone crowed.  She met him at his Agodo sanctum, then a pond-side, under the Egbe-Ikotun bridge.  The place streamed with scores, craving healing, craving miracles. Joshua couldn’t do much for her mom — beyond a blessed bottle of stream water, which worked no miracle on her dying mom.  But she came back awed by “a young, powerful, yet humble prophet.”  Joshua must have been around 30 then.  He started his church in 1987, at 24. Ten shy years later, less than 10km away from that Egbe under-bridge, Joshua had built his Ikotun SCOAN global sanctuary.  But beyond the faithful among the Ikotun folks — Ikotun itself streaming with the hoi polloi of all races — he was the biblical prophet, not without honour, except in his own country, among his own people. As Joshua’s SCOAN globally bloomed — not as some American Evangelical mimic: an image much of Pentecostal Nigeria crave and court — Joshua’s peers put him down: if not as the supreme antichrist of the age, then certainly the ultimate fakery of the era. Ayo Oritsejafor’s Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) — Daddy Oritsejafor, later the Rasputin of Goodluck Jonathan’s presidential court — buffeted him from one side.  Joshua’s immediate PFN rivals lanced the prophet from another. It was almost Christian Nigeria’s version of the biblical Stephen stoning: except that this neo-Stephen wasn’t martyred — unless, of course, you buy Okotie’s merry dirge! But the Joshua prophetic image — less plastic than local American-wannabes, but more in tune with the first wave of pioneering Nigerian Pentecostals of the late 19th century — grabbed global attention.  The unorthodox Joshua thrived.  So did spiritual tourism, traced to his seedy Ikotun doors! Joshua’s healing and miracle bent was a clear throwback to that first age of Nigerian local Pentecostals, who battled the cultural hegemony of white missionaries, at the close of the 19th century. Mojola Agbebi (1860-1917) battled American white missionaries to, with others, found the Ebenezer Baptist Church, from the First (then Native) Baptist Church, Lagos. Joshua’s immediate models, in healing and miracles, however, would appear the duo of Moses Orimolade Tunolase (patron saint of the Aladura movement: the first breed of local Pentecostals, registered as the Eternal Sacred Order of Cherubim & Seraphim, formalized 1930, though the church started in 1924) and Joseph Ayo Babalola (whose Christ Apostolic Church, in 1941, emerged from the schism in The Apostolic Church). Now the eerie parallels, between Joshua and his “models”:  Orimolade Tunolase (1879-1933) died at 54.  Ayo Babalola (1904-1959) died at 55.  Joshua himself (1963-2021) died at 58.  Relatively short life of founders didn’t stop either the Aladura or CAC  from thriving after.  Will that be the story of Joshua’s SCOAN too? Still, more parallels, if the Okotie school won’t fall into a swoon: Joshua minded his flock for 33 years (1987-2021) — more than Tunolase (nine years, from 1924, as formal head of his church); and Babalola (18 years, after the founding of CAC in 1941). But 33 years — depending on the month in 1987 the church opened — could have equalled the Christ’s total earthly existence! Temitope Balogun Joshua (12 June 1963-5 June 2021) had his fair share of controversies.  Not a few claim his “so-called” miracles were either fake or staged — or both.  Others claim the bevy of beautiful ladies, in his commune, were all but priestly sexual fringe benefits.  And the ultimate blot: the crashed hostel that consumed no less than 145 lives, most of them South Africans. Still, in simplicity, humility, compassion and philanthropy — all Christ-like traits — TB Joshua trumped most of his noise-some peers in the PFN market.  His scorn for materialism also jarred against the screaming, sacred mammon of many of his peers. Whether his powers were of God or of Satan is for his maker — who just called him —to decide.  Which is why Okotie should not have mocked, in Joshua, a debt everyone owes.