Miss Africa Russia representative from Nigeria Miss Udeh Chiamaka Victoria has walked the runway with a blood-stained Nigerian flag at the recently concluded Miss Africa Russia pageantry. Udeh, holding the Nigerian flag with bloodstains, walked down the runway to register solidarity after the alleged shooting at Lekki Toll Gate during the #EndSARS protest. The event was held on Sunday, June 13, 2021, in the capital of Russia, Moscow. The viral video has Miss Udeh walking while holding out the flag to the utter amazement of the audience with Timi Dakolo’s “Great Nation” softly playing in the background. While at it, Miss Udeh went on her knees, face down as she covered herself up with the blood-stained Nigerian flag. Meanwhile, this act of the Miss Africa Russian pageantry representative was indeed the highlight of the event and has captured the hearts of social media users. They have hailed Miss Udeh for being courageous to pull through such a performance on the international stage. They noted that only those who truly believe in their nation will willfully fight and go the extra mile to see it work. Popular actor and comedian Charles Inojie said: Resilient and irrepressible. The world will never forget #EndSars.” bullion wrote: “This lady is bold. She knows the consequences but gad damn it. We need more of her on the international stage.” prettypruddy stated: “Good : that kind of strength thank God for this generations of youth.” chinny_olive said: “God bless her. I cried watching this video. God is still God and he will arise for this nation sooner than we expect.” sorphie wrote: “Who else got emotional watching this? Too many unsaid words in one clip. God bless Nigeria. Nigeria shall be great again.” futballpunter stated: “As it should be. Eson Janet u earn my respect.” l.tobiloba said: “It takes a lot of courage to do this. Nigerian government won’t like this. God bless her. Globally, we will put the bad governance to shame.” leoacecharles wrote: “This is guts, and this is how you fight for freedom. Not beating on the drums of war.” gatsegwasi stated: “I love her bravery this is the current state of Nigeria. So sad.”