Ahead of the June 26 All Progressives Congress (APC) Governorship primary election in Anambra State, the party has dispatched a 20-man team to the State to carry out certification of the party’s new membership register. The certification exercise is to validate the new membership register collated during the just concluded nationwide membership registration, revalidation and update exercise in the state. The Nation gathered that over one million members registered in Anambra State at the just concluded nationwide membership registration and revalidation exercise. It was further gathered that Governor Mai Mala Buni led the Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party had started the certification exercise in Jigawa, Ogun, Lagos and Plateau States but had to dispatch the Anambra State team on Saturday. This move, it was learnt was to enable the party have a valid working tool for the forthcoming governorship primary in the State. A source in the party Secretariat in Abuja, who spoke in confidence, confirmed the move of officials to Awka, the Anambra State capital. “In view of the closeness of the Anambra State Governorship party primary, we had to dispatch a 20-man team to the state for certification of the register, ahead of Saturday, June 26 primary election in the state.” “On the directive of the Caretaker Committee Chairman, some of our officers that just returned from Plateau State on Thursday, where similar exercise was carried out have been directed to proceed to go to Akwa, Anambra State Saturday. “In view of the importance attached to the exercise and the desire of the Caretaker Committee to provide a level playing ground for all the 14 aspirants, the leadership increase the number of officials for the exercise. The party is indeed committed to a free and fair primary in Anambra, hence our efforts at doing the needful.” The party had fixed the State Governorship primary election for Saturday, June 26th while the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) slated the election proper for November 6, 2021.