IT is interesting to see that the President and commander-in-chief, Muhammadu Buhari has what many can now call a local itinerary. In the past week, he was in Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt and Maiduguri. He traversed the southwest, south-south and the northeast. He conducted two interviews, made a broadcast and proved to Nigerians that he, indeed, is hale and hearty. He put to rest among the peddlers of fiction that he was not Mr. Jibrin but the same man who was military head of state, who became a presidential candidate a few times and won the nation’s mandate twice. What is even more potent was that he was not going to give his glory to anyone, not his aides or ministers. He is in charge, and he was going to hold himself responsible for all that his administration has wrought and he defended himself. While he visited the south-south and northeast, we would want him to show up in the Ibarapa area of Oyo State where the tempest of ethnic hate has boiled into deaths and destruction. He should visit Benue and Plateau States where bandits reignited the primordial distrust in the country. He should, of course, go to the southeast and reassure the folks there that they remain part of his mandate. If in the Arise Television interview, the president said he supported his attorney general and minister of justice on his stand over grazing routes, the president has reflected a position that has baffled not a few Nigerians. While the southern governors as well as the People’s Democratic Party governors in the south and north have voiced their disdain for grazing routes and its generation of conflicts, the president said he had instructed his attorney general Abubakar Malami to unearth the gazettes of the First Republic. Speaking with a righteous air, he insisted that the rights of the herdsmen, whom he called cattle rearers, were trampled upon by modern activities. So, roads, highways, trains and the building of modern institutions have become obstruction to a 19th century gem? He said this without showing whether his minister drew his attention to the existence of the Land Use Act that affirms the principle of federalism. Today, the states own the lands, and the federal government can only plead for the states to operate on them. So, the president, in spite of his enormous powers in the federation, cannot instruct a state where a herder should graze. It is up to the state governors. That explains why it was odd that the president said he told two unnamed southwest governors to go settle the problem of herdsmen in their states because they campaigned to bring peace when they ran for the offices. But the governors have no control over the police, the army, or the intelligence agencies. The militia known as Amotekun that even the centre grudgingly accepts is not permitted to bear arms. So, how is a governor, a sinecure chief security officer in his state, supposed to prosecute peace? Another point of worry was the assertion that he has been following merit in the allocation of offices either in the military or the parastatals. He asserted that only those who deserved them are being appointed either as chiefs in the military or as general managers or director generals in their various agencies. Since the appointments have been skewed in favour of one region over the others, the implication is that only those in those regions have earned it and other regions have less competent people.  Even if merit is the criterion for appointment people into offices, a federal system forbids merit to trump fairness. But then, there is no evidence that even merit belongs to one region. That is where the present has erred and presented his administration as though others are made to serve a part. The expression “a dot in a circle,” would have been poetic if it did not invoke a spectre of contempt. The president should have clarified that if he meant IPOB. We have to accept that he also used the similar language for those in the northwest whom he said spoke the same language but where visiting mayhem upon themselves. The construction of railways and road networks to the northeast has raised some hubbub but there are more cogent explanations than the invocation of personal blood ties. The northwest, especially around the Lake Chad, was a big centre of commerce and, once the violence and Boko Haram vanishes, that region can return to its old verve. That is the area of emphasis the president’s assertion should have harped upon instead of the cosy logic of cousins. In all, the president has shown that he is in charge and not a certain shadowy cabal pulling his coattail. That makes quite a few Nigerians uncomfortable because they had thought the president held better views than those propagated by his lieutenants. We hope as the president seems to have opened up a national road travel, he will open his vistas to reflect the diversity of the people he is governing.