The prestigious 2018 UNICEF Charity Shield polo tourney climaxed with exciting triumphs for Kaduna 5th Chukker, A-Plus and Inter-shelter polo teams. The tournament consisted of 18 teams with players coming from as far as Argentina and South Africa and top Nigerian players saw four great finals in the low, intermediate, medium and high-goal categories. All the fiercely contested finals which ended with narrow victories were described by polo buffs as some of the most exciting finals of the UNICEF Charity Shield polo tournament series. The grand finale of the fund raising charity polo extravaganza was witnessed by a high profile crowd that included governors, diplomats, first class emirs, UNICEF Officials diplomats and thousands of polo buffs from within and outside the country. A Ten Million Nair donation by Access Bank, A special Children Day celebration and the royal participation of Emir of Zaria, HRH Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli highlighted the prestigious 2021 Access Bank UNICEF Charity Polo Tournament at the Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Resort in Kaduna. “Access Bank’s sponsorship is a reflection of our commitment to enriching the lives of Nigerians and an acknowledgement of the impact the UNICEF Charity Shield initiative has had on the lives of the orphaned and vulnerable children in Kaduna State and its environment,” Access Bank GMD Hebert Wigwe, noted. Former champions, 5th Chukker who have won the UNICEF Charity Shield Cup before were clearly the team to beat but their part to victory was not laid in gold as the ambitious Jos Malcomines (Hamisu Buba, Murtala Aliyu, Lorente and Arambulu) fought spiritedly before losing 12-18 after giving out five handicap goals in the final game. “It was a fantastic campaign, but in the final game Malcomines wasn’t an easy one; they came out fighting and at a point drew level. But we were too determined not to just let it slip by and I want to thank my teammates (Munir Suleiman, Isa Kwame and Martin Jauregi) for their concentration,” Raul Laplacette, who pivoted the 5th Chukker campaign declared. Reputed for its competition and excitement, the charity polo thrilled to its grand finale with the Access Bank Cup final where 5th Chukker (2) defeated Team Sublime/60 Yard in the final game, for their second major title in the prestigious charity polo. Other winners of the week-long polo fiesta include the ambitious Inter-shelter tem from Kano that defeated five equally matched oppositions, to win the UNICEF Cup their first ever major charity polo title. The Charity Shield began in 2003 as a platform to support local charity organizations in Kaduna. Since 2006 this humanitarian effort has been geared exclusively towards UNICEF intervention projects for orphans and vulnerable children in Kaduna State. In 2008, the Charity Shield received a major boost when Access Bank agreed to a multi-year sponsorship deal, making the tournament one of the best-supported charity events in the history of Nigerian sport. Income generated from this partnership is used to meet the needs of the children in their care, including providing healthcare and education supplies. So far, the UNICEF Charity Shield polo which is in its thirteenth year of Access Bank exclusive sponsorship has so far raised more than N100 million for UNICEF in support of projects aimed at alleviating the plights of the underprivileged children in Kaduna State and its environs. Yet the major highlight of this year’s event was undoubtedly the Children Day celebration with the First Lady of Kaduna State, Hajia Aisha Ummiel-Rufai as the Mother of the Day. The First Lady, who celebrated the Children Day with school pupils from selected school around Kaduna, thumbs up the partners for using the Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield polo platform to enhance the educational and health well-being of children in a most special way. “There is an important need for both private and public sectors to do a lot more in support of the Nigerian child, particularly the orphan sand vulnerable children to enable them look forward to a better tomorrow,” the Kaduna State First Lady added.