In furtherance of its commitment to bridging the digital divide and ensuring gender parity in technology, Eko Innovation Centre has partnered with Africa Agility and Impact Lagos to train 10,000 girls in Lagos in the next five years. This was disclosed at the second edition of “Girls in Tech Bootcamp Lagos” held at the Eko Innovation Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos at the weekend, which was attended by the state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu with some of his cabinet members and other dignitaries. The visit of the governor also marked his final round of trips to innovation hubs across the state as part of activities marking his two years in office, and also to connect first hand with players in the tech ecosystem. The “Girl-in-Tech” programme featured various exhibitions across health, waste and traffic management and how technology has been deployed to help solve the challenges faced within these sectors in the state, as well as help government get adequate data for good governance. At the event, Sanwo-Olu applauded the innovations exhibited, stating that it aligns with his T.H.E.M.E.S agenda, an acronym for his administration’s six strategic development agenda namely, Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology. He added that the initiative will help fast track the digitalization of the state’s operations and fuelling technology-driven innovations to transform it into a 21st century digital economy and smart city. “Technology will give us the opportunity to leapfrog,” he said, adding that he would support the initiative.  He explained further that empowering women will greatly help transform the state considering how they are dedicated to work and how their impact are always felt when they embark on a task. Also speaking at the special event, Founder of Eko Innovation Centre, Victor Gbenga Afolabi said achieving a smart city and inclusion of more women in technology is the aim of its partnership with Africa Agility on Girl in Tech Bootcamp Lagos. “Eko Innovation Centre (EIC) is an innovation hub committed to accelerating the growth of businesses, leveraging technology at the core of their operations. So, we are positioned as an accelerator within the tech ecosystem. We help startup develop and accelerate their go to market strategy. “The EIC focuses broadly on civic tech, working to drive social impact by developing tech solutions to problems faced by governments in state and regional levels. These include innovations like those developed at the Lagos Smart Meter Hackathon held last year. “For this year, we have partnered with Africa Agility to equip the Nigerian female youth with the necessary digital skills they need to access opportunities in tech and business. We trained 100 girls last year and another 100 this year as part of the Girls in Tech initiative. The beneficiaries include undergraduates, unemployed, single mothers with no previous IT skills and we groomed them in the bootcamp for about a month which ended with a three-day hackathon to proffer tech-enabled solutions around the Lagos T.H.E.M.E.S agenda.”