 Lagos  State  Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu has assured traders in the state of their safety and the readiness of the police to counter any security breach. He gave the assurance during an interactive meeting with traders from major markets across the state. It was at the command headquarters in Ikeja. The police boss’ assurance came on the heels of a viral social media audio and visual messages purporting  plans by criminal elements to attack Alaba International Market. According to Odumosu, the command has tightened security in all markets, advising the traders to go about their lawful businesses without panic. “One of our strategies of keeping Lagos Safe is proactiveness and not taking any misinformation no matter the reason or source behind it. Security is everybody’s business, so the paramount of community policing is for all stakeholders to come together and let them be their own informants for information gathering. “Right now, across the length and breadth of Lagos, we have each of us around and the essence of that is a proactive security strategy to let the criminals know that we are ready and to let law- abiding citizens know that police are prepared to protect them. “We have increased our presence, bringing out all our assets to move round. In fact for the past two months now, we have been having our training and retraining of all officers of the command to make sure the policemen are prepared and ready for any emergency,”Odumosu said. T he police boss added that effofts were on to arrest the source of the audio message and ensure the person was prosecuted. He also promised the traders that their concerns in the various markets would be addressed, urging them to be security conscious and report any strange activity around them. In his remark, the President, Coalition of Associations in Computer village, Timi Famoroti suggested the installation of security cameras in the markets for monitoring. He urged the CP to look into conflicts between associations as a way of ensuring lasting peace.  