Authorities and the public in Nigeria have been urged to move away from criminalising suicide and start building an empathetic and care-based framework to deal with the problem of suicide. Experts, who stressed the need for Nigerians to begin to see suicide as a health issue rather than a criminal act, spoke during the virtual launch of a book on guidelines for media reporting of suicide in Nigeria. The book, entitled: “The Morning After,” espoused that responsible media reports on suicide can mitigate the rising cases. The book launch, which featured over 120 participants from various sectors, was organised by Nous Foundation Nigeria, in partnership with the Health Writers Association of Nigeria (HEWAN). The book was acknowledged as a veritable tool for guiding health reporters and informing and educating the public about suicide in Nigeria. Reviewing the book, Dr. Femi Olugbile, former Permanent Secretary in the Lagos State Ministry of Health, said concerns are more on the mainstream media and citizen reporters on how they report issues surrounding suicide without consideration on the implications to the families and society. Olugbile, a psychiatrist, observed that media reports are often done without sympathy for the parties concerned who are always severely traumatised by the incident when reported in the news media. The nine-chapter book, which deals with suicide and its attempts as a medical condition, explains that the vast majority of people who have committed suicide have a diagnosable psychiatric error. Explaining that the book also touches on matters of the law, which recognises suicide as a criminal offence rather than a medical condition, Olugbile said it is wrong for unsuccessful suicide attempts to be handed over to the police and immediately charged to the magistrate court for a criminal offence. One of the authors, Dr. Olufemi Oluwatayo said the book is a reflection on how the media report suicide cases in the country, without considering the immediate and long-term effect on the family of the deceased and the economy. Oluwatayo lamented that while international communities have policy data on suicide, Nigeria is yet to develop one, adding that one of the ways data was gathered in the book was through interviews with families of suicide victims. As for Martins Ifijeh, co-author, the book was written to bring to the fore the WHO guidelines for suicide reporting, which he said journalists have not explored enough in their reporting of suicide cases in Nigeria. The guidelines were developed for journalists not to fuel suicide in their reporting of suicides, he said. The second reason for writing the book is for the obsolete mental law in Nigeria, which criminalised suicide, to undergo a long overdue amendment because suicide is a health issue that should be reported from the health angle rather than reporting from the police angle. In his submission, former Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Lanre Tejuosho, said the book will serve as a useful guide in amending the Mental Health Bill, which has spent years in the National Assembly without seeing the light of the day. He described the 264 victims of suicide as a fraction of the actual number of underreported cases of Nigerians who committed suicide in the last four years. As for the President of HEWAN, Chioma Obinna, reporters should play a critical role in educating the public on mental illness issues, but lamented that lack of training on effective reportage of suicide has remained a handicap. “When suicide is inappropriately reported, it fuels stigma. From the book, we have been made to understand that when you use the word ‘commit’ it is tagging suicide as a crime and not a health condition,” she said.