Governors Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi) and Bello Matawalle (Zamfara) on Wednesday appraised the security situation in the country. They said the Federal Government was on track to secure lives and properties. The duo spoke with reporters at the State House after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. Bagudu urged Nigerians to join in the fight against criminals, saying the President restated his directive to security agencies to deal with criminal elements. According to him, more governors would mobilise against these “criminal elements” in the coming days in line with the action taken earlier in the week by Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello. Bagudu said: “Our stand, I have made it very clear, this is condemnable, this should not happen and all people of goodwill, all good people should mobilise to confront evil and evil elements and criminal elements in our society. It’s not just a job for the security agencies, we have to support them. We have to mobilise. “Since I made that statement, which I meant by every stretch of imagination, many groups have come out to demonstrate similar supports and yesterday, we have seen mobilisation by the Niger State governor and I believe we’ll see more in the coming days. “Nigerians should unite so that we confront criminality. Even yesterday, Fulani leaders in Kebbi State all visited the Government House, Kebbi, even though I was not there to receive them, to condemn and to distance themselves from those renegade groups, or renegade criminal elements and to offer to support in whatever role the security agencies will want them to pOne-time Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Prof Chukwuma Soludo yesterday picked the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) ticket to contest November 6 governorship election in Anambra State. He polled 740 votes out of 792 valid votes cast by delegates at the party’s primary in Awka, the state capital. Declaring the results of the exercise, Samson Olalere, the Returning Officer said Soludo fulfilled the provisions of Electoral Act and APGA guidelines. Olalere said Soludo beat his rivals – House of Representative member Okwudili Ezenwakwo, Damian Okolo and Thankgod Ibeh, who scored 41, seven and four votes respectively. He said a total of 812 delegates were registered out of which 795 accredited and 792 voted. The returning officer issued the APGA candidate Certificate of Return after Gov. Willie Obiano, raised up Soludo’s hand as the duly elected candidate of the party in the forthcoming election. In his remark, Obiano congratulated Soludo for his victory and called on party faithful’s support. In his acceptance speech, Soludo said he was humbled by the overwhelming votes with which he emerged. He thanked his co-contestants for their gallantry while extending an olive branch to them, adding that APGA is a big house with enough rooms to accommodate everyone. The former CBN boss promised to build on the success of past administrations in the state if he eventually becomes the elected governor in November. Soludo also thanked Obiano for his leadership style and APGA National Chairman Dr. Victor Oye, who he noted grew the party to be the third strongest in the country. AGGA chieftain Neville Uchendu described the primary’s outcome as a tip of the iceberg on what would happen at the poll. “Soludo is greatly loved by Anambra people and they will massively vote for him during the election,” he said. lay. “On Friday, I spent about three hours in the school where I met the very courageous parents and they are appreciative of the effort of the security agencies, particularly the police officers, who are providing security in the school and the principal and staff of the school and also what other security agencies are still doing in the field. “While offering our sympathies to all those innocent young ones and teachers who are being held. They also appreciated that this thing requires unity of purpose by all Nigerians and that is what will show support to them in calling all governors and even without out calling them, they are eager to do it. But this is further a wake-up call to all of us.” He said the President reiterated his earlier order to security agencies to use all available resources to go after criminal elements in any part of the country. “President has, as always, expressed sympathy to those innocent persons who are held hostage against their will by terror elements and he condemned the action of all terror groups, wherever they are, whether they are bandits, Boko Haram, or any group that is taking away the liberty and freedoms and, in fact, lives and livelihoods of others. He maintained the instruction he had always given to the security agencies to give their maximum best in dealing with those criminal elements”, he said. Matawalle noted that peace and confidence would soon return to region and other parts of the country with the security roadmap introduced by the federal government. The Zamfara governor assured that farmers would be able to return to their farms this raining season as security would continue to improve. According to him, the atmosphere in his state had been calm until the last few days, adding that security agents have been working to prevent an escalation of the situation. Asked it was safe to say that security had finally found its way back to the north, he said: “I can say yes because in the past four months we didn’t have much of this crisis, but it’s gradually coming back, but the security are doing their best now, particularly from the new security architecture that we have adopted now, we are having some improvements on the challenges. “With action and the roadmap that we have drawn, between the government and the security, we are doing our best to make sure that farmers will go back to their farms and they will be able to farm, In Sha Allah. We will do our best to make sure that all farmers will go back to their farms.” On Zamfara security, Matawalle said: “For now, for the past four days, no incidence had been recorded by the security, but yet we are doing our best and the surety are also doing their best to make sure that they tackle all the challenges. “I assure you that we are on top of the matter and the President has assured all of us that he’s going to take more measures on the issue of insecurity in the northern part of the country.” On the meeting with the President, the governor said: “We discussed about the security, not just myself, but the Northern region, because of the current escalation of insecurity. “I briefed him and the governor of Niger also briefed him. The President has assured us that action will be taken about what we have discussed about the issue of insecurity.”