The Lagos State Chapter of Nigerian Association of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) has commended  the products of Vitapur Nigeria Limited for their innovation and competitiveness. Members of NIQS have requested for a technical visit to Vitapur to have more knowledge of how the company leverages  the environment to manufacture its array of products. Vitapur, a subsidiary of Vitafoam Nigeria Plc, was granted products exhibition at the quarterly meeting of  NIQS where the company’s General Manager, Mr Yemi Mofikoya showcased its products and explained that they were manufactured in Nigeria. “Vitapur Nigeria limited is subsidiary of Vitafoam Nigeria  Plc. We are into manufacturing of rigid polyurethane foam insulation products; these products are used for roof, walls, floor and pipe insulation. Vitapur is the foremost manufacturer of insulation products in the country with installed production capacity of 1,400sqm/day and a new to-be inaugurated production line of 1050sqm/day, making a total installed capacity of 2,450sqm/day,” Mofikoya said. The Chairman, NIQS, Mr Ayodele Alao, expressed his members’ joy at Vitapur’s products, especially, as they are manufactured locally. “We are delighted to see your products. We commend Vitapur for manufacturing all its products in Nigeria. Our members shall arrange a technical visit to your office,” said Alao. Some of the products showcased to the quantity surveyors at the meeting were sandwich panels, pre-insulated roofing sheet, polyethylene boards, polyrods, EPE duct pipes, polyurethane half-shell pipe section, PU Boards and spray foam application. Sandwich panels are dry walls which comes in different variants; they can be used for partitions, coldroom, freezers, equipment shelter, drop temp ceilings, modular cabins, Prefabs etc Pre-insulated roofing sheet are aluminum sheets which are insulated with rigid polyurethane foam in the factory. Polyrods are EPE tubes, which are used for expansion joints. EPE  duct pipes are used for air conditioner pipe lagging. PU Boards are polyurethane boards used for walls, roofs and floor insulation, they come in standard size of 1200 x 2400mm. Spray polyurethane foam application is done in-situ. Some previous projects which are Landmark event centre, Shoprite, SPAR, Osun schools, Rite foods, Reckitt benkiser, Seven-up, Promasidor, Friesland Campina, Honeywell, Chevron, Government College Ibadan, and Guinness were also showcased to further enlighten the quantity surveyors