Gun alone cannot stop the prevailing security threats across the land, the Nigerian Army said on Wednesday. Army spokesman Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, who dropped the hint, said the myriads of security challenged required multifaceted approach to surmount. Speaking while taking over as Director Army Public Relations at the Army Headquarters in Abuja, Gen. Nwachukwu said: “Permit me to note here that it is an indisputable and very well established fact, that the sword or gun, cannot alone provide a panacea to the complex and multifaceted security challenges that characterize today’s world. “I must therefore, make haste to say that the complex nature of these security challenges requires multi-disciplinary approach and a conglomerate of stakeholders, of which the media is a very vital one. “In decisively overcoming these challenges, the NA and the media must be partners in progress to surmount this security threats in order to berth the peace and tranquility we all earnestly desire as a people and nation.” General Nwachukwu was appointed spokesperson in the latest appointment and redeployment of officers in Nigerian Army, following the appointment of Maj.-Gen. Farouk Yahaya as Chief of Army Staff (COAS) by President Muhammadu Buhari. He took over from Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Yerima. Gen. Nwachukwu said he is not oblivion of the responsibility of his office which is to project the activities of the NA with the objective of galvanising public goodwill and support for the NA, as it strives assiduously to surmount contemporary security challenges bedeviling our nation. Lauding the COAS for finding him worthy of the appointment, Gen. Nwachukwu, pledged to promote the core values of the Nigerian Army amongst officers and soldiers of the Directorate of Army Public Relations. He said: “I wish to most respectfully thank the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Gen. Lucky Irabor, for his immense support and encouragement during my tour of duty as the immediate past Acting Director Defence Information of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. “Let me use this medium to once again, express my sincere gratitude to the Chief of Army Staff for my appointment, while assuring him of my unalloyed commitment to his vision for a professional Nigerian Army, ready to accomplish assigned missions within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria.” He also appreciated his predecessor for the landmarks left behind, promising to consolidate on them. Gen. Nwachukwu, who lauded reporters for their support and cooperation during his tenure as the Acting DDI, he implored them to remain steadfast as they carry out their essential role of educating and informing the public, thereby bringing the society up to speed on the happenings in the defence and security sector. He said: “I urge you to use your reportage and medium to positively shape public perception and opinion towards endearing national defence and security institutions to the public. “This, I believe will enable the harnessing of requisite elements of national power to confront our common adversaries.” The former spokesman tasked officers and soldiers of the directorate to extend the support he enjoyed while he was in the saddle. 