Blooming Amazons Ministry (BLAM), a purpose initiative that seeks to improve the quality of life of women through knowledge impartation and spiritual nourishment, is set to hold its annual international conference. With the theme, ‘The Father’s Love’, the conference is scheduled to hold on Saturday, June 19 at the Dyscovery Place, Gudu in Abuja. According to the founder and convener of BLAM conference, Tolulope Tunde-Ajiboye, the theme “reminds us that regardless of the calamity life brings our way, we are assured that God loves us. We are also convinced of His Love for us as well regardless of what the enemy meant for evil. The conference is focused on having older women who are fulfilling purpose and have attained a level of success and significance, share their life stories and lessons in order to inspire the younger women to become all they were created to be, regardless of their current circumstances. It is also targeted at women particularly between the ages of 22 and 40 with the aim of challenging them to live up to their full potential and contribute their quota to transforming their society and the world at large, discussing practical issues that might not be talked about in typical religious settings. Tunde-Ajiboye hinted that the conference is also an avenue for networking, “for those we believe are the next generation of “Culture Shapers” in our nation. Over the last three years, we have hosted notable speakers including Chairman, First Bank Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, Laurie Idahosa and Nkechi Harry- Ngonadi and have reached over 5000 women through our conferences,” she said. She noted that the memorial edition is in honour of her mum, Very Revd Iyaode A. Soyege who went to be with the Lord on the 30th of June 2020. “She was the matriarch and a pillar of the ministry. We are not morning her but thankful that we got the chance to do life with an amazing person like her.” Speakers expected at the event are Founder of Eirene Sisterhood, Pastor Adeola Ajani, a trained medical doctor, family life counsellor and full-time minister of the Gospel; convener, Women of Destiny conferences, Joy Obiageli Aderele and worship Minister, Gospel teacher, Martha Gordon-Osagiede, convener, Lady of Love Initiative. The conference which doubles as the launch of the convener’s new book, ‘Bloom’ – Thriving through Adversity’, is focused on sending God’s message of love to those who have had it rough, especially at a time like when the country is witnessing insecurity challenges. She said: “I have discovered time and again, that routes to progress often have detours. There is never a straight path and our advancement includes out-of-the-way breakdowns and unplanned pit stops that seemingly have nothing to do with our plans and purpose. We steadily travel down life’s highway towards our future until we have an unscheduled stop that threatens to destroy everything we have accomplished so far.”