Independent Leaders Forum (ILF) has called for the disqualification of one of the aspirants of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Godwin Maduka over alleged non-possession of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) certificate which contravened section 221 of the Nigerian constitution. President of the group, Obinna Okafor in a statement on Wednesday argued that the aspirant’s claims of being a medical doctor and triple professor with four doctorate degrees were worthless without an NYSC certificate. The group had earlier demanded the disqualification of the gubernatorial hopeful over money politics violation, also accused Maduka of labelling its members “desperate politicians,” among other insulting and unpleasant names. According to Okafor, the group formed principally to fight and resist disunity among party members was duly registered at the Corporate Affairs Commission with successful entrepreneurs, artisans, professionals and young’ politicians as members. The statement read, “It is an unverified fact that Dr. Godwin Maduka is ‘a medical doctor, triple professor and 4 doctorate degrees holder’. However, these degrees are worthless without an NYSC certificate, in holding any Government position/s, as Dr. Godwin Maduka does not possess the requisite NYSC certificate. “We would stop at nothing to ensure that Dr. Godwin Maduka is disqualified for grossly violating an agreement by the Aspirants, not possessing NYSC certificate and contravening Section 221 of the Nigerian constitution. “It was sad and unfortunate that Dr. Godwin Maduka’s campaign office would in the name of Politics, arrogantly call his co-aspirants ’emergency philanthropist” and the party delegates “indigent’, which Oxford dictionary defines as “poor and needy.” “Dr. Godwin Maduka indicted himself and vindicated ILF by emphasising that “Dr. Godwin Maduka’s Foundation gave tokens to delegates who visited the NGO’s office, while Dr. Godwin Maduka gave 3,000 as agreed by the party”. We challenge Dr. Godwin Maduka campaign office to explain what they meant by ‘token’ and how much “token” they gave each of the delegates at the June 7th meeting. “However, assuming without conceding that it was “Dr. Godwin Maduka foundation that gave money on his behalf, let us refer to “Section 221 of the Nigerian constitution: No association, other than a political party, shall canvass for votes for any candidate at any election or contribute to the funds of any political party or to the election expenses of any candidate at an election. “Perhaps, because he believes so much in “money politics,” obviously, that is why he has not campaigned on what he would offer Ndi Anambra if given the PDP ticket, except sharing money.
Reacting, Dr Godwin Maduka dismissed the allegations as untrue and unfounded, describing the accusers as desperados and swindlers. Maduka who spoke through his Campaign organisation Director General, Chief Mac Jeo Onwudinjo, said, “It’s important to note that Dr Godwin Maduka submitted all his credentials as was provided by the law and the electoral Act and this body has no right to begin to challenge or ask questions when Independent National Electoral Commission IÑEC is there to verify. “These people are desperados and swindlers who belong to campaign organizations of other aspirants and all they have been doing is run Maduka down and one of them Ejiofor Egwuatu represented a governorship aspirant Mr Chris Azubogu at the Angelica Synord at Eziowelle and made a donation on his behalf.”