The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) says it is ready to conduct a hitch-free governorship election in Anambra State this year. According to the commission’s helmsmen, it has learnt valuable lessons from previous complaints of inadequate preparation, failure of equipment, poor staff welfare and poor mobilisation of logistics that allegedly almost undermined some previous elections conducted by it. INEC’s chairman, Yakubu Mahmoud, during the week, re-assured Nigerians that the commission will go ahead and conduct Anambra governorship election slated for November 6 despite the spate of arson and vandalism on the commission’s facilities and properties in the Southeast zone and other parts of the country. While identifying possible challenges ahead of the exercise, the INEC boss revealed that 42 INEC offices have been burnt or vandalised nationwide between 2019 and date. “We will conduct a successful election in Anambra State in spite of all odds. To further strengthen the conduct of free, fair, credible and inclusive elections, the Commission is preparing the Third Strategic Plan and Strategic Programme of Action 2022 to 2026. These drafts, Strategic Plan and Strategic Programme of Action were developed following a comprehensive review of the INEC 2017-2021 SP&SPA, and have been reviewed both at state and zonal levels,” he assured.  Fear, concern over developments But in spite of the assurances by the commission, observers of the politics of the state and other stakeholders are expressing concern over the scheduled governorship election, citing escalating violence across the state and other parts of the Southeast geo-political zone, as well as the possible low turnout of voters as reasons for their growing concern. There has also been anxiety over possible failure of the leading political parties to conduct their primary elections successfully. Some residents of the state are also worried that the incessant attacks on INEC facilities may affect the governorship election in the state. “We are hoping that INEC will be able to conduct the election as planned. The attacks on its facilities as well as the attacks on security formations and agents across the Southeast are serious causes of concern as we speak. Unless the situation improves for better, nobody should be too certain,” a state legislator in the state said on Thursday.  Fresh threats amidst assurances Few weeks back, the Recover Nigeria Project (RNP) and Movement for Conduct of Local Government Election in Anambra State (MCLGEAS) announced their intention to disrupt the November 6, 2021 governorship election in the state over what they described as the ‘blatant refusal of the state government to conduct local government election since 2016. “We are saying that democracy must be for all in the state. So, the council election too is important,” the group said. In a letter written to INEC on behalf of the groups by the Coordinator/Convener of RPN, Comrade Osite Obi, copied to the Anambra State Commissioner of Police and the Director, Department of State Services, DSS, titled, “Plan to disrupt and prevent the conduct of governorship election in Anambra State on November 6, 2021” the groups threatened that if the state government fails to conducts the council election before governorship, they will disrupt the governorship election in the state. “We have repeatedly demanded that council elections should be conducted in Anambra State to deepen democracy and enthrone political justice. We warn that the governorship election will not take place in Anambra State until Local Government Election is conducted. We are ready to lay our lives for the cause. Democracy must be for all,” they vowed. Similarly, Nnamdi Kanu, leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on May 1st, 2021, gave conditions that would make his group allow the election to hold. He said only if the nation’s election umpire declares publicly that they are going to announce the result of the gubernatorial election in the Anambra State office of INEC, will IPOB allow the poll to be held. “I don’t want people across the globe to see me as an undemocratic person but we are not going to take anything short of INEC declaring the result of the election in the polling units and finally result in the INEC office, Awka. Going to Abuja to declare the result of an election conducted in Biafraland will not be acceptable to IPOB and unless the INEC will come forward and abide by our condition, we shall be compelled to use our strength and machineries to stop the election, no matter the strength of the joint military and police they will flood in Anambra State on the day of the election,” he stated. However, the INEC’s Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, said the commission will not be threatened into abdicating its constitutional duties. “The mandate of the commission is to organise, undertake and supervise elections and it will continue to do this. It is a constitutional and legal duty and the commission will not shirk or abdicate its constitutional, legal and administrative responsibilities. “The choices before us are limited. Section 178(2) of the 1999 Constitution provides that “An election to the office of Governor of a State shall be held on a date not earlier than one hundred and fifty days and not later than thirty days before the expiration of the term of office of the last holder of that office.” So, you can see that the period for the conduct of the election is constitutionally circumscribed and the commission cannot stop its preparations for the election. The task of securing the nation is in the hands of the security agencies and the commission will continue to collaborate with them in the area of election security,” he said.  Is INEC prepared? Amidst doubts over its preparedness for the November 6 governorship election, INEC, while admitting that the continuous attack on its facilities across the country is disturbing, said the threats to its facilities would make the commission beef up security to be able to organise a free, fair and credible election in Anambra State. “We thank God that it’s happening now; so it gives us ample opportunity to prepare for the Anambra elections. We are also engaging with stakeholders at the highest level in the country with a view of stemming the tide of these acts.” Yakubu said INEC would find a lasting solution to the attacks so that the Anambra elections would not be a difficult thing to plan. “We had a similar situation in the past. For instance, in Ondo State, card readers were burnt; we were able to make amends and the election was conducted without hindrance. As for Anambra, I can assure you that we will conduct the election without any problem. Every election is a challenge. A state constituency election can pose unimaginable security and administrative challenges,” he added. But the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Ndubuisi Nwobu, expressed serious concern about the ugly security situation in the state ahead of the gubernatorial election. While saying he believes the election will hold all the same, the party boss urged the electoral commission to buckle up and deliver on its mandate to conduct a free, fair and credible poll.  “It is unfortunate that we are witnessing insecurity now; a situation where hoodlums are now attacking the law enforcement agents. That is very bad. It doesn’t present a good atmosphere for the election. “But be that as it may, I urge the security agencies to rise up to the occasion. There is no way the security agents will be cowed by this madness that is being exhibited. Rather, they should re-strategize, recalibrate on how to tackle the menace and nip it before the election,” he said. Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Basil Ejidike, while expressing concerns over the development, said “first of all, we have to appreciate the fact that the issue of security should be a collective responsibility and you know that no community thrives amidst insecurity. And where there is no peace, there is no progress. We must all come together and see how we can help ourselves by helping the security agencies. I also condemn in strong terms the attacks on our security agents. “I also want to appeal to the security agents not to give in to these threats no matter the pressure because I am sure that these activities are done with some criminal intentions. You will agree with me that once the security agencies are weakened, we are all not safe again. They can’t just play into their hands. So, I urge the security agencies to endure and devise new tactics to tackle this menace. I don’t see the reason why the election cannot take place,” he said.