 It is over three and a half decades now since I read the renowned novelist, Vincent Chukwuemeka Ike’ s satirical novel on politics, intrigues, illicit romance, nepotism, ethnicity and even resort to fetish rituals in an academic community titled ‘The Naked Gods’. Situated in a fictive University of Shonghai shortly before the independence of the Republic of Shonghai, the story is about the intense jostling and vicious contestation among the academics of the university not only over which educational tradition, British or American, the institution would adopt after independence but also who would become its pioneer post-independence Vice Chancellor.  In the process, the fabled gods of academia and repositories of the brightest and best of a society’s intellect, showed that they were human after all as they resorted to all manner of underhand tactics, blackmail, fetishism and manipulation to outdo one another. In the ongoing protracted process to appoint the 9th Vice Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU), almost five decades after Chukwuemeka Ike’s novel was published, it is evident that some of the fabled gods of academia still dance naked in the marketplace to our utter national embarrassment. Even as he is focused on steering the ship of his state through the turbulent waters of the pernicious Coronavirus pandemic, leading the state to full recovery from the destructive effects of the #EndSars violence as well as meeting the challenge of the daily influx of thousands of Nigerians from all over the country into Lagos in search of the golden fleece, Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu (BOS) has to cope with the additional and entirely avoidable headache of ensuring the emergence of a new Vice Chancellor for LASU through a transparent and credible process. The governor has had to reject the outcome of two botched selection processes and has ordered that the exercise start all over de novo. What should be a routine exercise has become a time-consuming and energy-sapping affair that neither the institution nor the state can afford. Should BOS not simply have anointed a candidate, made his position known to the institution’s Governing Council and avoided all the time-wasting complications of seeking to adhere to due process? That was the view of a friend of mine who is not only a brilliant lawyer but also an accomplished public administrator. He wondered why the governor was not more assertive and forceful in utilizing the expansive powers of his office particularly in handling the LASU VC debacle. My response was that the greatest strength and asset of BOS lie exactly in his restrained and humble disposition to the use of power and his unceasing readiness to subject himself to the constraints of extant rules and regulations. For, it is actually moral and intellectual pygmies who have the pitiable psychological need to deploy power with tyrannous viciousness as some state governors are wont to do. My cerebral colleague, Olakunle Abimbola, in a recent piece, referred in this respect to what he described as BOS’s collegial approach to governance, an attitude that hinges on remarkable self-assurance and emotional security on the part of a leader. As the Yoruba say, yiyo ekun bi ti ojo ko. (The stealthy steps of a lion are due neither to fear nor cowardice). It is instructive that on assumption of office, BOS renewed the appointment of Professor Adebayo Ninalowo as Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of the Governing Council of LASU. The renowned sociologist had been appointed to that position by former governor Akinwumi Ambode. Surely, if BOS had any ulterior motive, he could have appointed a Chairman and membership of Council that would simply rubber stamp his preferences in the institution. No less important is the fact that BOS did not unilaterally take the decision to dissolve the immediate past Governing Council as well as remove Ninalowo from office as Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council. Rather, this was one of the recommendations of the Special Visitation Panel to LASU on the Appointment of a Vice Chancellor, which comprised such eminent Nigerians as Pro-Chancellor of Ekiti State University and former Vice Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Professor Bamitale Omole, as Chairman, former Vice Chancellor of University of Port Harcourt, Professor Joseph Ajenka, renowned political scientist, Professor Ayo Olukotun, former Solicitor General of Lagos State, Mr. Lawal Pedro, former Registrar of the University of Ibadan, Olujimi Olukoya and a director in the Lagos State public service, Funmilola Olajide who was the panel’s secretary. The Visitation Panel was unequivocal in its recommendation of the dissolution of the Governing Council and the removal of Professor Ninalowo as Pro-Chancellor and Chairman for “flagrant contravention of extant laws, breach of due process, failure and total disregard to follow its own laid down criteria for the appointment of the 9th Vice Chancellor as publicly advertised”. Other recommendations of the panel adopted by the Visitor are that members of the Joint Council and the Senate Committee who participated in the two previous failed exercises be exempted from participation in a new exercise; the Acting Vice Chancellor and Management of the university are to elect new Council members from the Senate; the Registrar and Secretary to the Council to proceed on immediate leave having failed to advise the Joint Council and Senate Committee against taking wrong decisions and an Acting Registrar to be appointed to superintend over a new selection exercise. Responding to these decisions in a half page advertorial in a national newspaper, Professor Ninalowo said he had “to correct the wrong narratives contained in the release by the State Government” which “gives the impression that Governing Council and Joint Committee acted irresponsibly and failed to follow the guiding rules for the process”. In nominating three applicants for the position, he said, the law was fully complied with and “In those areas where discretion was exercised by the Joint Committee as part of fulfilling responsibilities to ensure a fair competitive process, we took due consideration of all relevant information in cognizance of the enabling Law and other guiding rules and regulations”. However, in a comprehensive response to Professor Ninalowo’s statement, the Secretary and Assistant Secretary to the LASU chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Dr Tony Dansu and Dr Adeolu Oyekan, stated the alleged breaches in the selection process by the Governing Council under Ninalowo’s leadership. According to ASUU, the adverts placement for the position of the Vice Chancellor was executively done by Ninalowo without the involvement of Council as required by the law. Again, in the advert for the vacant position of Vice Chancellor placed in The Guardian newspaper of 14th January, 2021, the conditions for qualification were allegedly reviewed by inserting PhD/Fellowship and reducing post-professorial experience from 10 years to 5 years without the input of Council. Also, ASUU argued that “the three members of Council that served on the Joint Council and Senate Selection Committee, which is a creation of the Law, were not elected by Council, in flagrant violation of the law”. ASUU noted that the advertisements placed for the vacant position of Vice Chancellor required that an applicant to qualify “must be a scholar with international appeal having made significant impact in areas such as international supervision and examination of PhD candidates, conference presentations etc” and “must demonstrate relentless scholarship impact within and outside the country in terms of continuous production of books, papers, students supervised (especially PhD), exchanges, collaborations after his/her attainment of the rank of Professor”. The union argued, quite plausibly in my view, that it is difficult for applicants without a PhD to be credibly rated above those with this requisite qualification as done in the two cancelled exercises.  Again, ASUU pointed out that another of the shortlisted recommended candidates did not meet the condition in the vacancy advertorial that an applicant “should be a distinguished scholar of the rank of professor of ten (10) years standing with several years of teaching and research in a university”. In his statement on the decisions of the State Government on the matter, Professor Ninalowo touted his four decades of service in the university system as well as his reputation as a scholar and administrator. It is precisely because of this that much more was expected of him in the sensitive position of Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council than he delivered. As the LASU chapter of ASUU succinctly put it, “His interest in an anointed candidate became very glaring where the candidates who in the first botched selection process emerged second and third were consigned to the rear in the second, equally botched, exercise where the assessment tools did not significantly change; and also when he ranked candidates with no PhD degree first, second and third to leave the visitor with no option than to pick his anointed candidate without being bothered about the resultant effect on the university”. The universities of any country are the salt of the earth. But if salt loses its saltiness, of what use is it? Our universities cannot rise to their full potentials and serve as heralds of national development if they are not led by the brightest and best minds as well as models of character and integrity irrespective of ethnic origin, region or faith. BOS must be commended for being a stickler for due process and giving stipulated procedures and regulations the opportunity to work successfully at LASU, which has unquestionably become a citadel of learning of high repute and has a glorious future ahead.  