One person has been reported killed while 14 others were injured in a clash between a masquerader’s troupe and Muslim worshippers in Osogbo, the Osun State capital. The incident happened on Sunday at Kamorudeen Central Mosque in the Olu-Ode Aranyin area. The mosque was in a prayer session when the clash took place. A source said the masquerader and its followers were passing by the mosque when an altercation ensued between them. The altercation led to a brawl and gunshots were heard at the mosque which led to the death of one person with 14 persons injured. Our correspondent who visited the mosque observed that the canopy and plastic chairs the worshippers used were in disarray, and there were bloodstains on the floor. At a media briefing, the Coalition of Muslim Right Activists (COMRAN) demanded the arrest of the masquerader and its adherents. Chief Imam of Kamorudeen Central Mosque, Qosim Yusuf said “three hours into the prayer there was a commotion around the mosque. It is unfortunate that while we were praying for peace, we became targets of attack by the masquerade worshippers. The chief Imam named the alleged leader of the troupe that “stormed the mosque and unleashed mayhem on the Islamic faithful leaving one person dead and 14 injured with various degrees of bullets wounds. Our mosque, vehicles and other properties were vandalised. “The remains of the deceased, Alhaji Moshood Salawudeen are already deposited at the morgue of UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital and other people that were injured namely Abdul Jeleel, 12, Adebayo Awolesin, 15, Taofeek Fatai, 17, Malik Abdulkabir, 17, Quazeek Al-Ameen, 12, Quazeem Aseyori, 47, Ayuba Abdulhakeem, 60, Abdulsalam AbdRauf, 39, Ajagbe Ishaq, 37, Owolabi Maruf, 45, Risiqat Zakariyahu, 45, Isiaq Ibraheem, Yahaya and Oladosu Halimat, 47 are presently receiving treatment.” The cleric said his group gave the government 72 hours to arrest and prosecution the assailants, adding that the government should “take over the bills of all our members in hospital and all the properties vandalised must be taken care of.” Leader of the masquerader troupe Fashola Esuleke said, “We started the masquerade festival on Friday. On Sunday we were walking through Olu-Ode Aranyin and around the area when the Muslim faithful attacked us and tried to unclad the masquerader. We escaped the scene and the Muslims wanted to kill the masquerader. The police and Agbekoya rescued the masquerader from the scene. We don’t know anything about the killing. Our men were even injured when they attacked us.” The spokesperson of Osun Police Command, Yemisi Opalola confirmed that they have arrested some suspects.