The senator representing Delta North, Peter O. Nwaoboshi (Spon), has faulted his suspension by the Delta State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said the purported suspension was null and void because no local or state level of the party is constitutionally empowered to take disciplinary action against governors and members of the National Assembly. The lawmaker asked his supporters to exercise restraint and avoid taking the law into their hands. Nwaoboshi faulted his suspension in a statement by his Legislative Aide, Phillip Elueme. The statement reads: “The attention of Senator Peter O. Nwaoboshi (Spon), representing the good people of Delta North Senatorial District at the Senate, was drawn to the purportedly satirical and hurriedly conspiratorial, very laughable caricature of an action by the Delta State Working Committee of the PDP, purportedly suspending him from the party, as signed by its Publicity Secretary on Wednesday, June 23, 2021. “Spon notes curiously that this irrational, laughable, illegal and unconstitutional action of this bunch of alarmingly, anti-democratic forces masquerading as the State Working Committee (SWC) is against the principles of fair hearing – Audi Alteram Paten – as enshrined in the Nigerian Constitution, a document that supersedes all other documents.” The senator said the PDP constitution does not empower ward, local government or State Executive Committee (SEC) to consider disciplinary cases against governors and members of the National Assembly. The statement added: “Curiously and very authoritatively, the PDP 2017 Constitution, as amended, Chapter 10, Article 57(7), Page 99, states categorically: ‘Notwithstanding any other provision relating to discipline, no Executive Committee at any level, except the National Executive Committee, shall entertain any question of discipline as may relate or concern a member of the National Executive Committee, deputy governors or members of the National Assembly, provided that nothing in the constitution shall preclude or invalidate any complaint submitted through…’ “By these provisions, the State Working Committee has demonstrated complete undemocratic and anti-constitutional behavior which has rendered their uncharitable pronouncement on the suspension of Spon, purportedly, as null and void and of no consequence whatsoever.” The senator urged his supporters to remain calm despite the unbecoming action by those he called anti-democratic elements in Delta State PDP.