From Okodili Ndidi Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has announced the introduction of a portal to enable eligible Nigerians register as voters online before completing the exercise physically at designated centres nationwide. The portal was designed by INEC engineers and produced overseas. The commission is projecting to register 20 million new voters before the end of the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR). INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, said this was the first time voter registration was being handled partially online. Yakubu, who spoke at a quarterly meeting with media organisations, said the innovation is consistent with the “commission’s commitment to continue to deepen the use of technology in the electoral process in Nigeria”. He sought the support of the media to create awareness about the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) exercise. “The expansion of voters’ access to polling units prepares the ground for the discharge of another important responsibility of the commission. The registration of eligible Nigerians as voters is one of the immediate tasks before the commission. “Consequently, in the next one week, that is from Monday, June 28, 2021, the commission will resume the Continuous Voter Registration (CVR) nationwide. In doing so, the commission is introducing a portal to enable eligible Nigerians to commence registration as voters online before completing the exercise physically at designated centres nationwide. “This is the first time a major exercise of this nature is handled partially online, in consistence with the commission’s commitment to continue to deepen the use of technology in the electoral process in Nigeria. Just like the expansion of voter access to polling units, the commission appeals to the media for support so that this novel idea will also be successful. “The CVR will be a major issue for discussion at this meeting. The commission will demonstrate the procedure for the proposed online registration and present the new INEC Voter Enrollment Device (IVED) to you shortly.”