Last weekend, popular musician Daddy Showkey walked from Ojodu to Ajegunle in Lagos possibly to keep fit. He showed that with determination, anyone can reach their fitness goal. Some people may see walking as no good workout form because it appears simple and the result takes a longer time. But long distance walking when done consistently is an impactful exercise and can be done for longer periods of time. Long distance walking is a suitable workout over running for many people with knee, ankle and back problems. It can help you reach your fitness and weight-loss goals. Immobility is unhealthy, chose walking sometimes over taking bikes or buses to distances that you can walk. One of the valuable benefits of walking long distances is that it is a gentle form of exercise, yet is effective in maintaining health levels. For those who find vigorous activity a challenge, long distance walking is ideal. Whether you are from your bus stop home or any other distance, you can go at whatever pace you like. Also, the freedom to explore new places makes the whole thing interesting. If you’ve found yourself in a situation where you can’t take part in some form of exercise you love or you’re recovering from an injury, walking could be the perfect solution. Like swimming, it strengthens joints and muscles, easing tension. Walking at a fast pace for at least 30 minutes a day has been proven to drastically reduce your chance of developing heart disease, cancers and dementia in the future. It is also great for lower blood pressure! Getting into the habit of walking for a long time will not only be greatly beneficial for your short-term health but is likely to improve your overall health. But, you must keep the habit up. Another benefit of long distance walking is that it can greatly improve your mental wellbeing. So much so that some most successful people in the world such as Steve Jobs and Beethoven were known for walking to increase productivity. So, why not follow in their footsteps? Walking releases endorphins which trigger positive feelings and thoughts. If you feel particularly anxious, lacking in motivation or unproductive, getting out into the fresh air walking is likely to give your attitude a boost.