The much-anticipated National Convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) remains uncertain as the party’s Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) failed to announce a date for the exercise. After a three- hour meeting of the party’s Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) meeting in Abuja on Thursday, the party only released time table and schedule for congresses from the ward to zonal levels. It was however gathered the meeting did not consider a date for the National Convention. Secretary to the Committee, Senator John James Akpanduoehehe, told newsmen the CECPC ratified the time table for the congresses and directed the Director Organisation, Professor Al-Mustapha Medaner to release the detail time table. “The Caretaker Committee has considered and ratified the much awaited time table for our Congresses. The Director of Organization will give you (newsmen) details of the time table and schedule for the Congresses,” Akpanduoehehe told newsmen at the party National Secretariat, in Abuja. An impeccable source, who was privy to the meeting, said the Caretaker Committee only concentrated and deliberated on congresses for the wards to the zonal levels. The source said: “The Caretaker Committee has fixed ward congresses to zonal Congress for between July and end of October. The meeting was silent on the National Convention. “But from the look of things, the earliest time the National Convention can hold will be towards the end of the year. Possibly late November or first week in December.” Akpanduoehehe had recently said President Muhammadu Buhari; his Vice Yemi Osinbajo; Governors and some critical stakeholders will determine the date for the National Convention. The December 8, 2020 National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party had given the Gov Mai Mala Buni- led Committee till 30th of June, 2021 to conclude its assignments and conduct a National Convention that will bring in new National Working Committee (NWC) for the party. The last NWC led by Comrade Adams Oshiomole was dissolved at an emergency NEC meeting on June 25, 2020 giving room for inauguration of a 13-man Caretaker Committee.