Minister of Youths and Sports, Sunday Dare has announced President Muhammadu Buhari’s approval of appropriate scholarships to four children of late Mr Adowei Elliot, a Youth corps member killed during the 2011 post-election violence in Bauchi state. Buhari, he added, had also approved the employment of 10 direct siblings of other corps members who had similarly lost their lives in the aftermath of the same incident. Dare, who made the announcements as he inaugurated a new Governing Board for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), on Tuesday, in Abuja, expressed his delight at the re-appointment of Amb. Fatima Abubakar, as board chairman, saying that the re-appointment was an eloquent testimony of her performance. “There is no gain saying the fact that the scheme has made enormous contributions to the promotion of national unity and integration. “The scheme has also accelerated development in various spheres, education, health, infrastructural development, sports, and social services amongst others. “The NYSC, therefore, remains a great source of pride to the government and the entire people of our dear country”, he said. He added that without any doubt, all well-meaning Nigerians strongly recognised the continued relevance of the scheme, especially at this critical period in our national life. Dare cited the inauguration as coming at a time when all hands must be on deck to further strengthen the scheme, urging the board to be adequately informed about the scheme, particularly its objectives, programmes, achievements and challenges. “ It is my fervent hope that you will build on the successes achieved by the former board and I charge you to get acquainted with the provisions of the NYSC Act. “Especially as they relate to the roles and responsibilities of major stakeholders, including the Board, “he said. The minister commended the Director-General of the scheme, his team, and corps members, whose collective efforts resulted in the successes recorded by the scheme. “I expect members of the board to deploy the political influence at their disposal, to strengthen all levels of engagements aimed at sustaining the legacies of the scheme. He urged the new board to also sustain the harmonious working relationship, in line with the expectations of Mr. President. ”For emphasis, all your actions must be guided by extant regulations. At all times, your major pre-occupation should be the success of the NYSC scheme”. Dare warned the board to refrain from getting involved directly in the day-to-day management of the scheme, but perform oversight responsibilities which include: “Ensuring that the long-term interest of the Federal Government of Nigeria is served. “Working with the management of the scheme to determine its mission and long-term strategy, as well as establish and promote the objectives and integrity of the scheme and many more”. NAN reports that members of the inaugurated board include; Amb. Fatima Abubakar, Mrs Binta Mua’zu, Maj.-Gen. B.O. Sawyer, Arc. Muhammad Aliyu, Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem and Prince Oyekunle Oyewumi. Others are: Malam Umar Nalado, Mr Taiwo Adeniyi, a representative of the IG of Police and Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, the NYSC Director-General. (NAN)