After President Muhammadu Buhari’s spirited reading of the riot act against those who “want the destruction of the system” and his vow to shock them by speaking to them “in the language they understand”, mixed reactions quickly polarised Nigerians. The president had been referring to the unrest enveloping the Southeast and he was not shy of poking the old sore of the Biafran war – a vexing topic for them. He was even disdainful of it. In truth, there can be no justification for the destruction of public property and the anarchical desires of arsonists in the state. Naturally, there were those who were shocked to find that the president had it in him to be severe and stern with perpetrators of insecurity. They suggest that he was more lenient and accommodating towards killer herdsmen and was even willing to take reformative, rather than decisive, action against Boko Haram members. What does the presidency make of this? Going by Minister of State for Labour and Employment Festus Keyamo’s scathing rebuke of detractors to the presidency’s polarising and selective show of force, the presidency may see them as nothing but meddlesome busybodies too blinded by their private agenda to be reasonable. Taking to twitter, he raged: “I hope some elites who couldn’t find their voices to rein in their wards when their region burnt, will not suddenly find their voices against Mr. President! Those who screamed that it’s Mr. President’s duty to maintain law & order should NOT try to teach him how to do his job now… The anger some are displaying against the President’s resolve to be decisive in dealing with these scoundrels is an indication of their support for the destruction of public infrastructure because they want to cripple Govt. A pure case of cutting your nose to spite your face!” Not quite done, he continued: “A very unfortunate reasoning you read is that because insurgency is still prevalent in some other parts of the country, the President should just allow some villains destroy another region. It’s like a competition to bring the insecurity in one region at par with other regions! The President has vowed to deal with the scoundrels destroying public infrastructure & killing people to instigate insurrection & some dimwits really interpret this to mean he is threatening INNOCENT citizens! This reasoning is so ABSURD that I don’t know whether to laugh or cry.” That the ethnic ties which should have bound Nigeria in unity, peace and progress have become a Gordian knot setting the country ablaze should have been enough worry to more prudent public officials. It should have been a reminder of the importance of discretion in speech and engendered reconciliatory speech; but that did not trouble the legal mind of the minister. To the contrary he gloated that the presidency had displayed all that steel and firmness of purpose, and in that gloating he betrayed what may well be the general temperament of the presidency concerning the tempestuous and often incendiary Southeast in particular. For context, the president’s comments were found offensive and in violation of Twitter’s policy and guidelines. They have since deleted them, prompting the Minister for Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, to state that Twitter’s mission in Nigeria is very suspect. He constructed his arguments on the information that Twitter funded the EndSARS protests. So rankled was he by the deletion of the presidency’s tweets that he drew a parallel with the deletion of former United States president, Donald Trump’s, tweets in the events leading up to his defeat at the polls. The minister went on to conclude that the presidency had a country to “rule” and nothing would distract them from that assignment. The real worry is the presidency’s immediate perception of criticism or negative media engagement as an attempt to seize power, hence its announcement on Friday that it would suspend all Twitter activity. The paranoia is as unseemly as it is amusing. The conflict resolution tactics of the presidency have left much to be desired. In speech, body language and policy, the current administration has stoked the fire threatening to match secessionist agenda with force and by so doing throwing the rest of the country into unrest. Public officials like Mr Keyamo and other presidential appointees should speak the speech, as the nation prays them, trippingly on the tongue. But if they mouth it, as they have been wont to, then Nigeria would gladly have more deserving people speak to them. Senate legalistic on new constitution In what many have termed palliative and distracting moves by the Federal Government, the Nigerian Senate called for a constitution review of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to oversee the amendment of 16 structural issues in the country. The general opinion of Nigerians and indeed the wider world is that the constitution is a failed document unable to drive the country forward on a progressive course. Academicians of the law argue that the constitution derives its legal validity from an illegal source, that source being Decree 24 (Promulgation of the Constitution) of 1999. Whether the failure of the country can be traced to the constitution itself or a self-immolating political culture or undisciplined public officials, or even to extravagant and mismanaged institutions of government, public analysts want the constitution done away with. They argue that it is too silent on many issues regarding the diversity of the country and too unitary in form for a federal political entity. The constitution review having taken off, the calls for a new constitution reached a deafening din with even certain legal personalities calling for the adoption of the 1963 Constitution, often fondly called the Republican Constitution. Among the proposals that the legislators have received for the amendment of the constitution is that of the renaming of the country. No one is sure what to make of that, but Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Chairman of the Senate committee on the review of the 1999 constitution, knows what to make of the calls for a new constitution. Said he: “Now, some of our compatriots have urged that rather than amending the Constitution, we should make a new Constitution altogether. We respect this opinion, and we believe it is a most desirable proposition. However, we are conducting this exercise in accordance with the extant legal order, which is the 1999 Constitution. Specifically, Section 9 of the Constitution empowers the National Assembly to alter the provisions of the Constitution and prescribes the manner in which it is to be done. Unfortunately, it does not make similar provision or provide mechanism for replacing or re-writing an entirely new Constitution. To embark on any process without prior alteration of Section 9 of the Constitution to provide the mode through which an entirely new Constitution could be made, would amount to gross violation of our oath of allegiance to the Constitution.” Many analysts think it is an absolutist interpretation of the current constitution to suggest that the constitution’s silence on the procedure for entrenching a new constitution does not rule out the possibility of creating a new one. If the country feels that the current constitution has failed and that they are no longer interested in avowing it as a statute that they made or enacted, then the senate is duty bound to honour such wishes, they think. But, the senator is right. Trying to create a new constitution outside the provisions of extant laws will expose such a constitution to the same criticisms of the 1999 constitution. Legality must stem from more legality. But what happens when the extant laws cannot satisfy the democratic demands of the people? Nigerians are sure that the senate will neither assent to any bill to totally alter the nature of the senate to a part-time occupation as optimistically suggested by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State, nor will it honour the calls for an amendment to Section 9 of the constitution because they do not know what the proposed new constitution will bring to the table. One thing, however, is sure: between the senate’s legalistic stance on the propositions for a new constitution, the southern governors’ calls for restructuring, and the people’s exasperated cries for a new Nigeria, something must give way. NYSC now government’s reserve army? Although Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, is worried about the rate at which Nigerian youths renounce their citizenship in search of greener pasture, others in the government are more interested in the utility of the youths as mercenary in the event of a war. Talking up the validity and relevance of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), the Director General (DG) of the scheme, Brig. Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, mentioned among other things that: “Corps members are on reserve. They are part of the national defence policy of this country. So, where there is serious war, our corps members are educated, they are knowledgeable and they can be trained. You see the drill and so on. You can imagine within the short three weeks in the orientation camps, the corps members are moulded. They are like soldiers. You see female corps members blowing the army horn, playing with the military band. So, if not for the knowledge, where are you going to mobilise such young Nigerians to train them quickly to put in their best for the country? So, corps members are on reserve. They are also part of the national defence policy.” That will not encourage already disgruntled youths to stay. No. The threat of conscription in a war for a country they do not believe in will make them put more vim into the task of escaping Nigeria. The DG may in fact have misunderstood the policy objectives of the NYSC Act, which is to foster unity in the country. Although the NYSC is often regarded as a paramilitary body, such affiliation with the ministry is only suppositious. He could not point to any part of the NYSC Act that allows the army to conscript youths in the case of an emergency. Should the government desire a reserve army, then they must look to the Israeli Defence Force which has a similar but structurally different regular service. Every Israeli citizen, with few exceptions, is mandated to participate in the regular service, with males serving up to three years and females serving two years. The nature of their training is also different, and their youths are not drafted after three arduous months into a harassed labour force and sent off to teach in remote parts of the country with insignificant remunerations. The DG may want to reacquaint himself with policy aims and objectives of the NYSC before he makes any more public statements on the scheme.