An election petition tribunal in Jos, the Plateau State capital, has struck out the petition of the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for lack of merit. The tribunal equally upheld the election of Senator Nora Daduut as Senator representing the Plateau South Senatorial District. Senator Nora Daduut of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was declared winner in a by-election organised by the National Independent Electoral Commission (INEC) on December 5, 2020, to fill up the seat left following the death of Senator Ignatius Longjan. The PDP candidate George Daika had dragged INEC, APC and the candidate of the party, Senator Nora Dadu’ut to the tribunal for electoral fraud. The three-man tribunal chaired by Justice D A Khubo in his four-hour ruling affirmed that the petition lacked merit and is hereby struck out. The tribunal explained that “the petitioner has no shred of evidence to prove his allegation that the defender Senator Daduut was not elected by a majority of lawful votes cast during the election. “With the totality of the evidence before the tribunal, the petitioner woefully failed to substantiate his allegation of substantial non-compliance and irregularities. It also failed to convince the court why he should be declared as the winner of the by-election. “The tribunal, therefore, held that the election conducted on December 5 2020, was smooth, peaceful, free, fair and credible. “The return of the APC candidate Prof. Daduut by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as duly elected as a result of the re-run election of December 5 2020 is therefore indisputable. “The tribunal has no other option other than to strike out the petition by the PDP candidate thereby upholding the election of Prof. Nora Daduut as Senator representing Plateau South senatorial zone.” Reacting to the victory, Senator Daduut who spoke to reporters said: “I express my heartfelt appreciation to the people of Plateau South for the mandate given to me. I am honoured and humbled for the trust you place in me. “For the ruling of the tribunal, I give thanks to the Almighty God. The victory is for the people of Plateau South who trooped out en masse last year to elect me as their representative at the upper chamber. I assure them that today’s ruling will further spur me to work relentlessly on their behalf to help address challenges facing our constituency. The ruling is also another testament that the judiciary upholds fairness and justice. I want to say that with the judgment of today, we are once again reassured of the impartiality of the judiciary as they continue to uphold the ethos of equity and rule of law. I have the conviction that the ruling will further strengthen democracy not only in Plateau State but Nigeria as a whole. The victory of today is for us all and for my brother, George Daika, I say there’s no Victor and there’s no vanquished. Let’s join hands to advance the development of Plateau South. She further thanked the Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong and her Party the APC for their support.