Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has assured that security agencies will fish out suspected killers of 300-level University of Ilorin student. Olajide Omowumi Blessing was allegedly raped to death on Tuesday this week in Ilorin, the state capital. In a statement, the governor’s spokesperson Rafiu Ajakaye described her death through rape by yet-to-be-identified persons as “shocking and utterly condemnable. “The development is heart-wrenching and absolutely unacceptable. Such antisocial and despicable behaviour will never be acceptable to all people of good conscience, and all of us will unite to fight this to a logical conclusion. I call on the security agencies to get to the root of this dastardly act with a view to bringing the mindless perpetrators to book. I similarly call on anyone with valuable information to volunteer same to the security agencies,” the Governor said in a personal statement mourning the late Blessing. He added; “I sincerely commiserate with the parents of the deceased, her course/housemates, and the university community on this sad incident, while praying the Almighty God to repose her soul. I join every person of good conscience to seek justice for Blessing so that such callous action and its perpetrators will never find a foothold in our society. “I hereby send strong warnings that we will not tolerate indiscriminate violence against any person, much less the girl child. Enough is enough! The security agencies will get the perpetrators to pay heavily for this crime.” In his reaction former Senate President Bukola Saraki called for an investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators of the rape and killing of Miss Olajide. Senator Saraki said this in posts on his social media pages, noting that: “I condemn in the strongest possible terms the rape and killing of Miss Blessing Olajide, a 300-level student of Agricultural Science at the University of Ilorin. This act, which is evil, disgusting, and despicable in every sense, must be promptly investigated by the Police and the school authorities — so that the perpetrators are brought to justice. “The Kwara state government must work to ensure that this act does not go unpunished — as this will serve as a deterrent in the future and will assuage the fears of young women across our state who want to pursue their education. “It is my hope that the family of Miss Olajide finds the strength from Almighty God that they need at this difficult time as they mourn the passing of their young and promising daughter and sister.”