The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has said seven people have died of cholera outbreak in the territory. Addressing reporters yesterday in Abuja, the Acting Secretary of Health and Human Services, Dr Mohammed Kawu, said the seven deaths were recorded as of June 23 from 91 suspected cases. The FCTA officer explained that the outbreak in the rainy season could be the result of the leaking of sewage into drinking waterways or from contamination of food matters by bacteria. He said 50 per cent of the cases, if not treated, could lead to deaths. Kawo said: “From May 2021, the FCT began to receive reports of cases of gastroenteritis in some communities in FCT, namely: Wassa community (IDP Camp), Dei Dei, Zuba community, Shenagun and Kubwa, drawn from three area councils in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Abuja Municipal, Bwari and Gwagwalada. “As at June 23, a total of 91 suspected cases have so far been enlisted with seven deaths in Municipal Council. No death in Gwagwalada and Bwari Area Councils. Out of these, three of the cases tested positive for cholera, using the Rapid Diagnostic Test kit.” He assured residents that the Health and Human Service Secretariat through the Public Health has intensified surveillance in the communities and health facilities have also directed the area councils to do the same. He said: “We have prepositioned some Rapid Diagnostic Test kits, drugs and consumables in some of our health facilities that have reported cases and we are in the process of distributing these commodities to the remaining health facilities including some key primary health facilities”. He added that community sensitisation on preventive measures was ongoing. Kawo urged FCT residents to report any case of diarrhoea disease to the nearest health facility or the department of public health. “Ensure that the water used for domestic purposes is clean, boiled and or filtered. Ensure that all foods are properly cleaned and well-cooked before consumption. Ensure that waste especially faecal waste is hygienically disposed of. Improve on general personal hygiene.” Kawu urged residents. Kawa also assured residents that there’s no evidence of any contamination of water from the water board. He also called on residents not to panic as the Administration through the Health and Human Service has stepped up its manpower to combat the epidemic. Findings revealed that hospitals in FCT are already being equipped to forestall further emergency.