BOOK REVIEW Title: People’s Governor and other stories’ Author: Vincent Akindele Pagination: 64 The exploration of the efficacy of the mantle of leadership in every group of people consciously or unconsciously, at this time of the country is phenomenal. The disparity that has been preponderant at all levels of governments in Nigeria including the education sector, needs coherent voices for an upgrade. The power tussle in this book People’s Governor has little or no different to what is obtainable in reality. Forces are put together for the emergence of any particular form of governance to redefine our political and social system. The book is a representation of the government in our homes as individuals, society, as a member of the society, and the polity of the country, Nigeria as a whole. It has three stories, which are People’s Governor, The aftermath of annulment, and Elusive Affair. Two of the stories are about the politics that go on in our higher institutions of learning, and the third, about how individuals in society play on love matters. The issue of politics is equivocal, it will always be contended by scholars and as such, existing authority drives the system including the method of arriving at a leader. The meritocracy system of government which gives power by merit of criteria serves as systemic leadership among the 200 National Diploma (ND1) entrants of South West Polytechnic, Ibadan. Dr Tai, the head lecturer of their news reporting class, put the meritocracy system of government in place to cover the lack of nomination by students after telling them the responsibility of a class representative. This system takes the first person to volunteer into cognizance, so he immediately appoints the first person that volunteers. Joseph Adesegun, as a virtue of that merit, is to serve as the class representative and the other two are to serve as Assistant Class Rep 1 and 2 respectively. This system of government measures the students’ confidence level, but the wake of the schools’ second week witnesses it’s downfall. What happens to meritocracy? The weaknesses of meritocracy lead to democracy which is by the highest number of votes. This book continues to tell us the story of Joseph Adesegun who after the dismemberment of the meritocracy system still overwhelmingly wins an election in a community that is a microcosm of the larger society. He beats Morgan Mamoud and Sharon Taylor in a keenly contested election to become the Class Representative. He enjoys the love, respect and admiration of his people, and interestingly, either by design or default, the Class Rep subtly metamorphoses to the Class Governor. This change serves as a pivot for another change, because it gives birth to faction and a small caucus who take themselves as decision makers against the class governor in The Aftermath of The Annulment. Some fundamental topics this book focuses on are the electioneering process, election manipulations and abuse of power shape and re-designing of the political and economic progress of the society. The value system, the sense of ethical responsibility and obligations make or mar the future of any particular society. This assertion must have influenced the writing of People’s Governor and Other Stories. Joseph as a ‘constituted authority’ now rules arbitrarily. He is in power. With the power given him by his people (the fellow students), out of his selfish interest, annuls a popular election. The people, through democratic process, strip him of the power they have gratuitously bestowed on him: he is impeached. Elusive Affair is a little bit far apart. It is also a story of a young man, Ariyo Omoluabi who suffers a setback in his bid to get a beautiful girl, Teju for marriage. All efforts to convince her that he will be a good husband in future do not hold water as Teju cannot see any reason to marry a struggling young man. People’s Governor and Other Stories is a unique contribution of Mr. Akindele, a trained Journalist and a communicator, to expose some social and political ills in any human society, particularly in Nigeria, which is no doubt a product of a skilled and gifted communicator. It seems the author makes a deliberate attempt to portray democracy as the most acceptable system of government with record of elections and electioneering. So, People’s Governor is a guide for the youths who have political ambition. The book portrays people, politics, power, providence and money as determinants of fate and destiny. It is a literary work aimed at educating the readers on how to manage popularity and success in politics and governance. It shows that abuse of people’s mandate and misuse of political power could terminate a promising political career and ambition. It also teaches the right approach to making relationships. This 64-page story is highly relatable to students at all levels, school administrators and the people of the country. It is written in an impressive language quite above the pedestrian. It is lucid and devoid of any iota of ambiguity in the presentation. It is written in flowing prose pleasantly laden with accurate figurative expressions. The diction is very appropriate. This book is a commendable work of art. It is indisputably, a compulsory read for students of all fields of studies, teachers, guardian and counselors, politicians and all lovers of good books.