Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina State Saturday declared that Nigeria’s unity is non-negotiable and called on those planning to secede to have a rethink, saying Nigeria is better and stronger together Masari, who made the declaration during an interactive press conference with members of the state’s Correspondents Chapel of the NUJ, as part of activities marking this year’s Democracy Day, further described the agitators and their agitations as senseless, adding that such development is not healthy for the good of the country. He also stressed that it is better to insist on restructuring the country in all its ramifications than clamouring for disintegration by those he termed “division agitators.” He admonished those calling for the division of the country to jettison such ideas and join hands with other Nigerians to move the country forward. He said: “Those calling for the division of Nigeria from other parts of the country have no sense, because if they have, they have their people spread out in every part of this country more than any other person. There is no village in Nigeria that you don’t find them.’’ “I don’t think a sensible leader from that part of the country that knows what he is doing will call for the division of the country. If the country is divided where will you go? You don’t have a country to go.” He called on both religious and political leaders irrespective of ethnic, religious and tribal affiliations to come together, set aside every selfish interests and primordial interests for the unity of the country. Masari also welcomed the agitation for the devolution of power, saying it would avert the duplication of federal, state and local government efforts in terms of infrastructural development and enhance centralisation of activities in all tiers of government. He said: “We need to make government, especially at the local government and state levels more functional, and this can only be done through proper allocation of resources and responsibilities.”