The Federal Government has distributed engagement letters and tablets to the 206 independent monitors engaged to monitor the effectiveness of its National Social Investment Programmes (NSIP) in Lagos State. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Mrs. Sadiya Farouk, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary Bashir Alkali, said the 206 were among the 5,000 trained between February and April 2021 across the country. The social intervention programmes to be monitored are N-Power, National Home Grown School Feeding Programme (NHGSFP), Conditional Cash Transfer Programme (CCT), and the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP). Mrs. Farouk said: “I am here to flag off the distribution of Engagement Letters and Devices for the Trained Independent Monitors in Lagos State. The devices are made in Nigeria, and the monitoring application was also designed by an indigenous company. The application – Social Investment Management Information System (SIMIS), will enable the ministry see real time report of activities of the independent monitors on the field. We can view reports submitted and see the NSIP performance indicators by states. ”This will help the ministry to detect areas where there are challenges and provide greater visibility of activities happening in the field.” Each independent monitor is expected to monitor a designated number of beneficiaries, and would get a monthly stipend of N30,000 upon meeting up to 80 per cent of the deliverables. Mrs. Farouk added that the monitors are to provide evidence-based report on findings in the field and submit various categories of reports in accordance with the set timelines, among others. Lagos State Governor Bababjide Sanwo-Olu, in his goodwill message, hailed the Federal Government’s commitment to improving the citizen’s quality of life and lift the vulnerable out of poverty. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Housing, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, said over 6,800 of Lagosians had benefited from the regular cash transfer. One of the monitors, Akanni Olaoluwa, promised to deliver on his mandate since he has the needed tool to perform. “As an independent monitor, I am supposed to ensure that facilities of the NSIP are adequately utilised and to also ensure all beneficiaries are monitored and I submit adequate reports in due time,” he said. 