About two years ago, telecom operators in Nigeria mounted a vigorous campaign to get the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) come to their rescue and take action against the rampaging erosion of their bottom line by Over The Top (OTTs) that had zero investment on infrastructure. Acting under the aegis of Association of Licensed Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON) and led by its Chairman, Gbenga Adebayo, the group had urged the NCC to intervene and save the investment of its members. The group also got support from the Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) led then by its President, Olusola Teniola, who is now Nigeria National Coordinator for the Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI). The Commission, under the Executive Vice Chairmanship/Chief executive Officer (CEO) of Prof Garba Danbatta, didn’t see any reason to regulate the OTTs then. Thus the matter died naturally. Now the impasse between the Federal Government and Twitter, a micro-blogging and social networking platform, that has led to the suspension of the latter’s operation in the country, has reopened discussion ion regulation via licensing of the OTTs. Telecom operators say licensing is different from regulation so it depends on what the government is aiming to licence for. Adebayo said if the government wanted to licence because it wanted to control or manage Facebook and the other social media platforms, that would not respond to peoples’ behaviour on social media, so it depends on what the government wants to license for. “When we said they should license at the time, we were only saying that the government should be mindful of their activities, for example, if tomorrow, one of them, say Facebook for example, decides to launch free internet, if Facebook comes to Nigeria with a satellite and when you connect to the satellite, you will access service for free, it will disrupt our investment. ‘’So, it was in that regard that we said they provide everything for free, even including voice calls, WhatsApp calls and all that, they erode the revenue of mainstream operators. The government needs to be aware of what they are doing. That was what we advocated at that time. ..we didn’t say license them for purposes of censorship. “For an example, if Facebook or YouTube decides to start providing terrestrial television coverage in Nigeria, what will happen to everyone else? “Imagine if Facebook now have TV live coverage and they provide everything to cover Nigeria for free, what will happen to all those licensed to provide the service? This is the thing we said the government should be mindful of and we were advocating at the time. It wasn’t for the reason of being able to censor them. What the government is now saying is license them so you can censor them. That’s completely different from what we said at the time. “Really and truly, under the current conversation, if you license an OTT,  from what the government is saying, it’s like saying license somebody to provide you with a voice call, make an active call, then censor what they say over the platform. That’s more or less what the government is saying.  Licensing will come with some roll out obligations, but in the context of the current conversation, for reasons of being able to manage the content, that is what the government is saying. The government doesn’t mange the content of telephone services. As I am talking to you, we are not being managed or monitored. What the government is saying is that monitor and censor the behaviours of people on social media. That’s what the government is and the narration is different from what we had in mind,” he said. Teniola recalled that ALTON pushed for the regulation of OTTs years ago but didn’t win the battle. “NCC wrote a paper that suggested that there was no need to regulate OTTs. The second point is looking to censoring the social media platform and not really trying to censor the offline because already, there’s some form of censorship on offline media houses that are majorly owned by some politicians and government officials. So, it would appear there’s a confluence of thinking about what Nigeria does about the new digital realm. It’s very important that it is also noted that the government is very reflective and reactive, not proactive. Why do I say this? If they had taken the cue of what ALTON had been pushing for, they might have been proactive because the reality is that the internet is very pervasive and is not controlled by any government around the world. There have been examples of China, which is the most prominent, trying to decouple its information system from the internet. There’s been example of Russia also making some attempts to decouple its information system from the internet. But there’s danger now that even if you are able to decouple your information system and apply censorship, you cannot control the internet, so, that’s why I said the government has been reflective and reactive because if they had done this at the time ALTON was pushing for regulation of OTT, then they would have known that actually, the internet is one of the most difficult technologies to keep abreast of because even if you try and do the regulation, as you call it, of OTT or social media, you will find that really technology in terms of censorship, in terms of filtering is still behind expression of information and because the internet is based on open  and free, which mean anything goes. The social media platforms are trying to create a close group on an open and free internet based on their own policies and governance. Remember these are private companies, so they will have corporate governance based on their value system and their value system is not universal but they are powerful and potent because they drive the youth, the millennial, the Gen C and that is why we have this confluence of problems because you have the old order that was able to censor the paper offline media but may not transpose those tools it used to the digital world. And because we have not made transition from analogue to digital, we are in this problem. So, it is a very big problem because psychologically, and physically, no OTT is based in Nigeria. The technology is like air. So, we are in a dilemma, even our government is harmstrung because it also remotely accesses these OTT applications. So, it is, therefore, subjugating its law to the corporate governance policies of powerful tech companies. And that is where the problem is because we have gone so far this route but we have not developed our own online systems in the digital world, we are now beholden to what global tech companies are enforcing,” Tenioal said. According to him, it is far more likely for the government to come up with regulation that align with best practices of other governments. “If you look at what Europe is doing, what U.S.A. is doing, where they have a democracy that is trying to adjust itself to the realities of the digital tech companies as opposed to using the Chinese world approach. We have to first understand what our value system what do we want to benefit and gain from the digital world? What are the millennial youths saying about the contribution to the digital world? If we know, then we will be able to answer our question,” he added. Adebayo said the issue is a moral obligation on the part of the citizens. The government needs to enlighten its citizens on the implications of their digital behavior. He said:“Now, what has happened in the case of Twitter, they say somebody provided a highway for people to travel, you are now penalising him for the number of speed or low speed that people do on that highway. You should manage the people who use the highway and not the one who provided the highway. In essence, what I am trying to say is that when you see how people behave, it is a moral obligation on the part of the people. People need to behave in a way that is morally acceptable. “Many people have pseudo names on the social media.  When they want to abuse you, they do so using this pseudo name; when they want to commend you, they do so through the name that you know. When they want to do any kind of funny behaviours, they …but those are moral conduct. We have the National Orientation Agency (NOA) that is supposed to guide people on what is our culture.” That is why we have the minister of Communications and Culture. What is morally acceptable here? What is culturally acceptable here?  These are the things that they should preach to people. And that is why when people go on these platforms, people need to behave in a way that is morally acceptable. So, it’s an orientation thing. It’s not a regulation thing,’ he said. Teniola said the main thing we need to be aware of is that it’s not so much about an individual person but it will require digital literacy, digital skilling of the population because unless we are actually productively contributing to the digital space, we gonna have the same problem, we just going to be consumers remotely accessing services from things that were not built by Nigerians for Nigerians. Abdebayo said cyber security will not address the problem. Cyber security will not address moral behavior, moral conduct.  Cyber security will address issue like the hacking into the server of an operator, server of a bank, hacking into the server of NIMC, e-government parastatal, server or a data management company. These are the issues cyber security will not address the way people go and behave on the cyberspace. Though you can say it’s a security matter but you can post a cyber policemen to manage people lying on the platform. When you find them, you can prosecute them. That will mean that you are dealing with the effects, not the cause, the cause is the moral bankruptcy , it’s a moral problem. When people are morally bankrupt people behaving in a way that there’s no moral check, you have all these problems that you have. So cyber security, no matter the number of persons you put there, no matter how tech savvy they might be, it will not solve the problem. But Teniola differs. He said currently Nigeria has a new cyber security policy and strategy document of 2021 that was released and approved by the National security adviser with President Muhammadu Buhari alongside the Minister of Defence and Minister of Communications and Digital Economy when it was unveiled recently in that document, it speaks about ONSA driving cyber security awareness and dealing with cyber threats. That is a start; where you are going to? The current SSG to Akwa Ibom State, Dr Emmanuel Ekuwem stressed the need to have a cyber space czar who in my opinion must be young,, someone below 30, who is a bit like Finnish government where they have leaders that are in the range of 29,31, 32. Why because most of the digital drive is being driven by the youths and young people. When you look at those are running OTTs applications and those that have built empires or unicorns in this space, they are below 40 year old on average, so we need to have representative of that age. I think we have now reached a point where we need to move from analogue and we are struggling with that, it’s a generational thing. The people who are old are still in the analogue world, they will never know how to get to the digital world unless you have this bridge and this cyber czar or the person that should head it in the country should be the bridge. That’s why I said he has to be someone who is sharp, who knows about the future. So I am in support of that.