MRS. AUGUSTINA: My name is Chidi. My mother is Mrs. Augustina. She has not been paid any dime as pension for over 15 years. Although it is a long story which is partly not the fault of PTAD. But since PTAD has taken over pension payment of pensioners, including my mother and her group in Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Enugu District. We will like to know when they will start receiving their monthly pension like others? My mother and her group were part of the mass retrenchment in 2005 by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Many of her colleagues are dead and some incapacitated due to hunger, hardship, trauma, sickness. Mrs Augustina is alive by the grace of God. Moreso, against the backdrop of the legal dynamics between her group and NRC, Enugu District, which in their excruciating feebleness and available financial support, they won the case. Please my mother wants to know what is delaying them from receiving their pension. PTAD: Advise her to scan and send the pensioner’s documents to complaints@ptad.gov.ng stating the pensioner’s complaint. This will enable the department review it. He should also provide his contact phone number to enable us contact him. NENROT: I am Nenrot, a federal share pensioner from Plateau State, I received N104,411.91 in September 2018. I want to know if the arrear is for the monthly pension, or for the gratuity. Whichever way, when will the other unpaid arrears be paid? Please PTAD help. PTAD: Advise the pensioner to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable the department review what was paid to him and advise him further. He should provide his contact phone number MABAWONKU: My name is Mabawonku, a federal and state pensioner. I worked at the Nigeria Educational Research and Development Centre (NERDC) from September 14, 1982 to July 6, 1993. I Joined Lagos State civil Service on July 15, 1993 and retired on January 26, 2008 as a director. Lagos State paid their  share of gratuity and pension in 2010 but that of the federal share has not been paid up till date, despite several demands. I am expecting gratuity and six months pension arrears, from January to July 1993. I did  verification at PTAD’s Lagos office on April 23, 2019, submitted bank statements from 2008 to date as requested by  PTAD through the zonal office, Lagos, including the one showing the gratuity paid by Lagos. My original pension file has been retrieved from NERDC by PTAD, since November 2017. Despite the conditions met, since 2019, my gratuity and pension arrears have not been paid. Kindly help. PTAD: The department said his complaint is still under-going review with the rules. However, they assured us that his complaint would be resolved shortly. MOSES: My name is Ogundele. I will like to inform you that the minimum wage for 24 months is not correct. I was paid N64,304,44. So, the increase monthly is N6,192,19. Some of my colleagues that are on the same grade as me were also short paid. Kindly help see that I am correctly paid. PTAD: Advise pensioner to scan and send his verification slip and complaint to complaints@ptad.gov.ng DANLAMI: Thanks, and kudos to your newspaper for your responses to the plight of pensioners. It is very sad that since NITEL verification  of January 2018, former NITEL staff members and I were yet to get their  pension payments. Please continue to help us in this regard. God bless you abundantly. Kindly help me. PTAD: Pensioner’s complaint sent to the operation department for their review and further action. Please advise pensioner to provide his contact phone number ISHOLA: My name is Ishola, a Federal Government pensioner (federal). I received my pension till last December, when I was paid N50,000 and later received message that I have been over paid and that they deducted the over payment, which was supposed to finish April 2021 with some balance to claim but nothing is paid into my account. Help me look into my matter. PTAD: Inform pensioner that his over-payment recovery has been completed. He was put back on the payroll last month. He is advised to confirm the payment from his bank IZAH: My name is Izah. The minimum wage increase sent for 24 months is not correct. I was paid N64,306,44 whereas absolute increase monthly is N6,192,19. I have been short paid. kindly help to see that the short payment is amended and paid back me. Thanks. PTAD: Advise the pensioner to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable the department review what was paid to him. He should provide his contact phone number. DINNEYA: I retired from Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB) since October 2020. But my pension has not been paid. Even when I had attended the verification in March 2021. My landlord has given me quit notice to vacate his house. I cannot feed my children any longer. I am sick and I don’t have money for medical treatment. Please I need your intervention. PTAD: The department is working to resolve his complaint. However, he can scan his verification slip to our e-mail complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us follow-up on it.