About 20 years after the liberalisation of the telecoms sector, no fewer than 25 million, out of the 200 million Nigerians, are still not connected to telecoms services. The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), however, said it has brought down the figure of underserved and unserved from 217 access gaps clusters to 114. Executive Vice Chairman and CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) Prof Garba Danbatta said a total of 40 million people were originally captured within this bracket, adding that the figure has been narrowed to 25 million. “So far, we succeeded in bringing down the access gaps clusters from 217 to about half. We have about 114 at the moment. We have also succeeded through this effort in bringing telecoms services to more Nigerians that were hitherto did not have access to telecoms services from the 40million Nigerians who hitherto did not have access to telecoms services as a result of these clusters of access gaps. “This large numbers has gone down by about 15million. So, we are down to 25million. Even that figure is not acceptable to us at the NCC because no part of the country should be denied access to telecoms services. This is consistent with that important mandate of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government that states that there must be inclusiveness in the provision of telecoms services. Therefore, these services should be ubiquitous or pervasive across the country,” Danbatta said. He spoke on the sidelines of the presentation of an award to the Commission by Nigerian Academy of Engineering (NAE) in recognition and appreciation of its support to the activities of the academy towards enhancing economic development. The EVC said the NCC is delighted to have been recognised for its modest contribution  to the activities of the Academy and to the advancement of the nation’s economic development. “On behalf of the board, management and the entire staff of the Commission, I wish to express our appreciation to the NAE. We see this gesture as an acknowledgement of the little efforts we are making towards the progress of the NAE,” he said. Danbatta also spoke about the various interventions the Commission had been making through its concerted initiatives such as the Digital Awareness Programme (DAP) for secondary schools and Advanced Digital Appreciation Programme for Tertiary Institutions (ADAPTI) for tertiary education across the country. The occasion tagged: 2021 Academy technology dinner/lecture,which had the Minister of the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, as Special Guest of Honour, held at Lagos Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja. 