It is no longer news that the crypto market is in a bearish run as bitcoin tanked below the 30k in June. Most traders decided to buy the dip hoping that the sharp decline will be followed by a bullish movement. Although there was a quick retrace, with the asset trading close to $40k, bitcoin failed to meet most traders’ and investors’ expectations. To further cement the bear run, bitcoin’s price corrected below $30k on the 21st of June. All these price actions indicate that the price of bitcoin is still in a bearish market. While many traders see the bearish trend as an opportunity to continue to buy bitcoin and add to their portfolio, there are a lot of doubts about how long the current trend will last. Although people who decided to buy bitcoin when the price initially dropped in May would have made a slight profit on their investment when the price traded at around $40k. On the other hand, most of these traders would decide to hold on to the asset with a strong hope that it is going further up. Now that the dip is continued, many crypto investors are in a panic as bitcoin witnessed another setback from this point. The big question remains; should you continue to buy the dip? Or should you cut your losses? Find out everything you need to know about the crypto crash. Buying the dip is simply a term used when a trader decides to accumulate an asset when it crashes or falls. For instance, when you buy bitcoin because the value has dropped, you are basically “buying the dip”. Although it is believed that the term is unique to only a bearish market, people believe you can only buy the dip when the market is experiencing a bearish trend, however, it’s not. There are highs and lows in a bullish market as well. Some even believe it is safer to buy the dip in a bullish market where the general trend is ‘up’. Although the profit you get from buying the dip in a bullish market might not be as huge as when you buy the dip in a bearish market and the asset eventually enters a bearish momentum. Buying the dip might be very risky because you can’t predict when the price decline or bearish trend is going to end just like the current situation of bitcoin price. Entering the market at the wrong time could lead to a loss. Buying the dip seems to be a strategy for the bearish market because it is very obvious that the price of the asset has massively declined or crashed from its all-time high price. The bear market tends to be the perfect scenario for newbies to also learn how to buy bitcoin. The dip of an asset is a great point of entry for traders because there is every possibility that it goes back to trade at that level or beyond. However, as explained earlier, it’s still a risk, while the price might return to trade at a higher price, it could also crash further to an unexpected level. You might be tempted to buy the dip blindly when the price of an asset begins to decline, however, this might also be a wrong move. You need to critically analyze the market before buying the dip. Cutting losses simply means selling an asset to protect your portfolio and avoid more losses. So when you decide to sell part of your bitcoin holdings because the price is dropping you are simply cutting your losses. To most traders, cutting losses isn’t the best thing to do in a bearish market. However, it might just be what will save you from making further losses from your investments or even losing all your investments on an asset that is on its way to the bottom. While many traders believe it is the right time to continue to buy bitcoin and build your portfolio. Some have hinted that this isn’t the time considering the high volatility at the moment. Buying the dip depends on whether you are ready to take the risk. As we all know, this isn’t the first time there will be a crash and unfortunately it won’t be the last because of the high volatility of the crypto market. This isn’t the first time bitcoin will experience a wild decline in price. In fact, the present crash isn’t up to that of 2018 when bitcoin experienced a sharp decline after the boom in 2017. Bitcoin witnessed an 80% decline from the January 2018 peak. While price history hints at a possible recovery, it is important to only invest an amount you can afford to lose because you never can tell. As stated earlier, liquidating your entire portfolio in a bearish market isn’t the best strategy. If you can withstand the risk, the key is to remain patient and hold on to your investments even if you are not adding to them. Rather than selling your BTC for fiat, you can consider diversification. Diversification simply means exploring other options. The bear market offers you the option to diversify your crypto investment portfolio and buy some good altcoins with solid use-cases and great growth potential. So instead of putting all your eggs in one basket, you can decide to spread your chances by buying these altcoins. Rather than selling your bitcoin because of the falling price, you can sell part of your holdings for other assets. With this, you are reducing the losses that will be made when the price of bitcoin dips further. Before the commencement of the bear run, a lot of businesses were adopting and people were learning how to buy bitcoin. The dip has however discouraged newbies and frustrated traders to sell their assets and cut losses. To some, buying bitcoin at the moment may a dumb decision but long-term Hodlers know better, and they have a first-hand positive experience of buying the dip.  Although the price could still dip further down, bitcoin has a good history of price recovery so buying the dip might eventually pay off. People who bought the dip in 2018 now have a good story to tell about Bitcoin.