 A member of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), who pleaded not to be named, said the return of their leader was prophetic. He said the Federal Government may have speeded up the process of Biafra actualisation. He believes Kanu’s detention would not affect the secessionist cause. The member said: “We have said over time that IPOB is bigger than Kanu. The arrest and return of Kanu have strengthened our resolve towards the actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra which is just around the corner. “Kanu, being a prophet that he is, in one of his broadcasts, told the world that he would return to Nigeria to announce the freedom of Biafra. “He stated in the broadcast that he would not be outside Nigeria to declare freedom for Biafrans. “We didn’t know that the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari would help to fast-track the process. “Now that our leader is back to Nigeria through the efforts of the Nigerian government, what we are waiting for is the pronouncement and we will shock our doubters.  “Remember the case of Moses, who ran away from Egypt and was later sent back to Egypt to liberate the people of Israel? “Kanu has been sent back to liberate us. We want to assure him that we are fully behind him and will carry out his instructions to the latter come rain, come shine.” An Aba lawyer, Emperor Ogbonna, said it very difficult most times to evade the long arm of the law. “He (Kanu) was granted bail on some conditions and he broke the conditions of the bail. “He did not only break the conditions of the bail, he continued doing those things that made him to be arrested and charged to court in the first place. “Maybe if he had mellowed down, his situation might have been different, but the continuation of the same acts for which he was standing trial, amounts to an affront to the Nigerian state. “I know he is a British citizen and subject to British protection but I do not know the condition of which he was arrested and removed from Britain. “Now that he is here, his trial will continue and with what happened to his lawyer Ifeanyi Ejiofor, he will need a good lawyer to defend him. We are in for a long ride this time. “I also think that the government should try to address some of the grievances of some people in the Southeast, especially the issue of marginalisation, to arrive at a middle course, so that there can be harmony between the Federal Government and some aggrieved persons in the Southeast. “Peace is needed in Nigeria at this time so that both development and economic prosperity can come to everyone concerned.” Our correspondent who monitored the mood of the state and Afaraukwu community, Kanu’s country home, reports that economic activities went on without any hitch. It was gathered that the news of his arrest and repatriation surprised some of his kinsmen and supporters. There were reports that men in plainclothes suspected to agents of the Federal Government were spotted around Kanu’s community in the early hours of yesterday. The area was quiet when our reporter visited the Afaraukwu community. Some residents were seen in clusters apparently discussing the matter.