Seventy-three men travelling in five trucks to Imo State have been apprehended by soldiers in Benue State. Personnel from 72 Special Forces Brigade, Nigeria Army, Makurdi, arrested the men on Monday night at Agan Toll Gate, Makurdi, the Benue State capital. The soldiers said the suspects had 47 Bajaj motorcycles on board the five trucks. The suspects had various home addresses in Nasarawa State. On the trucks were found some minerals like zinc and lead which they claimed to be conveying from Plateau State to a Port Harcourt, Rivers State-based company. Benue State Deputy Governor Benson Abounu, who  was with the soldiers this morning, commended the Special  Forces for their diligence and professional conduct. He said despite attempts to evade arrest, the soldiers impounded the trucks and arrested the men.  The deputy governor expressed surprise that such a large number of young men from the same state could be found together going to a place like Imo State, which they know to be experiencing serious security challenges at the moment. Abounu, an engineer, challenged the security men to carry out detailed profiling of the passengers for further action as the answers coming from them do not add up. Speaking on the issue, the Commander of 72  Special Forces Brigade, Lt. Col. AD Alhassan said he and his men acted based on security report as they moved to intercept the trucks immediately they got the hint that they were heading towards Makurdi. He said they spent a few  hours waiting for them before they finally arrived at night. He said a thorough search has been conducted on them with all goods on the trucks offloaded and their motorcycles dismantled for proper search, but said no arms were found. When questioned, one of the young men, who claimed his name is Emmanuel Ayugwa said they were going to Imo  State to do okada business. He said though they were aware of the serious security challenges there, they decided to go because their brothers there told them that everything had calmed down. Ayugwa, who  said they only chose to travel with their bikes using the truck to lessen their expenses, could not explain how all of them from different places in Nasarawa State were able to find themselves in the  trucks, which started their journeys from Plateau State. Findings through a phone call  with the manager of the company that owns the minerals shows that the trucks were loaded with lead, zinc and barytes from Plateau State and  headed for a company in Port-Harcourt. The manager said he was not aware of the  arrangements by the driver to carry any other person apart from the motor boy and a company escort, and that, they were strictly warned not to carry anyone else in the trucks.