Air traffic controllers have said the Kaduna Airport has no control tower to navigate aircraft. They decried the deplorable conditions at airport control towers of Katsina, Kano, Sokoto and Calabar and others. Specifically, they said no airport  had up to 80 per cent functional equipment. They said the country needed no fewer than 650 controllers to meet the needs of airports. The Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA) employs over 4000 staff, 400 of which are core professionals. President, the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA), Abayomi Agoro, stated this in an interview in Lagos. He said besides the absence of a functional control tower at the Kaduna Airport, there were other infractions, which include lack of  toilets at the Katsina Control Tower and a failed equipment in Kano, stressing that air traffic control personnel bore the brunt of the dilapidated system. He said:  “The working environment is becoming deplorable. Journalists are free to walk into our working facilities for an on-the-spot assessment. Some airports do not even have functioning equipment. Even the Kaduna Airport does not have a control tower. What they are using is a watch room (for fire fighters), which is not built for that purpose.          We have been calling on the government to do something. “Go to Sokoto, when it rains, controllers use umbrellas to access the control tower? “Some of the control towers attached to the terminal buildings were ceded to FAAN while those standing alone were with NAMA, but we have approached the two organisations for help. “When we have a problem, NAMA will be waiting for FAAN to put it in order. FAAN would ask, is it our staff that are working there? And that is because of the bureaucracy and it is controllers that suffer in such a situation. “We are still battling with terrestrial radio frequency, and communication. Calabar is there. There is no airport you will go to that you would say things are working 80 per cent.” Also, Deputy Vice-President, NATCA, Ahmed Adamu Bello, condemned the situation at the Katsina Airport. He said there were no toilets for ATCs unless the controller leaves the building, which would be a breach of professional ethics. Bello said: “In addition, Katsina has no toilet for its one ATC. He is a human being. To urinate is a problem, are we saying he should use a bottle? Or descend the tower? If he descends, he is in breach of his professional ethics. So, what do you expect that person to do? Also, in Katsina, there is no rest room. All these are verifiable.” On Kano, he said: “Kano has a fine building, that is all. The facilty, unfortunately, is a failure. Go and verify everything we say. We are not being emotional. We are angry because if the system demands I put my whole life into it, I expect it to provide me the working tools and environment to do that. I spent close to two years at the training school for me to qualify, only to be frustrated by a system that does not want me to give my best.’’ According to Agoro, the Federal Government allocates money, NAMA also generates revenue,  but he is at loss as to where the money goes as there is nothing to show for it. “Things are not okay. Our members are also telling us that we are not doing what is expected of us. Do you know that if you get to some control towers, there are no chairs. We have to go and beg for some chairs. This year, I have met the NAMA management, asking that chairs be provided for controllers who sit for six to 12 hours to avoid them having back pains. “Also, these people climb stair cases because the elevators do not work. It’s not ideal. Even when our members complain to us, we are in tears. We don’t know what to say,” he lamented. Agoro alleged that it was shameful that NAMA had employed more staff in non-core critical areas, stating that even as there are inadequate ATCs. Agoro said: “We should have, at least, 600 to 650 ATCs. Let me also tell you that there is no point in leaving one controller on duty in the tower. It is dangerous and we must say it; and while a station like Kaduna has fewer  than six ATCs, definitely they will work only one per shift. But I can tell you that NAMA has close to 4,000 staff. “Even in some departments, you see them drawing a roster. If you come this week, don’t come next week. At a point we tried to do internal recruitment to see whether we can bring some of these redundant staff and train them and those who agreed to convert them are regretting. For many of them seven or eight years after, they are still one grade level. This is a discouragement to others.”  