Nigeria Olympian Association (NOA) has concluded plans to celebrate 15 Olympians at an event scheduled to hold at the NAF Conference Center in Abuja on June 24, 2021. The NOA is made up of current and past Nigerian Olympians and led by Olumide Oyedeji, a former professional basketball player, who competed at London 2012. Speaking in Lagos yesterday, Oyedeji said NOA, affiliated to the World Olympians Association, wants to create a platform for recognition and appreciation of the remarkable contributions made by individual Olympians and sportsmen in the past. The former captain of the national basketball team, D’Tigers said the celebration is being handled by a Selection Committee which includes veteran journalists Kunle Solaja, Modele Sharafa-Yusuf, and Ikedi Isiguzo. “About 15 Olympians who have represented this country from 1952 up till this moment will be rewarded, awarded, and celebrated. We will be having an Olympian forum where we share our experiences on the 23rd of June, being an Olympic Day. Then on the 24th, we are going to have a Banquet Dinner would be called the “Labour of Our Heroes Past”. “We want to usher a red carpet reception for our Olympians and everyone who has represented this country and made this country proud. This would be a turning point for athletes and show our sports administrators, government officials, and corporate Nigeria to treat athletes the way they see athletes and sports. “During the course of our career, we have represented and still represent Nigeria and we decided that if people don’t appreciate us, we need to appreciate ourselves. If people don’t embrace us, we need to embrace ourselves. “So in view of this, we decided that we are going to honor our legends. We are going to celebrate. We are going to give the younger generations a platform that they have to be looking up to so that they would have a vision, mission, and passion to put on the green-white-green colour. “We are expecting a couple of dignitaries including the President of the World Olympian Association, Joël Bouzou, and about 10 to 15 Olympians in the diaspora coming home to be part of it. “So far, everything is self-funding. We are tasking ourselves and looking for sponsors. Though we have people that have shown interest and want to be part of it by supporting us in one way or the other, we are still open to partnership with corporate bodies including the media,” Oyedeji, who played in the NBA for Seattle SuperSonics and Orlando Magic said.