The lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo State Constituency II at the Lagos State House of Assembly, Jude Idimogu has decried the current security situation in the Southeast, especially in Imo State. He said it is particularly worrisome that security personnel are being targeted and private and government properties are being destroyed with reckless abandon. Idimogu who made the remark in an interview with reporters in Lagos recently said the situation would boomerang if the attacks continue unabated. He said before now, the Southeast geopolitical zone was known for peace, tranquillity and stability. He said: “Never was it said that the Southeast was engulfed in mayhem, let alone with attacks on government institutions and security personnel. How did we get to this unsavoury situation? “The security personnel are there to protect our lives and properties. If they are continuously attacked, who will rescue the people when there is a real danger? We are making the police afraid of everybody. If crimes are happening somewhere, do you expect them to come to the rescue of innocent people? They will not come out for fear of attacks by people. “I appeal to our people in the Southeast to protect every structure in the region, whether they are federal or state government-owned. They are the people’s property. We should always strive to encourage the government to do more for the people, rather than resort to destroying the ones already provided.” Idimogu urged the security agencies to carry out a thorough investigation to unravel the root cause of the unrest with a view to unmasking those responsible for the mayhem. Harping on the need for peace and unity, Idimogu who is the chairman of the House Committee on Employment and Wealth Creation said he believes in the unanimity of the country. He said: “I don’t envisage Nigeria breaking. Even, if it will happen, it may not be in our generation. No leader would want to supervise the breaking of Nigeria. The best way is to sit down and deliberate on the way forward. There are better benefits that accrue from working together.” The lawmaker praised the leadership qualities of All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, saying he is the most qualified to led Nigeria after President Muhammadu Buhari’s exit. He promised to mobilise Igbos resident in Lagos to identify with the APC and ensure victory for the party in the next general elections. He added: “I will mobilise my people to join the APC, which is the ruling party in Lagos.  This will ensure that their interests are protected. It is not proper to live in Lagos and be a member of the opposition. It doesn’t make sense. “The APC should not panic over the seeming apathy of some Igbo sons and daughters resident in Lagos. We assure the party that Ndigbo in Lagos APC will mobilise other Igbo brothers and sisters to join the party in order to strengthen the electoral fortunes of Lagos APC.” 