The Federal Government-owned University of Benin (UNIBEN) in Benin City, Edo State is experiencing several changes, writes Southsouth Bureau Chief, BISI OLANIYI. A 100 Level Chemistry student of the University of Benin (UNIBEN), Miss Zosima Aidomokhai, who was receiving lecture with her coursemates in one of the almost-completed lecture theatres of the higher institution, was excited about new projects in the citadel of learning. Aidomokhai said: “God will continually bless the tenth substantive/second female Vice-Chancellor of UNIBEN (after the fearless Prof. Grace Alele-Williams), especially for her determination to transform the higher institution. I can also confirm that Prof. Salami is a no-nonsense helmsman. “My coursemates and I, as well as other students of UNIBEN are comfortable with the seats and ongoing development projects in the university, which is now more beautiful. We are so happy with our vice-chancellor.” UNIBEN was founded in 1970, but it started as Mid-West Institute of Technology, while it was accorded the status of a full-fledged university by the National Universities Commission (NUC) on July 1, 1971. The inspected ongoing projects included construction and furnishing of professorial office building and Centre for Educational Technology building, as well as construction of Food Science and Human Nutrition building, one storey laboratory building for the Department of Urulogy, and two 250-seater lecture theatres for medical students at the nearby University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), which was started early this year, among others. UNIBEN’s Director of Physical Planning, Timmy Ikhisemojie, an architect, who joined the vice-chancellor to inspect the projects, disclosed that dedicating a building under construction to only professors was part of the innovations of Prof. Salami. He said: “Over three hundred professors are in UNIBEN, while most of them do not have comfortable offices. For research and teaching, the vice-chancellor decided to dedicate a building to the professors. Such that in the big offices, they will be comfortable, especially with their libraries, toilets and ancillary facilities, including offices for their secretaries and computer rooms. Most of the senior professors, about 28, will be accommodated in the new building. “The executive hostels that we are also building are of international standard and they can accommodate the international students. All the projects are carried out in line with the conditions of the contracts. We have the architectural, civil-structural and mechanical-electrical designs, as well as the bills of quantity, which specify the various standards and specifications for the construction. We are complying with them for safety purpose. “UNIBEN’s College of Medical Sciences building was earlier abandoned, but construction works are now ongoing at the site. The project was actually started in 2005, but it was abandoned in 2007, due to lack of funding from the Federal Government. Little works were done on the project in 2012 and 2013, but the construction stopped again, until 2019, when we came back to the site, when there was sufficient fund from the Federal Government’s appropriation, to continue with the project. That’s why we are advancing right now.” The vice-chancellor of UNIBEN, while speaking on his assessment of the ongoing projects at the university’s main campus at Ugbowo on Lagos Road, the second campus on Ekenwan Road, Benin and at UBTH, which is beside the main campus, declared that UNIBEN is doing very well, compared with other institutions. She said: “We have been able to attract so many projects within the short period that this administration has come into being. We are not doing badly at all. “We are enjoying the goodwill of the Federal Government, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND), a scheme established by the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2011 to disburse, manage and monitor education tax to government-owned tertiary institutions in Nigeria. “We are also enjoying the goodwill of other agencies and the National Universities Commission (NUC). Even the Governor of Edo State, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has been too wonderful to us in UNIBEN. We need to give ourselves kudos for what we have done so far. “We cannot thank our alumni association members enough, because when I came on board, I actually went to them and I said if we were going to survive, as a public-funded higher institution of learning, we needed to really anchor on them, to be a strong pillar, where we could create, share and fund ideas. They have done just that.” Prof. Salami also revealed that UNIBEN had graduated over 350,000 graduands and now mostly highly placed as chief executive officers and trailblazers in their different professions, with the authorities of the university anchoring on the huge number to call them to assistance, while confirming that they had been very gracious. She said: “Most of the paintings you find around and the minor works are being done by the alumni of UNIBEN. We were earlier at the Faculty of Law and you saw the landscaping there, which was also done by alumni members. We are very grateful to them, because they have in their magnanimity and consciousness decided that this would be the time to pay back to the higher institution that actually made them who they are today. “In fact, our major mandate as an institution is actually to teach, learn and carry out research. Anything that empowers this mandate is empowering the students and the staff. Our output, in terms of graduands, will not only be marketable locally, but internationally. “We are trying as much as possible to drive the system with the global best practices. These projects are going to enhance that. “We have been doing well so far. The Federal Government delayed two of our projects: the agric and medical buildings. The Federal Government has just come to our rescue. TETFUND is promising that it will do everything within its powers to make sure that the projects are completed within the shortest possible time. “We are enjoying absolute peace. We had a little bit of problems here and there. This is a community of more than 60,000 students and staff of over 10,000. So, it is a city on its own. When you have this kind of community, you are bound to have clashes once in a while. We have gone through that. We have learnt our lessons. Now, we are better behaved. “The students are willing to cooperate with this administration and we are also willing to listen to them, genuinely, when they have issues. With this kind of understanding among management, students and staff, we are bound to have a peaceful environment that will enhance development, which we are driving.” The vice-chancellor, while also speaking on her administration’s decision to prioritise the beautification of UNIBEN, stated that for anyone coming into a tertiary institution, the citadel of learning, the person should not walk into the gates and look at an institution with a semblance of barracks or mammy market. She noted that coming into a higher institution, the serene environment would make an insane person to become sane, thereby knowing that it is an environment where students are taught, learn and develop good character, thereby joining the well-behaved group. On the administration’s academic reforms and the challenges being faced in UNIBEN, Prof. Salami reiterated that since humans were  being dealt with at UNIBEN, as in other tertiary institutions, the authorities wanted the students-staff-management relationship to be very cordial and to have zero tolerance for education corruption, especially sex or money for grades. She said: “Whoever compromises in UNIBEN will be appropriately dealt with and sanctioned. This is a no-nonsense administration. We want our students to learn and the lecturers to teach them, under conducive environment. “Of course, there are challenges. The major challenge is funding. There is never a time where there is enough funding for any institution of higher learning. We have to fall back on our Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR), while our IGR is not coming so much. “We are doing the much that we can, within the little resources that we have available to us. That is why we are not doing contracts as they ought to be. We are using self-help or direct labour to drive the ongoing projects on campuses of UNIBEN and at UBTH.” All the critical stakeholders should always support the current administration at UNIBEN, in order to continue with the transformation of the great citadel of learning. .