For Nigeria and Fulham left footer, Ola Aina, the 2021 Premier League season did not end well for him and many of his colleagues following Fulham drop from the elite division.  Fulham were relegated from the EPL after goals from Ashley Westwood and Chris Wood gave Burnley a 2-0 win at Craven Cottage. The defeat left Fulham in 18th spot of 27 points, 10 behind Southampton with three games left to play while Burnley rose from 17th to 14th on 39 points. Though Aina’s return to South-West London didn’t have a better outcome, but he’s certainly felt at home as part of the Fulham family. With his actual family living a stone’s throw from our Motspur Park training base, it was an ideal loan move from Torino for the versatile defender.  FEELING AT HOME “For me, to be back in London especially, back in the area, was really good for me,” he told the official website. “I’ve got good friends round here, my family, which is good for that extra support. “My family loved it. My little brothers did. The littlest one had really missed me for two years, with me being in Italy, so for me to come back here was really good.” In fact, his younger brother Jordan currently plays for the Fulham U23 team. After making his debut for the Whites on a difficult night in the Carabao Cup against Brentford, Aina seemed to grow with every performance in a Fulham shirt, and ended up becoming a pillar of consistency. “The beginning for me, my first match, was a bit shaky,” he admitted. “But since then I feel like the team and the coaching staff put a lot of time into me and I do feel I’ve improved since I’ve come in, so it’s been a great year for me in that sense, to play consistent Premier League football. “It was a difficult start for us. Then in the middle of the season things started to look up. We were playing well, playing some good football and picking up some good results. “Then after that we just seemed to run out of steam. But we still tried to do things the right way, we wanted to play good football.” It seems a strange question to ask considering how the season ultimately ended, but did Aina enjoy his time here? “I’ve loved it,” he replied. “I get asked this question all the time by a lot of people, and even though we’ve been relegated, I’ve loved every minute of this season. “I’ve loved the challenge, the coaching staff, my teammates, and I’ve loved the Club as well. I’ve loved this Club, it’s a very nice club. “The Club has become a part of me, and a part of all the other loan players, and I think you can see that. “Even though we’re here on loan, we’re all part of the same fight. I really think the loan boys have taken up the challenge. “Off the pitch we’ve always been very close with each other. We like each other’s company, so it’s been a really good group. “We did really care about this season and how we did. It went wrong, but trust me, we really did care.” REGRETS One regret, though, is that he didn’t get to play in front of the Fulham fans more often, something that he feels may have played a part in their relegation. “I think it’s affected most teams,” Aina said. “You look at Sheffield United, last year they were flying, and then this season you see what having no fans does. “I think it’s affected a lot of teams, and we’re one of those. When we needed fans in the stadium for certain games, there are results that might have gone in our favour if they were there maybe. “It has played a part in our season, I think, it has affected us. But we can’t be making excuses, it is what it is, we didn’t manage to stay up, but it would have been lovely for the fans to have been in the stadium this season. “I’d just like to say thank you to them for all the support you’ve given me and the team. We wish you’d been with us the whole season, but it was good to have some of you back at the last game.” I f there is another of his regrets this season, it is losing to his former employers Chelsea at Craven Cottage in the ended season. The versatile defender spent more than a decade at Chelsea and so understandably holds the club in high esteem, but his full focus is on bringing the points home to the black and white half of SW6. “I had great memories at Chelsea because I was there from when I was a kid to a young man, some good memories with the first team as well, being with that Premier League winning squad in 2016/17. “I get excited for every fixture, but to play against your boyhood club is always one that you relish, and I’m looking forward to it.” Unfortunately the match ended in favour the visitors 1-0. Months after that when they met again, the Champions winners won 2-0 at Stamford Bridge.  LAUGHING LAST Aina is however laughing last as his venomous effort against West Bromwich Albion was named Fulham’s 2020/21 Goal of the Season last week. It was a comfortable winner, taking 38.7 per cent of all the votes cast. Second place was a lot closer, with Fabio Carvalho’s first senior goal just finishing above efforts from Tom Cairney and Mario Lemina. Speaking after collecting his award, Ola said: “Thank you to all the Fulham fans who voted for me for Goal of the Season. “Ever since I came in, I felt the support. I’m so thankful and I love you dearly for it. “I appreciated your support throughout the whole season. It was sad that we couldn’t see you that much, but thank you so much.”