The police on Wednesday paraded 73 suspects for various crimes committed in parts of the country. Many of them were arrested for alleged murder, kidnapping, rail vandalism, and robbery, among others. Force spokesman Frank Mba, a commissioner of police, paraded 36 of the suspects at Special Tactical Squad office, Abuja, saying their arrest was proof of law enforcement’s commitment to crime fighting under the leadership of Inspector-General Usman Baba. Mba said one Chris Akpan, 57, a resident of Akwa-Ibom State, murdered one Miss Josephine Cynthia, 45, after promising to marry her. He said the suspect took the victim to Benue State where he allegedly engaged a native doctor, one Rafiu Afolabi, to kill her for a fee of N5,000,000. The native doctor was also paraded. One Prince Ruben was alleged to have also killed a woman in Rivers State after selling a plot of land to her for N250,000. Mba said the woman was led to a bush where she was gang-raped and killed. Several suspects including Suleiman Isah, Mubarak Sanni, Sanni Dahiru, Suleiman Gbadamosi, Ibrahim Salisu, and Abdullahi Idris aged between 19 and 25 were arrested for alleged armed robbery within Abuja and villages in Niger State. Exhibits recovered from them included five high-calibre assault, 98 rounds of live ammunition and huge sums of money. In Nasarawa, 29 suspects were held for rail vandalism and armed robbery. The state commissioner of police Bola Longe who paraded the suspects said the command acted on credible intelligence. Longe said arms recovered from them included two locally-fabricated pistols, one  barretta pistol, two live cartridges and six rounds of 9mm live ammunition, a GSM handset and charms as well as N13,000 cash. “The command also wishes to advice the law abiding citizens in the state to be wary of activities of individuals who move around in their neighbourhood, claiming to be iron scrap buyers, as anyone caught engaging in criminal activities will not be spared,” he said. Some suspects were arrested in Benue State, some weapons recovered from them. In Kaduna, eight suspects were paraded by Commissioner of Police Umar Muri for kidnapping and homicide, among others. Police spokesman Mohammed Jalige said new crime patterns were evolving every day, requiring everyone to be security conscious and avail police with information on apprehending perpetrators. He said on June 5, the Command received a complaint from one Bashir of Zaria town that his son left home the previous day and never returned. Jalige said that investigation indicated that a friend lured the missing boy away from home to an uncompleted building where he was killed.