All Progressives Congress (APC), Osun State on Saturday reversed the suspension of ex-Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Barr Kolapo Alimi, who served under Rauf Aregbesola. The Nation reports that Alimi was suspended by eighteen executives of Ward 9, Elerin ‘C’ in a letter dated June 16, 2021, was suspended for alleged anti-party activities. Alimi had opined that his suspension may be premised on his membership of a political group, The Osun Progressives (TOP). Aregbesola is the chair of Board of Trustees. However, a letter dated June 19th, 2021 by the Legal Adviser of APC State caretaker committee, Adegoke Ogunsola overruled the suspension of the ex-commissioner. The letter obtained by The Nation condemned Kolapo Alimi for uttering derogatory remarks about the incumbent governor, Adegboyega Oyetola and Caretaker chairman, Prince Adegboyega Famodun. “I wish to note, on behalf of the All Progressives Congress, Osun State Chapter, that the recent political activities and conducts and the derogatory utterances of Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi, the immediate past Commissioner for Local Government in the State and a political associate of the immediate past Governor of Osun State, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, against the Governor of the State, His Excellency, Alhaji Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola and the Chairman of the State Caretaker Committee of All Progressives Congress, Prince Gboyega Famodun, are worrisome and constitute a monumental embarrassment the Osun State Chapter of the APC. “However, as a political party that believes in the rule of law and the principle of fair hearing, it has been observed that the procedure laid down in Article 21 of the APC Constitution, which regulates the decision of the party to suspend its members found guilty of misconduct or/and anti-party activities, was not strictly followed by the APC Caretaker Committee at Ward 09 (Elerin C) of Irepodun Local Government Council Area of Osun State in suspending Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi. “Chief (Barr.) Adegoke Ogunsola, the State Legal Adviser of the State Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress, having examined the procedure adopted by the A.P.C Caretaker Committee at Ward 09 (Elerin C) of Irepodun Local Government Area of Osun State in suspending Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi and in consultation with other members of the State Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Osun State Chapter, hereby declared the said procedure most irregular, defective and devoid of the required principle of law for its sustainability. “Consequently, the said suspension of Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi from the All Progressives Congress by APC Caretaker Committee at Ward 09 (Elerin C) of Irepodun Local Government Area of Osun State could not be ratified by the State Caretaker Committee and as a result, the Caretaker Committee of the party at Ward 09 (Elerin C) of Irepodun Local Government Area of Osun State is hereby overruled and the suspension of Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi is hereby nullified and declared null and void and of no effect whatsoever.”