 Niger Delta Affairs Minister Godswill Akpabio yesterday said the process of constituting a substantive Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) board will be fast-tracked. He spoke after an emergency consultative visit to Oporoza, headquarters of Gbaramatu Kingdom in Warri Southwest of Delta State. It was over the seven-day ultimatum issued by ex-militant leader, Chief Government Ekpemupolo (alias Tompolo) on Sunday. Akpabio stormed the creeks in the company of the NDDC sole administrator, Mr Akwa Effiong, Deputy Governor Deacon Kingsley Otuaro and top military officers. Traditional rulers from Bayelsa, Edo and Ondo states joined the Pere of Gbaramatu kingdom to receive the minister. The minister said: “We had a robust discussion and consultation. The meetings have been fruitful. The consensus of stakeholders is that there is a need for more representation in the NDDC and so a board needs to be constituted. “I have also assured them that as soon as I get back, I will commence the process and fast track the process. “We have agreed that my office will fast-track the process of the constitution of the new board. We have also looked at what is affecting the region. The youths applauded, but they want to see more progress, more employment opportunities.” Asked about the fears surrounding the ultimatum, he said: “It is not a function of the ultimatum; it is a function of the fact that it was a call for the government to react to the aspirations of the people. “The issue of ultimatum is not something I can speak on because there is a process and it has to start with the minister. The major thing is that we have committed to work together to make sure that we give what the people want”. Otuaro added that the processes for the constitution of the board are to commence today. “We must not allow our region to boil. There has been a process set in place. The process is such that a critical set of people are meant to work very closely with him to ensure that the processes are expedited almost immediately by tomorrow, as soon as he gets to Abuja”. He said a communiqué on the consultation would be issued in due course. Akpabio arrived in Delta three days before the expiration of Tompolo’s ultimatum to inaugurate a substantive NDDC board.  INC calls for calm as IYC insists on protest  Also yesterday, the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) Worldwide rejected the appeal by its parent body, the Ijaw National Congress (INC) to call off the protest.  Rising from their meeting in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, the elders called for the suspension of the ongoing mass action by the IYC and other Niger Delta agitators. The INC said its appeal was to enable it to interface with stakeholders to avert renewed hostilities in the region. The INC called on the Federal Government to immediately inaugurate the NDDC board to reduce the brewing tension in the region. A statement by the INC after its meeting was signed by its President Benjamin Okaba; National Secretary Ebipamowei Wodu and Publicity Secretary Ezonebi Oyakemeagbegha. The statement reads: “The INC expresses concern about the growing tension in Ijawland and the Niger Delta region arising from the protests by Ijaw youths and the ultimatum issued by High Chief Government Ekpemupolo and some Niger Delta agitators over the non-constitution of the board of the NDDC. “The INC recalls that governors of the Niger Delta region had months ago reviewed the matter and called for the constitution of the board of the NDDC, which indeed reflects the position of the vast majority of the people of the region. “There is currently overwhelming anger over the state of affairs in the NDDC and except President Buhari takes proactive steps, things may go out of hand. “The INC, as the apex Ijaw organisation, worried by the brewing tension in the region, has commenced the process of engagement with critical stakeholders to prevent hostilities in Ijaw land and the Niger Delta region. “However, the INC repeats its earlier demand during the inauguration of the current national leadership on May 14, 2021, for the board of the NDDC to be constituted as a matter of urgency with a Bayelsan as Managing Director and a Deltan as Chairman in line with the NDDC Establishment Act 2000. “The INC leadership calls on Ijaw youths to be calm, while a committee has been set up to investigate the issues arising from the IYC protest and will continue with the engagement of relevant stakeholders to address the issue of constitution of the board of the NDDC and the award of new marginal oil fields”. But the IYC President, Peter Timothy Igbifa, praised the elders for their intervention but said the youths would continue with the protest pending the inauguration of the NDDC board. He said the youths had given the Federal Government and Akpabio a reasonable time to address the injustice and unfairness in the management of the NDDC, insisting that there was no going back on the protest. Igbifa called on all the youths to remain resolute in their agitation for a board that would drive the development of the region. He said: “The only thing that will stop further protest is the immediate inauguration of the NDDC board. In the absence of the board, our protest continues. Our elders have tried and we appreciate their intervention. “We appeal to them to prevail on Akpabio and the Federal Government to quickly inaugurate this board. Our agitation is for justice, equity and fairness. “Nobody should tell us that it is the forensic audit that is delaying the inauguration of the board. It is a big lie.” The youth wing of the Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) yesterday shut down the Delta State office of the NDDC in Edjeba, Warri South. The youths, who are protesting the failure to inaugurate the NDDC board, vowed that the office would remain shut until their demand is met. Tompolo, in a statement Sunday, warned that the ongoing protests by the IYC and other groups would be child’s play compared to what will happen in the region should the Federal Government fail to inaugurate a substantive board within seven days. The ultimatum, which has received backing from other groups like the Egbesu Brotherhood, has since caused tension in the already volatile region.  