Hunters and herders have come under attack in Kwara and Plateau states. On Tuesday, four local hunters, who were also vigilantes, were gunned down in Kwara by suspected herdsmen. On the same day, three herders were also declared missing, believed killed, in Plateau. In Zamfara, four persons were confirmed dead, while as many as 60 women were reportedly abducted as bandits swooped on two communities. A source said five hunters on two motorcycles were returning from Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, to Fage community when they fell into the herders’ ambush, who shot and killed two of them. The three survivors ran to nearby from where more hunters mobilised and returned to the attack scene, only for the herdsmen to open fire upon sighting them, killing two more. One hunter was wounded and later died in hospital, The Nation was told. The killings took place at Fage in Asa local government area of the state. The herders reportedly went away with their victims’ motorcycles. Police spokesman Okasanmi Ajayi confirmed the incident, adding that an investigation had started. In Plateau, chairman of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) Malam Nuru Abdullahi said three herders were last seen on Tuesday evening. Abdullahi said the three men were grazing their animals at Gidan Ado village in Riyom local government area when they were attacked. Police spokesman Ubah Ogaba did not take the reporter’s phone calls nor did he reply text messages sent to him. In Zamfara, four persons were confirmed killed in attacks on two communities in Maru local government area of the state. Up to 60 women were reportedly abducted in the assault. Shehu Amad Fulani, who represents the constituency at the House of Representatives, confirmed the attacks. He lamented that his constituents no longer sleep peacefully due to incessant attacks by bandits. “About 60 women were abducted while four persons were killed,” he said. “Right now we don’t know where the kidnapped victims were taken to. Many villages have been deserted for fear of another attack. Most of the villages are also burnt down by the attackers.” Police spokesman Muhammad Shehu did not provide any information on the incident, saying he would call back. He never did before press time.