Plans to stave off hunger in Niger State by increasing crop yields are in jeopardy as the lands used in planting across the state are gradually losing nutrients due to the inability of farmers to replenish the soil. Justina Asishana spoke to smallholder women farmers in the state regarding their challenges in assessing inputs, including fertiliser, to improve their yield. Amina Garba has been farming groundnut and yam in Tayi B in the Bosso Local Government Area of Niger State for over 20 years. But in all these years, she has not gotten any form of fertiliser, either free or at a subsidized rate from the Niger state government. Her yearly yield is thus very poor as she makes barely half of the expectation she aims to meet, a reason she attributes to lack of fertiliser and other inputs used in farming. “Our lands are old and tired. Every year, we farm on these lands and we do not have fertilisers or other chemicals to put into the land to make it fertile and healthy. We have not gotten any fertiliser from the government, even the one said to be at a reduced rate, we do not get it. And we do not have money to buy fertiliser because of how high it costs,” Garba said. Fertilisers are substances used to add nutrients to the soil to promote soil fertility and increase plant growth. The three most important fertilisers include nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. The latter two have been available for centuries, but nitrogen in a form that plants could absorb is scarce, and the lack of nitrogen has led to low crop yields for centuries. Fertilisers replace the nutrients that crops remove from the soil. Without the addition of fertilisers, crop yields and agricultural productivity would be significantly reduced. To grow healthy crops full of nutrients, farmers need to ensure they have healthy soil. Amina is not alone in the difficulty women farmers face to get fertilisers across the state despite the huge sum of money budgeted and expended for fertiliser procurement and distribution in Niger State. In Bosso local government, Rose Joseph explained that whilst groundnut does not need much fertiliser, yam does. “Last year, I did 500 heaps of yams but could only get back 300 heaps of good yams making me lose 200 heaps. The yam got spoiled because there was no fertiliser. We do not get fertiliser here because the government does not give it to us and we do not have money to buy it. What we do when we plant is that we just put our seeds on the ground and hope it comes out good.” Rabiatu Abdulmalik, who is also in Bosso local government area, said she has been farming for about 25 years noting that their lands have gone old as there is no fertiliser or money to buy fertiliser, “we do but use fertiliser, we plant our crops like that. If we plant it, God will bring it out well for us.” According to Rabiatu, she plants 10 mudus (measuring bowls) of groundnut seedlings she purchases in the market and harvests about 50 big bags but she said she knew she could get more if she had access to fertiliser.  Same moans of fertiliser woes everywhere  The story of Rabiatu, Amina and Rose is akin to that of every other rural smallholder women farmer across Niger State who spoke to the reporter about their challenges in getting fertiliser for farming. In Rijau Local Government Area, Fatima Mu’azu, maize, rice and soya beans farmer, said all through her 29 years of farming, she has not been able to access government-subsidised fertiliser. She lamented that when she buys from the market, there is usually no gain at the end of the planting season as she said that a bag of fertilizer in the market costs between N11,500 to N13,500. She further explained that when there are no resources to buy fertiliser, she gets cow dung from the cattle herders which she uses on the farm. In the Ija Gwari community in Tafa Local Government Area, Hannatu Yisua who is part of an all-women cooperative society that farms rice, beans and maize said that they haven’t gotten any fertilizer or farm inputs from either the state or local government. She shares the same sad tale as the other women farmers in the rural areas across the state about the lack of access to fertilizers. “We have applied for fertilizers and other agricultural inputs several times in our local government area but they do not give us. For now, we use cow dung which we get from the cow herders, we do not have money to buy fertilizers because it is expensive and scarce to get in our local government. “Our farm does not get the expected yield. Sometimes, we plant 50 mudus of rice and at the end of harvesting, we get like 10 sacks of rice, each sack contains 50 mudus. If we have access to fertilizers and other inputs, we can expect like 100 bags of rice and also an increase in the other products we farm. Also, getting other inputs will help us prevent insects that infest on our products.”  Women Farmers and Niger Government Differ on Extension Workers  In a research article titled “Challenges and Prospects of Rural Women in Agricultural Production in Nigeria” by JB Effiong, published in Lwati: A Journal of Contemporary Research, inadequate technology, poor extension services, inadequate land, lack of access to credit facilities, cultural/religious restrictions, poor health, lack of adequate infrastructure, access to education and training affects women in agricultural production. An important aspect of agricultural production is access to education and training which are usually carried out by Extension Officers or Agents. Extension service is an informal educational process directed toward the rural population which offers advice and information to help them solve their problems. According to the United Nations’ Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), extension is a process of working with rural people to improve their livelihoods. This involves helping farmers to improve the productivity of their agriculture; the objective of the Extension is to change farmers’ outlook toward their difficulties. But this is not the case in Niger state where despite over N579 million have been expended on the enhancement of extension service delivery from 2017 to 2019, the majority of the rural women farmers, with whom these Extension Workers are supposed to work with, have not seen or heard about extension services or have anyone trained them on agricultural best practices. Rebecca Yahaya, a farmer of rice, soybeans and yam in Ija Gwari community in Tafa Local Government Area, said she has been farming for 50 years and no one has come to train her or any other women farmer she knows. In Borgu, Rice Processor/Farmer, Rabbi Suleiman said that apart from the IFAD Value Chain Development Programme who trained them on rice processing, no other government or organisation has come to train them on any agricultural practice. The women in Rijau, Bosso and Tafa have been using the knowledge gained from their parents to farm as they also have not received any training or consultant service from the local or state government. “We have not received any training from the government or any organization. The farming we do and the knowledge we are using is from the knowledge of what we learnt from our parents and grandparents. And we need training very seriously because we are facing a lot of challenges in farming and do not know how to go about solving these challenges”, Talatu Galadima, the SWOFON Coordinator in Rijau told the reporter. For Asabe Mathew, the SWOFON Coordinator in Munya Local Government Area, the only training they get is when they call someone from the state capital to train members of their cooperative society on some challenges they face. “In receiving training from the state government or local government, we have not seen anyone. I know about extension workers and what they do but in our local government area, no one has come to us to give us advice or train us on anything.” But the claims of the women were refuted by the Head of Women in Agriculture which is under the Niger state Agricultural and Mechanization Development Authority (NAMDA), Rose Saba, who insists that there are extension agents in the 25 local government areas of the state who assist and offer training to the farmers. She noted that the women may not ready to work with the extension agents which is why they claim they have not seen or gotten any training from them. “We have extension agents across the 25 local government areas and they are there to assist and offer training to the rural women so that it will boost their farm produce. I don’t know why they say there is none. Maybe the women are not ready to be captured during training but we have extension agents that are around them,” she insisted.  Niger state government agricultural expenditure  The Niger State Commissioner of Agriculture and Rural Development, Honourable Haliru Zakari Jikantoro during a Radio Contact Program on May 1, 2021, in Minna highlighted the achievement and programmes implementation of the ministry from 2015 to 2021. According to him, the ministry had procured and distributed 1,374,200 bags of fertilizer from 2015 to 2020. Giving a breakdown, he said, “the ministry procured and distributed 300,000 bags of NPK fertilizers in 2015, 94,200 bags of NPK fertilizer in 2016, 80,000 bags in 2017. “Distribution of 300,000 bags of fertiliser in collaboration with TAK fertiliser company under the federal government fertiliser intervention programme in 2018, in 2019, 300,000 bags of fertiliser supplied to stores across the state for the 2010 farming season under an arrangement between the state, and private dealers.” The commissioner added that a total of 15,000 metric tons of fertiliser, 437 metric tonnes of assorted seeds and 107,050 litres of assorted agrochemicals were made available through private input dealers across the state. For 2021, the commissioner said arrangements have been concluded with seven fertiliser producers, companies and distributors for the supply of fertiliser across the state to be accessed by farmers for the farming season stating that the input will be sold to farmers on a cash and carry basis. In the Niger State budget from 2017 to 2019, it was discovered that the Ministry of Agriculture through the Niger state Agricultural and Mechanisation Development Authority (NAMDA) expended N579,078,000 for the enhancement of extension service delivery. To this end, N37,000 was expended in 2017, N538.51 million was expended in 2018 while N40.5 million was expended in 2019 for extension service delivery. Efforts made to speak to the Managing Director of NAMDA, Alhaji Suleiman Rijau, to know the total number of extension workers in the state and why they may not be reaching out to some women, were not successful. When the MD was contacted, he said he was outside the state for a conference and would send the contact of one of his directors but as at the time of filing this report, he was yet to send the contact and he stopped picking calls. But the Head of Women in Agriculture, Rose Saba, insisted that the extension workers were doing their job and they were being monitored and supervised stressing that there had not been any complaint about them or their services. Giving more explanation about the difficulty in getting inputs for their farm, Saba explained that even the government finds it difficult to distribute inputs to the farmers as the resources are not available for now.   