The Board of the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) has reiterated the importance of ensuring a smooth and timely transition away from LIBOR. IOSCO’s membership regulates more than 95 per cent of the world’s securities markets in some 130 jurisdictions. Nigeria is a signatory and member of the board of IOSCO. In a statement, IOSCO said sound functioning of important benchmarks is vital to the global economy and financial markets, noting that the timelines for the end of LIBOR panels are clear. According to the global regulatory body, continued reliance of global financial markets on LIBOR benchmarks, particularly the most widely used USD LIBOR settings, poses risks to financial stability, market integrity and investor protection, which are IOSCO’s three core objectives. It also creates various consumer protection, litigation and reputational risks. IOSCO noted that in light of the significant use of USD LIBOR globally, including in more than 100   emerging markets and across a wide range of products and financing purposes, IOSCO is cognizant of the importance of reinforcing the transition message and timeline on a global scale. IOSCO urged all global market participants to discontinue new use of USD LIBOR-linked contracts, as soon as practicable and no later than end-2021, to avoid the safety and soundness risks associated with the continued use. “Therefore, the transition away from LIBOR remains a significant regulatory priority. This transition will require market participants to take steps to stop issuance of new products linked to LIBOR and efforts to transition away from LIBOR in legacy contracts that span multiple markets and jurisdictions. For this purpose, the use of LIBOR rates in new contracts should be ceased as soon as practicable and no later than the timelines set out by home authorities and or national working groups in the relevant currencies,” IOSCO stated. IOSCO also supported the guidance issued by US Banking Supervisors in November 2020 and March 2021. These noted that, while the mid-2023 end dates would allow most USD LIBOR-linked legacy contracts to roll off, “…entering into new contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference rate after December 31, 2021 would create safety and soundness risks…” and encouraged firms to “cease entering into new contracts that use USD LIBOR as a reference rate2 as soon as practicable and in any event by December 31, 2021”, subject only to some limited exceptional use to support an orderly transition. In line with its communication and outreach program launched in 2019,IOSCO will continue its efforts to inform relevant stakeholders regarding transition from LIBOR to alternative rates that comply with the IOSCO Principles on Financial Benchmarks. IOSCO noted that the FSB has also published a set of documents that outlines recommendations for financial and non-financial sector firms, as well as the authorities, to consider while adopting new benchmarks, describing this as a welcome development and an additional guidance that will further support stakeholders transitioning away from LIBOR.