The Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON) has assured that the Nigerian capital market has the capacity to survive insecurity and macroeconomic challenges militating against investment opportunities. ASHON also proposed some measures by which the government can revive the securities market through enhancement of stockbrokers’ liquidity and implementation of some policies to boost investment in the market. In a statement, Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON) , Chief Onyenwechukwu Ezeagu, explained that the stock market has always exhibited resilience. “The stock market could be said to have become resilient to upheavals in the economy but with the heightened insecurity, we want to believe that the market will survive given that opinion leaders have continually advised the actors to jaw-jaw rather than war-war. We all need to tone down our words and actions for our country to avert catastrophe and ensure that our economy is sustained. “The successful completion of the demutualization process was a great delight to Securities Dealers. Our members have eagerly expected this transition with high hope. We expect to reap the benefits of shareholding in a fledging Stock Exchange, one of the best in Africa. “The local investors quite frankly understand the concept of demutualization after our members have spoken to them in the language they understand i.e. demutualisation means that Securities Dealing Firms have transformed from being Dealing Members Firms to shareholders and Trading License Holders. We have local investors who are well informed. However, we still need to guide them to follow the consequential changes that may follow the Exchange’s new orientation towards profit making,” Ezeagu said. On how to boost stockbrokers’ liquidity, Ezeagu stated that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should reintroduce the margin facility to help improve liquidity in the market. “It should, in conjunction with Capital Market Operators design effective guidelines that will de-risk the product to avert past experiences in margin lending in the market. The margin terms and conditions should also be reviewed in line with the current realities. “The government should patronize the capital market – the taste of the pudding is in the eating. Thus, will spur others. including foreign investors to believe in the market.” The government should urgently consider the proposal by the Securities Dealing Community ably represented by The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) and the Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON) through the Capital Market Master Plan Implementation Committee (CAMMIC) on the rejuvenation of the market as part of the financial system review currently being worked on. ” We do not as a matter of professional policy mention specific sector or stocks. Nevertheless, hedging against inflation cannot be achieved by a singular act but by a professional management of fiscal and monetary policies by the authorities. This is more reason why investors should be closer to their securities dealers. ” The Q1 results could not have been anything better given the conditions prevalent within the period. The Covid-19 pandemic has moderated all activities and the results show clearly in all aspects of the world economy. “ The Foreign Portfolio Investors (FPI) are highly sensitive investors. They react to little negatives not to talk of when mainstream media give subtle hints of insecurity in the land by various scary headlines. The penchant for policy somersaults and arbitrariness of actions by the authorities does not give impetus to the attraction of Foreign Portfolio Investors,” Ezeagu said. He explained that the Lagos Commodities and Futures Exchange was licensed to  trade on Agricultural Commodities, Currencies, Oil and Gas and Solid Mineral Commodities. We are looking to partner with various stakeholders in the Nigerian Commodities Ecosystem ranging from farmers, aggregators,  cooperative societies, Commodities associations, FMCGS, Banks, Insurance Companies, Certification Agents, Ship, tank farms, Silos, warehouse Owners and many more. According to him, the  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should not allow its proposed intervention to be skewed towards one of the commodities trading platform so that there will be even growth within the commodities market sector. Ezeagu noted that Investor education was a continuous process which demands a collaborative effect among stakeholders saying “ ASHON has been collaborating with the SEC in the literacy development programme and we have continually engaged our clients on individual basis, providing answers to their enquires and volunteering information where necessary.”