A governorship aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  Dr Paul Angya,  has said he would carry on with the implementation of the Benue State Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Act (Anti-Open Grazing Law). Angya  said the major weapon to fight the hydra-headed banditory and the incessant clashes between farmers and herders, is the Anti-Open Grazing Law, enacted by the administration of Governor Samuel Ortom. The aspirant, who lamented the incessant killings in the state, said he would bring to bear, his wealth of experience as a security expert to further suppress insecurity and bring about lasting peace in Benue. Angya, who who spoke  during the unveiling of his policy document, titled, “The New Deal” in Makurdi, decried the insecurity confronting the state, adding that his administration would uphold Ortom’s stand in the fight to secure the state against all forms of invasion. He said, “The State has been turned into a killing field especially my maternal hometown, Guma. I trained at the Institute of Security and will use my experience as well as sustain the governor’s stand on indiscriminate and brutal killing of our people”, he said. He further explained that his policy document is designed to transform the state, as well as see how to confront the challenges facing the state. Angya, a former Acting Director-General, Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON), said I’m coming with a full grasp of the challenges confronting Benue in all sectors and how to take the state from where Governor Ortom will leave it. “The New Deal takes a look at the whole scope of the state. It is a document that will shape our vision and mission as a people. “It will go a long way to assist the state actualize its dream of industrialisation and it will also help to improve the economic fortunes of the state. “It is a basic framework on how to achieve industrialization, particularly in agriculture, youth development and empowerment, women and gender development and reduce poverty through grassroots development. “This will be made possible as a result of my Technical Committee (the think tank); they are only waiting for the time to come for them to exhibit their expertise.”, he stated. Earlier, Chairman of the Angya for Governor, Technical Committee, Pharmacist John Enger has called on the PDP in Benue to nominate Angya as its gubernatorial candidate to fly the party’s flag in the 2023 General Elections owing to his track record. He opined that “No other candidate has the education, the capacity, the exposure and the experience to govern the state at this most trying time” as Angya. Dr. Angya is the first governorship aspirant in Benue to unveil his policy document ahead of the governorship election in the state in 2023.