Ekiti has joined the league of states that would be producing rice in commercial quantity with the inauguration of the rice pyramid project, which is the first in the Southwest by the Federal Government to raise production level from the current 347,000 metric tonnes to 1.5 million per year. Correspondent RASAQ IBRAHIM writes. Agriculture was the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy before crude oil discovery in Oloibiri in Bayelsa State in commercial quantity in 1958. During the golden era (1960 to 1969), the sector accounted for an average of 57 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and generated 64.5 per cent of export earnings. From 1970 to the late 2000s, the sector’s contribution to the GDP and export earnings steadily declined because the country’s focus shifted to petroleum exploration. Like every other part of Nigeria, Ekiti State also neglected the agriculture sector. Ekiti used to be one of the major producers of cocoa, oil palm, kola nut, plantain, banana, cashew, watermelon, citrus, timber, rice, yam, cassava, maize cocoyam and cowpea in the country. But with the discovery of oil, agriculture was relegated to the background as many of the youth abandoned agric sector for non-existing white-collar jobs. This further created more social problems. However, the story is already changing in Ekiti State. Governor Kayode Fayemi has reactivated efforts to revive the ailing agric sector. When Governor Fayemi assumed office in October 2018, he acknowledged in his swearing-in speech that agriculture would be one of the major pillars of his administration’s developmental agenda. The Fayemi-led government had so far attracted a $100 million agricultural investment to the state most especially areas where Ekiti State has comparative advantage including rice, cassava value chain and milk production. Ekiti State has a huge potential in rice production which is in large volumes in Igbemo-Ekiti located in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area but its capacity has been inhibited by lack of government support and poor access to credit facilities for farmers and modern equipment. The renowned “Igbemo Rice” is a local delicacy loved by residents of the state, people of the Southwest and few states in the North Central. Other communities in Ekiti State are also involved in rice production but with limited capacity. With the closure of the land borders in August 2019 by the Federal Government, attention has shifted to locally produced rice consumption to fill the huge deficit created by the absence of foreign brands in the country. The development provided opportunities for local rice farmers in Ekiti State to further increase production level to meet local demands and even for export but not at the highest level. Rice has become the most consumed staple in Nigeria across all socio-economic classes. Still, only about 57% of the 6.7 million metric tonnes of rice consumed in Nigeria annually are locally produced. This leads to a supply deficit of about three million metric tonnes, which is imported. Data from the Bureau of Statistics and the Federal Ministry of Finance put the importation figures of rice amounted to about N1tr (One trillion Naira) at the end of 2012. This figure increased to over N2tr (two trillion naira in 2016) and about three N3tr (three trillion naira in 2018. The figure has always been on the increase. Rice takes about 60% of the total import figures. The promising abundance potential of Ekiti in agriculture, most especially in the area of rice production, attracted the FG attention to use it as a model under its Anchor Borrowers’ Programme to shift the country’s monolithic economy from oil dependant to a diversified economy with a focus on agriculture. For the first time, Ekiti State on May 18, 2021, made history for being the first state in Southern Nigeria in which the Central Bank Rice pyramid project would be launched. However, Fayemi’s shared aspiration of making Ekiti one of the hub for rice and the food basket of the nation became a reality. The feat was not only a pointer to the gains of Governor Fayemi-led administration in the agric sector but also one of the eloquent testimonies of the APC-led government in the state. With the inauguration of the rice project, the state once again positioned itself as the food basket of the southwest. In the next seven months, Ekiti State would join the club of states that are producing rice in commercial quantities with multiplier effects of more job opportunities, shore up IGR, improved the agriculture value chain and boost food security. The entire state converged on the Ekiti Parapo Pavilion on the New Ado-Iyin road, Ado-Ekiti to witness the historic inauguration of the first rice Pyramid project in the entire southwest region. The ecstatic people rolled out the drums to celebrate the initiative. As the inauguration lasted, the people mostly local farmers watched in amazement as they were about to experience a new lease of life. The guests, including the CBN Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele; Governor of Ondo State, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, Governor of Kebbi State and Vice Chairman, National Council of Food Security, Atiku Bagudu; Jigawa State Governor, Badaru Abubakar; Osun State Governor, Gboyega Oyetola and other dignitaries excited to fullest. Praising President Muhammadu Buhari’s commitment to transforming the agricultural sector in enhancing food production and food security in Nigeria, Fayemi congratulated the farmers in particular and Ekiti State in general on the success of the inauguration and benefits abound. He said the pyramid project was to restore the state as one of the leading rice producers, said the initiative will also help in tackling poverty, insecurity, enhance economic diversification, boost foreign exchange earnings and forex policy as well as curtail cross border banditry. The project, according to Fayemi, would generate no fewer than 12,000 jobs for rice farmers, who would, in turn, create additional 50,000 jobs in full production across the rice value chain within a year. Fayemi said: “We are directly producing 12,000 jobs for our farmers, who will, in turn, provide jobs for another 50,000 persons between now and 2023. “Agriculture is profitable today in Nigeria and we will strive to make it profitable for all. We will try to make farm mechanisation readily available to our farmers. We are not only doing rice, we are supporting cocoa and palm trees. Provision of rural access roads is also part of our target. “The CBN is ready to make agriculture attractive to the youth and we will facilitate the programme that can ease access to credit facilities so that their enthusiasm for farming can be realised. “Our future is bright as a country, but we must take those good concepts that can make us attain self-sufficiency in food production, but attaining this will not come easy or cheaply. Let us continue to enter into partnerships for us to achieve this.” “In the past, Ekiti was recognised as a rice-producing state. We want to change the narrative and restore the lost glory by moving farming from mere subsistent to profitable business; that was why we are mobilising our farmers to benefit from the ABP. “Without doubt, Ekiti State is making this solemn pledge a reality today with this tripartite partnership between CBN- ABP, RIFAN and Ekiti State Government. This is the commencement of the programme in the Southwest and I am glad that my brother Governors – Akeredolu and Oyetola are here to honour us with their presence. It is my expectation that Ondo and Osun States will be the next destinations for this tripartite partnership.” “This ease of production of rice -the most valued staple in Nigeria- has been successfully practised and celebrated in some states like Kebbi, Jigawa, Sokoto, Niger, Kwara, Ebonyi etc. It is gratifying that today, Ekiti State is now joining the train as a participant in the Anchor Borrowers Programme of the CBN, in partnership with the National body of Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria led by Alhaji Goronyo,” he said. Emefiele said the Ekiti Rice Pyramid project would catalyse rice production in the Southwest. Emefiele said the apex bank, through its Anchors Borrowers’ Programme, was financing numerous local rice farmers across the country to boost production and improve the agriculture value chain. He expressed the commitment of CBN in supporting the governors in their drive to expand agricultural institution, adding that close to 700 billion naira has been disbursed under the CBN-ABP to farmers across the country with a focus on over 21 crops across the states of Nigeria. Emefiele said the massive rice pyramids being inaugurated in Ekiti were harvested from various fields across the states and neighbouring states owned by the rice farmers under the ABP and also serve as a confirmation of the success of the programme. The CBN governor stated that the apex bank had made a significant investment in all the states of the federation said aside from support for massive rice cultivation, the bank had also partnered with states on palm, cocoa, cassava. “The pyramid unveiling moment for the 2021 wet season started in Niger State, moved to Kebbi, touched Gombe, and now, we are in Ekiti State and we want it to touch all states in the coming months. “We strongly believe that this event will generate the required momentum to catalyse rice cultivation in the region and provide a sustainable source of paddy for the numerous rice mills springing up in the South-West and its environs.” Akeredolu said Ekiti state has always been known for rice production, saying this programme will return the state’s lost glory and redirect ii to the path of economic greatness. “Ekiti was known for rice before Lagos, Kebbi and Ogun. But now, they are ahead of us. But Ekiti is coming with full force. We have a lot of work to do. “We must commend President Buhari on his strides for food production. When it comes to agricultural development, give it to President Buhari. The CBN’ anchor borrowers’ programme is unrivalled. “But our main problem down south is the problem of land clearing. Please, treat us especially here, because clearing the lands is not that easy. We will leave no stone unturned to develop agriculture in the Southwest,” he said. Oyetola said that the programme would enhance food sufficiency, stimulate the diversification agenda of the government and tackle poverty. “Rice production plays a significant role in Nigeria’s strive to attain food security. The success we have recorded in rice production in the last past 5 years is evidence that we have the capacity to feed ourselves and turn our economy around. It’s also proof that President Buhari means well for the people. “I also commend Governor Fayemi for sustaining the Igbemo-Ekiti rice project & embracing the ABP to complement the State’s ingenuity in rice production, which is stimulating the efforts of the farmers and contributing to the State’s IGR as well the nation’s GDP,” he added. He appealed to Nigerians to patronise local foods to serve as a morale booster to farmers to be able to produce more in larger quantities. Bagudu said the success of the rice production was due to strong synergy between the federal government, especially CBN and the governors. “This is a testament to the clarion call by President Buhari that all the states and Abuja are capable of growing rice. What this revolution is about is that we should produce what we consume and still have surplus for revenue earnings.”