Nigeria’s insurance-to-Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratio will rise with the launch of Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life Assurance, Chairman Heirs Holdings Group, Tony Elumelu, has said. Speaking yesterday during the launch of Heirs Holdings’ new insurance businesses – Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life Assurance in Lagos- he said there was the need for private and public sectors to collaborate on development. Elumelu said Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life’s planning took over seven years to be realised and would change the insurance landscape, adding that the plan was to build a formidable sector that would boost revenue. Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life have a paid-up share capital of N10 billion and N8 billion, and are backed by leading reinsurers, providing a second layer of security for clients’ insurance portfolios. Elumelu said: “It’s a seven-year journey and it has come to pass. It is good when the public sector recognises that both the private and public sectors need to work together. The coming on board of these businesses has helped to create 150 jobs and more jobs will be created and tax revenue boosted.” Also, Commissioner for Insurance and Chief Executive Officer,  National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), Sunday Thomas promised to protect insurance subscribers. He said the coming on board of the companies would help conserve foreign exchange for national development. Thomas said the commission was determined to ensure high ethical standards to protect the sector. Thomas said the independent of the board and committees of operators were important to the new growth of the industry. Thomas said: “The timing of this launch could not have been more auspicious as the insurance commission is currently rolling out different initiatives for national development. To Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life, I want to say thank you for coming into our industry, making a difference, impacting the economy, and helping us to deepen the insurance sector in Nigeria.” In his keynote address, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu,  described Elumelu as an entrepreneur par excellence. He said the state government would continually encourage the private sector to achieve suitable growth. Sanwo-Olu commended the pan-African investment group on its bold vision to democratise access to insurance. The event showcased the new companies and their commitment to  excellent service delivery, and their mission to offer insurance that is simple, quick, reliable, and accessible to everyone. The event also marked the inauguration of Heirs Towers, the seven-storey headquarters of Heirs Holdings. Its an impressive structure developed by Afriland Properties Plc, one of the investee companies of the Heirs Holdings Group. Elumelu reiterated the readiness of both companies to usher in a new era in the insurance industry. He stressed that both companies demonstrate the vision of Heirs Holdings to position the private sector as a key enabler of economic and social wealth creation in Africa. He said: “Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life once again demonstrate our core purpose of improving lives and transforming Africa.  In our years of operations.  Across different industries and countries, we have become synonymous with customer focus and the highest levels of corporate governance.  These are the hallmarks for these new businesses.  We know that our promise, our people and our proven track record will transform the insurance industry, put the customer first and empower people, in good and bad times.” Elumelu had introduced the leadership of both companies and their distinguished Board of Directors, all seasoned individuals with decades of Nigerian and international experience. The CEOs, Adaobi Nwakuche, Acting Managing Director/CEO, Heirs Insurance Limited and Niyi Onifade, Managing Director/CEO, Heirs Life Assurance Limited, both have decades of experience in the insurance industry.