THE Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), on Thursday, said Nigeria will continue its frontline advocacy for a just transition, maintaining that funding for gas and fossil fuel projects in Nigeria and other developing countries be sustained during the global transition to net-zero emissions. He also asserted that Nigeria will play a critical role with other gas exporting nations to stop the defunding of gas and fossil fuel projects in developing countries. According to a statement issued by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity Office of the Vice President Mr Laolu Akande, on Friday, this was the highlight of a virtual meeting on the subject presided over by Prof Osinbajo Thursday, with top Federal Government officials in attendance. They include the Ministers of Environment, Dr. Mohammad Mahmood Abubakar; Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama; Minister of State, Environment, Mrs. Sharon Ikeazor; Minister of State for Power, Goddy Jedy-Agba, and the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources, Mr. Bitrus Bako Nabasu. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari had declared in March that the country’s Decade of Gas “was a bold statement to demonstrate the Administration’s resolve that gas development and utilisation should be a national priority.” The Vice President had, at different fora, raised the issue of financing gas projects in developing countries, especially Nigeria, advocating for a just transition and more effective engagements since the campaign for the Net-Zero Emission by 2050 resumed. Speaking at the meeting, the Vice President noted that it was vital that the forum of Gas Exporting Countries (GEC) join forces to prevent the defunding of gas and fossil fuel projects, especially from developing countries, by international bodies and institutions. According to the Vice President, concrete steps should be taken by the GEC Forum to stop further plans by international bodies and Western countries on defunding of gas/fossil fuel projects as it does not benefit developing countries especially. He noted that it was vital Nigeria plays a significant role in achieving a consensus with the GEC Forum on these issues, even as the 26th United Nations (UN) Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) – which is scheduled to hold later this year – approaches. In the same vein, the Vice President asked the Inter-ministerial committee on Climate Change, led by the Federal Ministry of Environment, to finetune Nigeria’s position for COP26, while the Federal Ministry of Petroleum Resources would focus on strengthening the country’s strategy, particularly in its initiative to use gas as a transition fuel. Both the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, and Minister of Foreign Affairs were directed to work together, ensuring the GEC Forum reaches a consensus that reflects Nigeria’s advocacy on defunding of gas projects. 