The  Mass Communication Students Association (MACSA) of  University of Benin has launched a blog for the department. This was done during the first General Assembly of MACSA. According to  its President, Adepoju Oluwatosin, the world is advancing digitally, hence, it is imperative for Mass Communication students to embrace digital life. Oluwatosin noted that the new  blog would be accessible to every student of the department. “I came up with the initiative of creating a blog for MACSANS because we need to move forward and think ahead, especially now that the world is becoming digitalised. “With this blog, students  of Mass Communication Department will have access to past questions, lecture notes and information concerning the department and University of Benin. “Moreover, it will give the students among us who are talented in areas such as podcast, video creation, music and writing an opportunity to create their contents and publish it on the MACSA blog without  stress,” he said. He urged students of the department to take advantage of the blog to show their works. “These days communication and media  industries are looking for graduates who have potentials and not just degree. They want to know not only what you can do but what you have done in your area of specialisation.If you can be a content creator on this blog,you can refer them to the site to see your work. “Let us also not forget that this is a huge development and requires more effort on our part and so we all must work together to sustain the blog,” he said. Meanwhile, students of the department praised the MACSA  executives  for launching the  blog. A Mass Communication student, Chisom Merit said the blog would help students learn practical aspects of news writing. “The MACSA blog came as a surprise to me. This is a great development and I believe it will help students learn the practical aspects of news writing,” she said. A 400-Level Mass Communication  student, Isioma Wealth, urged students to participate actively in the affairs of the association and use the blog. “Fortunately, there are platforms to learn news writing, page planning in MACSA and I am encouraging you all to take the opportunity to educate yourselves here because this will not be easily made  available outside this school”, he said. A 100-Level Mass Communication student, Augustine Orapine, praised MACSA for creating the blog,adding that the provision made for lecture notes  would help students read ahead in their courses. “The creation of the   blog is the best action taken by the MACSA executives. For example, the blog has a gallery for Mass Communication past questions and this is very important to students who want to know how previous examinations are done. “When I came to this department, it took me time to have access to  past question papers; but this blog has made information easily accessible to everyone. Also, the provision made for lecture notes on the blog is outstanding as it will help students to have access to books on the courses being offered and read ahead of time.”