Marriage is the norm for man–woman relationships and is a great blessing to mankind. Singleness, on the other hand, is circumstantial. It happens to people for all kinds of reasons: not being able to find a mate, death of a spouse, difficult family situations, medical or financial difficulties. The list goes on and on. As a society it is widely believed that the logical path of life is having one has been born, they must pursue a solid education, secure a good job and find love while at it. After which get married and have kids. And all those are expected to happen way before one clocks 40 This for many is the perfect path for a truly fulfilled life. Famous Nollywood actress and media personality regarded as one of the industrious in Nollywood was born July 12, 1975 in Mbaise, Imo State. Rita will be 46 in a couple of weeks yet never been married. Although, the multiple award-winning screen diva is currently engaged recently revealed in an exclusive chat sometime in April the reason she flaunted her fiancée on social media last year. Nollywood heartthrob and leading man, Frederick Leonard, is another man who has been the topic of many conversations. Many people wonder why the dashing young actor is still not married, but according to Frederick, he is waiting until he finds the one. The award-winning actor clocked 41 last month yet has never been married Multiple award winning actor and film director, Nonso Diobi was July 17, 1976 in Enugu State. The Nollywood star who recently opened up in a chat with BBC Igbo revealed the reason he is yet to be married even though he is 44. Nonso disclosed that talks about wife and girlfriend interest him but he’ll only have the woman he’s destined to. He noted he has come to the realisation that not everyone can be patient with actors like himself as they hardly have time; for they are always on the move from dusk to dawn. Born James Ikechukwu Esomugha on September 25, 1976 in Libreville, Gabon, Jim Iyke is an actor and entrepreneur. Jim Iyke, who is well-known for his playboy roles in movies remains single although he welcomed his son, Harvis Chidubem Iyke with Dana Kinduryte from Lithuania in April, 2019. The 44- year- old even though he has engaged in a number of romantic relationships with actresses and non-actresses has never been married. Born Franca Obianuju Brown on May 17, 1967 in Onitsha, Anambra State is veteran Nollywood actress and movie producer who received recognition from her role in the TV series titled “Behind The Clouds.” She has noted her husband will come at the fullness of God’s time though a mother of one, is yet to be married. The actress, who has spent more than two decades in the industry and is most notable for her character as Anita in 1996 movie titled “Domitilla” and as Emu Johnson in the award winning TV series titled “The Johnsons”, was born on May 15, 1974 in Ajegunle; Lagos State. The 47-year-old actress, who gave birth to her daughter, Aladi Godgifts Ameh at 14, unfortunately lost her on October 20, 2020 following an unsuccessful surgery. The actress though hasn’t ever been married recently took to her Instagram page to share a photo of herself and new lover whom she publicly appreciated and declared her love for. Born Dare Fasasi is multi-talented actor, songwriter and dance hall artist Baba Dee is one of the pioneer video directors that revolutionized the Nigerian music video industry. Baba Dee gained public recognition when he won the Lekki Sun Splash competition in 1995. He dropped his debut album, ‘Most Wanted’ in 1997 and has since gone on to garner international accolade. In 2014, he teamed up with his younger brother, Sound Sultan who is currently 44 to produce Naija Ninja’s award winning debut movie, ‘Head Gone,’ which featured 2face, Ali Baba, Eniola Badmus, Akpororo among others. Though a father to a son of mixed race but no news nor documentation to state he has ever been married yet still single. Veteran actress was born on October 2, 1967 in Delta State but hails from Enugu State. She came to limelight for her role in “Everyday People” and boasts of other TV series such as Jemeji, Hotel Majestic, Desperate Housewives, Shadows and so on. Mba is one of the few actresses with excellent and evergreen performances. Tina, who acts in Yoruba and English movies, has remained a role model to some upcoming talents. Though a proud mother of 2 grown-up children: Tania and Joseph, Tina Mba has never been reported to be married and still remains single.