All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has joined others in celebrating House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The APC stalwart’s message was contained in his separate messages congratulating Gbajabiamila at 59 and Sanwo-Olu, who turns 56 today. The messages, signed by his media aide Mr. Tunde Rahman, were issued yesterday by the Tinubu Media Office. He commended the Speaker for providing exemplary and progressive leadership in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly. The party leader said: “Speaker Gbajabiamila’s life is one of excellence and accomplishment. He has made all of us proud. “As a patriot, exceptional parliamentarian and seasoned yet visionary politician, Gbajabiamila has provided exemplary and progressive leadership in the House of Representatives. “Under his leadership, the House also worked with great purpose and in harmony with the Executive to pass meaningful legislation and to function as a truly representative voice of the people of our beloved country. “As Speaker, and throughout his sterling career, Gbajabiamila has been noteworthy in his commitment to good governance and dedication to the welfare of our people. “I therefore commend Speaker Gbajabiamila for his contributions to national democracy and our greater future. “I wish him long life, good health and renewed vigour as he continues his pursuits in the service of our country and people.” In the message to the Lagos governor, Tinubu writes: “I extend my best wishes and heartfelt congratulations to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on the occasion of your 56th birthday. “Your performance, thus far, has been praiseworthy. The quality of your leadership and governance of our great state has been exceptional even during the unprecedented crisis of the COVID-19 pandemic which you faced down with great courage, dignity and compassion. “We are, indeed, fortunate that you are at the helm. Your considerate yet decisive policies and actions helped to save lives while keeping Lagos moving and growing. I applaud you, also, on your administration’s many other important achievements over the past two years. You represent the best of the progressive democratic ideals upon which our party, the APC, stands. You have thoroughly vindicated the faith reposed in you by the people of Lagos. This comes as no surprise as you are a man of high intellect and exceptional character. May you continue along this path for it is the path of greatness. “I join all of Lagos in wishing you a wonderful birthday in continued good health, wisdom and prosperity for the rest of your days. “To all Lagosians, I also pray that God grant you peace, happiness, good health and prosperity now and evermore. Happy Birthday Jide!”