Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have arrested two suspected drug dealers, Martins Okwor Ejiofor, 31, and Bala Mohammed, 33, who allegedly supply drugs to bandits. They were arrested with 24.450kg of assorted substances meant to be delivered in Gwada, Shiroro Local Government of Niger State where bandits buy them, Agency spokesman Femi Babafemi said in a statement yesterday. He said Gwada runs one of the two functional markets bordering the forest where bandits and kidnappers hibernate in Niger State. “Drugs seized from the suspects include codeine – 7.100kg, Diazepam – 6.400kg and Exol 5 – 10.950kg. A highway patrol team of Kwara State NDLEA Command intercepted the drugs on Jebba Highway on Saturday. The drugs were being conveyed on a Hiace bus.  “Martins Ejiofor had travelled to Lagos with the second suspect to procure the drugs and deliver to dealers in Gwada. During interrogation, he confessed that he had been arrested with over 50kg of cannabis sativa and charged to court by the Niger State Command of the Agency in 2020. He completed his one-year jail term in March this year and resumed his nefarious illicit drug business. “Meanwhile, one other suspect, Usman Abass, 38, was arrested with 6.8kg cannabis sativa concealed in a sack containing used clothes, which the suspect bought at Alaba International Market in Lagos. The suspect upon interrogation claimed that one Baba gave him the exhibit to deliver to one Lawali in Daura, Katsina State before his arrest by a team of the Command’s operatives attached to Jebba Area Command during a routine stop and search operation. The suspect confessed that he had transported cannabis sativa once to Katsina and that the latest trip was his second,”the statement read. Babafemi said on Friday, operatives of the Delta State Command of the Agency, arrested 20-year-old Chukwujeku Lucky at Ogwashi Uku, Delta State with multiple drugs weighing 38.90kg. “Some of the drugs seized from his apartment where he serves as a salesman include: 68 blocks of cannabis sativa weighing 38.7kg; 498 pinches of cocaine (50.9 grams); 33 pinches of heroin (4.4 grams); 304 capsules of Tramadol (91grams); 72 tablets of Swinol (27 grams), and 26 grams of Methamphetamine.” “While commending the Commanders, officers and men of both Kwara and Delta state Commands for the arrests and seizures, Chairman/Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (Retd) said the development would in no small measure reduce the availability of illicit substances available to bandits and other criminal elements who take them as enhancers of their evil enterprise. He charged them to remain vigilant and continue to acquaint themselves with the latest disingenuous modes of concealment and transportation of illicit drugs by defiant traffickers,” Babafemi said.