An Abuja resident, Mrs Lindiwe Din, has called for justice for her daughter, Biola Din Vanessa, who was knocked down and killed by a woman motorist. Biola, 10, was knocked down on June 10 just in front of her house at Life Camp, Abuja. A grief-stricken Mrs Lindiwe told The Nation on Tuesday that she would have forgiven the woman who knocked her child down, but because she showed no sympathy or remorse, the law should run its course on the matter. Mrs Lindiwe on Tuesday morning led a protest to Access Bank, Kado, where it was gathered, the woman works. She also accused the police of trying to sweep the matter under the carpet. Speaking through tears, she said, “She hit Biola with her car and climbed on top of her. I saw the woman that killed my daughter in the hospital. I hugged her and told her that today you have gained a sister, please let us pray for my daughter. She answered me and said she doesn’t know how to pray. After that I kept on praying because I needed to be strong for my daughter. But unfortunately I did not know that day she had given up the ghost. “The incident happened on the 10th of June and it was my birthday. From the 11th of June until today, this woman has not even told me she is sorry. Even if you are a big madam, even if you are a queen, you should learn how to say sorry. She did not bother. She did not even send anyone to apologise. For me I saw a sister that needed to speak to me and make me feel comforted. But she abandoned me because she felt she killed a chicken and not a person. It pains me from the bottom of my heart. “That is why I went to protest today, not just for my daughter, but for other children that I am afraid she is going to put in the same situation.  When we went to the Life Camp Police Station, when the woman was to talk they told her to keep quiet. They were speaking for her,” she said. She said the woman, who came to the police station with her husband, had been putting up a haughty attitude about the incident and this pained her greatly. “They were just pompous about the whole thing. But that is not even my business. What concerns me is my daughter. She was a very lively girl even though she was just 10. My beautiful lively baby. She is the one that made me have all these friends,” Mrs Lindiwe cried. When contacted, the Divisional Police Officer of Life Camp Police Station, D. Bisi, said the matter would not be swept under the carpet.