Rainstorm has destroyed houses and properties worth millions of Naira in Wakama community, Nassarawa Eggon Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. Chief Adams Makka-Nangba, the District Head of Wakama, confirmed this while addressing newsmen in Wakama on Tuesday in Wakama. Nakka-Nangba appealed to the state government to come to the aid of the community. The traditional ruler, who sympathised with those that lost their belongings, urged them to remain focus and prayerful. “It was unfortunate that the rainstorm yesterday destroyed over 50 houses in my domain rendering some people homeless while properties were also destroyed. “The Palace of HRH, Alhaji Usman Galadima Umbugadu, the Aren Akun, Our Lady of Apostles (OLA) Hospital and School, Mr Labaran Maku, residence and other public buildings were also affected. “I therefore call on Gov. Abdullahi Sule as well as the Nasarawa State Emergency Management Agency (NASEMA) to come to our aid. “As this will go a long way in reducing our plights, thereby improving on their standard of living,’’ he said. He also urged NASEMA to visit the community in order to assess the situation. Makka-Nangba called on the people of the community to continue to support the state government policies and programmes to succeed. The district head urged the people of the community to continue to live in peace and tolerate one another for development to thrive. Mrs Asibi Kuje, a widow, whose husband’s house was destroyed, appealed to the state government to come to their aid. “As you can see, the rain has destroyed my late husband’s house rendering us homeless. “I am appealing to Gov. Abdullahi Sule to come to our aid by donating zinc, wood and other relief materials in order to tackle our problems created by rainstorm,’’ she said. Mr Affiku Ebuga, whose house was also destroyed, called on the state government and other well spirited individuals to assist them to enable them overcome their present challenges. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that residents of the community were seen counting their losses. (NAN)