Data Analytics Privacy Technology Ltd (DAPT), a government-licensed data protection compliance organisation (DPCO), has announced the release of collaborative NDPR365 SaaS Technology solution for the ongoing data protection and privacy compliance implementation, management and practices in Nigeria. The company, a provider of software-as-a-service compliance technology services said it has also commenced the rollout of international NDPR365 services for foreign companies processing Nigerian citizen’s data. “NDPR was issued by NITDA on  January 25, 2019 pursuant to Section 6(a&c) of the NITDA Act, 2007. The Regulation aims to provide protection to individuals for their personal information utilised by organisations that collect, use, store or share the information for whatever reason. The NDPR applies to residents of Nigeria as well as to Nigerians living abroad and aims to ensure data controllers implement measures to protect data from security breaches, theft and data subject right infringements,” a statement from the company disclosed. According to the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation Performance Report (2019-2020) released by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), the digital economy account for 17.8 per cent of the GDP, the value of personal, economic, social and other data types would continue to surge. Managing Partner, DAPT Limited, Segun Olugbile,  said NDPR requires organisations to change the way they process Nigerians’ information. According to him, the NDPR365 solution is designed for Nigerians companies  with Nigerian citizens’ data, foreign organizations with Nigerians’ data,  Data Protection Officers (DPO’s) and Data Protection Champions, Cybersecurity individuals and all organizations that control or process personal data of data subjects within the scope of current NDPR and future Nigerian Data Protection and Privacy Laws. The company’s Chief Data Protection Officer, Franklin Akinsuyi, who is also a co-founder of the firm with over 25 years experience in advising global organisations on data protection, privacy and cybersecurity compliance related issues reiterates that ‘’NDPR is the Nigerian equivalent of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). The NDPR aims to provide protection to individuals when their personal information is utilised by organizations.” The CEO of Compliance Technology Solutions BV. (CTS) Tai Chesselet commended DAPT, noting that “It has been a great experience to work with DAPT, they have a fantastic team, and we feel proud to be offering a local content powered compliance solution in Nigeria. What we have proven is how adaptable our technology solution is to new legislations. We look forward to building a long-term partnership with DAPT and its partners.  NDPR365 has been specifically designed to provide organizations with the ability to perform Data Mapping, Policies and Procedures, Data Processing, Data Sharing, Technical and Organizational Measures, Data Subject Access Request, Data Protection impact assessments, Data Breach activities. Recently in April 2021, DAPT won the Organization for Creativity, Innovation, and Invention Promotion (OCIIP) award. DAPT was awarded a gold standard certificate through demonstration of her innovative NDPR365-SaaS product by OCIPP juries who anchored their decision on the criteria of Originality, Marketability, Scalability, Social impact, and Technical Aspects. NDPR365 is a one stop solution for Nigeria Data Protection and Privacy Regulation (NDPR) assessment and compliance for SMEs and large organizations. The NDPR365 is securely hosted cloud-based software designed for Nigerian data protection laws and it allows data controllers and processors to conduct data protection and privacy assessment and generate automated reports highlighting the status of their compliance with the requirements of the regulation. The software is a comprehensive tool that can be used for demonstrating and managing compliance, mapping personal and sensitive personal information, governance, and communication to all stakeholders, managing data protection impact assessments and subject access requests, as well as recording and reporting data breaches.