 A farmer in Ipaya in Yewa North Local Government Area (LGA) of Ogun has accused the police in the state of killing one of his workers, Shola Adeleke, in custody. Seun Adegoke, Managing Director of Skapomah Global Limited, said one of his five guards who were detained and allegedly tortured to force them to admit a crime they did not commit, died at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) Eleweren on May 28. He also alleged that one of his detained employees was yet to be accounted for by the police whom he said had released the other three. Narrating his ordeal, Adegoke said he was afraid for his safety and that of his workers because he received information that a bounty has been placed on his head. The police have described as mischievous and malicious, allegations that Adeleke was tortured to death, insisting he took ill and was rushed to hospital where he died. According to Adegoke, trouble started on May 22, when he received a telephone call from the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Ayetoro, about a body  that was seen around the area his 5000 acres farmland is located. “On phone he (DPO) told me a body of a Fulani man was found around the area where we have our farm in Ipaya village, off Anigbado, Yewa North. I asked him if the said corpse was found on our farm which he said no. “Our security men were detained upon arrival the next day and subsequently asked to make statements. The farm manager was asked to leave the questioning room by one Ahmed Abdullahi, the Investigating Police Officer (IPO) who was questioning my men and also writing the statement for them. “Upon his death of the farm worker, the police hurriedly released three members of our security team. My question is if truly there was ever a murder charge, why would the police release the suspects same day one of them died? It is obvious they feel guilty and already knew they have bitten more than they can chew.” Reacting to the claims, spokesman for the command, Abimbola Oyeyemi said “It is mischievous for anyone to say that Adeleke was tortured to death. They were brought from Ayetoro Division and he suddenly became sick. He was taken to the hospital where he died.”