The Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) is poised to improve its services to pensioners, the Executive Secretary, Mrs. Chioma Ejikeme has said. Ejikeme, in a conversation with The Nation, reiterated the readiness of the Directorate to ensure that pensioners under the Defined Benefits Scheme (DBS) received their pension entitlements. Explaining why payments are sometimes delayed, she stated that  it was as a result of technical hitches. She said: “Delayed payment to pensioners is due to technical hlitches, scheduling of payment in the office of the Accountant-General and delay of funds from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). “I have raised the issue with the Accountant-General to ensure pensioners are given priority when funds are available and we have been assured that there will be no more delay.” On the payment process by the Directorate, she said: “Due to complaints about late payments, we seek to explain our payment process to all pensioners.The first step is for us to carry out a biometric verification of pensioners and computes a payroll to be approved by the Executive Secretary on or before the 15th of every month. “We then move on to step two where the payroll is uploaded into Government Integrated Financial and Management Information System (GIFMIS) payment system managed by the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (OAGF). Step 3 would be for CBN to release the funds required for the payments to the OAGF. Step 4 is for us to pay pensioners their due payment on or before 25th of every month.” She stressed that the Directorate has been addressing pensioners’ complaints that bother on issues such as non-payment of monthly pension, short payment of pension and gratuity, removal of name on pension payment voucher, non-payment of harmonised pension arrears, irregular payment of federal pensions and non-receipt of pension after retirement, among others. “Pensioners are mainly the elderly persons made up of fathers, mothers, uncles and ex-service men and our aim to treat them with dignity. “We must do everything to make their lives easy. Pension payment should not be a pain, it must be a pleasure. So, we must try and make pension payment a highly pleasurable exercise.’’ 