The future of partisan politics and governance would be brighter if professionals are given the pride of place. Bashorun J. K. Randle made the submission at the Fellows Day/Induction of The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) in Lagos. Speaking on the theme: “Adding value”, Randle, a past President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), said training and subscription to continuous knowledge by professionals might dispose them to discipline and good judgment. This, he said, could be deployed in running the nation for sustainable progress. He lamented that the challenges confronting partisan politics, economy and other facets of the nation would not have defiled solutions, if professionals could ensure they add value where they are positioned. He, however, urged the new Fellows to take initiatives that would result in value-adding, not only to the Council, but also to the nation, stressing that they should see their elevation as an opportunity to serve. Meanwhile, NCRIB has admitted the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu,and his Enugu State counterpart, Mr. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi into the highest professional cadre of the Council. The admission of Sanwo-Olu and Ugwuanyi into the cadre of the Council as Honorary Fellows was in recognition of their contributions to nation building as well as their support for professional bodies. Similarly, the Council admitted the Chairman, House Representatives Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters, Hon Nwokocha Darlington and the Commissioner for Insurance, Mr. Sunday Thomas as Honorary Fellows. Also admitted into the Fellowship cadre of the Council were 39  professional members of the Council. The admission of the new Fellows at the Fellows Day/Induction held in Lagos amid strict compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols swelled the number of Fellows of the Council to 139. The Council’s President, Mrs. Bola Onigbogi, enjoined the new Fellows to adhere to the ethics of the profession to protect the dignity of the professional body and rights of the insur publics. Mrs. Onigbogi urged them to ensure that standards were being upheld and that they should remain good ambassadors of the industry, particularly, the broking profession. According to her, admission into the prestigious cadre behoves on  the admitted members the responsibilities to shun vices that could bring the name of the Council in disrepute. She urged them to participate in  the Council’s activities as membership of the Fellowship cadre is subject to review. 