The National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Abia State Government for the rehabilitation of Ogwe Golden Chicken farm estate in the state. Executive Secretary of NALDA, Prince Paul Ikonne at the MoU signing ceremony in Umuahia, informed the State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu that President Muhammadu Buhari had directed the NALDA to rehabilitate all farm estates across the country, adding that Ogwe Golden Chicken in Ukwa East Local Government Area of Abia State was inclusive. He said his team was in the state to formalise the understanding on the rehabilitation of the poultry farm estate, as his agency was partnering Abia to reduce unemployment in the state. The NALDA boss said the estate, which was being revamped by NALDA, would employ about 3,000 youths and that the first phase of the project would be inaugurated in December this year. “The MoU for Ogwe Golden Chicken Farm Estate is simple, the Abia State Government has made the land available for the facility. The President has mandated us to develop it in order to engage youths from that community. “NALDA programmes are community-based and this one will engage youths in the entire poultry value chain. What this means is that Abia will be known for egg production and finished chicken products. “It will also reduce unemployment, because by the time you take away 3,000 people from the job seeking environment you are automatically creating security, as an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. “Ogwe Golden Chicken is going to have many facilities because the land is over 300 acres and with that size we will have the processing and hatchery points, residential area, production area in terms of producing feeds, and the packaging area,” Ikonne said. He further noted that Abia was entitled to three integrated farm estates and urged the governor to donate land for the two other remaining farm estates. Responding, Ikpeazu pledged the support of his state to the Federal Government in the actualisation of the farm estate and other projects championed by NALDA in Abia. Ikpeazu said the Ogwe Chicken project intervention showed that the Federal Government had come to operationalise the facility, as the 3,000 persons who would work there would be so excited to see the poultry farm estate revamped. “We applaud NALDA’s drive to ensure local participation in its programmes to create local economies and power houses to grow the country’s Gross Domestic Product and we assure the President that the chief executive of NALDA will continue to deliver,” Ikpeazu said.