Armed with a humane demeanor and uncommon poise, one would wonder how a man of valour, poise, and aura like Kogi State Deputy Governor, Edward David Onoja got involved with politics presumed to be a dirty game. Questions that often arise will be what is this man looking for in politics owing to his background as a boardroom guru, successful banker, and technocrat. On several occasions, he has said his incursion into active politics is divine coupled with his love for humanity. For Onoja, humanity comes first and those close to him have often confirmed that one thing the Igala man loathes is the sight of those around him in dire need of anything as he strives to put smiles on people’s faces. This and many more, we gathered, pushed him into full-fledged politics after his union days at the University of Jos. Onoja’s name will go down in history as a man who is all about progress, loyalty, support, calculative, sincerity, love, and passion. During the first tenure of his principal, Governor Yahaya Bello, Onoja – as the Chief of Staff – was regarded as the proverbial multipurpose swiss knife and support system of the regime. He ensured that no lapses occurred, with his vast knowledge in board room politics, he ensured projects were supervised with an eye for quality. He also ensured that appointees key into the vision and mission of the governor to remodel Kogi, unifying everybody with the common goal of making Kogi State great. Many were amazed at his emergence after the impeachment of ex-Deputy Governor of Kogi State, Simon Achuba. Onoja’s loyalty and trust have earned him so much that his principal can go to sleep and the government will function smoothly. He is a workaholic blessed with native intelligence. Lately, he was singled out and targeted with several campaigns of calumny and unfounded claims on the media space. Each time his detractor runs out of concept in their pull him down campaign, they resolve to create unrest, putting unverified information to mislead the public and also try to create a dichotomy between him and his boss. 