  Owing to insecurity in the country, the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) yesterday called on private aircraft owners to come for verification from  June 7 and July 6, 2021. Addressing reporters in at the NCS Headquarters, Abuja, the Public Relations Officer, Mr. Joseph Attah, noted that the measure was to ensure  compliance with the NCS regulations and revenue generation through the payment of one per cent Comprehensive Import Supervision Scheme. His words: “In line with the need to ensure strict compliance with all regulations, especially at this time of challenging security situation and reluctance of some highly placed individuals to pay taxes, the Nigeria Customs Service will be taking stock of  privately owned aircraft in the country. “This is to ensure strict compliance with all relevant regulations governing importation of such aircraft.” Asked to mention the security challenge that must have necessitated the  exercise, he said: “I don’t think it will be safe for the country and all of us here to reveal that even if we have it.” The PRO said the NCS derived its power to conduct the exercise from “Part III Section 27, 35, 45, 46, 47, 52, 56, 63, & 64; Part XI Sections 144, 145, 155, 160, 161 & 164 and Part XII Section 167, 168, 169, 273, & 174 of the Customs and Excise  Management Act (CEMA) hereby invites all owners of private aircraft in the country to come forward with their relevant importation clearance documents for verification’’. The NCS expects the private owners to come along with aircraft certification of registration, NCAA’s Flight Operations Compliance Certificate (FOCC),  NCAA’s Maintenance Compliance Certificate (MC ), NCAA’s Permit for Non-commercial Flights (PNCF) and Temporary Import Permit (TIP) where applicable). He said: “All such owners or their representatives are to report to 305, Tariff and Trade Department, Nigeria Customs Service Headquarters, Zone 3, Abidjan Street, Wuse, Zone 3, Abuja-FCT from Monday 7th June through Tuesday 6th July, 2021 between 10:00am and 5:00pm daily, with all the relevant aircraft documents for verification.” Attah insisted that failure to comply with the exercise would lead to sanction of the defaulters. He explained that the exercise was not punitive, but rather to ensure adherence to the law. He said: “The the essence of verification is that where there is deficiency the appropriate decision, directive will be given to such a person. “The whole  essence is not punitive. The whole  essence is to ensure that things are done in strict compliance with the law.” The PRO said the NCS generated N799,024,705,961.00 between  January 1 and May 30, 2021.  According to him, when compared with same period last year, there is a positive difference of N226,110,610,991.00. He attributed the feat to the strict implementation of all extant rules governing imports, exports, and Excise in Nigeria. He also said the service was able to record the increase due to strategic deployment of officers. Attah said automation of the process and regulations and increasing inclination of officers and men to put national interest above selves were also accountable for the achievement. He attributed it to robust stakeholder sensitization, increasing level of compliance from stakeholders and improved working relation with the National Assembly. 