The Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, on Monday campaigned for the sustainability of the gains of the Girls’ Education Project (GEP) III in Kano State. The Girls’ Education Project, which began in 2012, was aimed at sending one million girls to school in Nigeria. The project, funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) of the United Kingdom (UK), is being implemented in Kano, Katsina, Bauchi, Niger, Sokoto and Zamfara states by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). The project has captured over 177,300 children, including 82,800 girls who are currently benefiting from interventions in focus schools (primary and IQS).  The project also seeks to improve girls’ survival rate grades five to 80 per cent while 840 integrated Qur’anic schools (IQS) facilitators are trained and mentored in child-centred pedagogy. The Emir of Kano, who spoke in his palace while signing the UNICEF Certificate of Appointment towards Sustainability and Community Accountability on GEP III in Kano State promised to use his position as the Chairman of Kano Emirates Council to mobilise all traditional rulers in the state to support the programme. He added he will advise government ministries, agencies and parastatals towards supporting and sustaining the GEP III initiative across the five emirates in Kano State. Chief of UNICEF Field Office, Kano, Maulid Warfa, accompanied by officials of the state ministry of education said he visited the emir in his palace to seek his commitment to the sustainability of the programme as its activities come to end on June 30. Mr Warfa said: “The Girls Education Programme, funded by the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), is coming to an end by end of June 2021, and the meeting we had here was to discuss the continuation of activities that were implemented under the girls’ programme,” he said. He disclosed that when the programme was developed, the intention was to reach out to about 81,162 additional girls and enrol them into primary and integrated Qur’anic schools. “Over 177 children are benefiting directly or indirectly in the girls’ education programme. And we hope to continue with that gain and UNICEF will always stand by Kano  State and Governor Ganduje on the free and compulsory education he earlier launched. So, no child should miss the opportunity.”