EKO Electricity Distribution Company Plc (EKEDC) has partnered the Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited (NDPHC) to improve electricity supply in Lagos. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was, according to a statement by the firm, signed to seal the partnership which will improve the quality of supply to parts of Lagos and other parts of EKEDC’s franchise area. This further cements the collaboration between the state, EKEDC and some Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) to embark on extensive mass metering of households in the state in line with the Federal Government’s National Mass Metering Programme (NMMP). The signing ceremony for the MoU was chaired by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and coordinated by Commissioner for Energy and Mineral Resources, Olalere Odusote. EKEDC was represented by its Managing Director/CEO, Adeoye Fadeyibi and directors, George Etomi and Dere Otubu. NDPHC was represented by its Managing Director/CEO, Chiedu Ugbo, Executive Director, Legal Services, Mohammed Mahmud and advisors, Sola Arifayan and Chukwubuike Onwuzurumba. The governor stated that Lagos State is an interested stakeholder in the collaboration, and that he will continue to check with both EKEDC and NDPHC to follow up on the progress and ensure proper implementation. The Managing Director/CEO of EKEDC, Adeoye Fadeyibi, said: “As a power utility company, we commend the vision of this administration for power generation and distribution in the state. We also appreciate your acknowledgment of the critical role of power in creating a sustainable city. “We are delighted to be partners in this laudable vision of your Excellency to transform Lagos State into the destination for all residential, commercial, and business interests. In alignment with the Governor’s desire for stable and uninterrupted power supply for the state, we announce our partnership with the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) which aims to improve electricity supply by close to 400MW to Lagos State. Under this partnership, we will explore the modalities for the supply of power from two Power Plants”, he said. Fadeyibi noted that the deal aligns with the efforts of the EKEDC to bridge the metering gap and improve the quality of electricity supply to customers. He appreciated customers for their immense support for the company in its quest to continue to empower the quality of lives of all stakeholders. The MD/CEO of NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, stated that EKEDC and NDPHC have complementary objectives of ensuring that power gets to the customers, and the investment required to do this is mobilised. Both companies’ mutual objective is to work together to deliver the arrangements that will ensure safe, reliable, and steady supply of power to customers in Ibeju-Lekki and other parts of EKEDC’s franchise area. The collaboration is significant considering the strategic importance of Lagos State as Nigeria’s commercial capital and host state for key industries in Nigeria. Based on this, the companies’ mutual objective is to work together to deliver the arrangements that will ensure safe, reliable and steady supply of power to customers in Ibeju-Lekki and other parts of EKEDC’s franchise area. The collaboration is significant considering the strategic importance of Lagos State as Nigeria’s commercial capital and host state for key industries in Nigeria. It is also for this reason that that NDPHC and EKEDC are pleased to be signing the MoU in the presence of Mr. Governor, who is himself a key member of NDPHC’s Board of Directors, and whose state, Lagos, is one of NDPHC’s shareholders.