The nation’s ecosystem is receiving a major boost thanks to the Coca-Cola’s ‘World Without Waste’ initiative. As part of commemorating this year’s edition of the World Environment Day, the world’s fizzy drink company through recycling initiatives across Nigeria, reiterated its commitment to the support of environmental protection and sustainability in Nigeria. With support from Coca-Cola Nigeria and its philanthropic arm, The Coca-Cola Foundation, kicked off numerous activities to aid environmental sustainability across key areas in the country. Among other things, the company along with implementing partners – SWEEP Foundation, RecyclePoints, AREAi and W.A.S.T.E Africa –The Statewide Waste and Environmental Education Foundation (SWEEP Foundation) launched the Eko Beach Race 2021 with the theme ‘A Race Against Plastic Pollution’, in celebration of World Environment Day. The event saw over 2000 young people, students, and sports enthusiasts participate in a marathon race and a beach clean-up. According to Obuesi Phillips, President of SWEEP Foundation, the event was ‘geared towards recognising the growing contributions of sport to the realisation of societal development’. In addition, the Aid for Rural Education Access Initiative (AREAi), another implementing partner supported by Coca-Cola Nigeria, hosted a “Recycle and Win” Festival. The event included community outreach programmes in Kwara State and clean-ups in Kano, Kaduna, Yobe and Oyo States. Through the event, the initiative sought to recover 10 tons of plastic bottles across all the locations. Recognising the need to prevent, halt and reverse the damage to the earth’s ecosystem, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, Director, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria, urged Nigerians to adopt more eco-friendly practices while emphasising the urgency of the current global situation. “At Coca-Cola, we recognise there is a packaging waste problem globally and especially in Nigeria, which is why we pioneered the World Without Waste initiative to engineer innovative solutions to tackle this challenge.”