The President/Chairman of Council of the Institute of Directors Nigeria (IoD), Chief Bobasuwa Chris Okunowo has impressed on the federal government the need to step up efforts to return the country to progressive economic growth. The Iod boss gave this advice at the 37th Annual General Meeting of the Institute which held virtually at the weekend. While expressing worry over what he described as unpleasant economic realities of the COVID-19 pandemic which has had negative rippled effects on the economy, Okunowo noted that, “The performance recorded in Q1 2020 represented a drop of -0.23% points compared to Q1 2019 and -0.68% points compared to Q4 2019, reflecting the earliest effects of the disruption in economic activities caused by the coronavirus.” Pressed further, he said, “The challenge of inadequate revenue was highlighted by the very high debt service-to-revenue ratio. While this ratio improved to 72% in May 2020 from 99% recorded at the end of March 2020, it remained unsustainably high and undermined the ability of government to meet non-debt obligations such as provision of infrastructure, human capital development and protection for the nation’s large population of vulnerable people.” To address these challenges, the government, he stressed, has to give priority attention to the issue of sustainability and corporate governance. “This is reflected in the Nigerian Corporate Governance Code 2018, which has a comprehensive section on sustainability, and requires corporate boards to establish policies and practices regarding its social, ethical, safety, working conditions, health and environmental responsibilities, as well as corruption.” Thankfully, he said, “With the renewed zeal of private sector organisations like IoD Nigeria, government has had no choice but to hearken to the voice of reason and put in place stricter policies to maintain corporate Nigeria’s integrity. “It is worthy of note that because of this, the 2018 Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance came into practice in January 2019, while corporate financial reporting based on the provisions and related guidelines of the code took effect from January 1, 2020. “As a result, Government and other key agencies like the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN), Security & Exchange Commission (SEC), Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) have had to release several guidelines in the course of 2020 and part of 2021 to guide corporate organisations on how to provide support for emerging compliance issues arising from the Covid-19 pandemic.” Interestingly, he further noted that the federal government’s implementation of the Economic Sustainability Plan and the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (2021-2025), both of which emphasised the need to diversify Nigeria’s economy and ensure growth in non-oil exports, is well thought out. “Considering that the devastating impacts of the twin phenomenon of poverty and unemployment are being felt across several parts of the country as manifested in the current level of insecurity – kidnappings, banditry, cultism, theft, and other social vices, government need to deepen the conversation for achieving an inclusive economic recovery. This is at the heart of the survival of the nation. The government needs to consolidate on the ongoing reforms related to the removal of fuel and electricity subsidies and a massive programme on harmonisation of citizen’s data.” Other areas of focus, he observed include implementation of security reforms and sanitising the business environment, which are crucial to attracting investment into critical sectors of the economy. “State governments must be encouraged to explore and exploit the opportunities and resources in their respective states. The urgency of these reforms must be prioritised going into the next decade.” 