Like many doctors, some nurses hardly look beyond the boundaries of hospital orthodox medicine when they are sick, or to protect themselves against “hospital acquired infections” to which they are exposed everyday at work. Some of them choose nursing as a career from want of something else to do for a living, not from the passion for healing which would open their minds to all sources of healing and not limit them to pharmaceutical drugs. But there are some who are open and who, either before their retirement or after, have added Alternative Medicines to their calling. So, when I had the opportunity to speak to some nurses on May 12, World Nursing Day, I couldn’t think of a subject better than alternative to hospital medicine for nurses because their profession exposes them to disease dangers every day, and they cannot gulp pharmaceutical drugs everyday of their lives. It was also an opportunity for me to ask them and other people about Florence Nightingale, the English woman who died in 1910, whose birthday was May 12, 1820, 101 years ago last month who, arguably was the woman who made nursing celebratable  and whose birthday is now World  Nursing Day. Alas, many nurses, like many hospital users, including her namesakes, have poor, if any, memory of her. Hands up, any woman named Florence who has heard of Florance Nightingale. Mrs Odunsi, my British born Higher school certificate history teacher at Igbobi College, Yaba Lagos, (sorry, I have forgotten your first name), taught the class about Florence Nightingale during modern European history lessons on the Crimean war(October 1853-February 1856). Russia lost the war to a grand Alliance of Britain, France, Ottoman Empire (The Tuks) and Sardinia. The Ottoman Empire spread from Turkey, the heart of it, to Africa, Asia and Europe. The Alliance sought to protect the rights of a Christian minority in the “Holy land”(today’s Isreal), at that time a part of the largely Islamic, weak and dwindling Ottoman Empire. While the French promoted Roman Catholic interests, the Russians backed the eastern orthodox church, while France and Britain sought to curtail Russian influence in the region. The Ottoman Empire included the “Holy land” and haboured as well Judaism and Christianity. Christian Europe and the muslim east had fought wars of the crusade for the control of this region. Crimea came into the picture when  Russia tried, but failed to cross from Constantinople, the first christian headquater and now a holy Islamic city named Istanbul, in order to create access to the Mediterranean sea for Russian shipping. The Roman Emperor Constantine converted to Christianity which some historians said he employed to politically unify the Empire. He made Constantinople the first Christian headquarters in Europe and built it to rival Rome. With its defeat by the Tusks, Russia opened another war front which challenged the Alliance to militarily engage it in a series of battle in Crimea.  Casualities  Of the 1,650,000 who began the war, 900,000 died at the end of it, according to one account. But not all of them died of bullet or bomb wounds. Diseases killed many of the soldiers wounded. Wounded British soldiers were taken to Turkish medical facilities which were unhygienic and poorly furnished with medicines and medical staff. The hygienic conditions were awful, hardly able to support life or convalescence, according to British media reports which spurred 38 volunteer nurses from London, one of them Florence Nightingale, to travel to Turkey. As THE TIMES  of London described her impact: “She is a ministering Angel without any exaggeration in those hospitals, and as her slender form glides quickly along each corridor every poor fellow face softens with gratitude at the sight of her. When all the medical officers have retired for the night and silence and darkness have settled down upon those miles of prostrate sick, she may be observed alone with a little lamp in her hand making her solitary rounds. Nightingale became known as the “Lady With The Lamp” after those words were published in ‘THE TIMES‘. Disease such as typhoid, Cholera, were rife in army hospitals. Many died from diseases than from wounds. Nightingale work towards improvement in sanitation, nutrition and activity for the patients of the hospitals. Death rates were reduced dramatically with the introduction of such measures. Nightingale kept meticulous records of the number of deaths, and the causes of deaths so that on her return to Great Britain she would justify the need for improving conditions in hospitals. Following Nightingale’s return to Great Britain and her campaign for Better living condition for the Army, the commission on the health of the Army was created. Nightingale prepared an 800-page  report for the commision on the welfare of the Army. She advocated the use of statistics as a tool in decision making. Nightingale created graphs to show that many soldiers died during  the Crimean war from diseases than from wounds…” Whenever I meet anyone named Florence and I ask about Nightingale, I see a blank look on the face. Many a Florence have not heard about her. Yet, arguably, she is the mother of celebratable nursing from whose “mercy” work nurses derived their nicknames such as “mercy girls” and Nightingale. The birthday of Florence Nightingale was celebrated worldwide on May 12 as World  Nurses Day!  On that day, my heart went to many nurses I have seen work their hearts out to make their patients get well and to live and wondered if we appreciate them well enough. They spend longer time with us than our doctors. They make our beds, move our poop and pee, give us our medicines and, what’s more, they are exposed, as a professional hazard, to all the germs we bring to them at the hospital. We flee from the HIV challenged person or the person whose lungs are damaged by tuberculosis or, these days, COVID-19 patients….but not these nurses. I do not know how they protect themselves against those germs we impact them with. Certainly, it won’t be with antibiotics all the time, for they and doctors know how dangerous too much or frequent intake of these chemical drugs are and, so, touch them with only long spoons as it were. That is why today, I thought of sharing with them some ideas of how to get rid of “hospital infections” or protect themselves with herbs from nature’s pharmacy. Many nurses are still “mercy girls”, although many of their patients see them “unfeeling”. Better Effiong Happiness, a 14-year -old girl, who has been living with me since her father died in 2016 and her mother 2018, recalls her experiences with nurses in her father’s hospital ward. “They talk to people anyhow. They talked harshly to my father one day, he asked me to call them to help him to the bathroom because he wanted to bathe himself. They did not answer him on time. When they came, they shouted on him to get up by himself and that they had other patients to attend to”.  Hospital infections  Many people admitted to  return home on discharge with hospital acquired infections of bacterial, viral or fungal origins. The rate of hospital or Healthcare Acquired Infections (HAI), also called nosocomials, is said to be between 10 and 15 percent in Europe in central America and as also 40 percent in Latin America, Asia and Africa. To be classified as a HAI, an infection must satisfy certain time-based conditions. One, the infection must not be present before hospitalisation. Two, the infection must also not be “germinating” or incubating prior to admission. Three, the infection should strike within 48 hours of admission. Four, the infection should manifest within three days after discharge from hospital. Five, for surgeries, the infection must occur about within 30 days after the operation. Six, the infection must be different from that which took the patient to a hospital and must occur in that hospital.  Personal experience  I can testify that hospital infections are real. My first child picked up a cord infection from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital(LUTH). He was born with neonatal jaundice and had to be admitted for treatment. About the fifth or sixth day, he and his mother were discharged. By the seventh day, his grandmother brought caterers home to prepare for his christening the day after. I returned early from work at about 11pm that day to find him limp. I told my wife we had to be in hospital immediately. I was not persuaded that we could ride over the next day and see the doctor afterwards. So, I stealthy took the baby from his court, lay him on my shoulder, silently opened the gate, and took the baby to the car, lay him in the back seat, and went back upstairs to invite her to join me for the hospital trip. I still tease her over the next proceedings till this day. When she heard the engine start, she rushed downstairs in only a house wrapper and blouse. We lived in Obanikoro. That was how we arrived at LUTH. The young doctor at the emergency could not locate the blood vessels all night. In the morning, I went to the resident doctors’ quarters. My school son, Dr Femi Okanlawon, was there. So was his wife, Bunmi also a doctor, and one of my wife’s best friends at Ife. Femi discovered a blood vessel in the head through which he fed him a drip and drugs. He prescribed Orbenin. By six in the morning, I began to comb all pharmacies at Ojuelegba and Ikorodu road. Auntie Agbeke Ogunsanwo, my wife’s school mother at Ife and the “Auntie” of Junior Times club, combed all children’s hospital in Lagos, including Mercy Hospital at Gbaja and the Lagos baby factory, Lagos Island Maternity Hospital, but to no avail. My Father-in-law, Mr S.A. Oluyemi, combed Apapa. I headed for Lagos Island to Nigerian medicine stores at Tinubu square. When I sighted four bottles of this drug on the shelf, I lost my voice in disbelief and joy, like the biblical Zachariah. I brought out my reporter’s notebook, tears of joy running from my eyes, and wrote: “Have lost my voice, How much?” Words got stuck in my throat. The shop keeper wrote the price. I then wrote that I could pay for only two and that she should go to my Mother-in-law at Obanikoro address I wrote for the balance. Somehow, she agreed. As I stepped out to rush back to LUTH, I found traffic wardens were trying to tow my vehicle, which I parked right in the water fountain. I had driven against traffic to get there. Again, I showed them my identity…..Deputy Editor of The  Guardian newspaper and wrote that someone was dying in the hospital who needed the drugs. They let me go. Goodness and mercy were following me. Back in LUTH, I rushed back to the resident doctors’ quarters. Femi and Bunmi were having lunch. I burst in on them, shouting Eureka. I would ever remember their spontaneous responses. They abandoned their meals. But, in the ward, we had another hurdle to cross. LUTH had no Soluset. This was a baby’s drip set, I was told. Something told me to return to the Igbo man’s patient pharmacy store on Brown Street, Jibowu where I had not found Obenin in the morning. The shop keeper told me it was out of stock. I said he should recheck. Lo and behold, he found one hanging down done! And our baby’s life was saved!  Transmissions  Hospital Acquired Infections spread through direct and indirect vectors….beds, beddings(how many patients sleep in a bed in one year?), person to person (staff, patients, visitors, etc), contact, air, droplets, water, food, blood or medical equipment such as catheters, thermometers, stretchers, ventilators, even vehicles, etc. These are some of the reasons you see doctors and nurses wear hand gloves, aprons, nose guards….and while hospital floors, are always mopped with antiseptic chemicals.  Types of infections  These are bacterial, viruses and fungal. The most prevalent are Staphylococcus aurues, Salmonella, Escherica coli and multiple drug resistant versions or strains of their species. This is why staphylococcus aurues may be difficult to cure with hospital drugs. They cause common cold, sore throat, flu, urinary tract infections(UTIs), blood stream infections(BSI), pneumonia and other respiratory challenges, surgical site infections(SSI), Gastrointestinal infections(GIS) etc.  Herbal medicines  Nurses must protect themselves and their families against the world of germs in which they work, but not always or everyday with antibiotics, antiviral and antifungal pharmaceuticals. This would make them become toxic, ill, immune deficient and prematurely age. They can immensely profit from natural counterparts of these chemicals drugs which, at best are necessary in emergencies. We cannot exhaust the list of Nature’s medicines for one ailment or the prophylatics. From the antibiotics chest we may chose Golden Seal Root, Oregano, Garlic, Ginger, Clove oil, Echinacea, Lemon grass, Thyme, Cinnamon, Tumeric, Rosemary, Mango Seed Extract, Manuka Honey, Tea tree oil, Raw onion. We should not take the common ones for granted. Wakunaga had produced garlic 50 times more powerful than the natural variety by aging it for about 15 months. It is called Kyolic Garlic. (KYO in Japanese means “powerful or strong”). I used super strength Oregano Oil(three drops in one tablespoonful of Black  Seed Oil) several times a day to rid my body of three weeks long look-alike symptoms of Corona virus last year(see COVID-19: Look-alike symptoms join the lexicon in www.olufemikusa.com). Today, I grow the leaves, chew them raw or add them, uncooked, to my meals. Manuka Honey is reputed to be the world’s best honey. Echinacea, anti-cold, anti-flu, anti-bacteria and anti-viral, immune booster etc has been energised by Bell of Canada into Echinacea  Supreme  Immune Booster. Amazon has grouped a number of powerful forest herbs together into Amazon  A-F as a wide range anti-bacterial, Amazon A-V, similarly as an anti-viral and Amazon A-P as an anti-parasite. UTIs respond to Cranberry. Where a proprietary blend is preferred, there are many on the shelf, including Aloe Berry Nectar. Cranberry acidifies the urine to kill the pathogens. As this is the season of maize, a UTI remedy it offers may be made and kept on a glass jar. The remedy is the CORN SILK, the golden thread jotting out at the top from the maize covers. When it is used as tea in wet form, it acts like a lactative, but as a urinary tract cleanser and defender when it is consumed in dry form as powder, capsule, tea, etc. Tumeric features among the antifungals. So are Olive leaf Extract, Garlic, Walnut, Black Walnut Hull, Walnut leaves, cloves, Golden seal root, marigold(Calendula), Neem. Walnut is good for the brain. The signature tune or secret code of affinity with a part of the body are the two lobes which represent the two hemispheres of the brain and the woody partition between them which has a semblance in the partition of the brains hemisphere. A French Emperor made it a law that club houses serve drink as two walnuts free of costs because the nuts is known to quiten the intoxicated brain. Used as tea, the leaves are good for many forms of brain problems. The tea purifies the blood, treat intestinal infections and worms, bacterial afflictions and cracks kidney stones. I emphasise the Black walnut because this is its season in Nigeria. The black shell of the Walnut is sold in proprietary medicines as an anti-microbial. This column has the permission of Mr Oye-Igbemo, former General Manager of Nigerian Savings Bank, to state how Pan d’ Acro saved him from surgery for a had case of ulcerative colitis. In the anti-viral group, there are herbs such as Sage, Oregano, Fennel, Basil Ocinum (Efirin, Yoruba or Scent leaf/Nchiawu in Igbo), Peppermint, Rosemary, Echinacea, Licorice DGL, Ginger, Dandelion(one of Nature’s best diuretics). Dandelion is better than pharmaceutical diuretics because it is potassium-rich, asked the kidneys to spear potassium, and, in addition to diuretic action, works as a liver tonic. Basil is also good for diarrhoea. When I was a pig farmer, I fed the raw leaves to any diarrhoearic pigs and piglets. As we look forward to another World  Nurses  Day next year, we should remember always to tell nurses whenever we see them that we appreciate what they go through for us and our families. My starting points are two retired matrons, Mrs Kehinde Arebi and Mrs Titi Kehinde Shitta, real Nightingale blessings in the community where I live. Shall I add Joy John, one of my support staff, who is aspiring to begin her Nightingale education later this year? 