The journey to Nigeria’s digital prosperity began on January 19, 2001. That day, the NCC concluded a three-day auction in Abuja that led to the issuance of the country’s first Digital Mobile Licence (DML) to three pioneer GSM investors. The auction which was acknowledged globally as the most transparent, saw three winners – Communications Investment Limited (CIL), MTN Nigeria Limited and Econet Wireless Systems Limited emerge with each paying $285million, thus fetching the country $855million. About two decades after that historic decision, the industry has made giant strides, moving from 400,000 lines of the punitive era of Nigeria Telecommunication Limited (NITEL) and its mobile arm, M-Tel to 234,598,135 total connected mobile lines, while teldensity stands at 106.61according to NCC’s April 2021 subscriber data. The sector has generated some $80 billion in foreign and local direct investments while thousands of direct and indirect jobs have been created. Investments in mobile towers, very-small-aperture terminal (VSAT) turnkey networks, fibre optic infrastructure backbones, data centres, call centres, service centres have spread out across the country by Mobile Network Operators (MNOs). Encouraged by the regime of open, consultative and reliable regulatory regime of the NCC and driven by the passion to satisfy the appetite of subscribers, huge investments were made on subsea cables by two indigenous investors, Glo and MainOne. Today, landing stations for international subsea cables have risen from one to about five, thus redefining the entire communications landscape and making voice, data, and video and internet services available to the citizens at relatively affordable costs. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the information communications technology (ICT) sector alone contributed over N4 trillion to the N40 trillion the country generated as Gross Domestic Product GDP in the first quarter (Q1) of this year, even with a 10 per cent dip in its contribution in same quarter last year. NBS said the sector largely spurred by telecoms, contributed about 9.91 per cent to the total GDP in Q1 2021, lower than the 10.31 per cent recorded in the same quarter of last year and 10.58 per cent it contributed in the preceding quarter. Today, with proactive regulation, Nigeria is leading the charge to digitise the economy and leverage the power of telecoms infrastructure to drive the process. From IG to 2G, 3G, 4G and now 5G  technology has continued to evolve. As at November, 2020, active telephony subscribers stood at 208 million with teledensity standing at 108.92 per cent Internet subscriptions were 154.9 million and a broadband penetration of 45.07 per cent, among others. The internet penetration amounted to 46.6 percent of the population in 2020 and is set to reach 65.2 per cent in 2025, according to statista, an online resource platform.  Robust regulatory climate Experts say the milestones recorded in the telecom industry could not have been achieved were it not for the robust regulatory atmosphere put in place championed by the NCC. The Executive Vice Chairman/CEO of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta agrees no less with this view when he received the new Permanent Secretary of the Federal Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, Engr Festus Yusuf Daudu, in his office. He said the effective regulatory regime put in place by the leadership of the Commission has resulted in increased deployment of infrastructure by telecoms operators, which in turn, helped to improve broadband penetration and other related service delivery in the telecoms industry. Under the leadership of Prof Danbatta, he unveiled the eight point agenda which has become a charter of a sort to grow the industry further. The focused pursuit of the objectives of the agenda has seen broadband penetration increased from sis per cent 2015 when he first took office to 45.07 per cent in November last year. Fibre Optic Transmission cables increase from 47,000 km to 54,725 km while VSAT Gateway Earth Stations were licensed to provide broadband capacity – MTN (three), Main One (two) & Viasat (two). Similarly, Guidelines on Commercial Satellite Communications was issued. The infrastructure companies (Infracos) licensed in the six geopolitical zones of the country plus Lagos are expected to add 38,296 Km of OFC to the transmission while 3G & 4G base transceiver stations (BTS) increased from less than 30,000 to 53,460. Guidelines on use of television while space (TVWS) for broadband deployment also received regulatory attention. In the area of long term evolution (LTE) deployment, the Commission re-planned and re-farmed the 800megahertz (MHz) Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) while there was administrative assignment of 700MHz. In the 2.6 gigahertz (GHz) spectrum, 14 slots were auctioned, to MTN, Airtel and Open Sky while there’s marked improvement in quality of service (QoS) with the acquisition and deployment of QoS monitoring tools. The Commission has also developed and commenced monitoring of 3G, 4G and CSP QoS KPIs while it has reduced Access Gap Clusters from 217 to 114 enabling 15million Nigerians to have access to the super highway of digital communications. It has optimized the usage and benefit of spectrum re-farming and re-planning of CDMA and GSM spectrum for LTE as well as opening of New Millimeter Wave Spectrum (mmW) in 70/80GHz while the National Roaming Draft Guidelines & Trials has been approved. MTN was granted approval to utilise Visaphone spectrum for LTE. The regulator has published Spectrum Trading Guidelines, enabled license exempt use of 60GHz; re-channelisation of 18/23GHz Microwave spectrum to cater for large bandwidth and ensuring that 26GHz, 38GHz and 42GHz are unencumbered preparatory for 5G technology deployment in the country in line with international best practices as well as issuance of landing permits to 53 Geo Satellite Orbits (GSO) Space Stations and 923 Non GSO (NGSO) Space Stations. On harmonisation of Right of Way (RoW) charges, the engagement of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ibrahim Pantami with the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) has led to the adoption of a maximum of N145/m RoW fees in Kaduna, Katsina, Imo, Ekiti, Kwara and Plateau states. Some states have waived the RoW fees as part of the incentive to drive fibre infrastructure for broadband deployment. The high RoW charges across different states of the federation have negatively impacted the required expansion and rollout of fiber optic across the country. Harmonisation of RoW charges will increase investment and expansion of critical transmission infrastructure. Also, the expected passage of the Critical National Infrastructure (CNI) Bill that will classify telecoms infrastructure across the country as critical national assets will improve the security of the infrastructure. Construction of roads with fibre optic ducts pre-laid will also reduce incidence of vandalism and theft, and states are being encouraged to adopt the model in their road construction design.  Balancing stakeholders’ interest In line with the mandates of NCC as enshrined in the Nigerian Communications Act (NCA) 2003 to facilitate investment and entry into the market; encourage and guard competition in the market; and protect the rights and interests of service providers and consumers, the Commission has borne the burden of balancing the art. Prof Danbatta said introduction of the 622 Toll Free Line for lodging and resolving consumer complaints and the provision of the 112 Emergency number and activation of 19 Emergency Communications Centre (ECCs) have been very helpful to address subscribers’ challenges and boost crime fighting and mitigation.. Other such consumer-centric regulatory measures include issuance of various directions to MNOs to protect the consumers from being short-changed, ensuring smooth transition of Etisalat to 9mobile, consumer outreach programmes, introduction and enforcement of mobile number portability (MNP), End-of-call Notification as well as introduction of the Do-Not-Disturb (DND) 2442 to check cases of unsolicited text messages. Chairman, Association of Licenced Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Engr. Gbenga Adebayo and President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ATCON), Ikechukwu Nnamani say multiple taxation and regulation remained a huge disincentive to growth of the sector. Adebayo said there are over 34 taxes/levies in the industry, some of which are duplicated and laughable. The Commission said it is collaborating with relevant authorities to harmonize these taxes and regulations while the improvement of power supply to the sites of telecommunications services providers will have the dual effect of reducing operating costs and improving QoS delivery.  Positioning for future Because of the strategic position of the NCC,  it is going to maintain the driver of government’s drive for a digital economy, as contained in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (2020 – 2025), the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (2020 – 2030) and the Strategic Management Plan (SMP) (2020 – 2024) of the Commission. The SMP will be a pedestal to drive the implementation of the Federal Government’s digital economy vision. The launch of the SMP demonstrated the Commission’s serious improvement in performance matrix and its efforts in accelerating the implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) and the NBP. The SMP, according to Danbatta, is the fulcrum that will aid the NCC in driving its telecom regulatory mandate in the fast evolving telecoms industry, in the next five years. It will also serve as a roadmap for the future of the Nigerian telecoms sector, taking into consideration the current and emerging trends in the industry and the numerous expectations of the diverse stakeholders. The SMp has five pillars, which include regulatory excellence, universal broadband, promote development of digital economy, market development; and strategic partnering and 25 intended outcomes.  Five critical success factors identified for the implementation of the Strategy include: ownership and commitment, effective communication, human resource capacity, development of and adherence to a strategy development manual; and implementation discipline. The future looks bright for the country as the NCC continues to show purposeful leadership in the telecom sector.