Players in the global aviation industry have decried the infrastructural gaps in most of the African aviation countries, but said new technology, if embraced by the continent’s governments, especially through the Civil Aviation Authorities (CAAs), would help to address the challenges. The Director-General, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Capt. Musa Nuhu, said the industry was faced with challenges pre-COVID-19 era, adding that the outbreak of the pandemic had finally exposed the problems in the sector. Participants at the workshop organised by NCAA, in conjunction with the Aviation Strategies International (ASI) Institute and Egis, with the theme: ‘Global Megatrends and impact on aviation’,  said the gaps on the continent needed urgent attention. They, however, said for the challenges to be properly addressed, the Civil Aviation Authorities (CAAs) in Africa needed to drive the change through technology. President, ASI Institute, Pierre Coutu, in his paper entitled: ‘‘Global megatrends in aviation,’ said the  industry faces one of the toughest periods in the world, because of the  pandemic. Coutu stated that players in the sector needed to bring out the businesses in the industry to be ready for the future and called on the stakeholders to develop some areas to ensure compliance with global practices. Coutu listed climate change, global economic power shift, demographic changes, new technology and global connectedness as some of the  global megatrends that may define the future of the industry. He added: “There are more networks and communications, which seek to connect the world than in the past.This leads to things happening so fast in the world. According to IBM 2016 Study, 90 per cent of data in the world had been created in the previous two years alone. “Scientists say the frequency of pandemics might increase in the future. COVID-19 pandemic was not the first pandemic ever. Aviation organisations need to plan to reduce such impacts in the sector in the future.” For the sector to succeed another pandemic, Coutu canvassed scenario planning, adoption of future-wise strategic management, competency-based human capital, data analysis, risk analysis, partnership-based organisation and agile organisation culture, stressing that in this era, no organisation could stand alone without the supports of the others. Jean-Marc Trottier, in his paper, entitled: ‘Planning for a turbulent future,’ said climate change would affect the African aviation industry. Trottier explained that the  pandemic would make investors and lenders to view aviation investments through differently. Besides, Nuhu observed that the pandemic had created the need to  accelerate growth in the industry globally and ensure the needed changes. Nuhu explained that it had become paramount for players to develop strategies that would lead to development. He noted that technology was an ongoing issue, which a lot of the airlines had keyed into, noting that for the agencies, such changes would be a bit difficult because of regulations. He emphasised that unlike in some CAAs on the continent, NCAA does not receive subvention from the Federal Government, stating that 80 per cent of its revenues are from the Ticket Sales Charge (TSC). “We can’t go back to the way the aviation industry was being run before the advent of Covid-19 pandemic. COVID-19 has given us the opportunity to reset the sector,” he added.