A few days ago, the House of Representatives opposed the bid by the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to buy new scanners because the 22 old ones procured at the cost $120 million are lying fallow. In this report, OLUWAKEMI DAUDA looks at the reasons the old scanners were abandoned and why boosting efficiency and trade facilitation at the seaports has become imperative.  Do we really need new scanners at the port? Should the scanners be provided by the government? Is physical examination good for our ports? These questions and more are what importers, exporters, other port users and stakeholders want the House of Representatives to answer before taking a decision on the issue. Many importers and exporters believe that it is easier for the camel to pass through the eye of the needle than to clear goods at the ports. The Vice-President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Dr Kayide Farinto, rooted for the provision of modern scanners to end the cumbersome manual process. Farinto urged the government to address the situation. An importer, Mr Felix Friday, exporters, clearing agents and other port users, who spoke with The Nation, said they were facing stringent requirements that have made goods clearance irritating. Over 14,000 Customs officers were trained to take over scanning from the former service providers at the ports, The Nation has learnt. The scanners were purchased in 2006 and handed over to the Nigeria Customs Service on December 1, 2013. But the Service alleged then that most of the scanners bought by the three suspended service providers were obsolete. Since then, the Customs had been planning to import 50 new  scanners to ensure success and efficiency in container scanning by its officers, under the Pre-Arrival Assessment Report (PAAR) introduced at the ports by the late Comptroller-General of Customs, Alhaji Dikko Abdullahi. Addressing reporters at the Federal Operations Unit (FOU), Zone ‘A’ in Ikeja, Lagos, the Comptroller-General of Customs (CGC), Alhaji Abdullahi, had said: “In the last seven years, the service providers were only able to provide 21 scanners. During the transition, we hired a consultant to help us ascertain the condition of these scanners. We also went to the manufacturers again to verify the status of these scanners. We discovered that the scanners are actually obsolete. They are not scanners that will deliver the vision of the Comptroller-General, but we still have to take over what we met on ground.” The former SGS spokesman, Mr Lanre Badmus, however, denied the story. He said the mobile and the fixed scanners they left at the ports were new and working well. But Abdullahi insisted that of the 21 scanners they inherited from Cotecna, SGS, and Global Scan Systems, only few were working. Lamenting that the functional ones were not working well, he assured importers and clearing agents that new ones would be provided by the Customs. To ensure efficiency in containers scanning under PAAR, the CGC expressed the readiness of the Service to import 50 modern scanners that would be deployed at the ports nationwide. Dikko, however, said as part of the efforts and strategy to make Customs independent; the service had trained more than 14, 000 officers in readiness for the take-over. He said: “But these service providers have been in and around us for over 30 years, and at the end of every contract, they come out with statements that Customs are not ready. You are very much aware this is a long battle fought and we must succeed. It is a fight from top to bottom and I want to thank Mr. President and also the Minister of Finance and Coordinating Minister for the Economy for being behind us to take over.”  Why Reps opposed Customs’ bid to buy new scanners  The House of Representatives said it was not disposed to the buying of  new scanners for the NCS when the 22 old ones procured at the cost of $120 million were lying fallow. Minister of Finance Mrs Zainab Ahmed, who was represented by the Director, Home Finance of the Ministry of Finance, Stephen Okon, had told the lawmakers that arrangement was being made by the government to procure three scanners for the Customs as a stop-gap measure. According to him, the unavailability of the spare parts was also responsible for the abandonment of the scanners. He noted that the then Minister of Finance constituted a transition implementation committee with the mandate to collaborate with the manufacturers of the scanners to conduct an acceptance procedure test on them to make them operational before handing them over to the Customs. He added that the faults detected were handed over to the service providers to rectify at the end of the exercise. But, the representative of Smith Detection, manufacturer of the scanners, Manoj Jagtiani, claimed spare parts for the scanners were available. Jagtiani said the scanners were still of good quality. According to him, the scanners at the National Assembly and the Presidential Villa were manufactured by them and they have been maintaining them for over 20 years, adding that it would be out of place to say the scanners had no spare parts. At this juncture, the members of the committee alleged sabotage, wondering why the government would be thinking of buying new ones when the old one could be fixed. ”I am forced to believe that there is some element of sabotage somewhere because it does not make sense to abandon 22 scanners and made no effort to repair any of them and you are going to buy three or four. Why can’t we explore the option of repair and modernisng the existing ones?” a member of the Committee, Hon. Oluwatimehin Adelegbe queried, wondering why there was an MoU. The representative of Comptroller-General of Customs, ACG A. Saidu intoned that the scanners were handed over to Customs without the consumables. He said the Global Scan System was responsible for the consumables but regretted that the company while operating the system failed to fulfill its side of the deal. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, regretted that the scanners were not functioning. Represented by the Chairman of the House Committee on House Services, Wale Raji, Gbajabiamila charged the Committee to do a thorough probe. He said: “In 2006, Nigeria acquired cargo scanners worth more than $120million, and retained the service providers on build, own, operate and transfer (BOOT) terms. The contract also provided that the service providers would provide training and technical support services to the Nigeria Customs Service on risk management, valuation and classification. “By the end of 2013, the transition from COTECNA, SGS Scanning Nigeria Limited, and Global Scan Systems Nigeria Limited, the former service providers, was completed and the scanners handed over to the Nigeria Customs Service. “However, within a year of the handover, the scanners had stopped functioning and Nigerian Ports and Borders were once again returned to the analogue process of physical examination.’’ On his part, the Chairman of the House Committee on Customs and Excise, Leke Abejide, said: “It is very easy to go undetected because scanners that should detect arms and ammunition were non-functional and left to decay. If we really want to secure our country, scanners must be allowed to function. “It is my firm belief that this has nothing to do with our inability to purchase scanners, but everything to do with poor maintenance culture, lack of accountability, and deliberate economic sabotage. “Therefore, the idea of purchase of new scanners or the revamp of existing but moribund scanners, without an attempt on the part of the Federal Government to get to the root of failure of the past scanners regime, will not be the case at this critical time. The status quo, I must say, is a national embarrassment and corporate crime against our national interest.”  In search of efficient port  For more than 12 years, Customs has promised that modern scanners would be installed at the seaports and 100 per cent physical cargo examination would be a thing of the past “by June”, “by May,”  or by just any month, as though tomorrow never comes. The un-kept promises pile up and build a deep-seated resentment in importers, exporters and the public, so much so that people are actually surprised when the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) say they are working to bring efficiency to the port without asking the Federal Government to stop Customs from doing 100 per cent physical examination of goods in the port. But a senior Customs officer, who did not want to be named, said the public had refused to note the reason Customs failed to keep its promises to provide scanners. The service failed not for lack of trying. The service needs the money the politicians are embezzling to bring modern scanners to the port. The country, according to the official, “is bedeviled by a daunting array of problems that can dispirit any chief executive handling such an impossible set up like Customs. In the view of Customs, fraudulent importers are the greatest enemies of the country’. Importers,he added, were blamed for their resentment of Customs. Such name calling or buck passing, investigation has shown, will not wish away the other problems. Perhaps, most serious, if the service would accept, is the dire shortage of  IT-compliant officers in Customs. “If modern scanners are provided for them, how are they going to install new spare parts because the majority of them are old and not IT compliance? The majority of them that should have retired from the Service are still there. They are afraid of the new blood among them and that is why they prefer manual analysis to computerised system of analysing homogeneous and heterogenous goods when they are inside containers. “The scanners they need have to be imported. Officers have to be trained on how to repair them when they are faulty. The scanners will surely need spare parts. “The spare parts would not be picked up from the shelves. They have to be purchased abroad. But the much needed foreign exchange is not available in the desired amount. That may the reason the House of Representatives is opposed to purchase and importation of the new scanners. “When officers are not well trained and there is no money to buy the spare parts, there cannot be maintenance of the equipment,” said a maritime lawyer, Muhammed Oluwaseyi. An importer told The Nation that the physical examination and Customs billing system were like a hole in the Service’s wallet, through which billions of naira are lost monthly because of human contact, lack of transparency and non-provision of scanners at port. At most terminals, many goods were abandoned for years and, in many cases, Customs have forgotten them at the port. A resident of Ojo in Ojo Local Government Area of Lagos State, Isiaka Owolabi, saw the bill of lading of two containers his brother imported from United States more than a year ago, before his sudden death.  He went to Apapa Port to meet a Customs officer on the issue. He was asked to wait. For almost six months, the wait was in vain. “I went to meet another officer to help get the containers out, but the officer told me to tell them if the containers are not laden with arms and ammunition. I had to abandon the original bill of laden with him when I started receiving pressure from him to bring more money to speak to his Oga,’’ he lamented. Another retired civil servant in Ogun State, long used to the past days of honesty when the NPA was in charge of the port, was surprised with what he saw when he came for the wedding of his uncle’s daughter in Amuwo Odofin, Lagos State. The road leading to the port was blocked by trailers fering containers. He spent more than three hours between Jakande Gate and the bridge linking Amuwo Odofin and FESTAC.