Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi has urged the people of the state to gird their loins and confront insecurity with an uncanny determination. At an expanded Security/Stakeholders meeting organised by him in Abakaliki, the state capital, he said the battle should be decentralised by mobilising grassroots structures to end banditry and all firms of insecurity. The meeting was attended by past Governors, Speakers,  Chief Judges, lawakers, State Executive Council members, Boards/Commissions members, Council Chairmen, Coordinators of Development Centres, Elders Council members, leaders of religious groups, traditional rulers, Labour representatives and community leaders. According to a statement by Commissioner  for Information and Orientation, Uchenna Orji, the stakeholders passed a vote of confidence on the governor for his commitment towards ending insecurity and communal clashes in the state. In their communiques, the stakeholders condemned the violent attacks and wanton destruction of lives and properties orchestrated by criminal elements and armed herdsmen in the state, and urged the leaders and the youths to rise against all forms of attacks, as this is a deliberate attempt by enemies to derail the laudable and enviable progress so far made in the state. The communique added: “The threat to unleash more mayhem by herdsmen and agitators is well noted and we have resolved to confront maximally any act of attack or banditry in any part of the state. “In furtherance of the security arrangements of the State Government, a security committee shall be set up in each ward and Local Government Area and members shall meet at least every month to review security situations and make returns on the security situations in their respective domains to the State Government. “Council Chairmen have been charged to liaise accordingly with the stakeholders and immediately set up security Committees in their respective Local Government Areas, who shall be interfacing with stakeholders on the security challenges in their communities. “The stakeholders and leaders of the various communities are challenged to take full responsibility in preventing their youths from getting involved in violent attacks, armed banditry, destruction of public facilities and killing of security officials and other innocent citizens in the name of agitation. “Leaders in all fields of life must know that the youths are the leaders of tomorrow and must therefore show concern by getting involved in value re-orientation and empowerment of our youths. “Our youths should take the mantle of leadership positively and lead the campaign against communal clashes and banditry as economic sabotage to the future of the state. “The stakeholders appeal to the youths to leverage on the empowerment programmes and job opportunities being created by the state government to get into a dignifying means of livelihood to secure their future. “The stakeholders reiterate the commitment of the people of Ebonyi State to  one indivisible, virile and egalitarian Nigeria, where there is love, peace, equity, equality, equal opportunities, justice and fairness in the national socio-economic and political equation, and that the leaders are ready to aggregate all agitation issues and engage  Federal Government to address such issues, “The stakeholders across political divide shall be meeting from time to time to review the security situation in the state and shall together as a people fight the battle against insecurity and communal clashes in the state.”  