Chelsea has rewarded Thomas Tuchel for winning the Champions League in his first five months in charge with a new contract to 2024. The German joined in January with the Blues languishing in ninth in the Premier League. But Chelsea were revitalised by Tuchel’s arrival, climbing the table to finish fourth before winning European club football’s biggest prize against Manchester City in Porto last weekend. “I cannot imagine a better occasion for a contract renewal. I am grateful for the experience and very happy to stay part of the Chelsea family,” said Tuchel. “There is far more to come and we are looking forward to our next steps with ambition and much anticipation.” Tuchel was unceremoniously sacked by Paris Saint-Germain in December despite winning two Ligue 1 titles in his first two seasons in charge and leading the French giants to their first ever Champions League final in 2020. The 47-year-old was handed just an 18-month deal when he arrived in London, but his success in guiding Chelsea to a second European Cup triggered a clause in his initial contract for an extension. “Chelsea Football Club is very happy to confirm that, following our triumph in the Champions League, Thomas Tuchel’s contract has been extended by two years, as agreed when he joined the Club,” the club said in a statement. Tuchel was keen to stress after edging out Premier League champions City in Porto last Saturday that he wants to use Champions League glory as a launchpad to greater success. Chelsea finished 19 points behind City and have not been champions of England since 2017. “I think it’s good because nobody wants to rest,” Tuchel said after the Champions League final. “I want the next one, the next title. I want to be a part of it and I demand to be a part of it and this is what comes next.” Of his 30 games in charge so far, Chelsea have lost just five. He also guided the Londoners to the FA Cup final which they lost 1-0 to Leicester. Chelsea director Marina Granovskaia added: “When Thomas joined us in January there was still so much to play for domestically and in Europe. He slotted in seamlessly and immediately became an integral part of the Chelsea family. “Returning us to the top four in the Premier League was crucial, and we could not be happier with our success in the Champions League which crowned a remarkable season at Chelsea.  “We are obviously extremely pleased therefore to retain Thomas for a further two years, and look forward to more achievements in the coming seasons.” Meanwhile, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has been linked with a stunning move across London to join Chelsea from Arsenal. Aubameyang has been at Arsenal since 2018, when he joined from Borussia Dortmund. They have regularly had to fend off interest from other clubs to keep hold of their striker since then. Last summer, there was much speculation over his future until he signed a new deal. They may have some regrets about that, as Aubameyang has not justified his huge wages since then. He suffered a downturn in form in the 2020-21 season, ending it with 10 Premier League goals. He remains important to them, though, and still serves as captain. But once again, they could be set for a summer of speculation over his future. According to the Daily Telegraph, Aubameyang has now been identified as a possible target for rivals Chelsea. The Blues are looking for a centre-forward this summer after Timo Werner struggled in his debut Premier League campaign. Roman Abramovich is ready to spend big, but the club are having to draw up other plans if their main targets are unavailable. Harry Kane, Romelu Lukaku and Erling Haaland are at the top of their wish list, but all would be hard to acquire. Therefore, the Telegraph claim they have some other options in mind. Aubameyang is among them, as Thomas Tuchel used to coach him at Dortmund. Before the derby between Chelsea and Arsenal last month, the Blues boss said: “Back in the days at Dortmund, it was a pure pleasure to have him in the squad. “Auba was a fantastic striker, a fantastic finisher on the pitch. But, more than that, he was a fantastic worker off the pitch. “We still are in touch and exchange messages when one of us has a big win. In some ways, he will still always be my player, so I want him to succeed and have a good time wherever he is.” At the time, Tuchel played down the idea of signing Aubameyang, reminding that “he does not get younger”. But behind the scenes, the situation may be different. Given he is over 30 years old, Aubameyang would be cheaper than some of their top targets. What’s more, it was claimed in March that Arsenal would listen to offers for the frontman. Whether they would entertain their rivals – who also have Robert Lewandowski and Danny Ings on their plan B list – remains to be seen.