Many females are out proving stereotypes against them  are wrong. They have done a lot of things worthy of standing ovation and acknowledgement. Their works from time immemorial can’t go unnoticed. There are women pulling their weight in various spheres  of life. We have them as artistes, academics, actresses, economists successful business and property owners, surveyors, politicians, and so on. Some have  died but their achievements still speak for them. “We have women like Chimamanda Ngozi Adiche, a writer and a feminist activist; Buchi Emecheta, a writer of true female issues and relatable situations; Folorunsho Alakija, a philanthropist and remarkable woman, to mention a few. All these women are from various age groups but their impacts are felt. Imagine if they were not educated. In this age, it is disheartening to the female population that there are still questions on whether to educate them or not. There are fathers who do not see the relevance or importance in girl child education. Some feel there is  a limit they must get to while studying, others  feel it is a waste of time. A survey has shown that  five per cent  decides to marry their daughters off after their primary or secondary education; three per cent sends their females to higher institution to increase their  bride price; sadly, it  is only two  per cent of  fathers  that give their daughters quality education because  they deserve it. Some fathers even prefer to send their younger sons to school in cases where there isn’t enough to sponsor all the children, because they believe the male is the superior and  better option to take care of. In some cultures, even in modern times, it is said that girl-child education should be discouraged. Some cultures encourage child marriage for their daughters instead of sending them to school. In some societies, females are expected to stop their academic pursuits and career to follow and support their husbands immediately after marriage. Mothers are not left out; they tell  their daughters, as they have been taught themselves, that they are to live their lives with the deadline of their coming marriage. They tell their daughters that after marriage, she ends up in the kitchen and by so doing, kills the child’s dream and aspirations. Emphasis is made on the fact that their sole duty is to be groomed as wife and mother and any other thing is a minor issue.There are brilliant and intelligent female children who would have done well with the right encouragement and environment; but they have to neglect it because of the society they find themselves. In fact, females have to work extra hard than their male  counterparts in their studies before they can be  recognised as  genius. Some men find it intimidating to marry  educated  women educated.The belief is that  educated women  are indecent and dangerously exposed. But it should be explained that this is a  civilised world , and being educated gives understanding and not indecency. Civilisation is controlled by education. Whether one is educated or not ,civilisation will always evolve. Instead, moral education should be prioritised. Education is important and a necessity to all children irrespective of gender. . Adeshina is a 200-Level student of University of Ilorin (UNILORIN).