Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola on Saturday said, those leading and supporting agitation for the Yoruba and Biafra nations are foolish for not considering the consequences of war. Aregbesola while speaking at Zenabab Hotel, Ilesha, Osun State during his 64th birthday celebration warned that agitators must consider the women, children, old people and those living with disabilities who are most affected during the war. His words: “Those who are agitating for Yoruba and Biafra nations are foolish. Any Nigerian must seek unity, harmony and peace for our country. If we refuse to entrench unity, peace and strength for Nigeria, Africans may be enslaved for another time. This is the country that God has created to liberate the African nations, anyone who wants that should not trouble this country. “Any right-thinking person should know that any problem against Nigeria will result in calamity and retrogression. Anyone who loves women, children, pregnant women, aged, people living with disabilities should stop the agitation. It will take Nigeria 50 years to recover from civil war. Anyone who still wants civil war for Nigeria should kill himself or leave the country. We must seek to support Nigeria, everything may not seem right and fine but we must find a solution to our challenges.” Speaking on political activities of the state, Aregbesola declared support for a political group within the All Progressives Congress, Osun State, The Osun Progressives (TOP), saying, “I am in support of the consolidation of progressive legacies in this state, as long as we are in power and we shall be in power for a very long time in this state. TOP want to strengthen the political structure of our party. They also want to promote internal democracy within the party.” Governor Adegboyega Oyetola who was represented by the Commissioner for Political Affairs and Inter-governmental Relations,  Taiwo Akeju said: “You performed very well in Osun State and you are performing well as the Minister of Interior. We are very proud of you.” In his address, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, said that Aregbesola’s legacy in the development of the State will forever linger on the sands of time. The Ooni of Ife who spoke via Zoom noted that Osun State and its people cannot forget Aregbesola as his achievements are beyond what anyone can rubbish. The Registrar of the Joint Admission Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Ishaq Oloyede, who delivered a lecture on “Power is responsibility” at the event, urged Nigerian political leaders to be responsible with power. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State capital, Ado-Ekiti, was yesterday agog as hundreds of Yoruba Nation agitators, under the aegis of Ilana Omo Oodua, trooped to the town from neighboring South-West states for a rally. The agitators, who were led by popular Yoruba right activist, Sunday Adeyemo also known as Sunday Igboho, stormed the capital city to demand independence of Yorubaland. The agitators, comprising traditionalists, masquerades, women, traders, youths, motor cycle riders, artisans, and others, wore attires with the inscription ‘Omo Oduduwa ni mi.’ The protesters who converged on the Fajuyi park, were later at the Palace of Ewi of Ado-Ekiti to pay homage. They defied heavy joint security presence deployed to different strategic places as they marched through streets of the Ado metropolis, chanting various solidarity and liberation songs. However, the policemen did not disrupt the gathering in any way. Addressing the mammoth crowds, Igboho said that it is high time Yoruba nation break-away from Nigeria and chart a new course for itself, adding that the Nigerian environment has been consistently harsh to the Yoruba people at the advantage of the Fulanis. “Today, we are here to sensitize our people that we can no longer ensure the sufferings being meted out to us by Fulani feudal Lord’s. We are no longer slaves under them. The South has oil and water and other natural resources, but Fulani are the ones enjoying them. Most of our university graduates are Okada riders being what our politicians who tell lies recklessly have made us to be. “Today, they have shared everything that belongs to Nigeria among them. The President is a Fulani man, the Inspector General of Police, Director General of the Department of State Services, the Chief of Army Staff, Chairmen of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agencies and Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and Comptrollers General of Immigration and Customs are all Fulanis. “Let me say this emphatically, we won’t vote in the Southwest in 2023. We need a government of our own. The Fulanis are kidnapping us and collecting ransoms, killing and raping us and our leaders were watching because of politics. This is no longer tolerable. The next line of action now is that, we are entering the bush to chase away these Fulani herders. We don’t want them on our lands again. We will pursue them just like I have been saying”, he stated.