Luxury Network, the global luxury industry, is hosting its earning and Development programme on Thursday. In an interview with reporters, the Managing Director, Luxury Network Nigeria, Cas Ojo, said  the company believes the future of Nigeria’s luxury industry demands a fresh approach that focuses on promoting a consistent and homogeneous luxury narrative, and raising the profile of the luxury industry in Nigeria, through conversation and collaboration with established luxury brands and service providers on the global stage. “The core objective of the network is to identify synergies between luxury brands, with the view to facilitate strategic alliances and collaboration for its members, both in Nigeria and on the global stage. In the real world, the process of exploring new business channels between companies can be complex, however membership of The Luxury Network enables an exciting platform to explore bold and innovative strategies and partnerships” she said. The goal of the network Ojo pointed out is to create unique partnerships between luxury brands, that give participating companies increased access to pre-qualified high net worth individuals. “As a company, we have proven expertise identifying new business channels that are mutually-beneficially for our members. In addition to the brilliant partnerships we facilitate within our network, The Luxury Network Nigeria also aims to boost the profile and perception of the Nigerian luxury industry on the global stage. Nigeria is ready to take her place on the global luxury business stage, and we will assist companies, to respond to the opportunities that lay ahead.”  she added. The first event is a private event for members and will see an exclusive group of Nigeria’s finest companies converge at the Seattle Residences and Spa, VI, Lagos, to explore strategic partnerships and new business opportunities within the network. The company’s Learning and Development programme commences on 24th June 2021. The first session will be a virtual event hosted via a Zoom webinar. Kindly visit the website The Luxury Network Nigeria – Luxury Marketing Group to find out more. The Luxury Network is the world’s leading private Business Club and affinity marketing group for luxury brands, high-end businesses and premium service providers. With over 15 years of industry experience, the company has worked extensively with the most prestigious brands such as: Aston Martin, Bang & Olufsen, Barclays Wealth, Bulgari, Cartier, Ferrari, Gucci, Jaguar, and many more. 