  The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has intercepted illicit drugs including cocaine, heroin and cannabis weighing 37.3kg. Seven suspects were arrested. The drugs were seized in five operations at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, according to a statement by Agency spokesman Femi Babafemi. The statement read, “The first attempt to bring into Nigeria 76 pellets of cocaine weighing 1.150kg was made by Agudozie Peter Ihie on 25th May, 2021…He was arrested during inward security clearance of passengers on Qatar Airline from Kenya, at the E-arrival hall of Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos. “At the point of arrest, he was found in possession of 36 pellets of cocaine concealed in his pants. While under observation, he excreted additional 40 pellets. During preliminary interrogation, he confessed to have swallowed the drugs in Nairobi but became pressed during the transit period in Doha and excreted some wraps onboard the aircraft en route Lagos.  “NDLEA operatives at the SAHCO export shed of the Lagos airport also intercepted 4.2kg of heroin bound for Italy. Two freight forwarders have been arrested in connection to the seizure. “On the 26th May, 2021, during inward security clearance of passengers on Qatar airline from Doha, NDLEA operatives at the E-arrival hall of the airport also arrested one Nnakaihe Ikechukwu with 600 grammes of cocaine. The illicit drug was cleverly concealed inside Ankara dress buttons. “On the same date, NDLEA operatives at the NAHCO export shed of MMIA intercepted 30.150 kg of Cannabis Sativa heading to Manchester in the United Kingdom via British Airways and arrested one Anyanwu Chika who is a cargo bag stitcher in connection with the bid. The drug was neatly concealed inside 30 pieces of bankus palm nut cream tin (banga soup) after emptying the real content. “On Thursday, 3rd of June, 2021, operatives equally intercepted 11 parcels of heroin weighing 1.2kg concealed in 11 packs of noodles at SAHCO export shed of the Lagos airport.” 