No one had ever seen him in that mood. Combative? Yes, but subtly rubbing in the salient message on behalf of the teeming people that populate Enugu East Senatorial Zone. Ever suave, calm very calculating and most times withdrawn, the Speaker of the Enugu State House of Assembly, Rt Hon Edward Uchenna Ubosi, swept everyone off their feet, when he mounted the podium to deliver his welcome address to the tens of thousands of people that thronged the famous Okpara Square venue of the just concluded Enugu East Zonal rally, with a metaphor of sort that ignites. Dubbed a Mega Rally, it had all the trappings unambiguously. The big wigs – politicians across board from the ruling party in Enugu State, the Peoples Democratic Party PDP and the opposition All Peoples Congress APC , captains of industry, traditional rulers, the clergy and hoipoloi , the usually loud drum supporters, bedecked in several rainbow flowery colours of their principals. The bone of contention is which of the zones ought to occupy Lion Building, the seat of power at Independence Layout in Enugu in 2023, when the present occupier, incumbent Governor, completes his two-tenure of eight years. It has been a tripod swing of power oscillating between three brotherly and sisterly kirt and kin of same family of Enugu State viz; Enugu East, Enugu West and Enugu North. For one not used to the intricacies and maneuverability of the power tussle of these politicians, it might be germane to elucidate further. Although seemingly a gentleman agreement that power rotates alongside these zones, politics being what it is, that arrangement seems to be going through a crucible and if not contained might go up in flames. With almost two years away before a gubernatorial elections, the drums are upbeat in the air. The present Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Lawrence Ugwuanyi, is from Enugu North, indeed Nsukka area, his predecessor Barrister Sullivan Chime, from Enugu West Udi/Oji River/Awgu axis. Hitherto, Dr. Chimaroke Nnamani had been Governor from Enugu East Agbani Nkanu axis. Having gone round the triangular equilibrium if only to borrow the political lexicon popularised by the former Governor of the State, Dr Okwezilieze  Nwodo, whereof therefore should the pendulum swing to? Considering that in political engineering, no student of that murky course in a class gets power through kid gloves or just gets it handed over on a platter of gold, one should appreciate the present hypes by all the three zones to go for the cracker in 2023. None is relenting. Two zones Enugu West and Enugu North, make no pretences about their quests. They are shouting themselves hoarse that the circle takes a full throttle after Ugwuanyi ‘s exit and should be thrown open with implication that all zones have tested the rosy currant of a  pie, and should not go through a particular order. Therein the dilemma!!!. Are brothers falling apart so soon? Has the unwritten creed fallen?. Will politicians be politicians and play dirty or play the football towards the post they had mounted for themselves? Given the rotational power tree, Enugu East Senatorial Zone believes that naturally power should return to it, hence the Mega Rally as an unmistakable statement, that the zone would not yield what it sees as its turn to produce the next Governor of Enugu State. Few weeks before this major rally, there had been an aggregate of views at an assemblage hosted by the Speaker Ubosi that took place at the monarchial palace of the Igwe of Nike, Igwe Julius Nnaji, with prominent sons and daughters from Enugu East Senatorial Zone in attendance. There, they burnished and fine tuned their equivocal stance not yield any ground, demand their rights, surrender not but let their voice go out loud and clear. Come the day of the rally, it was feverish and the sing songs of the people and howling in appreciation of speeches made were indicative that the hour seems to have been ushered in with the expectations very thick in the cloud that one can slice it with a blade. The gangling and very tall Speaker often showered with his popular name ‘Ozege’ and perhaps the tallest Speaker in the African Parliament, played with literature to drive home his points. Applying the magic resonance of allegory and metaphor, the three -time legislator on the podium reeled out:- We the Nkanu people are tagged butchers, with symbolism of cutlass and knives. Yes butchers holding on cutlasses, but this same genre of people produced a Governor, Chief Jim Ifeanyichukwu Nwobodo, who not only governed old Anambra State that today has been broken into Enugu State, Ebonyi State and Anambra State respectively but transformed and laid formidable infrastructure, a wonder to behold. Same cutlass wielding people produced a Governor American trained medical doctor, Dr Chimaroke Nnamani, of course the butchers is blessed with a former President of the Senate, Chief Ken Nnamani,  and a one-time Inspector General of Nigeria, Retired IG Ogbonnaya Onovo, and a host of other dignitaries from the belly of cutlass slaughter abattoir. The list is a litany. As the ecstatic crowd yelled for more, Chief Ubosi threw the clincher in a more metaphorical verse of that the silence of man , ought not be taken for granted because he is likely to snap when pushed to the wall. Like the Caesarian Shakespeare, the Plebeians, roared nodding their heads in readiness for action.  Speaker Ubosi, seems to have set the stage for tongues to wag but knowing his demeanour and what he stands for all his political years, he is as harmless and peaceful as a dove. He hardly even speaks with such audacity and all his public dealings are delivered with decorum and niceties. He is meek and accommodating and these attributes should be the showcase as perception by the other two zones than the allegorical verses he deployed in driving home his points. Indeed, the three zones, under the banner of PDP, must talk over the table, better to jaw jaw than to be belligerent. There should not be an avenue created for dissensions, considering that the APC Enugu State Chairman, Dr Ben Nwoye, from same zone who was at the event said the APC as a party had zoned the next Governorship ticket to Enugu East Senatorial Zone. Be that as it may, the stakes are very high as the coming months would amply play up lots of political horse trading and nocturnal meetings by all the three zones on how best to resolve this hydra but politicians can be funny to resolve issues when least expected. Perhaps this informed the axiom, no permanent enemies, but common interest. 