One of Air Peace’s Boeing 737, which was undergoing C-Check maintenance in Israel, returned to the country at the weekend. The aircraft, with registration number 5N-BQU, according to the airline, is the fourth aircraft to return after undergoing varying levels of extensive maintenance checks. Spokesman of the carrier, Stanley Olisa, who made this known, said  many aircraft were still undergoing maintenance overseas having been flown out before the COVID-19 outbreak and the lockdown that ensued. He said: “We have many of our aircraft on maintenance abroad. We ought to have received a good number of them but the COVID-19 lockdown in different parts of the world has been slowing work on the aircraft.” Olisa said as more aircraft return from maintenance, it will resume suspended routes gradually and increase frequencies to selected destinations. He said Air Peace will be deploying its two brand new E195-E2 aircraft for scheduled operations very soon as the jets are currently operating demo flights. Meanwhile, Chairman, Air Peace, Chief Allen Onyema said the carrier decided to increase the pay of its workers to cushion the hardship experienced during the pandemic. He said while other airlines were rightsizing their personnel for the impact of the pandemic, which has triggered reduction of daily flights from pre-pandemic era from 135 daily to 40 to 50 flights, the workers deserve a good share of whatever fund is available. He said:  “I looked at the hardship around and everything, and I decided that whatever little we have, let’s push it back to the staff. It is very difficult now, we have about 20 planes stranded abroad, depleting our capacity to do what we know how to do best.  Before COVID-19, we were doing about 135 flights a day. Now we are doing about 40 to 45, yet I decided to recall every staff member. Not only recalling every staff member, four months ago, I restated them to pre-COVID-19 salaries. And I decided that we should double their wages ranging from 10 percent, to hundred percent. Some people got a 100 percent increase, some others 80 percent, depending on where the person’s grade is.” It was jubilation galore for workers of Nigeria’s biggest carrier, Air Peace last week  when the management of the the airline gave them a salary increase. The excited workers could not believe it when they got a salary alert and noticed that  they were given a raise by the management with some receiving a 100 per cent increase, while the big earners got a minimum of 10 per cent increase. The Chairman and CEO of the airline, Allen Onyema was literally mobbed at the domestic terminal of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos by the elated workers of the company who danced around him, thanking him for his benevolence, as some said that it was least expected at these hard times, when airlines all over the world are struggling to survive due to the devastation of Covid-19 pandemic. Some of the workers who spoke to newsmen said that what was surprising about the increase was that it came when many companies are laying off staff, especially businesses that are aviation related due to the economic downturn occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. Reacting to the salary increase, the Cabin Services Manager, Florence Opia said the workers of the airline were over excited because it was not expected and it came at a time when some organisations are cutting the salary of their staff and others are laying off their workforce, describing the Chairman of the company as kind hearted and magnanimous, adding that he cares for the welfare of his workers. “The increase even came at a time when we are not operating many flights. We used to operate 135 flights a day but now we operate relatively fewer flights and he still gave us such an increase across the board, to everybody. It was shocking. We could not believe it. “The raise will boost the morale of the workers to dedicate themselves more to the company. There were even some workers who were contemplating going for greener pastures. I am sure they will stay back now and more people from other airlines will be pushing to come in. I would like to really thank our Chairman. We have been praying for him. God will continue to protect him. He remains a pacesetter. We can never take his kindness for granted,” she said.