Tiwa Savage has expressed sadness over the death of the late aide, Habeeb Uthman aka Obama DMW. Savage penned a tribute to the late Obama DMW after his burial on Wednesday, June 30, 2021, according to Islamic rites. “Braveheart, strong heart, soft heart, kind heart, pure heart, peacemaker, hot stepper, incoming politician, I know you’d want me to add “stylish” to this list but umm yeah lol (abi @mekkamillions @therealjaybreeze @traficbabz @elizabeth_elohor @tiwaayankoya make I add am?),” she wrote. Continuing, Savage wrote, “SOMEONE SAID THEY TRIED TO RUIN YOUR REPUTATION BUT YOU SAVED THEIRS BY NOT TELLING YOUR STORY. I’ve never met anyone as brave/strong as you who was also as soft and kind as you. “I don’t know why my cheesy jokes always made you laugh, you were ready to take a bullet for your loved ones. 44 my black president, you chilling now, resting well, away from this cruel world. All your boys are a wreck, I’m sure you see them all crying like babies. You better tell them to be strong men. I’m allowed to cry, I’m a girl so don’t try to console me, I won’t listen to you anyway. “I really don’t know what you were trying to prove sha, by leaving like this. It is so unlike you. This isn’t the end, that thing you and I always talked about. I PROMISE I WILL DO IT and you will be proud.” “We are only burying your body today cause your beautiful spirit can never be contained in that sand and don’t worry we got @manlikeabdul_omw He must finish university or imma whoop his behind. I LOVE YOU, WE LOVE YOU HABEEB. Till we meet again KING.” In the same vein, Late Obama DMW’s son, Abdulmalik took to Instagram to express his emotional state while showering encomium on his late dad. “To dad, wait why am I even saying, dad? You were my brother, you were my twinnie, we so much looked alike, you made me understand that I am a strong man, you taught me to be strong but sorry, I’m letting you down. I can never be strong enough to accept that you are no longer here. I miss you. AbdulMaleek loves you so much. I have never experienced a pain like this before.” Meanwhile, Davido is yet to share any message on his social media pages at the time of filing this report. Obama DMW died at the ever-care hospital on Admiralty way, Lekki Phase I, on Tuesday, June 29 after a suspected heart failure.