The National Youth Service Corps has said it was probing 1, 000 corps members nationwide who tried to compromise its staff on posting and redeployment. The scheme, who explained the accounts of corps members had been temporarily blocked, vowed to discipline anybody involved accordingly at the end of the investigation. Director-General of the NYSC, Brig. Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim stated these in an interview with reporters in Abuja after declaring open the 2020 inspectors’ development programme with the theme: “Optimising the ideals of the scheme through effective utilisation of the NYSC inspector.” The NYSC had suspended the accounts of some corps members belonging to 2021 Batch A, Streams 1 and 2, who sought redeployment from the original states they were posted to. While some of the affected corps members were said to have sought redeployment from some states, especially in the North because of insecurity, a few others, however, sought redeployment on health grounds, among others. Besides cancelling the redeployment, the NYSC was said to have also suspended their accounts and stopped their monthly allowances. The NYSC DG said the about 1,000 corps members involved were still under investigation while those found guilt would face disciplinary action. He said: “There are 1000 corps members nationwide, we believe, were involved in unethical practices. So, we cancelled it and we are still investigating it so anybody involved will be disciplined accordingly. “So, recently, we had to block 1000 of the corps members who are involved in it because in NYSC we do not condone any act of indiscipline. We are not going to compromise our mobilisation process; our deployment is free, relocation is free. “Once you have genuine reason on account of health and those that are married, we normally mobilise our staff and corps members should not go to any length and be deceived by either some of the unscrupulous staff and also outsiders who connive to compromise the process. “Some even go to the extent of telling prospective corps members that they can change their date of birth so that they continue to come to service, that era has gone. “I want to appeal to Nigerians that they should please not fall prey to this fraudsters, our deployment is free where there are challenges we NYSC has a way of addressing it.”