Hyundai Motor Nigeria has launched CRETA vehicle in Nigeria with a redesigned and more powerful sport utility vehicle (SUV) model set to create unparalleled driving experiences for customers. Unveiled during the press launch, the second-generation CRETA has been transformed into the ultimate sub-compact SUV for any terrain. Building on the success of the first model, the fresh-look CRETA is more spacious, boasts improved features and utilizes state-of-the-art technologies to meet the complete needs of working professionals, young peer group and families. Central to Hyundai’s vision of delivering a superior experience is performance and the CRETA is installed with highly evolved powertrain engines, bringing incredible power and cleaner emissions. Hyundai Motors Nigeria Head Sales and Marketing at Gaurav Vashisht, said developing high-quality vehicles are at their core vision and it is reflected with the CRETA. Vashisht said: “Since the first model was launched, the CRETA has become one of the most popular vehicles and the latest version is set to be a game-changer in the sub-compact SUV segment. From top to bottom, we have crafted the car carefully, pushing the boundaries to ensure that it stands out on the road and is equipped with a wide range of improved features that will deliver even more fun-loving driving experiences. “Ultimately, the new CRETA is no like no other vehicle. It’s a true urban crossover with loads of versatility that is modern, sensuous and sporty in design.” The Creta comes with a choice of three engines. The Smart stream G1.5 (maximum power of 115ps/6,300rpm and maximum torque of 14.7kgf.m/4,500rpm) and the Kappa 1.4T-GDI (140ps/6,000rpm and 24.7kgf.m/1,500-3,200rpm) are both gasoline engines, providing better fuel economy on the roads. Offering more choice is the diesel U2 1.5 VGT (DSL) engine, which has a maximum power of 115ps/4,000rpm and a maximum torque of 25.5kgf.m/1,500-2,750rpm. To match the performance, Hyundai has made significant improvements to both the interior and exterior including the size. At 4,300mm (length) and 1,790mm (width), the outside of the CRETA is 20mm and 10mm bigger respectively than the first model. The masculine personality on the front is reflected through the grille’s bold and rectangular latticework, holding a bigger and more striking H-logo as well as distinctive two-tier headlamps. The addition of sinewy character lines over the clamshell-type bonnet also reinforces the masculine identity. The quality of the exterior is replicated inside with the increase in size providing more space, comfort and convenience. Fitted with an 4-speaker system, passengers can benefit from crisp and exceptional audio quality when listening to music on the go. The premium interior is completed with a multi-functional 3.5inch TFT LCD cluster and the optional fully digital 7-inch supervision version, delivering information in rich detail with unprecedented speed and precision. With the passengers’ safety the utmost priority for Hyundai, the CRETA is safer than before. The body structure is made of advanced ultra-high tensile-strength steel, giving it exceptional crash resistance. Rear disc brakes have also been installed while the driver can use the rear view camera when parking. To help avoid accidents, the front and rear suspensions have been improved to ensure a smoother journey while the gearbox options have been expanded to include a 7-speed Dual Clutch Transmission. Customers can choose from eight-colour exterior choices – Polar White, Typhoon Silver, Titan Grey, Phantom Black, Lava Orange, Red Mulberry, Galaxy Blue and Deep Forest. The two-tone interior colour options include black/grey and brown/beige with a choice of three textures – Tricot GL, Woven GL2 and Leather OPT. A black/orange interior is also available in either woven or leather.