Lagos State governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday inaugurated four roads in Ikoyi, Eti-Osa Local Government Area of the state. He said the inauguration of the rehabilitated/upgraded roads, compromising Thompson Avenue, Milverton, Macdonald and Lateef Jakande Roads, was part of efforts to regenerate roads across the state. He said because of the economic importance of Ikoyi as a real estate hub, the government embarked on infrastructural renewal and upgrade/rehabilitation of the roads and drainage projects within the axis in July, 2020. He said the inauguration reflected the determination of his government to provide good infrastructure delivery to improve the living condition of residents. He said, “All of the landmark trees” were saved during the construction because of his administration’s passion for environmental protection, and urged Ikoyi residents to see the bigger picture of the development of the axis. “As you can see, our effort to relocate some trees around Ikoyi was not to de-green Ikoyi but to systematically ensure the sustenance of development efforts such as road pavement and ancillary infrastructure development.” Sanwo-Olu said the newly constructed roads would improve interconnectivity, ease gridlock and address the perennial flooding in the axis. He appealed to residents to take ownership of the project, shun street trading and other infractions capable of causing infrastructure decay. The governor appealed to residents to pay their land use charges, which were little contributions to drive development. He also announced the flag-off of three major roads; Cooper, McPherson and Queens Drive, promising that reconstruction work would begin soon on Cooper Road, Femi Okunnu Road, Macpherson Road, Queens Drive, among others, all in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. He also promised that Onilegbale road would be regenerated. He urged Julius Berger to immediately move to site to begin the construction, which must be delivered within 12 months. Special Adviser to the governor on Works and Infrastructure, Mrs. Aramide Adeyoye, said the roads, with a combined length of 3,747 metres, linked emerging estates within the axis. She said the rehabilitation of roads in Ikoyi was strategic because it addressed gridlock, flooding and interconnectivity to other major roads in the area. “I have no doubt that these road projects hold considerable socioeconomic benefits for residents and those working in Ikoyi,” she said. She said the construction included relocation of services, replacement of trees and lawns, construction of drains with cover slabs to serve as walkway, interlocking stones, among others. The lawmaker representing Eti-Osa II Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr. Gbolahan Yishau, thanked the governor for embarking on the project. Yishau, who represented the Speaker, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, expressed delight that the governor was committed to the regeneration of Ikoyi, Victoria Island and other GRAs in the state and assured that the infrastructure would be properly maintained. Mr. Wale Edun, a member of the governing advisory council, who is a resident of Ikoyi, said all the roads were bad and flooded until the government stepped in to change the story.