An Uber driver has been arrested by the operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) with cocaine at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos, Agency spokesman Femi Babafemi dsaid in a statement yesterday. The Uber driver Lawal Tunde Rasheed was arrested at the SAHCO export shed of MMIA on June 8 when he brought a consignment from his client to a freight forwarder for export to Malabo, Equatorial Guinea. Babafemi said when the package was searched 150 grammes of cocaine concealed inside two pieces of air freshener were discovered. One Egbo Emmanuel Maduka was also arrested in his residence on June 9, Babafemi said. He said investigations have so far confirmed that Egbo was behind the two seizures of 50 grammes of cocaine concealed in hair attachment and another 150 grammes of cocaine concealed in air freshener. The seizures were made on June 4 and 8. One Udogwu James Johnson on Qatar Airlines from GRU in Brazil was also arrested at D-arrival hall, MMIA, Lagos with nine wraps of cocaine that weighed 300grams in his underwear, it was said. A 27-year-old final year Petroleum Engineering student of Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi, Bauchi State, Ali Mohammed was equally arrested with 3.032kg of cannabis sativa at a motor park in Iddo, Lagos, following a tip-off on June 10. The statement reads, “Under interrogation, Ali who hails from Nguru, Yobe State but brought up in Lagos claimed that while on his way to the motor park in Iddo, from Obalende where he lives, he met an acquaintance, Ahmed who upon learning that he was traveling back to ATBU, Bauchi via Kano implored him (the suspect) to help deliver a travel bag containing the seized 3.032kg of cannabis sativa to one Ugo who lives in Sabon Gari, Kano. “Ahmed told the suspect that he would send Ugo’s phone number to him through SMS to facilitate the delivery of the consignment when he arrives Kano. The suspect who admitted knowing that the bag contained drugs however denied receiving or being promised any form of gratification for agreeing to take the drugs to Kano.