Two Nigerian companies were blacklisted by the World Bank in its latest round of sanctions against individual firms and corporates indicted for alleged fraud and corruption. By that blacklisting, the two firms become disqualified from benefitting from any contract funded by the global bank or any of its affiliate institutions for some years – between 2021 and 2026. On the blacklist published on its website, the World Bank named Asbeco Nigeria Limited, 10 Effanga Mkpa Street, State Housing Estate, Calabar, and Maxicare Company Nigeria Limited, Millennium Builders Plaza, Herbert Macaulay Way, Central Business District, Abuja, among 43 individual and corporate contracting firms and consultancies indicted directly by the bank or indirectly by affiliate financial institutions. It said the companies were being hammered after its group sanctions board indicted them for various “fraudulent and collusive practices” considered gross infractions to established regulations and breaches of its contract and consultancy procedures. The blacklisting makes Asbeco ineligible for any World Bank-financed contract or consultancy for any of the affiliated multilateral development banks (MDBs) between May 25, 2021 and May 24, 2026, and Maxicare between May 19, 2021 and February 22, 2024. The notice of indictment said Asbeco’s ineligibility extended to any legal entity it may directly or indirectly control. “The minimum period of ineligibility is the five-year period indicated in the posting,” it stated, adding that after the minimum five-year ineligibility period, Asbeco may be released from ineligibility only if it has demonstrated to the World Bank Group’s Integrity Compliance Officer (ICO) that it has complied with the following conditions: (a) taken appropriate remedial measures to address the sanctionable practices for which it was sanctioned; and (b) adopted and implemented, in a manner satisfactory to the bank, integrity compliance measures as may be imposed by the Group ICO to address the sanctionable practices. Although it wasn’t specific about the violations involved, the definition of ‘sanctionable practices’ applying to cases brought under October 2006, May 2010 and January 2011 versions of the Procurement, Consultant or Anti-Corruption Guidelines of the World Bank, cite “corrupt practice” as “the offering, giving, receiving or soliciting, directly or indirectly, of anything of value to influence improperly the actions of another party.” A notice of sanctions proceedings earlier published linked Asbeco to International Development Association (IDA) Credit No. 5105-NG in respect of the Nigeria Erosion and Watershed Management Project, where it was accused of paying N2million to the project engineer and N50,000 to the project cashier to influence their actions in connection with the procurement and/or execution of an erosion control contract. For its part, Maxicare was sanctioned by the World Bank on the basis of its cross-debarment by the African Development Bank (AfDB) over similar infractions. The AfDB had on April 28 announced a 36-month debarment of the firm for allegedly engaging in “collusive and fraudulent practices during a tender for the construction of weigh stations and supply of equipment under the Transport Facilitation Programme for the Bamenda-Mamfe-Abakaliki-Enugu Road Corridor connecting Cameroon and Nigeria.” Under the Joint International Financial Institution Anti-Corruption Task Force agreement against corrupt practices, when one firm or individual is debarred by one institution for misconduct bordering on fraud or corruption, other MDBs must also enforce the sanction. The affiliating banks include the AfDB, the Asian Development Bank (AsDB), the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), the European Investment Bank (EIB), the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB) and the World Bank Group (WBG). The sanction against these two Nigerian firms teaches how businesses should ensure integrity of practice. They are black sheep to the global bank, but they got their comeuppance only because they dealt in a space where sleaze isn’t condoned. You could bet they carried what was familiar to them as local business dealings into a context where such behaviour just isn’t tolerated. The World Bank’s reprisal should be a challenge to Nigerian regulatory authorities to prime our local system to likewise routinely fish out and punish business operators who engage in fraudulent practices. What those two firms are sanctioned for characterise the business environment in Nigeria and if there is any moral here, it is that our local system should be built up to discourage such practices.