It was celebration galore weekend at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State  following the delivery of a N20million ultramodern bus terminus by a philanthropist, Chief Johnbosco Onunkwo. Immediate past President, Students Union Government (SUG), Joseph Okafor said the decision to embark on the project followed untold hardships students experienced while boarding busses at the loading bay. Okafor, who got support for the project, said renovation of the facility was a campaign promise for various candidates during elections for years. “After evaluation of various projects needed by the students, we had to consider our bus stand which was like seven rivers of Jordan. Nobody enters the stand during rainy season because you can easily be splashed with water. “The project could have been completed before now if not for COVID-19. But since the project involved students who he is passionate about, he decided to use his meagre resources to put smiles on their faces. We named the park after him,” he said. Onunkwo, a governorship aspirant of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in last November election, said the N20million facility took lots of engineering acumen and several trailer loads of sands before it got a face lift. “A lot of hydra-headed issues, including coronavirus posed serious challenge to us. But we thank God that a project we started, we also completed. As a Rotarian, if a project is not painful and beneficial to all, I won’t embark on it,” he said. He urged the students to shun evil, but to always anchor their faith in God and themselves to excel, insisting that education and hardwork pay. Inaugurating the project, a Catholic cleric, Rev. Fr. Emmanuel Obimma thanked the benefactor for the gesture. Receiving the key to the facility, Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Charles Esimone described the project as evidence of promise fulfilled, and promotion of good things to come for the students and the institution. On his part, Dean, Students Affairs, Prof. Nonso Achebe praised the philanthropist for his benevolence, praying God to reward him bountifully.