Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum has in the last two years delivered of 556 projects, the Commissioner for Information, Babakura Abba Jato announced on Saturday. The commissioner disclosed this at the Government House in Maiduguri while presenting the facts and figures at a ceremony organised to mark Democracy Day. Mr. Jato, during his graphic presentation disclosed that 70% of the 556 projects have been fully completed with many being put into use, while 30% are at various levels of completion. The commissioner explained that the 556 projects do not include policies and programmes even when most of them are capital intensive. Giving breakdown of the projects, Jato explained that 194 capital projects were delivered on education, ranging from rehabilitation, completion and fresh construction of mega-size Government Technical Colleges and primary schools in different communities across the state. He added that 63 capital projects were delivered on governance, and another 63 capital projects on roads, transport, rural and urban development; while 59 capital projects were delivered on water and environment. The commissioner also said that Zulum delivered 58 capital projects on health, which include establishment of 74 primary healthcare centres, new doctors’ quarters, and overhaul of 8 hospitals in MMC, Biu, Damboa, Monguno and Magumeri. He explained that 53 capital projects were delivered on reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement, which involve more than 6,000 resettlement houses for IDPs and refugees in 15 towns. He said Mr. President, Muhammadu Buhari, GCFR, has since approved 10,000 resettlement houses in Borno State, with 4,000 already completed. In the social sector, Jato noted that 28 capital projects on job creation, youth empowerment and humanitarian support, which include an all-inclusive vocational training centre with 14 workshops for capacity development of 1,500 persons per annum. He said 15 capital projects were delivered on commerce and industry; 13 capital projects on agriculture and 10 capital projects were executed on security. He also recalled that monthly allowances of volunteers in the Civilian JTF, hunters and vigilantes was increased, while over 700 vehicles and other logistics were needed to enhance their operational roles of complementing armed forces in fighting Boko Haram.