Dr. Oyebode Oyetunde, who was recently appointed as the new Executive Director representing Nigeria on the Board of the African Development Bank in Abidjan, Cote D’Ivoire, is a multi-disciplinarian with expertise in legal draftsmanship, investment banking, fiscal policy, accounting, amongst others. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, the London-trained lawyer with over 24-years’ experience speaks on his career trajectory across different continents, his vision and mission at the AfDB, among others. Excerpts: You resumed at the African Development Bank AfDB recently as the Executive Director representing Nigeria at the development finance institution. What are you bringing on board? Well, the overarching objective of the African Development Bank (AfDB) Group is to spur sustainable economic development and social progress in its regional member countries (RMCs), thus contributing to poverty reduction. The Bank Group achieves this objective by mobilising and allocating resources for investment in RMCs and providing policy advice and technical assistance to support development efforts. Having said that, as the Executive Director representing Nigeria on the Board, I look forward to serving Nigeria further in my new role by supporting Akinwumi Adesina as the first Nigerian President in the Bank’s history and contributing to the good governance of the Bank’s activities, complexes, and operations as these contribute to the significant and sustainable development of our continent. What prior roles prepared you for the job at the AfDB? At the risk of sounding immodesty, I think I have had a very robust working career. Let me begin from my last assignment. My service at the Budget Office started off my extended sojourn at the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget & National Planning, first from 2008 to 2011, and then from 2015 to 2021. Over these periods, I was also exceptionally privileged to work with each of the last 10 Ministers superintending over the Finance, Budget and National Planning Ministries of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Over these years, there have been significant improvements to the Nigerian public financial management systems. The government has increased due compliance with significant laws such as the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the Public Procurement Act, the Debt Management Act – which have facilitated reforms to the underlying fiscal framework. Besides, I worked closely with the Hon. Attorney-General / Minister of Justice, and other Federal Ministers, the Office of the Vice President, SSAPs on National Assembly Affairs, the Office of the Senate President and the Office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives, on Legislative Reforms to facilitate the passage & Presidential assent / decline to over 250 Law Bills, including: Deep Offshore and Inland Basin Production Sharing Contracts (Amendment) Act, 2019, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (Amendment) Act, 2019, Banks & Other Financial Institutions Act, 2020 (1st wholesale reform of  Nigerian banking law since 1991), Companies & Allied Matters Act, 2020 (1st wholesale reform of Nigerian corporate law since 1990), Finance Acts of 2019 and 2020 (1st significant reforms to Nigerian tax legislation since 2010) and Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (4th Alteration) Amendment Acts of 2017 (1st Constitutional amendments and reforms since the return to democratic rule in 1999).Also, working closely with the Attorney-General / Minister of Justice, SSAPs on National Assembly Affairs, other relevant officials in various Joint-Executive/National Assembly Committees on Law Reforms to analyse, review, amend and accelerate the passage of Executive and Legislative Bills into law was a remarkable experience. Furthermore, working closely with the State House Counsel to supervise and coordinate work on analysing, processing, reviewing and making recommendations to the on civil litigation, arbitral awards and other claims against ministries was another worthwhile experience, including processing correspondence on legal issues, law reforms, judicial appointments and others. How has working across continents of the world enriched your career? Indeed, studying and working in three jurisdictions has enriched my career and life experiences. It is hard to judge which periods were the most tasking. I worked as a Trainee Accountant with A&E Communications Limited and Charterbrook Accountants, in London. I also worked for the Chartered Institute of Taxation (‘CIOT’) in the U.K. as a Tax Researcher on various assignments during the same period. Studying and working in the U.K. was quite challenging but as I was extremely interested in my studies and keen to succeed at the courses, it was not as arduous as one might expect it to be. In Nigeria, it was very interesting working in the Federal Ministry of Finance on issues I had studied during my doctoral studies. Instead of researching and critiquing Medium-Term Expenditure Frameworks, Fiscal Strategy Papers and National Development Plans, I was actually working on them. So, it was moving from theory to practice, and I enjoyed the transition as well as the opportunity to lead and contribute on various fiscal reforms. In 2011, I left the Finance Ministry for the Standard Bank of South Africa. My experience at Standard Bank was an incredibly useful one. I had to be a quick learner and progress rapidly in terms of understanding the various products and markets that the Investment Banking team focused on. The discipline of structuring multimillion dollar transaction was something I quickly imbibed, and this has proven to be very useful in other areas of my career. Standard Bank was challenging from the point of view of learning new markets, products, structures and systems but my experience there was worth every second spent. As such, I would say that each phase of my development across the three jurisdictions came with its challenges but at each stage, the Good Lord was kind, and I was able to obtain all the help I needed to ensure I was successful in each stage. What is your advice to the youths on engaging volunteering? I think volunteering is the best way to garner the necessary job experience if you’re starting out. That has helped me greatly in my career. For instance, whilst volunteering as a Young Professional with AIESEC, I was privileged to be progressively involved in shaping the organisation’s local and global operation. I was appointed as National Target Manager in 1996 and served the National Committee’s Executive Team in this capacity till 1998. In 1998, I was elected Vice-President (Exchange Projects) for AIESEC in Lagos. Subsequently, in 1999 I was elected National Director (Exchange Projects) and across our 12 chapters in Nigeria. We engaged with on important issues such as Global Youth Leadership Development, fostering international collaboration through unique youth exchange internships, achieving the MDGs, and advocating on Climate Change as well as optimal Corporate Governance, partnering with incredible icons of Nigerian industry (such as Sir Gamaliel O. Onosode, Chief Michael Omolayole, Mr. Atedo N.A. Peterside, Dr. Pat Utomi and Mr. Foluso Phillips, amongst others). I am really appreciative of the support, teamwork, ethos and professionalism I gained from working with these exceptional giants amongst our mentors and peers. Association Internationale des Étudiants en Sciences Économiques et Commerciales (AIESEC) is the world’s largest non-profit, apolitical and youth global development organisation, based in Geneva, Switzerland, and present in over 126 countries, with over 40,000 members and one million alumni. The youths must explore and exploit the opportunities that they have to growth and develop their competences. I was introduced to AIESEC in 1994 and over those periods, I was benefited most from the opportunity to volunteer, serve, develop and lead. Many times, young people expect that opportunities would be presented to them on a platter of gold. Sometimes this happens, but more often than not, one has to strive to identify and benefit from opportunities that come across one’s way. If our youth are willing to engage and work with the generations older than them, a lot can be done. 