By taking the plea bargain system – complete with prosecutors, defence counsel, judges, and civil society organisations – to the historic Maximum Security Custodial Centre in Apapa last Thursday, Lagos not only scored a first in justice administration, it also took a step closer to decongesting prisons, writes ROBERT EGBE. Opeyemi Adejuyigbe must not have seen it coming. Six years after his arrest in 2015 on Ijegun Road in Lagos for alleged unlawful possession of a locally-made pistol, he was still in detention at the Maximum Security Custodial Centre, in Ikoyi, Lagos. His trial, which began the same year at a high court in Lagos, had yet to conclude following episodes of delay caused by, among others, the Covid-19-inspired lockdown and the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) strike. So, he languished among awaiting trial inmates at the facility, infamous for overcrowding. Last Thursday, however, Adejuyigbe breathed the air of freedom once again. He and 26 others in similar circumstances – 16 males and 11 females – became beneficiaries of a first-of-its-kind plea bargaining session at correctional centres initiated by the Lagos State Ministry of Justice. It was part of the state’s efforts to decongest correctional facilities in collaboration with the Lagos State Command of the National Correctional Centre, the state’s Judiciary and the Lagos State Police Command. The government team was led by Lagos State Attorney-General (A-G), Mr, Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), and included Permanent Secretary and Solicitor-General Ms Titilayo Shitta-Bey; Director, Directorate of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Mrs. Olayinka Adeyemi; and Director, Office of the Public Defender (OPD), Dr. Jide Martins, among others. Adejuyigbe, heeding advice from his lawyer, Nelson Onyejaka, participated in the plea bargain session held at the Kirikiri Maximum Security Custodial Centre. He entered a plea bargain agreement with the Lagos State Government which involved him pleading guilty to a lesser charge of attempt to commit a felony and a seven-year sentence. Three judges of the Lagos State High Court were waiting in their chambers in the court’s criminal division to preside over the virtual trial. The defendant was re-arraigned, took his plea before Justice Sedotan Ogunsanya on the new charge and awaited the judge’s decision. “I urge the court to enter the plea bargain agreement as the judgment of the court,” Mr Onigbanjo who prosecuted the defendant, said after summarising the facts of the case. Following confirmation by Adejuyigbe’s counsel that the agreement was wilful and in order, Justice Sedotan upheld the deal and found the defendant guilty. Noting that he had not wasted the time of the court, the judge held: “The defendant is hereby sentenced to seven years imprisonment,” adding that the judgment took effect from 2015 when he was taken into custody, meaning Adejuyigbe was a free man. The 26 others also took advantage of the same session to regain their freedom. Adejuyigbe may not have known it, but he was one of the 6,800 inmates (out of a total of over 8,000) awaiting trial in the five correctional facilities in the state at Ikoyi, Kirikiri (Female), Kirikiri (Medium), Kirikiri (Maximum) and Badagry. The Kirikiri Centre has a capacity for 1,076 inmates but currently houses 1,830 inmates, 283 of whom have been convicted, 1,075 are awaiting trial and 88 are serving life terms. Three hundred and seventy-two of them are on death row while 12 inmates are lodgers (inmates in transit). Onigbanjo explained that the process was aimed at decongesting correctional facilities and reducing the population of inmates awaiting trials in Lagos State in line with Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s reform initiative in  the administration of the criminal justice system in the state. He said: “It was up to various defence counsel to write applications to the Attorney-General for us to consider plea bargain for their clients. But we have decided not to wait for those applications because the numbers were too small. We decided to come directly to the inmates and talk to them, to make that offer to them, of course, guided by independent legal advice.” The A-G said 530 inmates in Correctional Centres in Lagos State had taken advantage of the plea bargain protocol since it was introduced in the state in 2017. “530 does not look like a very large number, but there has been lethargy among inmates and lawyers to take up this opportunity,” Onigbanjo said, adding that this was why the sensitisation session was important. Ms Shitta-Bey, who spoke earlier, explained that the Plea Bargain process was in compliance with the Lagos State Administration of Criminal Justice Law 2015, noting that plea bargain is “not for the rich alone. It is for everyone whether they are literate or illiterate, rich or poor.” The Controller of Lagos State Command, Nigeria Correctional Centre, Adewale Adebisi described the plea bargain sensitisation as “the first of its kind that we have witnessed in correctional centres all over the federation”. He noted that some of the inmates in Kirikiri Maximum and Medium Correctional Centres had been in custody for 10 to 12 years without trial or conviction and urged inmates who had been standing trial for a long time to consider the plea bargain option.