The office of the Auditor-General of the Federation (AuGF) has queried the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) over alleged non-compliance with the Public Procurement Act in the award of N229 million contract for the supply of internet servers. The query is contained in the 2017 report of Auditor-General of the Federation which is being considered by the Senate Committee on Public Accounts, chaired by Senator Matthew Urhoghide. The AuGF recommended that the Director-General of the agency should be made to refund the amount involved into the Federal Government’s treasury. The query reads: “Audit observed that capital payment vouchers reference number: NIMC/LS/IGL/1/11/105, dated 25th October, 2017 for N229.7 million showed that NIMC procured 22 units of HP blade servers for Morpho BSS upgrade. “The items were supplied. There was no evidence of Ministerial Tender’s Board approval, thus, negating the mandatory ‘Open Competitive’ bidding. Public advertisement in at least two national dailies, as required by Financial Regulation 2907 (1) and section 251(ii) of the Public Procurement Act, was absent. “There was an initial payment of N103.4 million vide payment voucher number NIMC/01/016 CA/18 dated 19/01/18, representing 45 per cent of the contract sum as against the mobilisation fee of 15 per cent. “The other subsequent payments were not also backed by an interim performance certificate as required by Section 35(2) of the Public Procurement Act, 2007. “This is an indication of weakness in the internal control system at National Identity Management Commission (NIMC). “This could lead to poor value for money and possibility of misapplication and misappropriation of funds. Management’s response: No response was received from management at the time of our report. “Recommendation: The Director-General is required to refund the sum of N229 million.” But, the Director-General of NIMC, Aliyu Abubakar Aziz, who appeared before the Committee yesterday, claimed that the contract falls within the threshold of the Commission’s Tenders Board because it is classified under ‘works’. He said the servers were already supplied before the initial payment of 45 per cent, which represent part-payment and not mobilisation due to paucity of funds. He further told the committee that the cash was meant to buy 22 blade servers to accommodate 20 million enrollment records. He also said the contract was a continuation of procurement of Enterprise Servers and Storage Solution and Equipment which was awarded in 2012. He said the agency has so far registered 57 million Nigerians adding that 90 servers would be required register 100 million Nigerians for the National Identification Number (NIN). He said the agency would submit a N25 billion proposal to the Federal Executive Council to buy more servers  to capture the entire population. However, the Committee  said it was wrong for the agency to continue 2012 procurement in 2017. Urhoghide said: “We are supposed to do status enquiry on your Commission because it looks like all your documents are muddled up.” He directed the Director-General to reappear before the Committee next week Thursday with more documents to back up his claim.  