The Africa to Africa Tourism Promotion initiative fashioned out of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA) by the National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA), has opened up windows of profitable passenger’s capacity for Egypt Air. The airline was among the four African carriers, RwandAir, Kenya Airways and Ethiopian airlines pooled by NANTA President, Mrs Susan Akporiaye three months ago to kick start innovative Africa to Africa Tourism Promotion. The initiative geared towards driving and facilitating Intra African trade and tourism has seen its passengers’ traffic on the rise since COVID-19, which slowed down travel business across the board. Akporiaye described the cheerful report of patronage by NANTA members under the scheme as instructive of the values of collaboration under the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA). “I have received calls of appreciation from the management of Egypt Air, commending NANTA members for coming out with trade and tour groups since we birthed the agenda. And you won’t believe it, all flights for shopping and holidays are headed towards Cairo and as the summer beckons, we expect Nigerians who are used to Dubai, will find Cairo a much better and inspiring alternative,” she noted. The NANTA President reiterated that Africa to Africa Tourism Promotion initiative by the association in collaboration with the airlines would grow bigger and better, keeping the airlines busy and profitable all year round and NANTA members smiling to the bank. “We are waiting for Kenya Airways to come up with their holiday brand, ditto RwandAir and Ethiopian airlines. Interestingly, RwandAir has reached us with its ambitious project and we at NANTA, will provide the needed support, particularly in getting them a window into the Nigerian vast and virgin tourism market. We are waiting for Ethiopian airlines to address some concerns, otherwise, we are ready for the tourism trade revolution worth more than three trillion dollars,” she added. She called on other professional travel trade operators on NANTA membership to join in the campaign and organise trade and tourism tours instead of waiting on tickets sales alone. She disclosed that Egypt Air has promised to offer visa assistance to those with group tours, pilgrimage and trade visits.