Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have intercepted 34,950 capsules of Tramadol and Diazepam in Lagos State. Director, Media & Advocacy, NDLEA Headquarters, Abuja, Femi Babafemi, who disclosed this in a statement on Saturday, said the drugs were suspected to be headed for insurgents’ camps in Borno State. The agency said it arrested a 25-year-old, Mohammed Isah, who was recruited to move the drugs, on Tuesday June, 1 2021 at SD Motor Park, Agege, Lagos. He was arrested with 12,390 capsules of Tramadol weighing 4.8kg and 22,560 tablets of Diazepam weighing 14kg. According to the statement, under interrogation, the suspect, who hails from Mandara Mountain, Ashgashia in Gwoza, Borno State, said he came to Lagos in 2013. The suspect said he started life in Lagos riding a commercial motorcycle popularly called okada and then a commercial tricycle, also known as Keke Marwa, and currently drives a township bus from Ikeja to Ojota, the statement indicated. It reads: “According to him, on Friday, 28th May, one Kakali Abubakar, who also hails from Mandara Mountain, invited him to see him at Ezekiel Street, Ikeja, where he gave him the assignment of transporting the drugs to Maiduguri for a fee of N50,000, which he accepted. “He said Kakali advised him to either board a tanker or trailer from Lagos to Maiduguri to avoid being caught. “He agreed but rather travelled in a bus operated by SD Motors from Lagos to Kano and then take another vehicle to Maiduguri. “The suspect claims he accepted the offer because of the monetary benefit due to pressure on his finances as his wife and three children displaced by Boko Haram activities are currently in a refugee camp in Maiduguri. “Investigations revealed that before Mohammed’s arrest, Kakali had travelled out of Lagos to Maiduguri to await the arrival of the consignment. “Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig-Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (rtd), in his reaction, commended the officers and men of the Lagos State Command of the Agency for their vigilance and blocking such volume of drugs from getting to Borno State, which is currently the hotbed of insurgents’ activities in the country. “He asked them to remain proactive and committed to the Agency’s common goal.”