A former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Dr. Olisa Agbakoba, yesterday expressed support for National Assembly’s move to review the 1999 Constitution, if a referendum and a new constitution become impracticable. Agbakoba noted that there’s a “strong perception” that the 1999 Constitution lacks legitimacy, but that there are processes to make it legitimate, including involving leaders of traditional and ethnic nationalities in the review. He shared his thoughts in a statement, titled: “Memorandum on Constitution Review Process.” The National Assembly Constitution Review Committee recently concluded public hearings across the country on the review of the 1999 Constitution. It highlighted 17 issues for consideration. Agbakoba said: “The constitution amendment process is welcome and important as it is designed to create a stronger constitutional framework… “There is a strong perception that the Constitution is not legitimate because ‘we the people’ was enacted by General Abdulsalami Abubakar’s military government. To legitimise the Constitution, people have called for a referendum and a new constitution.” “If this is not possible, the legitimacy question may be resolved by amending the ‘We the people’ military clause in the Constitution and re-enacting it as ‘We the people,’ as amended by the National Assembly. This may help the legitimacy issue and cool down calls for a referendum and a new constitution. “Legitimacy can also be conferred on the constitutional reform process by full involvement and incorporation of the leaders of our traditional and ethnic nationalities. The constitution reform process will gain very strong imprimatur and legitimacy by co-opting these leaders. “Prof. Ben Nwabueze has indicated that ethnic nationalities are the true representatives of Nigeria. To quote him, ‘Nigeria has no territory other than the traditional territories inhabited by its constituent nationalities from time immemorial – Yoruba land, Igbo land, Hausa land, Tiv land, Kanuri, Ijaw, among others. “It is the ethnic nationalities that ceded or granted sovereign powers of government over their territories to Britain, which makes them (that is, the ethnic nationalities) the original and primary stakeholders in the Nigerian state’. “I believe that giving a prominent seat to the leaders of our traditional and ethnic nationalities will be a substitute for yet another wasteful national conference.” On constitutional supremacy, Agbakoba argued that the constitution “has always been weak. The constitution must be supreme and inviolable; otherwise, our democracy will never be strong”. The eminent lawyer advocated strong and independent institutions to strengthen democracy. “We need to amend Section 153 of our constitution to provide for independent institutions, such as the EFCC, Police, Accountant General, INEC, Judiciary, etc. The strategy is that these institutions will be completely independent of Executive control,” he said. On restructuring and devolution of powers, the development lawyer voted for regional autonomy. He said calls for restructuring had become “a catch-all phrase that has introduced more confusion than solution. I believe the simple way to go is by regional autonomy.  Regional autonomy refers to the governance and administration of a federating unit in the interest of the local people, according to their aspirations. “Nigeria is made up of multi-ethnic nations managed by a central authority. This model has proved unsuccessful. “Devolution of powers is a related concept to regional autonomy. Devolution means transfer of powers from one level of government to another and vice versa. There is no question that a transfer of power is needed in our country from the Federal to the states. “The Federal Government is overburdened with legislative powers and must shed some to the Federating units. I suggest three new legislative lists as follows: the Federal list, State list and Shared list. Nigeria operates on the principle of cooperative federalism. The Shared list will accommodate cooperation between Federal and state government.”