The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) ministerial task team on traffic management has condemned attempts by a truck driver, Wilson Aniete, to kill the ‘Truck Timing Unit Head’ of the Directorate of Road Traffic Services (DRTD) on the Kugbo stretch of the Abuja-Keffi road. The driver of the Guinness-owned Mitsubishi truck with a Lagos registration number AAA -477 XB had at the weekend rammed into Mr. Udunobun Otaigbe, popular referred to as ‘Santos’ while on official duty. The truck timing unit of the DRTS Kugbo Area command was formed several years ago following an FCT ministerial directive that heavy duty trucks should not be allowed to ply the road at peak hours in the mornings and evenings when workers are either going to work or returning home after close of duty. While the officer was leading his men to stop trucks and other heavy duty vehicles from plying the road during rush hour, he was knocked down by the driver of the truck around Karu bridge. The truck was initially flagged down and parked by the roadside, but in an attempt to escape, the truck driver started the vehicle and ran into the senior officer who was attending to other issues and not looking in the direction of the parked truck. While some of his men struggled to rescue him, others chased the fleeing driver who could not go far due to high vehicular presence on the road. With the assistance of men of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) and other security personnel, the truck driver, Wilson Aniete was quickly apprehended and taken to the Karu Police Division. The DRTS personnel who is gradually regaining consciousness is currently at the intensive care unit of the Asokoro District Hospital even as his face, hands and legs are badly bruised with various degrees of injuries while his Femur bone on the left leg was badly broken. Reacting to the incident on Monday, Chairman of the task team, Mr. Ikharo Attah condemned the action of the truck driver which he described as barbaric and inhuman. According to Attah: “these are the drivers responsible for the high profile accidents that claim several lives on the road during rush hours. For goodness sake, why will the driver decide to drive off when already parked by the men who were carrying out their official duties?” Attah added that, “the driver will be prosecuted for this gruesome act. When the judicial workers resume after the Democracy day public holiday he will be arraigned possibly on charges of voluntary attempted murder, evading arrest and other traffic violations.” He pleaded with drivers of heavy duty vehicles to be patient during peak periods to prevent multiple road crashes on Abuja’s busy roads.