Two persons have reportedly died in a rival cult clash in Jesse community, Ethiope West council area of Delta state, Monday. It was gathered that the clash was between cult groups identified as Vikings (aka Baggers) and Eiye in Okunoho axis of the community. According to reports, a combined effort of vigilante members, anti-cult volunteers and community youths led to the arrest of three other suspected cultists. The arrested suspects are Onomua Victor, 29, Ibru Adegbor, and Saturday Meanwhile, community sources claim that a young man was killed and one of his hands chopped off in a related cult clash in the community, Sunday. Acting Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed Monday’s cult clash to The Nation, but said he was “not aware” of the Sunday’s killing. “Yes, it’s (Monday’s killings) confirmed. Three suspects were arrested,” the PPRO stated. In another development, operatives of the police Dragon Patrol have rescued a female kidnapped victim, Ibude Celestine, in Usiefrun community, Ughelli South council area of the state. A statement issued by the police spokesman said “On 27/5/2021 at about 0845hrs, Dragon Patrol teams while on stop and search duty along Ughelli/Warri expressway by Ekrehavwe Community junction intercepted and rescued one Ibude Celestine ‘f’ of Okoukoko. “The victim was kidnapped at about 0730hrs of 27/5/2021 in her Lexus Jeep after dropping her kids at School in Okoukoko. “However, based on technical intelligence, Dragon patrol teams in conjunction with Agbarho divisional patrol team promptly swung into action and moved to Usiefurun Community off Ughelli/Warri road. “The vehicle was sighted by the combined teams. The hoodlums on sighting the police abandoned the victim’s Gold colored Lexus RX 350 Jeep Reg. No. LSD 366 CL, Chassis No. 2T2HK3U08C077223 and their operational vehicle, a black colored Honda Pilot Jeep Reg. No Lagos KTU 911EJ, chassis No. 2HKYF18604H541056 and fled into the bush. “Upon search of the abandoned Honda Pilot Jeep, one Pump Action Gun, Breech No. 870150457 and six (6) live cartridges were recovered. “The victim and the exhibits have been handed over to Supol Agborho. Investigation is on to arrest the fleeing suspects.”