Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma has ordered the police not to close their eyes and allow bandits to murder them in cold blood. Rather, the governor urged the officers and men to shoot the bandits first before they are killed. Governor Uzodimma gave the advice yesterday at the state Police Command Headquarters, Owerri when he visited the command to commiserate with the Nigerian Police Force over officers and men who lost their lives during the ugly incidents of “unknown gunmen” attacks on the police formations in the state. He said: “Shoot the bandits first because you are the only one licenced to carry a gun. Don’t allow bandits who are not licenced to carry a gun to walk into your office and murder you in cold blood.”  The governor, who also presented six new operational security vehicles to the command during the visit reiterated his commitment to rid the state of all forms of crime and criminality. He also urged the officers to up their game in tackling insecurity and restoring peace and stability in the state. He further said a social welfare package would be launched to motivate them and enhance their individual and collective service delivery. “I assure you that the Imo State government will not let you do this work alone. The government will partner with the Nigerian Police to ensure that our people sleep with their two eyes closed. “I extend my condolences to the immediate families of those officers who lost their lives during this ugly period. The government is putting together a programme that will encourage their children, wives and husbands. “Imo State government will bring an insurance policy in addition to what the Nigerian Police Force has, that will insure lives of men and women of the Nigerian Police working in Imo State; to the extent that should there be any casualty, not only the palliative measures that will be provided by the government, insurance companies will take responsibility of making sure that the liabilities and obligations of those who died will be contained and taken care of through that policy.” Uzodimma said. The state Police Commissioner, CP Abutu Yaro appreciated the governor for the visit, stressing that it would boost the morale of the officers to do their best. “This visit has elicited the morale of the men of my command to a high level. With the support of the Governor, we have done our best to restore normalcy and peace in the state. “Imo is again safe and secure for businesses and social lives. We shall continue to do our best to maintain a safe state for citizens and residents of Imo State,” Yaro said.