Stakeholders have expressed their grievances over the new exchange rate introduced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Correspondent OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports WHATEVER the good intentions of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to increase the exchange rate, stakeholders in the maritime industry say it does not go well with them. They claimed that cargo clearance, which was N381 per dollar has jumped to N404.97 per dollar after the increase, leading to an apprehension among the importers, clearing agents and consumers of a possible inflation. In 2019, the naira rose from N345 to N361 to a dollar and to N381 last year. Since the new exchange rate regime, findings have shown that it has affected maritime charges. The naira gets weaker when its exchange rate is lower relative to other currencies like the dollar, Chinese yuan and the European Union’s (EU) euro. In an interview, Vice President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents, Dr Kayode Farinto explained that the increase would lead to geometric rise in the cost of clearing vehicles and other items at the ports. ”A strengthening dollar and weak naira spell trouble for companies that import a lot of goods from countries. Since their imports are priced in dollars, those imports like cars, trucks and other equipment become more expensive for the local consumers and businesses that have to pay for the imported goods at the exchange rate at the port. The value of the profits they make on import sales falls, as well, when they convert their local profits back to dollars. “But the dollar’s unfavourable exchange rate can also boost firms at home. That’s because when the dollar is strong, consumers may decide to buy indigenous used vehicles for fewer dollars, making the foreign used vehicles more costly in comparison. “While this makes it appear that Nigerian car users benefit when the naira weakens, reality is not so simple. When the naira falls in value compared to dollar, the price of imported raw materials like steel go up in price and products like cars that are manufactured outside the country will cost more to buy,” he said. The exchange rate is defined as “the rate at which one country’s currency may be converted into another. Typically, these rates fluctuate daily in response to the forces of supply and demand for different countries’ currencies. Nigeria, for instance, is an exporter of crude oil. If global demand for crude oil goes up at the international market, demand for the country’s currency, the naira, will also rise since companies will also need naira to buy but the oil. That would increase the naira’s value compared with other currencies where the crude oil is exported to. If demand for oil falls, the naira value will also take a hit. Other important factors that affect exchange rates include: Inflation rate. Inflation is a major determinant of exchange rates. Countries with low inflation usually see the value of their currency rise compared to others. Those with higher inflation, meaning each unit of their currency buys fewer goods and services over time, usually see their exchange rates fall. Interest rates are also closely tied to foreign exchange and inflation rates. If the rate a country pays when it borrows rises relative to other countries, more money seeking higher returns will flock to that country, demand for its currency will rise and the currency’s value will rise with it. Likewise, if interest rates fall, money will flee in search of higher returns and the exchange rate will drop. Also, an importer, Mr Gboyega Adebari, expressed surprise at the sudden increase without recourse to the stakeholders. He said this would further increase the price of goods at the market while adding to the already tensed economic atmosphere in the country. “When we went to assess a job this morning, we were told that the exchange rate has been increased, though we have been expecting it, but we don’t expect that it would be so sudden. The implication of this on cargo clearance is that cost of clearance would increase by N24 difference. “The cargoes that are already en route Nigeria would also be affected; the jobs that we wanted to clear were affected. “When you go back to the importer and request for money, they will tell you there is no notification of increase from customs, so the freight forwarders are the ones that would bear the additional cost,” Adebari said.  Worries  Other importers and clearing agents said the new decision to add N23. 97 to the old rate would further lead to high price of consumer goods in the market and have negative impact on the fragile economy. An importer, Mr Felix Alexander, explained that it would add to the cost of doing business at the seaports. Also, the Managing Director of Sceptre Consult, Mr Jayeola Ogamode, said NCS was using the new rate to clear cargoes, noting that this was not the right time for the government to introduce any rate for importers. He said further that some importers, especially the manufacturers, would pay more for the goods which were not cleared before the introduction of the new rate. Ogamode, a cargo consolidator, stressed that the development would lead to inflation and weaken the purchasing power of the consumers. He said: “If, at N381 per dollar, it was difficult for importers to clear their cargoes, I am worried about the new rate; Definitely the cost of doing business will go up and consumers  will bear the cost.”  Implication  Also, a clearing agent, Lekan Ajisafe, explained that many imported goods would be abandoned at the port and that this would lead to congestion. He noted that Customs had no control over the new rate, saying that its responsibility is to facilitate trade, generate revenue and implement government policies. He said: “They have uploaded the new rate in their system. So, no importer could do declaration based on N381 because it has been changed to N404. 97 per dollar and naira is depreciating every day and our import volume increasing.” He lamented that some importers, who borrowed from banks to import raw material would be affected, saying that while they would be paying back the loans, they would also be operating at a loss because of the N23.97 increase. He stressed that some finished product were holed at the various warehouses in Lagos due to lack of patronage by consumers, who could not afford the high price. A senior officer at the one of the terminals in Lagos, who craved anonymity, said: “In the next few months Nigerians will feel the negative effect of the CBN’s policy. This is a wrong signal to the genuine importers, manufacturers and investors operating in the country.  Complaint  Also, a Customs agent, Richard Eze, said there was no proper communication with stakeholders before the CBN increase import tariff, noting that the idea of CBN to, unilaterally, decide the direction of Nigeria’s economy was not good. He said: “These economy policy makers are driving us out of business. They are chasing us out of this country. This is why importers divert cargoes to neighbouring countries where there is conducive business environment to operate. We will ship our cargoes to where they make business easy for people. “At present, 80 per cent of Nigerian bound cargoes are being diverted to port of Cotonou, Togo and other West African ports because of the harsh operating environment. We are helping the neighbouring ports to boost the economies of their countries. What importers do is that, they will divert their cargo and cleared them and do transshipment by trucks through the road.” He added that no responsible government would continue to hike import duty when there is tension in the country, noting that while people were struggling to survive, the government was making life difficult for them. Also, Managing Director of Homeland Delivery Limited, Otunba Bamidele Abraham, explained that the increment would lead to high inflation, which would affect the purchasing power of ordinary Nigerians. He said: “This week, I have already signed my Form-M and opened a transaction for the building materials I imported, but Customs said the previous transaction could not work because of the new import exchange. Nevertheless, he urged the Federal Government to order CBN to reverse the import duty to N381, before it was increased to the new rate. Meanwhile, the President, Africa Association of Professional Freight Forwarders of Nigeria (AAPFFN),Otunba Frank Ogunojemite, has described the increase as unfortunate because the CBN did not consult stakeholders before making it. He agreed that the new rate would bring an increment in the sales of goods.. The president said since the outbreak of COVID-19, there had been no basic increase on per capita income.  Suggestion  An importer, Mr Gboyega Adebari expressed surprise at the sudden increase without recourse to the stakeholders. “When we went to assess a job, we were told that the exchange rate had been increased. Though we have been expecting it, we don’t expect that it would be so sudden. The implication of this on cargo clearance is that cost of clearance would increase by N24 difference. “The cargoes that were already en route Nigeria would be affected. The jobs that we want to clear were affected. “When you go back to the importer and request for money, they will tell you there is no notification of increase from Customs. So, the freight forwarders would bear the additional cost,” Adebari said. He added that importers and clearing agents need to be guided earlier whenever such increases were coming, so that they could advise their importers. Also, a clearing agent, Mr Ibrahim Babatunde urged the CBN and the NSC to carry the stakeholders along, adding that the increase would lead to high cost of clearing goods and inflation. He said there was the need by the CBN to review the import tariff because of the harsh operating environment, inflation and poor state of the economy.