There is no question that Delta State lost development opportunities as a result of looting by former governor James Ibori.  Accused of stealing a staggering US$250 million from the public purse, Ibori, who was governor from 1999 to 2007, pleaded guilty to money laundering and conspiracy to defraud at Southwark Crown Court, London, in February 2012. He was sentenced to 13 years in prison in April 2012. His possessions that were confiscated included a £2.2m house in Hampstead, north London; a property in Shaftesbury, Dorset, which cost £311,000; a £3.2m mansion in Sandton, near Johannesburg, South Africa; an armoured Range Rovers valued at £600,000; a £120,000 Bentley Continental GT and a Mercedes-Benz Maybach 62 bought for €407,000. It is noteworthy that Sue Patten, head of the Crown Prosecution Service central fraud group, said Ibori had acquired his riches “at the expense of some of the poorest people in the world.” Ibori was released from jail in December 2016 after serving four years. He came back to Nigeria in February 2017. When the British Government returned £4.2 million Ibori-linked loot, recovered from his family members and associates, to the Federal Government in May, it generated an intense controversy on the ownership of the money, with Delta State claiming the money belonged to the state and not the Federal Government. Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s Chief Press Secretary, Olisa Ifejika, recently said “it has been established that the money belongs to us,” adding, “our Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice has written another letter to the Attorney-General of the Federation requesting that the money be spent on projects in Delta State.” According to him, “If the Federal Government does not want to release the cash, they can deploy it on their own (federal) projects which they have abandoned in our state and on the completion of ongoing state projects. “We have identified for them the Asaba-Illah-Ibiaja Highway; the deplorable Benin-Warri section of the East-West Road and the Agbor-Abraka-Sapele Highway. “The ongoing state projects are the dualisation of the Ughelli-Asaba Expressway; the Warri/Effurun Erosion Control and Warri/Uwvie Storm Water Control Erosion Road.” The Delta State government’s proposal on the six federal and state projects that could be completed with the returned money reflects its value. It’s a lot of money in the local currency. Importantly, it also showed that the people are the losers when governors loot public funds. Imagine the development projects Ibori could have done with the money if he had not stolen it for his own personal purposes. His assets in the UK were valued at about £17 million ($35 million) in 2007. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) had initially arrested him in December 2007, and charged him with theft of public funds, abuse of office and money laundering. A Federal High Court in Asaba, Delta State discharged and acquitted him of all corruption-related charges in December 2009. In April 2010, the anti-corruption agency reopened Ibori’s case, and made a fresh allegation that he had embezzled N40 billion. He fled Nigeria. The EFCC sought the assistance of Interpol to arrest him. In May 2010, he was arrested in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and eventually tried and convicted in the UK. It was ironic that he got punished in a foreign land for corruption-related crimes he committed in Nigeria. Significantly, the Benin Division of the Court of Appeal, in May 2014, overturned the verdict of the Federal High Court in Asaba that had acquitted him, and ruled that he had a case to answer.  He was in jail in the UK when this happened. This meant that he could face further trial in Nigeria. But that has not happened since he returned to the country after his release from prison in the UK. How many ex-governors since democracy was restored in 1999 can pass the unexplained wealth test? EFCC Chairman Abdulrasheed Bawa has said that “all the known politically exposed cases in courts are vigorously and intelligently going to be sustained.” According to him, “The cases of former Governors Ibrahim Shema, Adebayo Alao-Akala, Ikedi Ohakim, Muazu Babangida Aliyu and former Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Adesola Amosu are going on. Orji Uzor Kalu, we are going to prosecute him again after 12 years.” Kalu’s case is striking. In December 2019, the former Abia State governor was convicted and sentenced to 12 years in prison for N7.65 billion fraud and money laundering after a 12-year trial. In May 2020, the Supreme Court nullified his trial and conviction, and ordered a retrial. The apex court ruled that Justice Mohammed Idris’ return to the Federal High Court from the Court of Appeal to conclude Kalu’s trial was unconstitutional. At the time, Kalu had spent only five months in prison. “The past five months have been quite a profound period for me. As challenging as that period has been, it has provided me an opportunity to learn invaluable lessons about our country, our peoples, our justice system…, he said. Kalu, who was governor from 1999 to 2007, has returned to the Senate where he is Chief Whip and senator representing Abia North District. The EFCC described the Supreme Court ruling as “quite unfortunate” and “a technical ambush against the trial of the former governor.” The agency said its evidence against him was “overwhelming.” Indeed, the lessons to be learnt from Kalu’s case may well be how the country and its justice system encourage corruption among people in power by a half-hearted fight against corruption. EFCC boss Bawa explained that the agency “has the power to cause investigation to be conducted into the properties of any person that appears to the commission that the person’s lifestyle and the extent of the properties are not justified by his source of income. “This means without any complaint, if it comes to our knowledge that you have amassed so many properties that are not justified by your source of income, the EFCC can ask questions.” How effectively has the EFCC used its power to demand explanation concerning unexplained wealth?  How many ex-governors since democracy was restored in 1999, for instance, have been investigated by the agency for unexplained wealth? The recovered and returned Ibori loot should energise the country’s fight against corruption. There should be no room for gubernatorial looting because the people are always the losers when governors are looters.