President, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) Comrade Ayuba Wabba, who is also the President, International Trade Union Confederation (ITUC), in an interview with TOBA AGBOOLA, says the organised Labour will soon shut the economy over the refusal of Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai to respect the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) he entered into with the union over the crisis in the state. He speaks on other issues as they affect the workers. Covid-19 and Social Protection in Nigeria The COVID-19 pandemic has further exposed the deficiencies in Nigeria’s social protection system. A sound social protection system provides a cushioning mechanism in the midst of life circle vulnerabilities, through nationally-defined social protection floors that guarantee citizens’ access to essential health care, basic income security for vulnerable citizens such as the unemployed, the aged, physically-challenged, women and those displaced by natural disasters. The pandemic has further exposed the inadequacies of the flawed economic model of our country. This is so unfortunate.  The National Minimum Wage The National Minimum Wage serves as social protection by providing a minimum income floor to safeguard low earners. Today, there are attempts by a section of Nigeria’s ruling class to kill the National Minimum Wage by removing it as an item from the Exclusive Legislative List to the Concurrent Legislative List. This is most despicable. As we had already canvassed during our nationwide protests and submission of petitions to the National Assembly and the 36 state Houses of Assembly on March 10, 2021 and subsequently in advocacy visits and advertorials in seven major newspapers in Nigeria, the National Minimum Wage is a global standard established by the ILO as Minimum Wage Fixing Machinery Convention 026 of 1928 and reinforced by Minimum Wage Fixing Convention 131 of 1970. Hiding under the mask of fiscal federalism, a few politicians want to rob workers of the meagre national minimum wage which by today’s foreign exchange is equivalent to $60 – a far cry from the first national minimum wage of the equivalent of $125, which was signed into law in 1981 by the late Shehu Shagari. We will resist this evil. Minimum wage laws are in force in about 90 per cent of ILO member-states. In the United States, a federal state, the social partners adopted an hourly national minimum wage of $7.25 preserved in the federal laws of the United States. The different federating states can pay higher than the national minimum of $7.25, but no state pays lower. For Germany, a federal state in Western Europe, it also sets her National Minimum Wage on hourly rate, which  stands at 9.35 euro. The regional governments ensure that wages in their domains do not fall lower than the National Minimum Wage benchmark. Germany increased its National Minimum Wage from 8.84 euros (2017 rate) to 9.35 euros in 2020 despite the coronavirus pandemic outbreak. Some persons may retort that the economic asymmetry between Nigeria and these economies are obvious, but our quick response is that other facts espoused in this piece will illuminate the social, economic and industrial wisdom in this approach. The argument that the transfer of the National Minimum Wage from the Exclusive to the Concurrent List is part of the efforts to restructure the country is a poor attempt to call a dog a bad name to hang it. If there is anything that needs restructuring, it is the maximum wages arbitrarily fixed by elected political office holders and which have no bearing whatsoever in international law or standards. It is difficult to imagine that those who enjoy very fat wages, allowances, pensions and other perks of office would be the ones thinking of snatching from workers’mouths the little minimum wage we are struggling to survive on. This action only smacks of a class war indicative of the intents of a privileged few to wilfully pauperise and enslave the mass of our people. Our argument for the retention of the National Minimum Wage on the Exclusive Legislative List is also propelled by the fact that the National Minimum Wage is a tool for social inclusion and poverty reduction. The National Minimum Wage is a product of negotiations between Labour, organised private sector and Government. During the negotiations, the government is represented at both federal and state levels and a number of issues are taken into consideration with data provided by relevant federal and state institutions and agencies. Some of the issues considered include inflation rate, poverty threshold rate, purchasing power parity and periodic surveys by the National Bureau of Statistics.  Mass sack and casualisation of workers in Kaduna We consider the recent mass sack and casualisation of more than 60 per cent of the workforce in Kaduna State as the most brutal attack on workers and trade union rights in our nation’s history. You would recall that between 2016 and this year, the Kaduna State Governor, Mr. Nasir el-Rufai sacked 21,770 primary school teachers, 7,310 local government employees, 3,000 personnel in the state Civil Service and 1,240 workers at the Kaduna State Primary Health Care Board. While Mr. el-Rufai sacked workers with one hand, he increased the school fees in Kaduna State University by almost 500 per cent. This clearly shows a well- mapped plan to make the children of the working class to destitute. Is this how Mr. el-Rufai understands development? The actions of the Kaduna State governor are in breach of provisions of Section 20 Sub Sections 1(a-c), 2 and 3 of Nigeria’s Labour Act which demand consultation with workers representative organisations and that redundancy benefits be agreed upon with workers representative organisations before redundancy letters are issued to workers. We also condemn in the strongest term the violation of the terms of Employment Contract of the disengaged workers which provides for 60 years’retirement age and or 35 years’ of active service. Talk of rubbing insult to injury. Mr. el-Rufai has refused to pay workers that he had earlier sacked between 2016 and 2020 their redundancy benefits. Governor El-Rufai certainly enjoys his dance of oddity in impunity. Mr. el-Rufai continues to prove himself as an agent provocateur and the precursor for the deteriorating security situation in Kaduna State. The Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai, had not respected the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) entered into with the organised labour on the pathway to resolving the industrial crisis occasioned by the mass sack of workers. If the rights of workers were not respected by the Kaduna State government, we might be forced to withdraw our services nationwide.  Poor governance, unemployment and insecurity During a summit that we held recently, it was clearly established that human insecurity as marked by mass unemployment is the main driver for the physical insecurity besieging our dear country. According to data by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), unemployment figures in Nigeria has reached an all-time high of 33.3 per cent in the last quarter of 2020 from 27.1 per cent in the second quarter of 2020. Part of the challenge of unemployment and insecurity is the crisis of poor governance. Weak budgets that lead to poor appropriations and poorer budgetary oversight is the bane of our development. It is unfortunate and a terrible injustice to the memory of Nigeria’s founding fathers that virtually every part of the country has been engulfed by one form of security challenge or the other. In the Northeast, there is the challenge of Boko Haram terrorism. In the Northwest, there is the challenge of rural banditry and kidnap-for-ransom. In the Northcentral, there is the challenge of farmers and pastoralists clashes. In the Southsouth, armed militants still operate in the mangroves engaged in all manner of economic sabotage. In the Southwest and Southeast, local militias are filling the vacuum created by the absence of the state and are heating up the polity with ethno-religious rhetoric. Workers are the major targets. So many teachers, health workers, agricultural and food chain workers have been either kidnapped or killed. So many working families have had the lives of their breadwinners brutally cut short leaving behind open wounds that could be the sores for another cycle of counter-violence.  Management of the Petroleum Sector and Electricity Tariff We have engaged Government on the arbitrary electricity tariff charged consumers. Our representatives in the Electricity Tariff Committee found that the multi-year tariff order (MYTO) was based on some strange assumptions. These are the inflation rate; Exchange rate of the naira to the United States Dollar standing at N383.8; inflation rate in the United States of 1.5 per cent; price of gas for generation at $2.50/MMBtu. We cannot accept these strange and fluid criteria in the electricity tariff regime. The same thing in the propose increase in the fuel pump price. We will not accept any increase.  Industrialisation / small scale enterprises (SMEs) The collapse of the industrial sector is the reason for the plague of mass unemployment, poverty and insecurity ravaging our country. Industrialisation is the key to the overall growth of the national economy. Report has it that millions of companies have closed shops in Nigeria between 2009 and 2021, due to harsh operating environment.The surviving ones are described as ailing. For instance, there were over 10 textile mills between Oshodi and Apapa in Lagos. Dunlop, Michelin, Peugeot used to be here. Why did these companies leave? Similarly, according to report, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) drive the economy and creates over 85 per cent jobs in most advanced countries, especially Europe. It is different in Nigeria. Businesses are killed at infancy. Here, the government makes so much noise about job creation but rather than help businesses to grow, agencies of government stifle the SMEs through multiple taxation – leaving the economy and Nigerians strangulated and impoverished. The government at all levels must, as of urgency, relax its grip on business owners.  Debt burden Nigeria is saddled with a huge debt stock. Close to 80 per cent of the revenue from the Federation Account goes to the servicing of the debts accumulated by the Federal Government alone. The sordid story is the same in many states like Kaduna with very huge debt stock. Currently, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has granted over N10 trillion ways and means advances to the Federal Government. The loan portfolio far exceeds what the statutes of the CBN allows her to do. We understand that in this context, the Debt Management Office (DMO) wants to propose issuing of securities to cover the local debt stock. This measure would only enable the Government to borrow more money. Like all external funding, Nigeria’s unending borrowing comes with stiff conditionalities. Our country has increasingly become a high-risk borrower. One conditionality is the further devaluation of the national currency. A definite implication of the borrowing policy has been the inflationary pressure on the economy as every significant rise in domestic debt has led to higher pressures on the local currency, transaction cost of doing business and wiping of the gains of the minimum wage with increased cost of living. All this hurts most Nigerians, especially workers as well as the productive private sector.