The World Health Organization (WHO) has validated China’s Sinovac COVID-19 vaccine, otherwise known as CoronaVac for emergency use. It noted that aside from having easy storage requirements, the vaccine has an efficacy of preventing symptomatic disease in 51 percent of those vaccinated, and prevented severe COVID-19 and hospitalisation in 100 percent of the studied population. The WHO therefore recommended the vaccine for use in adults 18 years and older, in a two-dose schedule with a spacing of two to four weeks. It, however, does not recommend it for the upper age limit (60 years and above). It urged countries using the vaccine in older age groups to conduct safety and effectiveness monitoring to verify the expected impact and contribute to making the recommendation more robust for all countries. According to a statement by the United Nations global health body, “The WHO today validated the Sinovac-CoronaVac COVID-19 vaccine for emergency use, giving countries, funders, procuring agencies and communities the assurance that it meets international standards for safety, efficacy and manufacturing. The vaccine is produced by the Beijing-based pharmaceutical company Sinovac.” The WHO Assistant-Director General for Access to Health Products, Dr Mariângela Simão, according to the statement, said: “The world desperately needs multiple COVID-19 vaccines to address the huge access inequity across the globe. “We urge manufacturers to participate in the COVAX Facility, share their knowhow and data and contribute to bringing the pandemic under control.” WHO’s Emergency Use Listing (EUL) is a prerequisite for COVAX Facility vaccine supply and international procurement. It also allows countries to expedite their own regulatory approval to import and administer COVID-19 vaccines. The statement added: “The EUL assesses the quality, safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines, as well as risk management plans and programmatic suitability, such as cold chain requirements. The assessment is performed by the product evaluation group, composed by regulatory experts from around the world and a Technical Advisory Group (TAG), in charge of performing the risk-benefit assessment for an independent recommendation on whether a vaccine can be listed for emergency use and, if so, under which conditions. “In the case of the Sinovac-CoronaVac vaccine, the WHO assessment included on-site inspections of the production facility. “The Sinovac-CoronaVac product is an inactivated vaccine. Its easy storage requirements make it very manageable and particularly suitable for low-resource settings. “WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) has also completed its review of the vaccine. On the basis of available evidence, WHO recommends the vaccine for use in adults 18 years and older, in a two-dose schedule with a spacing of two to four weeks. Vaccine efficacy results showed that the vaccine prevented symptomatic disease in 51 percent of those vaccinated and prevented severe COVID-19 and hospitalization in 100 percent of the studied population. “Few older adults (over 60 years) were enrolled in clinical trials, so efficacy could not be estimated in this age group. Nevertheless, WHO is not recommending an upper age limit for the vaccine because data collected during subsequent use in multiple countries and supportive immunogenicity data suggest the vaccine is likely to have a protective effect in older persons. There is no reason to believe that the vaccine has a different safety profile in older and younger populations. WHO recommends that countries using the vaccine in older age groups conduct safety and effectiveness monitoring to verify the expected impact and contribute to making the recommendation more robust for all countries.”