The joint International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), Federal Government and Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) 2nd Supervision Mission to the Livelihood Improvement Family Enterprises Project in the Niger Delta (LIFE-ND) has commended the achievements made by the project. The IFAD Nigeria Country Program Manager, Mr.  Patrick Habamenshi gave the commendation when the team inspected incubation centres spanning across different communities in Delta, Bayelsa and Ondo states where youths are undergoing training on different agricultural enterprises. Habamenshi said he was particularly impressed at the performance of the incubatees and the way the agricultural potentials of the youths in the communities were being harnessed by the project. He noted that the project was designed to address the challenges of youth restiveness and other social vices in the Niger Delta region. “We are very pleased with everything we are seeing at the incubation centres. When the federal government of Nigeria was thinking about the project with the Niger Delta Development Commission, they were looking at finding activities for young people who might otherwise go and find themselves in trouble, “ he said. Echoing similar sentiments, the Director Project Coordinating Unit, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Dr Bright Wategire said LIFE-ND project was gradually delivering on the goals and mandate of the project. “We have gone to incubation sites where we saw incubatees under training and based on what we saw, we believe the project is going on as planned, and on a long run the project will deliver a number of youths out of joblessness into something profitable,” he noted. A beneficiary of the project in Bayelsa state, Miss Ruth Forcebry stated that her joy knows no bounds as an incubatee because it has afforded her the skill and knowledge of becoming a successful agripreneur. “I know now how to feed fish, how to care for fish, I learnt how to write a business plan and I can boldly say I can now manage a fish farm,” she added. The National Programme Coordinator, LIFE-ND, Engr. Sanni Abiodun who also commended the incubators and incubatees said the project intervention had provided opportunities for employment and income generation in its participating states. The LIFE-ND project funded by IFAD is aimed at enhancing income, food security and job creation for rural youths within the age bracket of 18-35 years and women headed household with children below 15 years through the incubation model in Niger Delta states of Abia, Bayelsa, Edo, Delta, Ondo, Cross River, Imo, Akwa Ibom and Rivers.