Prince Lekan Fadina, Managing Director/CEO, Knowledge Hub Nigeria, has been appointed into the Global Board of Directors of the Knowledge for Development Partnership (K4DP). Justifying Fadina’s appointment, Andreas Brandner, Managing Director of K4DP and the chairman of the Board of Directors, in an official press statement said the board is delighted to welcome him even as he expressed hope that his inclusion would help propel the Partnership to greater heights. According to him, K4DP along with its partners from across the world has developed a global agenda for knowledge development with partners cutting across governments, businesses, academia, civil societies and more. “K4DP is linking education and research with action and practice. We envisage that the post COVID-19 and beyond require international transdisciplinary research, knowledge management, innovation and creativity for the digital transformation,” he said. The K4DP is a nonprofit, nongovernmental organisation established under Austrian law the Palais des Nations, Geneva, on April 2017, with the sole objective to promote the advancement of peaceful wealthy, sustainable and inclusive knowledge societies, has a 15-member Board of Directors led by Brandner with members drawn from Netherlands, Spain, Austria, United Arab Emirate, Togo, USA, Uganda, United Kingdom, among others. In recent times, the group has been involved in promoting knowledge as an essential resource and an indispensable prerequisite for the development of societies all over the world. The Partnership has helped in the advancement of knowledge sciences in the global ecosystem serving universal humanity through the School of Knowledge Sciences, offering outstanding academic, research agenda linked with the SDGs and teaching with global faculty working at close partnership with UNESCO, UNDP and the United Nations University. An alumnus of Harvard University Graduate School, United States of America, South-West London College, South-East University, London, Sundrige Management Centre, UK, British Institute of Finance and Investment, England, who comes to the Board with a wealth of experience having served in senior positions in the organised private sector and public sector including General Manager at the Nigeria Stock Exchange, Chairman, Technical Team Presidential Initiative on Cassava Export, Consultant, African Business Roundtable, former President and Chairman, Harvard Business School Association of Nigeria (HBSAN) to mention a few. Fadina, a trained economist, academic, environmentalist and entrepreneur, amongst others, is currently Executive Director, Centre for Investment, Sustainable Development, Management and Environment (CISME), Fellow, Institute of Sustainable Development Practitioners, Institute of Management Consultant, Institute of Stockbrokers of Nigeria, Director, Centre for Trade Practitioners, Fellow, World Innovation Foundation, etc. 