World’s largest manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, Hero MotoCorp, has unveiled a reinvigorated strategy to invest in its Nigerian business and build a dominant market presence. It hopes to use its Nigerian business to leverage other markets in the West African sub-region. The New Delhi (India)-headquartered company has also launched a new motorcycle, ‘Hunter’ that is developed specially for the Nigerian market. Head, Global Business, Hero MotoCorp, Sanjay Bhan said Nigeria was a key market for the group, central to its growth plans in the region. He said the development of a Nigeria-specific motorcycle, ‘Hunter’, was a demonstration of the commitment of the group to the country. “Going forward too, we strive to bring our globally renowned products to Nigeria. Along with our partner KewalramChanrai Group, we are confident of delighting the customers and driving the market with our world-class products and services,” Bhan said. The diversified KewalramChanrai Group is the exclusive distributor of Hero MotoCorp in Nigeria. With its extensive experience in the automotive sector spanning several decades, KewalramChanrai Group will play an integral role in Hero MotoCorp’s growth plans in Nigeria. According to the growth plan, Hero MotoCorp – along with KewalramChanrai Group – is aiming to aggressively grow its presence in Nigeria and cater to the continuous demand for great quality products at affordable prices. The new strategy underscores Hero MotoCorp’s commitment towards Nigeria and to providing customers with an appealing and comprehensive range of products across the country. Managing Director, Automotive Division, KewalramChanrai Group, Anil Sahgal, said it was  gladdening to be the exclusive partner of Hero MotoCorp, the world’s largest manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, in Nigeria. According to him, with the group expertise in the market and Hero MotoCorp’s global excellence, the partners will provide the best products and services to customers in Nigeria. “The initial feedback for the Hunter has been exciting. As our bikes travel across the entire country, they will definitely excite the customers. Our aim is to significantly increase our presence in the market this year,” Sahgal said. Sahgal described ‘Hunter’ as an unstoppable machine that offers customers modern technology with the best mileage, longer engine life, and a comfortable long seat. He said the ‘Hunter’ is available across Nigeria. “The ‘Hunter’ also comes with an industry-first 12-month or 75,000 km Engine Warranty. The motorcycle’s engine has been extensively tested for performance in Nigerian conditions. Hero MotoCorp is also planning to have 3S outlets in 20 towns across Nigeria and will have a pan country presence through dealers and parts distributors. In addition, an extensive network of 5000+ trained technicians across Nigeria, will ensure easy access to service and parts for all customers. “The ‘Hunter’ motorcycle offers the most durable inclined engine with Advance Oil Circulation Technology, Highest Fuel Efficiency, and Triple Air Filtration for longer engine life. With reinforced chassis structure the motorcycles also offer a stronger rear shock absorber, rubber padded gear shift lever with all down gear pattern, comfortable flat thick seat, and a flat rear carrier. “The ‘Hunter’ comes with a four-stroke, OHC, Air Cooled engine – delivering a remarkable power output of 7.4 BHP @ 8000 RPM and max torque 7.95 NM @ 4500 RPM.  The ‘Hunter’s engine is equipped with a Trochoid-type crankshaft-driven oil pump which ensures a constant oil flow rate of 3.14 Litres/minute. The internal oil galleries are designed to secure and protect oil flow without any hindrance. The area near the combustion chamber has less height difference to ensure high oil flow and optimum cooling. This advanced oil circulation technology ensures better cooling and lubrication of the engine. “The ‘Hunter’ has three filter elements to avoid dust entry into the combustion chamber leading to higher engine life. The first is the air deflector ensuring clean air entry, whilst the second and third are the primary and secondary filters made from Polyurethane foam that absorb finer dust particles ensuring only clean air enters the carburetor,” Sahgal said. He outlined other features of the new motorcycle to include an extra-long comfortable seat, strong and long rear carrier, strong double-cradle frame, USB port for on-the-go charging, bigger 18″ wheels for added comfort, step adjustable rear suspension for a smoother ride, smooth all down gear shift pattern, and a bigger footrest for comfortable sitting. According to him, providing utmost safety, the motorcycle features a metallic bash plate protecting the engine on rough roads, a combi lock to protect the vehicle from theft and tyre pressure monitoring indicator to prevent deflation and puncture.