Shareholders of Linkage Assurance Plc have commended the Board and Management for the company’s performance in 2020 despite challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic. The shareholders, who spoke with excitement during the company’s 27th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, applauded the company leadership for the dividend and bonus in a year that capacity and strength of businesses managers were tested. National Leader, Independent Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Sir Sunny Nwosu; Chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria, Boniface Okezie; Shareholder, Nona Awoh; President, Noble Shareholders Association, Mathew Akinlade, among others, noted that the decision of the company to pay dividend and bonus issue at this critical time underscores the value it attaches to her investors. They also noted that this is despite  that the industry was going through a recapitalisation, and requiring more money to meet the regulatory requirement. The meeting, which was hybrid, in compliance with the government COVID-19 restrictions, gave approval to capitalisation of N2 billion retained earnings for bonus issue of two shares for five shares held by members of the company; as well as dividend payout of N500 million, translating to 5kobo per share. The company’s Chairman, Chief Joshua Fumudoh, responding to the shareholders on their recapitalisation plans, assured that Linkage Assurance had put in place strategies to recapitalise the company. According to him, given the performance, and the capitalisation of N2 billion at this meeting, they were sure they would deliver the company when the recapitalisation came up again. On the future, he said: “As we gradually commence recovery from the effects of the global COVID-19 pandemic, we will tread cautiously into 2021 in our risk acceptance and operations, in line with our strategic roadmap. We shall continue the repositioning strategy aimed at transforming your company to that desired position in the insurance market. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Daniel Braie, explained that the company would continue to redefine its strategies to ensure better performance and increased value for the shareholders. Braie said: “We will continue to refine our strategy in line with the political, economic, sociological, and technology changes in the industry, particularly with impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the business landscape. “The company will continue to develop innovative products, alternative channels of distribution, and strategic initiatives that will enable us to achieve our corporate goal and objectives. With a medium-to-long term perceptive, we believe that we will benefit from growth with these initiatives. The on-going rebranding embarked upon by the company is also part of the strategic initiatives to re-position the company. “Also, the company in its financial year 2020 result impressed the market, recording gross written premium of N8.3 billion, an increase of 28 percent YoY from N6.5 billion in 2019, while total assets also rose by 18 percent YoY in 2020 to N33.9 billion, compared to N28.7 billion in 2019. The company also witnessed significant improvement in other indices, with underwriting profit growing by 102 percent, from N0.4 billion in 2019 to N0.8 billion at the end of 2020. “Its Profit Before Tax during the period under review was N2.5 billion, compared to N1.3 billion in 2019 representing 89 percent YoY growth, while Profit After Tax was N2.4 billion, increasing by 65 percent from N1.5 billion in 2019.”