The Chartered Institute of Forensic And Certified Fraud Examiners  of Nigeria has called on the National Assembly to pass a Bill on its establishment to enable it tackle illicit capital flow, fraud and corruption. Speaking during a media parley in Lagos, Registrar/CEO, Chartered Institute of Forensic and Certified Fraud Examiners  of Nigeria, Rachel Ibi-Kuzhu, said the group, which has over 2,000 members and others participating in its training nationwide, has what it takes to empower fraud examiners with the right knowledge for optimal  performance. The Public Hearing on the Bill for the Establishment of Chartered Institute of Forensic and Certified Fraud Examiners held in Abuja. Ibi-Kuzhu explained that  fraud examiner or forensic accountant looks for the minute details of fraud not just accounts but also the diverse ramification of fraud with the aim to, ultimately, find the evidence that will stand the test of time and nail the suspect. She said the group has an office in Abuja. “Our office is in Abuja, and also across the country. We train and educate people that forensic is not just about forensic accounting, it is goes beyond accounting field. Also,  the Chairman, Professional Training and Standards of the  institute, Prof. Michael Ayeni, said his role is to ensure that members that come to the institute were trained. “That means that the quality of staff members is up to standards, and we do not just engage people without proper training. In forensics, we deal with standards, quality and integrity. You cannot be a professional forensic expert without first professing what you can do with integrity and commitment to the job,” he said . Ayeni said the minimal standard is that a prospective member must be a graduate from a recognised tertiary institution in Nigeria, or abroad. “Any discipline is allowed, because forensic cuts across all professions. We have engineering forensics, medical forensic. Forensic is someone’s ability to go beyond what is ordinary. That is why it is forensic,” he added.