The Federal Government has concluded arrangements to establish emerging technology centres across the country. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami who disclosed this, said the centres would further accelerate the process to achieve a digital Nigeria as soon possible. Delivering his Keynote at the Digital Africa Annual Conference, Dr Pantami said the present administration has put strategies in place to facilitate a digitalised economy capable of creating employment opportunities and wealth for the country. The Minister who addressed the conference virtually stated that this year’s theme, “Building a New Africa With Artificial Intelligence And Blockchain” could not have come at a better time considering the efforts of the government to boost emerging technologies in Nigeria. He said: “The seventh pillar of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) focuses exclusively on developing emerging technologies among the populace. “One of the ways of achieving this has been through the establishment of the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (NCAIR) and two virtual institutions currently building capacities in Artificial Intelligence, (AI) Blockchain technology, Internet of Things (IoT), Cloud Computing, Robotics and various other related fields. “The development of a National Policy on Emerging Technologies, as part of NDEPS, which will further support the establishment of Emerging Technology Centres in Nigeria is underway”. The Minister commended the Chairman of Digital Africa, Dr Evans Woherem for his consistency, commitment and support for a Digital Nigeria. He further noted that Emerging Technologies have the potential for world domination and Nigeria aims to take advantage of its vast potential to become a leading nation in Africa.risis,” he explained. On aflatoxin mitigation, and Suleiman said the FAO in Nigeria received a request from the government of Nigeria through the minister to support technically in the mitigation effort of aflatoxin. “As we all are aware aflatoxin is one of the major constraints that is responsible for the rejection of Nigerian products particularly cereals and other defined crops in the EU Market”, he noted. He said the Minister of Agriculture has set up an inter-ministerial technical working committee or working group to develop modalities and actions that will fast-track the reversal of this rejection by the international market. “So specifically, this project would work very closely with the relevant technical departments in the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to operationalise the recommendations and other technical actions needed to improve the management of aflatoxin in those crops. “So essentially, these are the two projects and the implementation would run for the biennium, which is 24 month normally beginning from June of to June 2023”, he added. In his remarks, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Ernest Umakhihe, said “we want to promote agriculture Nationally We commend FAO for their support the aflatoxin issue has been worrisome and the Technical Cooperation Programmes (TCP )will mitigate the effect and the hand in hand initiatives is a good program”.