Title: The Morning After; A guide for Media Reporting and Prevention of Suicide in Nigeria Author:    Olufemi Oluwatayo and Martins Ifijeh Reviewer:  Medinat Kanabe Pagination:  138  Over the years, I have come across books that are focused on helping journalists report well, many of which are not different from what was taught in school unlike many professionals that have special books focusing on particular topics. When I first picked up my copy of The Morning After; A guide for Media Reporting and Prevention of Suicide in Nigeria, I thought it would be one of those regular books on journalism until I read the preface and found myself reading to the end.  The main focus of the book is framing of suicide reporting by media houses in Nigeria and the Importance of health journalists in reporting suicide stories. The writers who seem to have followed the trends of news reporting for over a period of 11 years noticed that media houses report suicide stories giving explicit details that seem to glamourise the act of suicide. The duo mentioned that online media has become a big challenge because most of the people prone to commiting suicide are found there. “It is understandable that a report about a completed suicide captures readers’ attention because of the tragic and emotion-arousing nature; thus, increasing readership.” The book notes that suicide is a very sensitive issue to report and if not well reported may lead to potentially serious consequences. Because the media shapes out thinking and behaviour, the book warns that media practitioners should see suicide as a public health issue and reports in ways that proffer solution. The second chapter talks about how common suicide is, its causes and the commonest methods of suicide in Nigeria. It brings to the fore factors that may lead to suicide and its attempt. The book also talks about ways to prevent suicide and the role of media in prevention of suicide not forgetting to mention why media may report suicide the way they do. The authors’ major assumption is that suicide is classed as a crime under the Nigeria criminal code. The book explains that victims of suicide attempt are usually treated as outcast and suffer adverse psychological effects. “These treatments are completely dehumanising when placed in the context of their experience and situation that led to the act,” it states. Giving instances of suicide cases in Lagos, where victims were arrested and jailed, the writers say that the cases reveal the harrowing experiences of individuals and adverse impact of going through the court process, which could further affect their mental health. The authors write about arguments that support the criminal code but states that these arguments should be weighed against prevailing evidences that prove that majority of the people who attempt suicide are mentally unwell or going through a life crisis and need care and support. The chapter that follows talks about the dos and don’ts of reporting suicide stories; analyses reports of suicide cases, pointing out ways that they could have been written differently; impact of suicide on families as well as how journalists can prevent suicide from their reporting styles. Writing the forward, Dr Femi Olugbile, former Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, and renowned psychiatrist says sometimes people do a lot of work in service to humanity in the area of health but they get frustrated when it seem like the public is not aware or in appreciation of their efforts. This happens because they have not carried the fourth estate of the realm in their dealings. According to him, this leaves a gulf of communication and understanding between executors of the project and the presumed beneficiaries. “Many well intentioned campaigns including the drive to expand uptake of health insurance as a means to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) have floundered or achieved sub-optimal impact to date due to inadequate engagement of health journalists,” says Olugbile. The book is a must have for all media houses in Nigeria and a must read for all journalists especially, health, crime and fresh reporters. It is available on Amazon. The authors hope that the book will stimulate conversations about the phenomenon of suicide and lead to the adoption of a suicide report guideline for journalists in Nigeria. 