Elders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in 10 local government councils in Oke Ogun area of Oyo on Tuesday endorsed Professor Adeolu Akande for governor. They promised to mobilise for his victory at the primary and general elections in 2023. The elders made the resolution in Ilero, Kajola Local Government, after a stakeholders meeting presided over by Alhaji Abu Gbadamosi. The meeting also resolved not to vie for the chairmanship of the APC in the forthcoming congress of the party. The stakeholders noted that Oyo North Senatorial District has produced the chairman of the party for the past 10 years in the person of Chief Akin Oke, adding it is the turn of other zones to produce his successor. The meeting, which also had former Commissioners, former House of Assembly members, former local government chairmen and former party officials, commended members of the party for trooping out en masses to register in the last party membership exercise commended the zone for coming out with the highest number of registered members in the party. The Elders advised members of the party to brace up for the forthcoming congress of the party at a date yet to be announced by the national headquarters. They also advised party members in the zone to welcome gubernatorial aspirants from other zone noting that they should politely inform them of the resolution of the zone to produce the next governor of Oyo State. The Elders also resolved to reach out to other zones of the state to solicit their support for their candidate. “We cannot do it alone and we need the support of all parts of the state to actualize the project,” the Elders noted. Party elders at the meeting included Chief Goke Oyetunji, former Senatorial Chairman of the APC in Oyo North, Dr Ahmed Ayinla,Chief Tijani Balogun,Chief James Adeleke, Chief James Oke, Chief Aderoju Egbedokun, Alhaji Zarayiyau Mustapha, Hon. John Olalerun and Alhaji Waheed Adesina.Akinlotan, Dr Mathew Oyedokun, Mr Azeez Bonuola,former Commissioner for Special Duties and Mr Dejo Adebisi, former Special Assistant to Governor Abiola Ajimobi. Also at the meeting were former chairmen of local government councils including Iseyin, Kajola ,Iwajowa ,Itesiwaju, Olorunsogo, Orelope, Irepo and Iwajowa local government councils.