International Albinism Awareness Day was celebrated worldwide last Sunday, with albinos in Nigeria asking for more government and community care and protection, which every Nigerian is entitled to. To hundreds of albinos and advocacy experts who gathered at the Adeyemi Bero Hall in Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, albinism is not a death sentence because albinos are normal human beings that can live normal lives and achieve everything in life – just like every other person.  That was the thrust of the message during this year’s albinism day, which was celebrated with the theme, “strength beyond all odds.” According to Onome Akinlolu Majaro Foundation (OAM) and the Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs (LASODA), which organised the celebration, children and adults with albinism in Nigeria still face multiple challenges, which restrict their lives. Co-founder, OAM, Mrs. Onome Majaro, said challenges that inhibit albinos’ routines include visual impairments, extreme vulnerability to skin infections and cancer, since they lack melanin in their skin. As a result, many die from skin cancer before they are 40. Those living with this hereditary genetic condition that reduces melanin pigment in skin, hair and eyes, say stigma, violence, superstition and killing have greatly lessened. However, abuses have not been eliminated, as many Nigerians still dwell in superstitious mindset about people with albinism (PWAs), Mrs Majaro lamented. “There are a whole lot of myths and misconceptions about albinism and PWAs such as: PWAs don’t eat salt; don’t get married; only see at night; that their blood and body parts can cure HIV and AIDS and also make you rich; this is why they are hunted like animals in East Africa. “These are all untrue. PWAs live healthy lifestyles and make healthy choices too. Yes, due to the ultra-violet rays from the sun which cause skin cancer, PWAs are advised to stay off the sun or ensure they have proper clothing which covers the exposed parts. They are encouraged to use umbrellas, wear hats, sunglasses apply sunscreen to protect their skins. In obeying these directives, they continue to power, despite these visible limitations.” Albinism, in any of its forms, is the result of heritable mutations that lead to defective melanocytes, unable to properly synthesise melanin and to distribute it through dermal tissues. Simply put, albinism is the inability of the skin cells to produce enough melanin in the eye, skin and the hair, thereby making persons with albinism vulnerable to the harmful effect of the ultra-violet rays (UVR) from the sun. Nigeria has one of the highest prevalence rates in Africa, with over 6 million PWAs. It is estimated that hundreds of PWAs face discrimination and stigmatisation annually. Mrs Majaro, who said many parents of PWAs suffer the inability to afford basic things albinos need for survival,  explained that albinism is a genetic condition that affects people throughout the world, regardless of race, ethnicity or gender. “Very many, including children and women, are extremely vulnerable, isolated and subject to abuse and violence,”she added. Over the years, OAM has been able to galvanise more PWAs to rise and shine and be proud of their complexion and see beyond the complexion.  “Since 2015, the Foundation has spent millions in helping thousands of PWAs both directly and indirectly to become the best version of themselves. From empowerment, education, awareness, confidence building, provision of sunscreen and medicated sunglasses to organising several for on issues concerning PWAs, we have invested in improving a lot of many and our records show,” Majaro said. However, since the pandemic started in 2020, OAM’s interventions have reduced since 100 per cent of its funding comes from the founders. “This has impeded the extent of our impact in the area of empowerment and scholarships, but we have remained resolute in social campaigns. We are open to external donors and grants from those who share our vision,” Majaro said. Also,  a director from the Lagos State Office for Disability Affairs, LASODA,Oguntoye Oyewole, who noted that the LASODA was mandated to fight against discrimination and abuse against people with disability in the state, observed that Lagos does not discriminate against PWAs as many of them have been employed by the state. Through a fund created for disabled people in the state, LASODA has been able to support PWAs by distributing sunshades, umbrellas,   creams and others to enable them to maintain their skin and eyesight, he said. “We are celebrating albinism today, talking about stigma or discrimination against albinism. There is a law in Lagos that prohibits discrimination and anyone short of the law will be dealt with. People with albinism have been included in the fund. We gave 250 slots for their employment and PWAs are not left out. On a yearly basis, Lagos State has a fund called disability fund to purchase different assisting devices and that includes that of people with albinism, some of these pills cost as much as N60,000 per tube. We gave out umbrellas, protective glasses, and sunlight creams to ensure that the heat in the sun rays does not penetrate to their skin,” he added. The Director, Programmes and Logistics, OAM Foundation, Mr. Ugochukwu Orji, said the family of every PWA has a greater role to play in ensuring that PWAs celebrate their strengths beyond all odds and reach their potential. Orji said parents should be encouraged to love their children and build their self-esteem to achieve their potential in life. Mrs Majaro, also a PWA, said she found strength in her parents’ support while growing up. “My parents always treated us as one and they helped us in our confidence building.  Schools must put adequate measures that would ensure conducive learning for PWAs. Teachers should be patient with them and encourage them to learn using new methods that put less stress on the eyes. Society must see PWAs first as humans above anything.” Another PWA, Mr Chimezie Udechukwu, stated: “Our parents treated us normal, no special attention; they taught that the only way we can adapt to the challenges and discrimination that come with albinism is by being raised like a normal child. So, when we experience bully, name-calling, our parents told us that that is what life is going to give us. You don’t expect us to raise you weak; I learn how to cook, fetch water do all the normal housework from my mother.” In his presentation, Dr. Folakemi Cole-Adeife, a Consultant Physician and Dermatologist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), who explained that albinism is an inherited disorder, said it is estimated that one in 17,000 people have albinism worldwide while only one in 10,000 people are affected in Nigeria. She advised PWAs, whether adults and children, to pay more attention to their skin because virtually everyone with albinism faces a risk for skin cancer and visual impairment. “There is no therapy or cure for albinism, as it is a genetic condition. Males and females are affected equally.  People with albinism have normal and above-average intelligence. We must continue to fight for the respect of fundamental human rights of persons with albinism, underlining the importance of their empowerment and full, equal and meaningful participation in all spheres of life.”