President Muhammadu Buhari has ordered troops of Operation Hadin Kai (formerly Lafiya Dole) to pep up their onslaught against Boko Haram and other terrorist in the Northeast. He said they should not relent until peace is restored in the region and all Internally Displaced People (IDPs) are resettled in their homes. The President also answered the troops that new equipment which had just been procured, would be deployed for their use and commended them for being steadfast. He spoke during his visit to Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. The state is the epicenter of the Boko Haram activities. Apart from assessing the security operation and situation, he also inaugurated many projects undertaken by Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum, whom he praised for his performance despite the security challenge. The President also promised that resources will be devoted to take care of the families of soldiers and other security agents killed in action while defending the country. He stated this during his visit to the troops. He said the country is indebted to those fighting the terrorists on the battle field and to the memories of those who paid the supreme price. President Buhari commended the military and security agencies for the synergy that translated into successes in restoring peace and order. ”I am particularly happy to note the increasing understanding and cooperation within the military, as well as the inter-agency cooperation in the fight against the terrorists and other criminal elements in the North East. ”The outcome of this synergy is evidenced by the successes recorded in the ongoing Operation TURA TAKAIBANGO which has so far degraded the insurgents’ capabilities in the Timbuktu Triangle, Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad Region. “While I commend your resilience, let me remind you that there is still a lot of work to be done, to completely restore peace to the North East, stem the activities of armed bandits in the North West and North Central, as well as deal with other security challenges across the country. “You must therefore remain steadfast and see this war to a conclusive end.  In doing so, you must rely on inter-agency cooperation, and strengthen your cohesion with the troops of neighbouring Republics of Cameroon, Chad and Niger in our collective fight against the terrorists, under the auspices of the Multinational Joint Task Force. This will consolidate our efforts and facilitate the speedy return of peace and stability to the region,” the President said. President Buhari also interacted with some of the injured soldiers assuring them that the government was fully committed to their recovery and welfare. Commander of Theatre Operations HADIN KAI, Maj Gen. Felix Omoigui, assured troops of the President’s confidence and commitment to their welfare, especially in bringing the war to a conclusive end. Governors of Borno and Yobe State Zulum and Mai Bunu, Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, Chief of Army Staff, Maj. Gen Farouk Yahaya, Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Gambo, Chief of Staff, Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao and National Security Adviser, Maj Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd) accompanied the President. The President added: “While I am happy to return home, I am not happy that this visit is not a normal, peacetime home-coming. I am here today first and foremost to appraise the security situation in Borno State and the North East region in order to move full speed ahead and conclude the work of restoring permanent peace to the region.” President Muhammadu Buhari praised  Zulum after  commissioning seven, out of 556 capital projects delivered by the governor in two years. Other projects commissioned by the President include the Borno State University, in which the Zulum administration completed the senate building, constructed two large hostels with 150 rooms for 1,200 students; constructed 34 units of duplexes and bungalows for Professors, senior and intermediate staff; constructed seven kilometers of road and drainage network and undertook landscaping works across the University.  Major infrastructural works were earlier done by the Kashim Shettima administration, which established the University. The President also commissioned two mega-size Government Day Technical Secondary Schools in, Njimtilo and Goni Kachallari and a higher Islamic School, near the Shehu’s palace, all of which have 60 air-conditioned classrooms for at least 2,400 students; vocational workshops, laboratories for sciences and ICT, auditoriums and sporting facilities. Zulum has built 16 of such schools across Borno. Also commissioned were Abbaganaram Maternal Healthcare Centre, which has 50-bed spaces, theatres, diagnostic equipment, blood banks and laboratories. It was one replicated in Gwange. The President also commissioned roads and drainages constructed in Jiddari polo and first phase of 10,000 resettlement houses he had approved for Borno State, from which 4,000 have been completed.