Sickle cell is regarded as one of the world’s deadliest blood-related diseases. It is an inherited ailment that can be transmitted from parents to children. It is transmitted through the coming together of parents with either the AS or SS chromosomes. When both parties secrets the S chromosome, the children born out of that union will, in most cases turn out to be what many regarded as a sicklier. This explains why in many societies today, intending couples are required to take a test to find out if they are carriers of the chromosomes. In most cases, intending couples with the AS or SS chromosome are advised not to get married. According to available records, Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) is today the most common blood disorder in the world and requires daily care for those suffering from it. The disease can cause major problems and long-term disability. Interestingly, Nigeria is believed to lead the rest of the world in the number of cases of sickle cell disease (SCD). Available statistics revealed that an estimated 150,000 babies are born annually in Nigeria with the disease which is considered as one of the heredity disorder in the human race. Statistics also revealed that 70-90 per cent die before age 5, while only a small portion of affected infants and children in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) reach adolescence. The Sickle Cell Foundation of Nigeria says sickle cell disorder remains the commonest inherited disorder in the world with three-quarters of cases occurring in Africa. The foundation said: “In Nigeria, where it affects two out of every hundred children born, it causes suffering for innumerable patients and their families. However, despite its importance, until now there has been no dedicated sickle cell centre in Africa. This is partly because the very scale of the problem makes it difficult to see how to start.” Unlike many other ailments in the country, there is very little awareness about sickle cell, with many of those suffering from the disease often considered in many parts of the country as suffering from witchcraft. It is however believed that about 25 per cent of adults in Nigeria have the sickle cell trait. It is also believed to be more prevalent in countries like Nigeria, Cameroon, the Republic of Congo, Gabon and Ghana. In Nigeria, where it is believed to affect two out of every hundred children born, systematic screening is not a common practice and severe complications usually cause diagnosis instead. Experts believe that routine screenings could save many lives and increase the quality of life for those living with the disease. While no cure exists, early detection may prevent serious complications. There also exists no legal framework for the treatment, prevention, control, management of and research on sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorder in Nigeria. A member of the House of Representatives, Bamidele Salam, believes that Nigerians suffering from the ailment deserve quality attention like others. He is not happy about the large number of Nigerians suffering from the ailment or who are possible carriers of the disease, especially because Nigeria remain the number one sickle cell endemic country in Africa and the country with the highest-burden of sickle cell disorder in the world. Salam, who represents Ede North, Ede South/Egbedore/Ejigbo federal constituency of Osun State, said it was unfortunate that despite the large number of Nigerians carrying the gene, there is no single legal framework in Nigeria for the prevention, control and treatment of the disease in the country. He said: “A sickle cell disease is a group of blood disorder typically inherited from a person’s parents. The most common type is known as sickle cell anaemia. Sickle cell anaemia is a condition in which there are not enough healthy red blood cells to transport adequate oxygen through the body. This leads to a rigid, sickle-like shape under certain circumstances. These sickle-shaped cells can stick to blood vessel walls blocking the flow of oxygen to organs, causing excruciating pains, popularly called crises.” As a way of addressing this, the lawmaker wants the government to set up an agency that will be responsible for coordinating research and treatment of the ailment and other blood disorder in the country. The agency when he established it, he said would aim at improving the lives of people suffering from Sickle cell disease, recognise the disease as a serious and debilitating illness, and allocate new resources to monitoring, researching and treating it. For this, he has introduced a bill that seeks to formulate and implement policies, guidelines and strategies on sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders; facilitate the engagement of all tiers of government and all sectors on issues of sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders prevention, care and support. The bill will also advocate for the mainstreaming of sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders interventions into all sectors of the country; promote, improve and support research and learning in sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders, create awareness on sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders; protect patients’ rights including the right to humane treatment and freedom from abuse; and promote and coordinate partnerships and collaborations with national and international organisations. He said: “Despite being one of the most common generic and blood diseases, and the fact that we have known about it for several decades, Nigerians with Sickle cell disease continue to face a variety of barriers when trying to access care. Individuals with Sickle cell disease not only suffer from chronic, debilitating pains and are at the risk for other serious complications, many of them also lack access to the medications they need. It is not out of place to therefore allocate necessary resources to monitor, research and treat it. The proposed legislation marks a significant step forward in our efforts to combat sickle cell on all fronts- research, surveillance, prevention and treatment. We owe it to those suffering every day to do everything possible to find a cure.” But Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire does not see the need for any special agency that will be responsible for treatment and management of the ailment. The minister, who was represented at a public hearing on the bill by the Director in charge of Hospital Services in the Ministry, Adebimpe Adebiyi, said while the need to improve access to quality healthcare services cannot be overemphasized, the Department of Public Health in the Federal Ministry of Health which currently deals with non-communicable diseases should rather be strengthened to continue with the work which falls within its mandate. The lawmaker wants the agency to formulate and implement policies guidelines and strategies on sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders; facilitate the engagement of all tiers of government and all sectors on issues of sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders prevention, care and support; advocate for the mainstreaming of sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders interventions into all sectors of the country; promote, improve and support research and learning in sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders, and create awareness on sickle cell disease and other heritable blood disorders. The bill requires the government to engage in and encourage the prevention and control of the occurrence and spread of Sickle Cell Disease. “The agency, with the approval of the minister, is expected to accredit reputable public and private hospitals and medical clinics to act or function as accredited participants in the prevention, treatment, control and management of the disease in the Federation, and such accredited hospitals or medical clinics. These hospitals and clinic will be expected to serve as accredited centres for the provision of and provide medical treatment for the disease, advice, guidance and counselling on the causes, effects, prevention, control and management of the disease and blood genotype testing for members of the public free of cost or charge to such members of the public; dispense or administer to members of the public drugs for the prevention, control and management of the disease and keep, collate and transmit to the Agency, monthly or periodic records of persons who have undergone genotype test, genetic counselling and medical treatment for the disease. Such records shall include the names, age, addresses of the persons attended to, the dates of visit, dates of treatment, and the kind of and quantity of drugs administered as a result of the tests carried out,” said the draft.