The federal government must think outside the box, invent new strategies and be more proactive if it must succeed in the war against insurgency, renowned banker and public affairs analyst, Elder Steve Agbata has said. Lamenting the worsening insecurity in the land and the wanton destruction of lives and properties, Elder Steve Agbata said it is not enough to verbally assure Nigerians that their lives are safe but that government must show more eagerness in actually prosecuting the war and running the terrorists, bandits and sundry criminals out of the country. In a chat with our correspondent, Agbata who is a Fellow of the prestigious Chartered Institute of Loan and Risk Management of Nigeria maintained that the rising wave of armed robbery, kidnapping and banditry if not checked may drive the country down the path of war, insisting that a defeat for all criminal elements in the land is a task that must be done. While calling on the federal government to make adequate provisions for the military, police and other security agencies to enable them prosecute the anti-insurgency war, Agbata also enjoined Nigerians to always avail information to security agents particularly as it concerns the whereabouts of criminal elements. Without peace and security, the risk management experts explained that investment particularly from outside the shores of the country would be difficult to attract. This is so as the investor, in his words, always thinks about profit-making and if the environment is not conducive, no investor would bring anything to the table. Elder Steve Agbata said the President Buhari-led government must quickly and urgently think outside of the box in finding solutions to insecurity problems in the country. Elder Steve Agbata called on the Federal Government and the state governments to invest massively in job creation in order to stem the rising tide of unemployed citizens perpetuating criminal activities that make the nation grope in the throes of insecurity. According to Elder Steve Agbata, the frustration and despair among the youth were largely caused by chronic poverty and breakdown in social institutions. “The issue of insecurity, unemployment and extremism has many things to do with governance, over time. We must tackle our deep and widespread poverty. “If we limit government’s role under the erroneous assumption that government spending is intrinsically unproductive, then we tether ourselves to failure.” Elder Steve Agbata, aka eldersteveverified, called on the youths to give peace a chance while noting that violence has never solved any challenge facing mankind anywhere in the world. The federal government has been severely criticized for its approach to the war against insurgency, with some commentators argue that enough arms and ammunition have not been provided for the military engaged in the more than a decade war against the fundamentalist sect and their evil allies. However, President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to assure Nigerians that insurgents would be crushed adding recently that they would soon run out of luck; an assurance repeated by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo earlier in the week.