The governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has said that it is the people of the state, especially, constituents of Abia South Senatorial District that will determine his political fate in 2023. Ikpeazu will on May 29, 2023 hand over power to his successor from any of the three Senatorial Zones regardless of the political party that brings such person to power at the conclusion of a general election of the same year. Our correspondent gathered that with less than two years to the completion of Ikpeazu’s tenure as the governor of the state, many of his kinsmen and supporters have started making moves for Ikpeazu to run for the Abia South Senatorial seat (presently occupied by Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe) in the next general election regardless of the political party that he may wish to contest. It was also gathered that the body language of the incumbent Senator representing Abia South Senatorial zone and Senate Minority Leader, Enyinnaya Abaribe may not make it an easy sail for Ikpeazu to clinch the Abia South Senatorial ticket in 2023 as reports have it that Abaribe has interest going back to the senate or trading his current seat for Abia governorship ticket under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2023. Sources have it that Senator Abaribe who was ousted as the Deputy Governor of the State by his boss, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu over allegations of insubordination and among others have been aiming the Abia exalted seat over the years since he left the government unceremoniously. It was gathered that Abaribe’s quest to vie for the governorship or go back to the senate is posing a great challenge to the political future of Governor Ikpeazu who comes from the same local government and senatorial zone with Senator Abaribe. When confronted with the question about his political future in 2023 during an interactive session with journalists at the Governor’s lodge in Aba, Ikpeazu said “I have three options for 2023. The first is to return to the classroom to continue teaching. “Secondly, since I am now learning how to make shoes, I should be through with the training by then and open a shoe business. “Lastly, I would wait for my people to speak to me. For now, they are yet to speak and I can’t jump the gun.” Also responding to Senatorial zone the party is planning to cede the ticket of Governorship in 2023; an issue that is at the moment threatening the peace of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state, Ikpeazu said “I want to be a little bit selfish in this regard. “Whosoever that will be the governor of the state in 2023, will do an initial four years which is renewable after four years if Abia people agree. I will not share with his enthusiasm to become (the governor) by cutting short my tenure. I am still the governor. I want to talk about my tenure and not about anybody’s tenure.”