All is set for the forthcoming Kano State Economic and Diaspora Investment Summit (KEDIS 2021). KEDIS 2021 will be held in the ancient city of Kano. Director General, Kano State Investment Promotion Agency (Kaninvest) and Diaspora Hon. Hama Ali Aware said the agency has prepared for a successful summit. She assured all stakeholders that the summit would enhance economic activities and investment flow. According to her, the dinner hosted recently by Governor of Kano State, Dr. Abdullahi Ganduje, was to prepare grounds for the summit. “The dinner on Saturday was remarkably one of the key activities marking the preparation for the Kano Economic and Diaspora Investment Summit. The dinner session with investment stakeholders reaffirms Governor Ganduje’s commitment to ensure business entrepreneurs have a favourable environment for their businesses to thrive. “The resolve of the governor to ensure Kano State has a steady economic growth is commendable, as shown during the dinner session with key investors,” Aware said. She said Kaninvest has come up with strategies and policies that create the enabling environment for existing and new businesses to flourish, assuring that the agency will continue to facilitate and promote Kano State to ensure it attracts the right investors both local and foreign. “At Kaninvest, we have remained resolute in realising our mandate of attracting, facilitating and encouraging investments in Kano State. Within the short time of my assumption of duty, we have initiated policies and strategies that trigger expansion of our inflow of investment. This is done by creating the atmosphere for investments to thrive with ease,” Aware said. She added that the agency has created a new legal framework for public private partnership (PPP) policy for the mutual benefit of investors and the state. “We are also in the process of enacting a law to guide diaspora partnership and investment inflow. We have introduced aftercare services to our investors, which entails routine and spot checks on business operations, so as to prevent hitches due to activities from government or its agencies or even from other parties that government intervention maybe of remedy. “With the abundance of business entrepreneurs in Kano State I believe we can look internally and encourage our industrialists to seize this opportunity that will be presented at KEDIS 2021 to expand on their respective investments and create new ones,” Aware said. It was gathered the Kano Economic and Diaspora Investment Summit is aimed at not only getting new foreign investment but also looking internally to support existing investments while offering local investors the ability to invest more in the state. “We recently launched the CBN turnaround project which will ensure industries that were affected due to the COVID-19 pandemic are given another chance to survive and continue to flourish. “We facilitated for a PPP investment worth over 500 million euros in waste management which will translate to growth in economy of the state, wealth creation, jobs creation, reduction in health risk exposure and many more. “We hope to have a successful Kano Economic and Diaspora Investment Summit with the support of investment stakeholders, government and private partners, Kano diaspora community, foreign bodies, the media and every willing participant. Our objective is to ensure Kano State becomes the prime destination for investment in Nigeria,” Aware said. While appreciating investment stakeholders for honouring the invitation to the dinner session in preparation for the Kano Economic and Diaspora Investment Summit (KEDIS 2021), Aware said the agency counts on their support.