Security forces are on the alert across the country following threats by some activists to stage protests today on the occasion of Democracy Day. There is a heavy presence of soldiers, police personnel and their counterparts in the Department of State Security (DSS) on the streets. The police and several state governments have warned troublemakers to keep off the streets with the Zamfara State Government, in particular, canceling celebrations for the day. The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), which was originally part of the protests, backed out on Friday, citing fears of hijack by miscreants, although the Southwest zone of the association said it remains firmly committed to the rally. The opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) alleged plan by the federal authorities to clamp down on protesters today. Senior Advocate Chief Afe Babalola, who was a counsel to the late Chief M.K.O. Abiola, the main honouree of Democracy Day, says Nigeria is still in search of true democracy 28 years after the annulment of his election as president. The Lagos Police Command on Friday urged residents to disregard the sit-at-home campaign by some groups over alleged bad governance in the country. The police asked people to go about their normal businesses. Fearful of possible violence and attack on their persons and businesses, some traders, artisans and commercial drivers in Lagos and other parts of the country had indicated that they would not operate today. Some churches in Lagos are also understood to have cancelled their programmes and meetings originally fixed for today. But Lagos State Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu  appealed to the public to “disregard any sit-at-home order called by certain groups, which is being circulated in the social media, and go about their lawful businesses as the police and other security agencies have made necessary arrangement to maintain law and order across the state.” The command also said a special squad was in place to contain traffic robbery and rid the state of miscreants. He said the squad was empowered with crime fighting equipment and modern communication gadgets for better service delivery, adding that identified hotbed for traffic robbers were Eko Bridge, Apongbon, Cele, Ijora, Ojota/7up, Mike 12 and Surulere, among others. The police in Cross River, Ondo, Kwara, Imo and Delta states have also warned residents against embarking on any protest today. The Delta State Police Command said it would not allow any protest “being staged by criminally minded individuals hiding under the guise of peaceful protest thereby causing havoc in the state.” It said on no account “should any group be seen gathering or carrying placards in the name of protest, as such will not be allowed in the state.” The police in Imo State said it had “uncovered plans by members of IPOB and Eastern Security Network (ESN) to hijack civil protests today” and therefore will “not tolerate any attempt by hoodlums to destabilise the state, and anybody or group that insists on disrupting the fragile peace in the state will meet his/her waterloo.” The Kwara State Police Command said it has not placed restrictions on movement in the state today and assured residents the June 12 holiday is observed in the state without any fear of attack or molestation. The Police Command in Cross River State warned that it would not allow anyone under any guise either politically or activism to destroy the peace of the state. It advised residents to shun all forms of unlawful procession, protest and gathering. The command arrested Calabar-based activist and newspaper publisher Agba Jalingo, said to be the coordinator of the planned protest in the state. He was arrested at the police headquarters, Calabar, yesterday when he went to honour an invitation by the police. But the police claimed Jalingo was arrested because “there was a petition against him that he is a member of drug dealers.” “He is still writing his stuff (response to the petition). When he finishes, we’ll let him go if we find him not wanting,” police spokesperson in Cross River State, Irene Ugbo, told Premium Times. The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), which was originally part of the organisers of today’s protest, pulled out yesterday, citing safety concerns and fear of hijack by politicians. It had planned what it described as peaceful protests “to call on the government to act decisively towards addressing insecurity in our schools, campuses and also announce a proactive measure or strategy towards ensuring safer schools”. But in a statement yesterday, NANS president, Sunday Asefon, said though the planned protest was borne out of genuine concerns for the safety of students, some politicians have made plans to hijack it. He said: “In the last week, I have met with the Inspector General of Police, other security agencies, held series of meetings with student leaders across the country. “While everyone agreed that the context of the planned protest is genuine and we reserve the right to protest, the palpable tension surrounding the date has come under special scrutiny. “Let me reiterate that our planned protest was never part of the Buhari Must Go Campaign or Secessionist Campaign, our planned protest was borne out of our genuine concerns for the safety of our students. “However, some politicians with different agendas to ours have concluded plans to hijack the protest to ventilate their political opinions and sentiments. “While every Nigerian reserves the right to their opinion and the right to protest, it will be dangerous to our members if the protest is hijacked as the security agencies have shared with us credible intelligence in this regard. “Having considered the current security realities and the danger to the lives of our members in case of possible hijack of the planned protest, I in consultation with all the structures of NANS, therefore, announce the suspension of our proposed protest for June 12. “The suspension of the protest is necessary to avoid a clash of interests and clash with security agencies that are on red alert to protect the nation’s infrastructures from security breaches on the proposed date as a result of many other protests slated for the date. “We intend to protest for better security and improved welfare for our students. We must therefore not put the life of any of our students at risk to ventilate our grievances.” However, the Southwest zone of NANS dissociated itself from Asefon’s statement, saying the association’s president was on his own. The Coordinator, NANS Zone D, Kowe Odunayo Amos, and Secretary-General, Giwa Yisa Temitope, said in a joint statement that students in the zone would storm the streets as planned. Some activists on Friday launched #June12thProtest, vowing that nothing would stop them from protesting today. They said they would be protesting against insecurity, police brutality, tariff hike, human rights violation, corruption and other societal ills. Deji Adeyanju said on Twitter: “My mum calling me since morning. Won’t pick until tomorrow after #June12Protest. Oyo to those asking her to call me. No going back. Why are we protesting: Insecurity, unending kidnapping of citizens, stop attacking protesters and respect human rights, reverse Twitter ban. Shedrack Danladi said: “President Buhari was a protester several times, and at a point in time an activist. He should allow us enjoy the freedom he enjoyed.” Paramount ruler of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi Odundun II, warned youths in his domain to shun any protest scheduled for today. The Akure monarch said he received information that some hoodlums planned to hijack the protests. He gave the warning at a meeting with all youth leaders from all the quarters in his domain. Oba Aladetoyinbo, who thanked the youths for being proactive by ensuring they do not allow breakdown of law and order within the kingdom, said the hoodlums planned to perpetrate violence and wreak havoc. Speaking at the meeting, Akure Youth Leader, Comrade Tuyi Adekanbi, confirmed panic in the town and asked residents to desist from any act that might aggravate the situation. He said: “There are reported cases of gunshots in some areas in Akure. As youths, we are mobilizing ourselves to defend our city against any external aggression. “While we are now more security conscious in all our localities, we want to also urge our people to desist from peddling rumour and raising the already aggravated tension. “The youths have pledged not to be part of any planned protest during the June 12 Democracy Day celebration, but we will continue to press for good and responsive government, youth empowerment and revamping of the economy which is nose diving.” The Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG) said yesterday that the North would not participate in the planned nationwide protests today because no one from the area was contacted. Spokesperson of the group, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, said it is not in their tradition to jump into a flight without knowing its actual destination. He also alleged that IPOB planned to infiltrate some northern states to make the protests violent. He said: “We can’t drag the North into an agenda that is not properly stated and for which we are not even contacted. “This is in addition to keeping the North away from the trap set by IPOB to sponsor infiltration in some northern states to turn the protests violent. “In the event of any ugly incident, the anti-North schemers would then hold the region up as the volatile section of the country.” He said CNG and all our affiliates and organs do not even “recognise the legitimacy of June 12 as Democracy Day in the first place.” The Zamfara State Government yesterday announced the cancellation of this year’s Democracy Day celebration owing to the security challenge in the state. Governor Bello Matawalle, who broke the news during a prayer session organised by the state government to seek divine intervention against banditry, also advised the citizens to defend themselves against attacks by bandits. His words: “The insecurity situation has defied solution. As such, people should defend themselves. “I am calling on the people of the state to defend themselves if the bandits attack them. “My government has approved that whenever the bandits attack you, do not wait for the security personnel to come to your rescue. You should rise up and protect yourselves.” He said government has also planned to recruit locals from each community who will be in charge of monitoring their villages to ensure that bandits do not attack them. Elder statesman Chief Afe Babalola (SAN) said yesterday that the annulment of Chief Abiola’s election in 1993 denied Nigeria true democracy, saying “until we have democracy properly so called, the journey which began with the annulment of late Abiola’s election of June 12, 1993 will remain uncompleted.” Going down memory lane, Babalola, who was Abiola’s lead counsel in some of his legal battles during the election crisis, said: “I could remember vividly that we were at the Court of Appeal in Kaduna. We were prepared to argue our case. I came to the Court with 30 lawyers. As soon as the Justices of the Court of Appeal came in and the case was mentioned, I rose up and announced myself as leading other lawyers for Chief Abiola. “However, the defence Counsel, Philip Umeadi, SAN, rose up and announced himself as the government lawyer. Umeadi submitted that the case had been overtaken by event. The court asked him why? He told the court that the government had annulled the election and therefore there was nothing for the court to entertain. “I responded by saying that the court could not rely on Umeadi’s oral statement that the election has been annulled. Umeadi then asked for a short adjournment to enable him to produce the Gazette. About two hours after the adjournment, he came with a one-sheet Gazette which stated that the election had been annulled. “After Umeadi had tendered the Gazette, the court asked me whether it still had jurisdiction to continue with the case in view of the latest development. I shook my head and said this is the end of the matter, and I added that that was the saddest day for the Judiciary in our country. “The man (Abiola) went through an election and to get judgment, he was now being sent out of the court with a Gazette, that the election had been annulled. “But I added a prophetic statement that “this is the beginning of a journey, the end of which nobody knows.” The National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) yesterday warned about the danger of delaying the restructuring of the country to foster true federalism. The umbrella pro-democracy group said only the representatives of the ethnic nationalities can write a new constitution for Nigeria and not the National Assembly that is toying with constitution review. Its Secretary, Ayo Opadokun, said the organisation has endorsed the Southern Governors’ resolution and resolved to forward a strong letter to President Muhammadu Buhari to reiterate its rejection of the 1999 Constitution that was imposed by the military. According to NADECO, since ethnic nationalities have no independent institution for crisis resolution and redress of justice, it has resolved to transmit a letter of complaint to eight world personalities and institutions. They are the United Nations Secretary General, the UN Security Council, the President of the United States and Speaker of Congress and Leader of US Senate; the European Union and Parliament, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and the House of Commons, the President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), the President of Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs of Nigeria, and two leading traditional rulers in each of the six zones. NADECO warned that “any delay to prevent the occurrence of national crisis and upheaval in Nigeria with about 200 million citizens would be detrimental to the peace and wellbeing of its region.” It was at its June 12 symposium at the Ndubusi Park, Alausa, Ikeja, yesterday with the theme: Federalism: Antidote to National Insecurity. Speakers included Dr. Fred Agbeyegbe, Dr. Amos Akingba, Prof. Sylvester Odion-Akhaine, Mrs. Jumoke Anifowose, Olawale Oshun and Col. Tony Nyiam. Also at the symposium were Nelson Ekunjimi, Raji Oyewumi, Tessy Urabir, Linus Okoroji, Samanta Kanu, Dr. Kolawole Afolabi, Foluso Aminu, and many artisans and peasants. A minute of silence was observed in honour of the NADECO leader, Admiral Ndubusi Kanu, who passed on in January. Opadokun recalled that NADECO came of age to anchor the struggle for the re-validation of the historic free, fair and credible election, which was annulled by the military. He said the poll gave a pro-Nigerian mandate to the late Chief Moshood Abiola, who ran on the platform of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP). He lamented the lack of justice and fairness in the unitary system, saying that only restructuring can restore true federalism. Agbeyegbe described successive administrations since 1999 as obstacles to restructuring, warning that only a people’s constitution can reposition the country. To Nyiam, the over-centralisation of security is injurious to federalism, urging Nigerians to continue their agitations for devolution of powers. He said:”The idea of having a centralised electoral commission undermines federalism. A centralised electoral commission can be manipulated by the central government. ” Akhaine, Head of Political Science Department, Lagos State University, Ojo, said the wish of the people and constitution framework are the key factors required for the consummation of a federal principle. He added:”The people must agree before they can be in a federation.” The university don also said that in federalism, only the central and states or regions are component units, adding that local councils should be the creation of the state. He emphasised that, in Nigeria, only the federal and states are two tiers of government. Oshun, Third Republic Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, said the constitution review embarked upon by the National Assembly is a joke. He added: “The National Assembly cannot write a constitution for Nigeria. We can only have one country if we harken to the wish of Nigerians to put a people’s constitution together to give effect to restructuring and true federalism.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday alleged plot by the federal government to clamp down on groups and individuals planning peaceful protests to mark the June 12 Democracy Day and demand for good governance in the country. In a statement by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said the government intends to use security forces and thugs to unleash violence on protesters, as it did during the #EndSARS protests. Calling for restraint, the party lamented that the President Muhammadu Buhari led All Progressives Congress (APC) administration has brutally violated all known tenets of democracy and has returned the country to the dark era of military dictatorship, all in a bid to hold Nigerians under subjugation. He said it was “indeed disheartening that the very cause for which the symbol of June 12, Chief MKO Abiola struggled and paid the supreme price has continued to be debased, desecrated and trampled underfoot by the Buhari administration and the APC.” The main opposition party observed that that June 12, instead of being a day of celebration of democracy, has become a sad reminder of betrayal by the APC and its leaders. It further cautioned the President, APC and its elected leaders at all levels to desist from their “usual cosmetic address” to Nigerians on June 12, until they urgently reverse their detestation to democracy.” The PDP asked Buhari to “use the occasion to reverse his administration’s anti-people policies including violation of human rights, infringement on freedom of expression as evinced in the ban on Twitter, clamp down on innocent protesters, crass nepotism as well as perceived hatred for persons from some sections of the country. “President Buhari must use the occasion to end his assault on democracy by reintroducing the Electoral Act Amendment Bill which he refused to sign, end the use of military to muzzle elections, as well as retreat from seeking to corrupt and annex the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by appointing his aide as national commissioner.” The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) yesterday urged Nigerians to continue praying for peace for the well-being of the country. The National President of the Association, Bishop Samson Ayokunle, made the call while addressing journalists in Enugu. Ayokunle, who was represented by the Director of Planning and Social Welfare, Bishop Stephen Adegbite, said the body would continue to pray for peace in Nigeria, while urging the government to be fair to all. The president also said the association stood by the decision of governors of southern Nigeria banning open grazing in their states. He insisted that cattle rearing was a private business, emphasizing that nobody should destroy the business of another while carrying its own business. Ayokunle noted the move would help to check those hiding under cattle grazing to unleash the terror of kidnapping and killing on the residents of the region.