The Lagos State Ministry of Justice has provided free legal consultations to residents of Epe and Ikorodu local government areas as part of its continuous statewide legal clinic exercise. The event, which held at both communities’ local government secretariats  featured a joint legal clinic team which comprised all legal service-oriented directorates and agencies in the ministry. They included the Office of the Public Defender (OPD), Citizens’ Mediation Centre (CMC), Public Advice Centre (PAC), Community Service Unit, Office of the Administrator-General & Public Trustee (AG&PT), Directorate of Citizens Rights (DCR) and the Domestic and Sexual Violence Response Team (DSVRT). At the Epe clinic, Director, Citizens’ Rights, Mrs Oluwatoyin Odusanya, said the joint legal clinic was an initiative of the Ministry of Justice to have a one-stop shop for free legal consultation and other related matters for Lagos residents. Odusanya noted that the free legal clinic would hold in all five divisions of the state—Ikorodu, Badagry, Ikeja, Lagos, Island and Epe—to provide easy access to legal consultations and representation for the indigent and vulnerable members of society. Director, Office of the Public Defender, Dr. Jide Martins, who also participated in Epe, explained that the clinic was organised for people at the grassroots of every community to bring access to justice closer to them, and sensitise the residents on their fundamental human rights. “This initiative by the Ministry is in compliance with the THEMES agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu which aims to promote and achieve security and good governance among the residents of Lagos State,” Martins added. The Alara of Ilara land, Oba Olufolarin Ogunsanwo, urged Epe residents to take advantage of the services as this would ensure social development and peaceful co-existence of people within the community. Attesting to the efforts of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Moyosore Onigbanjo (SAN), at ensuring speedy dispensation of justice, he pledged that his office would continue to promote, among Epe residents, the option of resolving conflicts through mediation, using alternative dispute resolution platforms provided by the state government. Expressing his appreciation to the state government on behalf of the community, the General Secretary, Oloja in Council, the Odofin of Epe Land, High Chief Olatunde Oluwo, praised the Ministry of Justice for bringing the Legal Clinic to their door steps, adding that it afforded them the opportunity of accessing within Epe, qualitative legal consultations free. At Ikorodu, Assistant Director, Community Service, Mr Kuforiji Olawale explained the functions of Community Service, saying the department was charged with dealing with offenders found to have committed minor offences such as non-usage of pedestrian bridges. He said punishments like sweeping of market places and ensuring general environmental sanitation among others were in place to serve as a deterrent, hence, there was no need for prolonged litigation in such instances. The Director, Public Advice Centre, Mr Tunji Dawodu, further assured participants that the clinic was free and targetted at providing easy access to legal consultations and representation for the indigent and vulnerable. Appreciating the government for the initiative, the Olubeshe of Ibeshe, Oba Richard Ogunsanya; and the Adegboruwa of Igbogbo; Oba Abdul Semiu Kasali, urged the public to embrace alternative dispute resolution, noting that not all matters should be taken to court. They also used the medium to appeal that the state government should consider the role of traditional rulers in mediation, as this would go a long way in strengthening the institution. Responding on behalf of the participants, Hon. Babayemisi Kehinde Fakumoju, expressed gratitude to the state for bringing the legal clinic to Ikorodu. He said the state had done well in the areas of alternative disputes resolution in aspects such as landlord/tenant disagreement, marital issues, and employers/employees related disputes among others through the Citizen Mediation Centre (CMC) divisional office in Ikorodu, hence, decongesting the court of unnecessary litigations.