Zaki of Arigidi, Oba Yisa Olanipekun, has asked the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) to keep the body of its late founder Prophet Temitope Joshua intact. A delegation from SCOAN is said to be heading for Arigidi to announce his demise and submit factual report on his passage. Late Prophet TB Joshua hails from Arigidi in Akoko North West local government area of Ondo State. His demise shocked residents of Arigidi as his philanthropic works extended to large members of the community. He was said to dole out money and food to the elderly, scholarships to youths as well as pay for execution of several community projects. Late TB had already acquired land to build a university before he died. Oba Olanipekun, in a statement to journalists in Akure, demanded full cooperation of SCOAN church members in Nigeria and across the globe. The monarch urged the church to allow the immediate family and the Arigidi community to mourn the painful loss without further distractions. According to him: “I am hereby making a demand that his body must be preserved intact until arrangements are made to examine and/or certify the cause of his death and the body is moved to Arigidi for final burial rights to be announced at a later date. “On behalf of the Zaki-in-Council, the High Chiefs, the Elders and immediate family members of our late son, I commiserate with the President, the Governor of Ondo State, my beloved people of Arigidi and the people of Nigeria in general for the loss of our illustrious son. I pray that God, in His infinite mercies, will wipe off our tears.” Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu said TB Joshua was a philanthropist whose exit would be missed by many. Akeredolu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Olatunde Richard, said the renowned man of God was a blessing to humanity and a great Ambassador of the Sunshine State whose ministry was noted for charity. “Undoubtedly, Pastor Joshua’s demise came as a rude shock. The pains are not mere emotional flashes; they are indeed piercing. The Ondo-born Pastor and televangelist was committed to giving and was more often, inexorably imbued with calmness while lifting the downtrodden. As a televangelist, he did not just win souls for Christ, he was passionate about changing lives. “He demonstrated timelessly, an alluring service to humanity and compassion by assisting not only his home local government, Akoko North West. Other adjoining local governments in Akoko land benefitted from his large heart of benevolence. “Of significant note too, Pastor Joshua never hesitated to assist in whatever manner the Ondo State Government desired such. To us in Ondo State, we consider this a personal loss. He was a pride to the Sunshine State. “Not only Africa is hit hard; this is a great global knock as his Pastor TB Joshua’s ministry attracted an immeasurable foreign followership. Christendom has lost a giant. “The reality of the finality of death truly hurts the heart. But for TB Joshua, he had played his own part of the endless life orchestra; he has departed. “We must take solace in his good deeds he while here. He is now a Heaven’s gain. The people have lost a committed giver. We shall continue to remember his contributions to the development of our State.”