After England play their final Group D game against Czech Republic at Wembley on June 22, the Three Lions squad will likely be celebrating qualification for the Euro 2020 knockout stages. They may even take the opportunity to let their hair down a little and have a drink before their last-16 encounter, which could be up to a week away. Except for any non-drinkers and Jude Bellingham, that is. The Borussia Dortmund midfielder is not legally allowed alcohol, as the youngest member of the England squad does not turn 18 until June 29. At 17, he is one of the youngest players at the European Championship, but nobody could argue that he does not deserve to be there. Bellingham has always been ahead of the curve. When he was just 14, he was playing with Birmingham City’s Under-18s side, while when he made his breakthrough into the Blues’ first team, he was still a scholar, earning just £145 ($205) a week, as he was too young to sign a professional deal. Bellingham was also just 13 when he made his England U15s debut, coming off a bench which also included Jamal Musiala, who will represent Germany at this summer’s Euros after switching allegiance to the country of his birth. After two substitute appearances against Turkey at the end of 2016, he returned to the squad a year later and was named captain. This is when he first came onto Borussia Dortmund’s radar. “He caught our eye as an England U15 international at the end of 2017, and we then followed him again at the other internationals three months later,” Borussia Dortmund chief scout, Markus Pilawa, tells Goal. “There, the good impression (he had made) was more than confirmed, and we saw him get even better. From then on, things took their course.” After Pilawa heard of Bellingham’s impressive international performances, he decided to take a look at the teenager himself, travelling to watch Birmingham’s reserve side, where the precocious midfielder was already taking charge of players years older than him. “You wouldn’t believe it, but when I first saw him live at a Birmingham City U23s game, he was still relatively slight and physically average at best. “So he didn’t stand out because of his physical abilities, but because he was the captain and already exuded the sense of responsibility on the field that we see here with us now. “In other words, he took on incredible responsibility, had charisma and personality, was courageous and fulfilled certain leadership criteria. He had a feeling for how the game has to be ordered in central midfield and an incredible work rate. “He wants to pick up the ball as a six, bring it forward as an eight, but in the end he also wants to be in the penalty area and finish. That is also the background to his shirt number 22: it is made up of the four, the eight and the 10; the four in England is the six here in Germany. “It means that he wants to internalise all the elements of the game in central midfield – and that’s exactly what we saw in him and impressed us enormously. He dominated in midfield with a calmness and lots of contact with the ball; he controlled the game. “Later, he started to grow even more and build up muscles, so the components of physicality and power were added.” Dortmund tried to sign Bellingham as a 16-year-old, even before he made his Birmingham debut, but he turned them down as he wanted to break through at his boyhood club before moving on. Barcelona, Bayern Munich and Manchester City also came calling, but Bellingham’s head could not be turned. He pushed for his chance at St. Andrew’s, staying behind late at training and asking his coaches to play him in different positions so he could improve his all-round game, while also working on his weaknesses. When manager Pep Clotet eventually picked him in the starting XI for Birmingham’s Carabao Cup tie with Portsmouth in August 2019, he was ready. He was not out of place, despite playing alongside and against players more than twice his age. He became City’s youngest-ever player at just 16 years and 38 days, before a month later breaking the record for the club’s youngest-ever goalscorer. Mike Dodds is the head of the professional development phase programme at Birmingham, and helped bring through players such as Nathan Redmond and Demarai Gray, as well as Bellingham. He recalls how Bellingham was able to make an instant impact because of both his ability and his belief. “When he started playing with the senior team, he fitted in because players recognise good players,”Dodds told Goal. “If you go into a first-team environment and you’re a good player, there’s a respect there. I think once he got the opportunity in the first team, the players thought ‘this boy is decent,’ and that’s why he fit in so well. “When they saw they could trust him, they forgot about his age. He just becomes another player. Once you’ve got the combination of being a good player and being able to trust them, then age becomes irrelevant. “When you put players of that age in that environment, they can surprise you. But you have got to give them the opportunity first. Birmingham gave him the opportunity and playing 44 games at 16 is just phenomenal.” Midway through the 2019-20 season, Bellingham was approached by teams once again, with Birmingham even turning down a £20 million ($28m) bid from Manchester United on deadline day of the January transfer window. He instead stayed until the end of the campaign, winning the EFL Young Player of the Season award, but Birmingham knew they could not keep Europe’s elite away any longer. Arsenal entered the race, while both United and Dortmund resumed their pursuits for the teenager. Sir Alex Ferguson even gave Bellingham a personal tour of United’s Carrington training base, but that was not enough to persuade him to pick the Red Devils over BVB. “The record Dortmund have got with young players in recent years is unrivalled in European football,” Bellingham admitted after his move to Germany. “Weighing all that up and the people we met there, the stadium and fanbase, it made me fall in love with that club as well.” Part of the attraction of Dortmund was the fact that they had been interested even before Bellingham became a first-team player at Birmingham. “We were among the first to get hold of him, and wanted to get him on his 16th birthday, when he was still the small, lanky player,” Pilawa explains. “We already believed in him then, and not just when he played in the Championship. I think he was impressed that we didn’t join in at the end, when it was obvious to everyone what a great talent he had. “We built a good relationship of trust with his family, his management and him. We gave him a clear plan and a profile of his strengths and weaknesses, where and how we see him fitting in, and why his profile fits us and the composition of our midfield. “We told him: ‘You will have a lot of competition in terms of quality of players, but your advantage is that we don’t have your profile in the squad, so you will definitely get playing time with us.’ “At Birmingham he was also used on the right-hand side and as a nine-and-a-half. But we told him: ‘You are not a six or a winger with us, you are clearly our eight.’ In the end, it was a damn tough fight because the competition for him was immense.” Culled from goal.com