The Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Rev. Yakubu Pam has urged the Federal Government to initiate dialogue with various groups to douse tension in the country. Pam gave this advice in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Abuja. NAN reports that while some groups have called for secession or restructuring, others called for a new constitution to reflect the wishes and aspirations of every zone in the country. Pam, however, said that dialogue was the only way out of the present predicament the country had found itself. He said that solutions might not be found to the various arguments and agitations by different groups unless the people came together for discussions. “Yes, government is doing a lot in terms of releasing funds and making sure security personnel are covered but it is not enough to release funds and provide names of people who occupy those offices in the security architecture. “Supervision and assessment are very important; our security agencies need to do more because the civil society and some of us are not satisfied with what is going on,” he said. Pam said that civil society seemed to lay complaints more without proffering solutions. “That is not good for our country. ”I believe that once we are laying complaints, we should be able to help the government in its policy, advice and tell them what we think should be done, instead of just condemning. “We should be able to bring out some reasonable advice,” he said. According to Pam, the elites including President of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and Sultan of Sokoto have very big roles to play in ensuring that things do not degenerate. ”We need engagement. We cannot just speak and go. Engagement with the civil society should be activated at the grassroots, possibly the six geo-political zones. “We have those representing the senatorial districts at the National Assembly and the Senate. They should be able to engage with the people and hear from them and know what to do. “From the Federal level, let there be engagement. Some of us at the peace level are already moving on engagement in the six geo-political zones. ”People are heavy with so many things on their minds. “And if we do not channel the strength of the youths into good ventures and give them hope, they can use it to destroy all that we have built,” he said. Pam said he had trust in the ability of President Muhammadu Buhari to transform the country for the better. He called on the government to give traditional rulers a role in the constitution as they had direct contact with the people on a daily basis. (NAN)