The Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria (CRIVIFON) has urged the police and other law enforcement agents to arrest doctors and sanction of hospitals managements for their disobedience to the law on treatment of gunshot and accidents victims. Executive Director of the organisation,  Mrs Gloria Egbuji in a statement, described as inhuman the refusal by hospital authorities to accept some gunshot victims for treatment before asking for police report. She referred doctors and hospital managements to sections 1 and 2a of the ‘Compulsory Treatment and Care of Victims of Gunshots and Accident Law Act 2018 which she said made it mandatory for hospitals not to reject victims but to first treat victims without initial monetary deposit and  Police report. The Act also made it mandatory and punishable for doctors and hospital that fails to file report with the Police after treating the gunshot victim. She condemned in strong terms the recently reported cases of rejection by hospitals of some gunshot victims for treatment which has led to the death of many persons in the country. The group, particularly, referred to the case of a gospel music producer popularly known as Ebenezer Ayeni,  who was shot on Thursday  June 10, 2021 at his Ibadan, Oyo State residence by armed robbers few days to his wedding. He was said to have been rushed to the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan and later a private hospital but reportedly rejected by hospital staff who insisted on having a police report before they could treat his gunshot injury.  The victim later died hours later from the gunshot injury. The Foundation also recalled that a 32-year-old Odiri Onosigho; an accountant was similarly shot by armed robbers who were trying to collect his phone at First Gate Bus Stop, FESTAC in Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos on April 15, 2021. The accountant allegedly lost his life after being rejected by hospitals due to failure to present police report. Worried by the increasing number of gunshot victims who had died after being rejected by hospitals due to non-presentation of police report before treatment, Mrs Egbuji wondered why the hospitals should be acting contrary to the extant law of the land with respect to the treatment of gunshot and accident victims. The foundation recalled that the issue of accepting gunshot victims for treatment had drawn so much attention for many years until the National Assembly came up with a law known as the Compulsory Treatment and Care of Victims of Gunshots and Accident Law in 2018. “It is on record that CRIVIFON was in the fore front of agitation for the acceptance of Gunshots Victims for treatment by hospitals across the federation without subjecting them to getting police report before their lives are saved. “The Foundation’s advocacy on the right of gunshot victims to receive unhindered access to medical services began sometime in 1998 and its Executive Director never relented until the emergence of an Act in 2018″, she said. She noted that since the Act came into existence in 2018, the police authorities had directed hospitals to comply with the provisions of the law by accepting to treat gunshot and accident victims without subjecting them to the provision of police report before they commence  treatment. Mrs Egbuji explained that  the Act makes provision for the Compulsory treatment and care of the victims of gunshot and other matters. She said such victims are to be given unrestricted access to medical services as well as strengthen legal provisions and guarantee people’s fundamental rights to life and dignity of their persons. The Act she said also makes mandatory for the hospitals to report such cases to the police while treating the victims for security reasons. The Crime Victims Foundation of Nigeria  therefore pleaded with  the law enforcement agents to  seriously take a stand on the disobedience of hospitals to the existing law on treatment of gunshot and accidents victims stressing that ignorance is not an excuse under the law as erring hospitals and doctors can be arrested by the police and punished under the law. “That is why it is important for police to start punishing the hospitals for not treating gunshot victims,” she said.