Former national youth teams coach John Obuh has described the death of  founder of Synagogue Church Of All Nations (SCOAN), Temitope Balogun Joshua , better known as TB Joshua in Lagos yesterday as a huge loss to football. Obuh who led the Golden Eaglets to win silver when Nigeria hosted the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2009, had a solid relationship with the late clergy and he reckoned he  was a football man through-and-through. “This is not the kind of news that one want to hear but we can’t question God,” a crest-fallen Obuh told NationSport. “I’m still in shock over the news; and it is quite unfortunate that he left us at this time.” Obuh who also handled the Flying Eagles at some point, noted that the history of Nigerian football development cannot be completed  without a reference to  late Joshua for his charitable gesture towards  all the national teams. “The truth is that Pastor T. B Joshua was the backbone of my success as a coach and he really assisted me especially when I was with the national team, ‘Obuh further said. “It is not only my teams but almost all the national teams and he was always ready to offer us financial support and prayers. “He took care of several players and assisted those who had one injury or the other as if  he was their father; his death is a huge loss to our football because he  was one person who helped without asking for anything in return,” noted Obuh. Meanwhile, sportsvillagesquare.com noted that SCOAN is known to have hosted scores of sports personalities who visited on religious and medical tourism. Among such, albeit controversially was Nwankwo Kanu, Daniel Amokachi, Joe Lasisi and others. It was reported that in 2009, TB Joshua started a football club, My People FC, as part of efforts to help the youth. Two members of the team played for Nigeria’s Golden Eaglets in the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup. Sani Emmanuel, who apparently lived in The SCOAN for several years, was Nigeria’s top-scorer and the tournament’s MVP. Emmanuel and his colleague Ogenyi Onazi  signed professional contracts with SS Lazio and later became a key player in the Super Eagles from 2012 to 2017. 