In a now-forgotten move to cement his credentials as a democratic leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, on June 7, 2018, moved the annual celebration of democracy day in Nigeria from May 29 to June 12. The former date had signified the return of Nigeria to a democratic dispensation through the election of the outspoken Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, while the latter date marked the annulment of the freest and fairest election in Nigeria. That election, which should have ushered in M.K.O Abiola, was nullified by Gen Ibrahim Babangida – the one known severally as the ‘Political Maradona’ and ‘The Evil Genius’, and who had a hand in just about every military coup that the country suffered since the 1970s. Indeed, he was a principal conspirator in the coup that planted a much younger Major General Buhari, for which he earned himself the position of Chief of Army Staff under the grateful head of state. He would later on scorch the young military head of state and mastermind what has probably been the most business-like coup the country ever saw. Anything less would have been a disappointment, really, for the man was a veteran of coups. The effect of the overthrow of Gen Buhari, as he then was, was to make him untrusting of anyone he does not know, especially of the rank of service chiefs. He surrounds his presidency with old friends he feels comfortable with or recommendations by those old friends. No one blames him, after all, when The Evil Genius was through with a fellow, the victim would want to regard the world with cold suspicion thereafter. It was with great reluctance that President Buhari did away with the last crop of service chiefs – men he trusted and one of whom publicly and insensitively swore fealty to the president instead of the constitution. For their fidelity, they were rewarded with ambassadorial positions after their tenure at the head of a demoralised armed forces. Little mention will be made of the damning allegation that money was disbursed for the procurement of arms which allegedly never materialised, a crime for which the president made things hot for former National Security Adviser (NSA), Col Sambo Dasuki (retd.). The president defied several court orders granting the former NSA bail and kept him in detention for four years. Many thought the president was simply repaying the retired Colonel for the role he played in the coup which ousted him in 1985. Every time the political Maradona tried to contest the presidential elections, he had stirred such strong public animosity that those close to him advised him to restrain himself to his hilltop residence in Minna. Daunted, he now makes few and far between public interventions on national issues, especially those that concern his old foe, President Buhari, but they hold no water. Three years after his change of Nigeria’s democracy day, how has the president himself fared as a democratic leader? The jury is out on that question, but the handwriting is on the wall for the president’s legacy. To counterbalance his disdain for judicial merry-go-rounds, perhaps, was Executive Order 10, an isolated step in favour of democratic consolidation. Despite the president’s high-handed politicking, the executive order does grant financial autonomy to the judiciary and legislature – a progressive and democratic step. Nigerians will, however, remember in no fond measure his initial hectoring of the judiciary as evidenced by his unconstitutional removal of former Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Walter Onnoghen, and the swift appointment of Justice Tanko Muhammad whose understanding of technicalities in law had to do with a laborious rhetoric on rules of statutory interpretation, professional specialisation, and methods of achieving goals. Will he ever live it down? The problem many people had with the president’s removal of the former CJN was not whether the jurist was innocent or not; it was with the forceful and impatient procedure of removal which flew in the face of the 1999 Constitution. Nigerians must come to the reality that the president they thought they voted for, who was the stern and heavily flawed alternative to the uninhibited Goodluck Jonathan, may have been nothing more than an idyll. The reformed democrat may lie beneath the stern façade, but it is difficult to coax him to respect a concept he had publicly confessed his abhorrence for. On the occasion of his 77th birthday in 2019, these were his words: “Well, like I said, I have learned in the hard way. When I came in uniform, I got those who were leading, took them to Kirikiri (Maximum Prisons) and told them they were guilty until they could prove themselves innocent. I put, based on almost all the geopolitical zones, committees to investigate them. Those that were found to have lived beyond their means, the balance was taken and was given to the states. But, I myself was arrested, detained… So, under this system (democracy), which is supposed to be more accountable, it is too slow for my liking, but I have to follow it.” The implication of his statement was that between his stint as a military president and his democratic return to the executive seat of power, he managed to disguise, even to himself, his deep-seated and almost puritanical distaste for democracy. This disguise probably accounted for why the country believed that he was a reformed democrat; apparently he also did. Whatever transforma tions he forced himself to go through, they may have made him amenable, perhaps against his wish and better judgement, to the malevolent hankerings of a miniscule cabal. Even the First Lady, his wife, noted in an interview that her husband’s administration had been hijacked by a cabal. Otherwise, how can the country explain to any rational mind that a man fared better, even though he fared badly, as a military head of state than as a civilian president? Surely it would not be flattering to aver that the difference was his second in command at the time, Gen. Tunde Idiagbon. If the president must retain his distrust for democracy, he must do so as an informed choice. He must be aware that the ancient wisdom of force, which served mankind for a considerable period of its history and which pleased him to deploy during his military regime, has now run its course. It is now the antithesis of the democratic requirements of the modern age. Although the country requires a firm, disciplined and principled president, they do not require the “kind bully” of which the president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adeshina, is so enamoured. This sternness would be of better use were it directed at the entrenchment of a sound democratic ideal, progressive policies, and profitable political philosophies. Until he understands and practices that, the following words of former president Goodluck Jonathan should serve as a memento mori – an object to remember one by in case of a demise – of democracy to Nigerians: “I am the most abused and insulted president in the world, but when I leave office you will all remember me for the total freedom you enjoyed under my government.” How truly and lamentably evocative. Speaking virtually at the unveiling of nine books and a short film to celebrate the 48-year existence and contributions of the NYSC to Nigeria’s development and unity, former military Head of State Yakubu Gowon expressed his conviction that the scheme was making significant impact on the development of Nigeria. He said: “It is gratifying and heartwarming that the NYSC scheme, which was established in 1973, despite the resistance that greeted it by some sections of the populace at the time, has now grown and matured to become a national household name and organisation. There is no doubt that the NYSC has contributed more than any organisation to nation building. In view of what has been said about the NYSC scheme, greater efforts should be made by the government to strengthen it by ensuring greater funding of the scheme.” He does not want the scheme to be scrapped, partly because it is one of the most enduring legacies by any Nigerian president since independence. After overseeing the country’s civil war, he established the scheme to foster national unity, peace and progress. At the time, the scheme was relevant due to the prevailing reality in the country. No one is sure if it is still of as much relevance as he makes it seem, or even if it were, whether greater funding of the scheme would help much. The current administration, for instance, has not given the impression that it can holistically appreciate the ethnic, tribal and political issues assailing the country. If anything, it has through a series of indelicate statements and hardened decisions played a less-than-dignified role in the tribal conflicts erupting all over the country. When Gen Gowon established the scheme in 1973, the presidency had witnessed the civil war and was about to embark on reconciliation, reconstruction and rehabilitation. The current administration is headed by a war veteran who witnessed the war, but who has substituted reconciliatory dialogues with the threat of force. The success of the scheme relies on the federal administration believing in the peaceful and voluntary unity of the country. If unity is not voluntary, then the posting of young graduates to various parts of the country is hardly more than a death sentence. One of the reasons for the increased calls for the scrapping of the scheme is not the funding of the scheme but the fact that corps members are being picked off like flies. Insecurity has obliterated what respect the populace should have for corps members. They go through harrowing conditions to get to parts of the country plagued by unrest and which territorial integrity has been breached by insurgents. Although corps members are already being utilised as cheap, specialised labour, the Director General of the scheme compounded their woes by suggesting that they could be deployed as reserves in the army in the event of a war. Naturally, they were miffed. A monthly compensation of just N3000 more than the minimum wage does not sound like reason enough to risk their lives. But, already the scheme makes them do that. Ethnic and tribal conflict in the country will always lead to calls for the scrapping of the NYSC. The former head of state must learn to integrate the unrest in the country and the welfare of those who are being offered up to areas of unrest with his private worries about the scheme, the product of his administration. His legacy may have been useful at a point, but is it, in any good conscience, still?