Managers of Information of All Progressives Congress (APC) Government at Federal and State levels have advocated stringent legislations to address falsehood, misinformation and media abuse. They also called for media plan and strategy to educate and enlighten the masses on governmental policies. These were contained in a communique after the inaugural meeting of Managers of Information of All Progressives Congress (APC) Governments at Federal and State levels facilitated by Progressive Governors Forum (PGF) in Lagos. In the communique in Abuja, Director-General of PGF Salihu Moh. Lukman, the information managers said effective media and citizens’ engagement with regular feedbacks was critical to communicating the performance of governments of APC at all levels in terms of presenting the factual and truthful narrative to the people. The information managers insisted for strengthened legislation, strategies and action plans with consequences for media abuse and misinformation. They decried the disconnect between the citizenry and government, which it noted was responsible for subsisting negative perception and distrust. The forum also suggested “Increased commitment towards improving media and public engagement with necessary feedbacks through enhancing the relationship with the populace and incorporating the necessary media plan and strategy to drive each policy and programme. “Sustained efforts to plan and implement media engagement strategies and programmes that will be sustainable and resilient to the impacts of media attacks by the opposition and their collaborators within and outside Nigeria, and the misinformation and media abuse associated with it. “Concerted engagement with critical media stakeholders and practitioners to have a strong and well-coordinated presence in the media space by ensuring appropriate synergy between Federal and State Ministries, Agencies and Departments, Local Governments, development partners, the civil society partners, and the private sector. “Strengthened advocacy to amplify justifications of government policies and popularise government achievements across the board.”