Eleven governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Anambra State on Sunday rejected what they described as purported result of primary election reportedly released by the State Primary Election Committee. The aspirants alleged no election held in any part of the State, insisting they would not accept results written in the corners of the bedroom and published on Facebook. Chairman of Anambra Primary Election Committee and Ogun Governor, Dapo Abiodun, had on Sunday morning, announced Senator Andy Ubah as the winner of the primary. He said Ubah polled 230, 201 votes out of the total votes of 348,490 to defeat his closest rival, Onunwoku Johnbosco, who polled 28, 746 and other 12 contestants. But addressing reporters in Awka, spokesperson for the aspirants, Chief George Moghalu, said the result was unacceptable to them. He said: “What necessitated this press conference is something we consider embarrassing, disappointing and scandalous. “We’re here to reaffirm the fact that the election did not take place in Anambra as planned. All of us have been on the roads reaching out to our supporters to vote for us. Primaries are not conducted in the bedroom but in the field. “They started distribution of materials after 3pm and in some cases got to their designated places around 6pm. It’s so sad and hurting because what they’re trying to do is to endanger our party in the state and that we can’t accept.” While insisting on the free, fair, credible primary election that would produce an acceptable and credible candidate, Moghalu assured the aggrieved aspirants would explore necessary legitimate measures to get justice. “We’re following the due process. There are many options, including channeling our rejection of the purported results through the proper avenues. “There certainly will be an appeal panel and we’ll channel our grievances there to seek justice as long as it’s legitimate,” he added. Ward chairmen across the three Senatorial Districts also backed the aspirants, saying no elections held. They said they were surprised to read results on WhatsApp platforms.