Sperm count refers to the normal number of sperm present in one example of semen. Fertility doctors evaluate sperm count during routine semen examinations and believe it’s anything but a significant factor for fertility. If you and your partner are trying to conceive a baby, you may be looking for information about how to increase sperm count to improve your chances of getting pregnant. A healthy sperm count is necessary for fertility. Here are things to avoid while preventing low sperm count: · Quit smoking A 2016 meta-analysis that reviewed the results of over 20 studies with a total of nearly 6,000 participants found that smoking consistently reduced sperm count. There are many good reasons to kick a smoking habit to improve your health. If you are trying for a baby, now might be the time to quit smoking. If you can’t kick the habit, go seek advice and support. Get enough exercise and sleep Besides being good for your general health, exercising regularly can boost testosterone levels and improve fertility. Several studies on overweight or obese men have shown that sperm count increased when they lost weight, in some cases by as much as 95%. It’s an important part of making sure the body is healthy, so ensure you’re switching off early enough. However, you should avoid too much exercise, as it may have the opposite effect and potentially reduce testosterone levels. Exercise will keep you healthy and at a good weight. · Avoid excessive alcohol and drug use According to research, it’s known that the worldwide use of drugs such as alcohol, marijuana, and cocaine to decreased sperm production. Some evidence is conflicting, so further research is necessary to confirm.
I’m not suggesting the need to stop alcohol and drug use but at least limiting it to perhaps six units or less a week. · Reduce stress Stress may reduce your sexual satisfaction and impair your fertility. This is because when the body is stressed, it conserves energy and focuses on surviving, rather than reproducing. Passion, enjoyment and keeping the hormones surging when you’re having sex are all part of the baby-making process. So, if your mind’s elsewhere and racing with work worries, perhaps suggest to takes action to de-stress. · Be aware of lap action Having a computer on the lap all the time really does damage fertility. Laptops, saunas, hot tubs and even tight boxers cause overheating, which damages the sperm. · Get enough zinc Zinc is an essential mineral found in high amounts in animal foods, such as meat, fish, eggs, and shellfish. It’s Improve the overall health of sperm, including concentration and count. Taking zinc supplements increases testosterone levels and sperm count in those who are low in zinc.