Political equation in Zamfara State changed on Tuesday when Governor Bello Matawalle, national and state lawmakers as well as members of the State Executive Council decamped from the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The defection of Matawalle swelled the number of APC Governors to 22 across the nation. He takes over leadership of the party in the state shortly after he was formally received by APC chairman Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni at Zamfara Trade Fair Complex in Gusau, the State capital. Speaking during the grand occasion in Gusau, Matawalle said he “is now the leader of the APC in Zamfara.” He enjoined all members and supporters of the APC in the state to join hands with him to build a new Zamfara and APC ahead of 2023 general elections. The new entrant commended President Muhammadu Buhari, Buni and former Governor, Abdulaziz Yari as well as all stakeholders for their understanding. He promised to ensure an all-inclusive party structure that will carry everyone along for the development of APC and Zamfara State in general. “From today, I became the leader of the APC in Zamfara and all the state executives of the APC have been dissolved and we shall work tirelessly to ensure unity and progress of the APC in Zamfara State and national level,” Matawalle stated. Governor Buni welcomed the Governor and all his supporters to the ruling party and promised the national leadership will work closely with the new entrants to attain the desired objectives. Governors of Kano, Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Borno, Kebbi, Plateau, Gombe, Kogi and Federal Government delegation led by Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Ali Modu Sheriff, Senator Ahmed Sani Yerima and other dignitaries attended the occasion. The Nation gathered Zamfara three Senators, six members of the House of Representatives and 26 Assembly members decamped with the Governor to APC, except his Deputy Mahadi Aliyu Gusau .