The Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) has concluded arrangements to commence the review of national revenue allocation formula, with a view to getting the new formula ready before the end of 2021. RMAFC yesterday said the impending review is targeted at equitable distribution of the accrued revenue into the federation account to the three tiers of government. Chairman, Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Engr. Elias Mbam told members of the National Assembly Service Commission led by Engr. Ahmed Khadi that the review of remuneration for political and Judicial office holders will equally take off as soon as the Federal government releases fund for it. He said the new formula will be ready before the end of the year and it will take into consideration many variables including security, environmental challenges and many other issues. He said all the variables will be taken into consideration in the review while a new advice will be given to the President. According to him, the revenue allocation formula review is at first concentrating on the vertical formula which has to do with sharing of revenue between Federal, State and Local governments. This will be followed by a horizontal formula which also has to do with sharing among states and among local governments. In a statement issued in Abuja, Mbam noted that RMAFC is one of the 14 executive bodies saddled with the statutory function of reviewing from time to time the revenue allocation formula (RAF) and principles in operation to ensure conformity with changing realities alongside monitoring appropriate revenue accruals to the federation account by the revenue generating agencies. He added that while the review of remuneration for judicial and executive office holders in the federation is subjected to further legislation by National or State Assemblies for approval, such approval must not be more than what RMAFC has recommended, noting that RMAFC’S determination for legislatures at Federal, State and Local government is final.