The Lagos State Government through the Ministry of physical planning and Urban development has urged developers in the state to strive towards voluntary compliance to existing building laws rather than wait for government’s enforcing the law on them. The State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr. Idris Salako said this during stakeholders’ forum with Developers under the aegis of the Real Estate Developers Association of Nigeria, Lagos State Chapter. Dr. Salako said that the programme was targeted at enhancing collaboration and block communication gap between Government and Stakeholders, in order to cultivate voluntary compliance on the part of the Developers. Salako added that it was important for Developers to get adequate information on the plans and activities of Government so as to promote sustainable environment in the State in line with the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda. He said that Government had taken many important steps towards enhancing the ease of doing business in Lagos State. “We have taken care to ensure that all parts of the State are covered by a Planning Instrument as we have vigorously prepared and reviewed Master Plans and Model City Plans, while we have awarded 9 Action Area Plans and 9 Development Guide Plans to give room for the sustainable development of the State,” he said. According to him, the State Government increased the number of Supervisory Directors and District Heads, devolved the Planning Permit Approval power and adopted digitisation of processes in order to fast track the Planning Permit process. “We have also released the lands under Government acquisition in some parts of the State. This move, I am sure, will allow Developers to tidy their Approvals in the affected areas,” he said. On his part, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Ganiyu Ayuba stated that the vision of the State Government for the built environment could best be achieved in collaboration with Developers, whom he urged to apply the gains of the discussion to their activities in the built environment. For seamless and continuous engagement with Stakeholders, the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development (MPP&UD) developed the MPP&UD mobile app to assist information sharing and real time engagement with features such as the ePP registration, ePP guidance, uploading Planning Permit and a database of Registered Professionals and Stakeholders, tagged the Marketplace. The MPP&UD mobile app was elaborately presented and demonstrated to the Stakeholders by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Engr. Abiola Kosegbe who urged Developers to always access the platform for interactions with the Ministry. Speaking at the forum, the Chairman, Lagos State Chapter of REDAN, Mr. Bamidele Onalaja said that the stakeholders forum was conceived to ease the challenges faced by Developers in erecting buildings in the State. Onalaja said, ” Getting necessary permits has become a big issue and we see the urgent need to address it”. The General Managers of the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority, Lagos State Building Control Appeals, Lagos State Urban Renewal Agency, Lagos State Materials Testing Laboratory and Lagos State New Town Development Authority as well as the Director of Development Matters in the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development took turns to address the developers.