Regarded as the doyen of architecture in Nigeria, Chief Isaac Folayan Alade, who died on June 19, left his architectural signature in parts of the country and beyond.  He was aged 87. He designed, planned and supervised the construction of notable buildings including the 1004 Housing Estate, Victoria Island, Lagos, former Federal Secretariat building, Ikoyi, Lagos and the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos. His touch also created the Remembrance Arcade, Tafawa Balewa Square, Lagos, Satellite Town, Lagos, Nigerian Air Force Base, Ikeja, Lagos and the Nigerian Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies building, Kuru, Plateau State. The National Judicial Institute, Abuja and Nigerian Embassy buildings in 11 countries are among his significant constructions. Equipped for his profession at Nigerian College of Arts, Science and Technology, Zaria (now Ahmadu Bello University, Kaduna State), he was one of the institution’s first four architecture graduates in 1961. This made him one of the earliest trained Nigerian architects.  It is a testimony to his brilliance that he completed his post-graduate studies at the Architectural Association School of Tropical Studies, London in 1965, on a Commonwealth scholarship. After stints in the civil service of the old Western Region and Lagos City Council, he joined the Federal Ministry of Works. His progression in the public service reflected his capability. He was Chief Project Architect in 1972 and Director, Public Buildings in 1975. He attained the apex of his career as a civil servant when he became a Federal Permanent Secretary in 1976, the first architect to hold the position. He continued his services to architecture after his retirement in 1979, and established his firm, Fola Alade Associates, in 1980. In a foreword to Alade’s autobiography, titled Remember Whose Son Thou Art, former president Olusegun Obasanjo highlighted his important role in the country’s building projects. Obasanjo said he “worked intimately with my predecessor, late General Murtala Muhammed, and with me, in his often-changing duties as Chief Resident Architect, former Director of Public Building and, subsequently, as Federal Permanent Secretary, during our stint as Nigeria’s military leaders.” This testimonial said a lot about Alade’s services to the country. He received the national honour Officer of the Order of the Federal Republic (OFR) in 1997. It is noteworthy that President Muhammadu Buhari, in a posthumous tribute, acknowledged his “contributions to the development of the country in design, building and administration.” His trajectory showed his passion for architecture. Alade became a chartered and registered architect in 1970, and was a Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Architects (NIA).  He was general secretary of NIA, and the first registrar of the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON).  He was the general secretary to the Commonwealth Architects Conference held in Lagos in 1969, which showed that he enjoyed the respect of his international peers. He gave back to architecture, and notably donated an AutoCAD centre with 20 workstations to the School of Architecture, University of Ife, (now Obafemi Awolowo University, Osun State) to mark his 70th birthday. AutoCAD is computer-aided design (CAD) software for architects, engineers, and construction professionals. This donation demonstrated not only his philanthropy but also his sense of professionalism. He received an honorary doctorate in Architecture from International University Foundation of North Carolina in the US in 1987, and the Albert Einstein Gold Medal from Albert Einstein University Foundation in Malta in 1988. Alade hailed from Aramoko Ekiti in present-day Ekiti State. According to Ekiti State governor Kayode Fayemi, he designed the master plan of Ekiti State, which was created in 1996.   He was said to have designed all the 26 local government headquarters for Ondo State free of charge in 1976. He remained relevant after his civil service years, and was appointed Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of the Federal University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State, in 1990. Alade’s services to profession and country are symbolised by the notable constructions connected with him. He left a legacy of creativity, professionalism and public-spiritedness.