Authorities of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) on Monday confirmed the killing of a Commandant of the Corps by bandits along Kuje/Gwagwalada road on Sunday. They gave the Officer’s name as Commandant Dangana. He was said to have sustained bullets wounds from the attacks launched by the bandits while they were travelling along the now dangerous route. The officer was later confirmed dead by Monday morning. A minute silent was observed for the late Dangana at the Special Parade, Simulation Exercise and unveiling of the newly established Female Squad of the Corps at its Parade Ground located at the Headquarters of the NSCDC in Abuja. The event which was slated for 10am was delayed as the Commandant-General was said to have paid the family of the late officer a condolence visit. The Public Relations Officer of the Corps, Olusola Odumosu who announced the death of the Officer, enjoined his colleagues to pray for the repose of his soul. Meanwhile, the Commandant-General, Dr Ahmed Audi described the security situation in Nigeria as worrisome, saying the Corps is on the verge of being rejuvenated to enable it play its roles in the security architecture of the country. Dr Audi who said the unveiling of the Female Squad was about 100 days after his emergence as the head of the security outfit, said the Corps would be repositioned to bring lasting peace to Nigeria alongside other sister agencies. “My immediate task and priority is to give the Corps a purposeful leadership and focus on the priorities of providing adequate security to lives and property in order to maintain National stability, peace and togetherness,” he added. Dr Audi said: “My heart goes to all the families whom have been directly or indirectly affected by the negative impacts of this insurgency which are orchestrated by some faceless criminal syndicates with the intention to destabilize the peaceful co-existence of the people as a nation. “Due to the unprovoked and mindless attacks which has led to loss of lives and left in its trail gory image of the threat terrorism now poses to the peace and security of the nation and safety of our citizens. “I was propelled upon assumption of duty to hasten efforts to build a credible and proactive security organization that is knowledge-driven, dogged and committed to its responsibility. “That driving force and initiative brought about the establishment of the first set of the female squad. This is in keeping to my belief that women can make and been making valuable contributions to nation-building in this Country.”