On the journey to political hilltop, there are three roads every leader must travel through; the road well travelled, the road rarely travelled and the road not travelled. The road well travelled in politics is a route characterised by vicissitude, responsibilities and commitment for a better humanity. On this road are selfless leaders committed to societal development, human empowerment, security of lives and property. Leaders who focus on the interest of those they are leading more than their own parochial political interest are found on this road. Leaders who see the future from the present; leaders who believe in capacity development of the youth than equipping them as political thugs or profiling them as worthless creatures; leaders who fear God than men are those who walk along this road . Embedded along the road well travelled are challenges that can only be weathered by experience, doggedness and vision. On the road well travelled, accidental public servants are not found there; emergency philanthropists are non-existent there; self-made leaders with plain-folk propaganda tool and eye-service leaders are not found there. On the road well travelled are leaders who started sacrificing for humanity when they had nothing not the now-political opportunists; leaders who staked their lives for freedom of others when they were nothing; leaders who are riding on the mantra of innovation and creativity; leaders with deep-seated and genuine love for the people they are leading; leaders with the milk of human kindness flowing through their veins; leaders who have disrupted norms for human emancipation. Rt. Hon. (Barr. Onofiok Luke belongs in this class. From his school days where he showed leadership in some little responsibilities, Onofiok Luke projected himself as a ready made servant leader capable and available to serve humanity. It was these innate leadership qualities that warranted the Nigerian youth to appoint him the first Speaker of the Nigerian Youth Parliament. With this, he was able to unite youths across the country, bridge ethnic gap and provid a common platform where interests of Nigerian youths were discussed and directed to appropriate offices for immediate action. After his tenure, Barr. Onofiok Luke became very visible in the political scene of Akwa Ibom state. He was appointed Personal Assistant by Senator Godswill Akpabio when he was Governor of the state and he served meritoriously. In view of his diligence in service and love for his people, he was elected as member representating Nsit Ubium State Constituency in the Akwa Ibom State House of Assembly between 2011-2015. Again in 2015, despite conspiracies to stop the vocal Onofiok Luke from recontesting, his people stood firmly behind him and voted him back as a second term member where he was eventually elected Speaker, against all odds, b his colleagues. Barr. Luke’s leadership style in the 6th Assembly as the Speaker, stood him out in the annals of the State Assembly since the creation of Akwa Ibom. As Lawmaker, he instituted the Constituency Transport Scheme (CTS), the Seed Capital for Business Start-up (SCBS), and the Constituency Education Support Grants (CESG) as youths empowerment schemes. He also founded The Onofiok Luke Legislative Internship Programme (TOLLIP), which was later adopted and enlarged by the state legislature into what became the Akwa Ibom Legislative Internship Programme (AKILIP). This programme had many youths groomed and positioned for leadership, entrepreneurship and self-reliance. In 2019, Barr. Luke was elected by his people to take on greater responsibility by representating Etinan/Nsit Ibom/Nsit Ubium Federal Constituency at the green chambers of the national assembly. Within his two years sojourn on this role Onofiok Luke has distinguished himself as a visionary leader. Within this two years, he has sponsored five motions which include: Motion of a matter of urgent public importance for the need for security agencies to ensure the release of Hon. Justice Chioma Nwosu and increase security and protection around judicial officers across Nigeria. On February 20, 2020, Barr. Luke sponsored a motion of urgent public importance on the need for the federal government to appoint more supreme court justices to expedite justice delivery in the country. Luke also sponsored motion of urgent public importance on the need for the federal government to postpone the national sports festival in Edo State and other large gatherings. March 24, 2020, Barr. Luke moved a motion on the need to ensure transparency and accountability in the rehabilitation exercise of the nation’s Refineries. As a federal lawmaker, he moved a motion directing the federal government to make ALSCON (Aluminum Smelter Company of Nigeria) functional. In terms of projects, he has demonstrated dexterity in attracting and executing life-touching projects. Within these two years, he partnered with the school of Dental Technology and Therapy Enugu to organise free medical outreach and health education to constituents of Etinan/Nsit Ibom/Nsit Ubium Federal Constituency. Provided and supplied laptops to youths for educational training and enterprise development. Ensured the construction of Constituency Community Center in Etinan Local Government Area; Partnered with SMEDAN to organise a vocational skill training programme for women and youths in Nsit Ubium LGA and procurement/ supplies of hairdressing equipment, sewing machines and generators. He has Constructed ICT knowledge centre at Nsit People’s Grammar School, Afaha Offiong, Nsit Ibom LGA and ICT knowledge centre at Community Comprehensive Secondary School, Ikot Okobo, Nsit Ubium LGA. In all these responsibilities thrust on him, Barr. Onofiok Like, at no point was found wanting or misbehaved in leadership. As 2023 approaches, it is the belief of every Akwa Ibomite, that a capable, selfless and proactive leader in the mould of Rt. Hon. (Barr.) Onofiok Luke Akpan, will step up to serve in yet another higher calling and it is hoped that he will be given the opportunity to again serve his people. Okwara writes from Uyo