An indigenous energy firm OMAA has unveiled vehicles that would run on gas. OMAA presented the country’s first locally assembled natural gas-powered buses at the Nigeria International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) in Abuja. Its founder, Chinedu Oguegbu, said the company was starting up with energy mobility, which were vehicles going on compressed natural gas and gas powered generators. He said the company was committed to maximising Nigeria’s potential in the area of gas utilisation. “This is the beginning of a trend that will revolutionise not just the automotive industry, but the energy industry. The nation is transiting to a gas-powered economy and OMAA’s goal is to drive this and accelerate it. We have our products on display ranging from generators including the ones that are already using petrol. “We construct buses that are rugged, customisable and adapted to Nigerian roads, as well as gas-powered solutions to foster sustainable energy usage in homes and commercial buildings. “We have conversion kits that can make you now to switch to using LPG, which is safer and commercially viable. So, you save money when you switch to gas,” he said According to Oguegbu, Omaa vehicles are assembled in Igbo-Ukwu, Anambra State. “Not only are our vehicles assembled by local talents, our facility also includes a training centre which has the ambition to provide subsidised training in gas conversion technology to at least one hundred participants,” he stated. He appealed for the Federal Government’s support, saying: “If the government supports the industry, we are going to see more people employed; we see more growth and development. The African Continental Free Trade is already in force, what that means is that our borders are going to be progressively opened. Before now, there’s no assistance, but we are seeking government support in providing access finance bases, also for expansion of the manufacturing plant in the state, we need to grow, we need to expand our standard, we need to do a lot more,” giving single digit low interest funds will go a long way to making sure that we remained in business,” Oguegbu insisted  