Political scientists under the aegis of Nigeria Political Science Association (NPSA) have said that secession is not the way out of the current challenges plaguing the nation. They, therefore, urged advocates of secession to have a change of heart. Instead, the association recommended dialogue as a crucial option for addressing the country’s multifaceted problems. NPSA President, Prof Hassan Salihu told reporters in Ilorin, Kwara state capital, saying that dialogue is a far better alternative that costs less than the long-term high cost that will attend the wedge that has been erected to frustrate more flow of conversations between the government and citizens to arrive at a national consensus. He said while the association agrees that the problems facing the country are multifaceted and multi-layered and are becoming more intractable, it still believes that the situation is not beyond redemption as to warrant calling for secession from the nation. Salihu added that all what is required to solve the problems is the development of more awareness of the problems and the readiness to apply a mix of therapies that are people’s centered. He added: “To be sure, the NPSA believes in a strong and united Nigeria and as such, it frowns at the incessant drum of disintegration being beaten by some aggrieved Nigerians. “We believe in one Nigeria where all its citizens will enjoy justice, equity, fairness and peace. We thus disapprove of extreme posturing and agitations, verging on the dismemberment of the country as being demanded by some groups. “As political scientists, we do not grudge against some Nigerians who have grievances with the current state of affairs in Nigeria and are ready to canvass their views within the confines of the law. However, we reject the option of breaking up the country for the many consequences that some countries that have passed through the route are still living with. “Fortunately, we are in a democracy with its avowed principles guiding its operation. Its time-tested principles such as dialogue should be embraced by all in navigating the country away from the path of the precipice and thus strengthening the bond that exists among Nigerians. Political problems require political solutions. The NPSA considers dialogue as a crucial option for addressing the current challenges facing the nation.”