 Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man his blood will be shed; for in His own image God has made mankind. — Genesis 9:6  This is not a friendly missive and I am in a dilemma about how to go about this. Well, let’s get done with it. I do not know if you have wives, children, mothers, fathers and extended family members. What I am sure of is that blood flows in you, that you are human beings, that you live among us and that if caught you could cry and plead for mercy. It is for your anonymous status that I do not know the right way to start this letter. You are no strangers to us, but of recent your notoriety has mounted a pedestal we have never experienced. Hardly does a day pass without you committing one evil or the other. From Lagos to Owerri to Kano and Kaduna and elsewhere, you sneak in on people and leave sorrow and blood. You steal, you rob, and you plunder people’s lives with hot lead. You know no class; your victims can be the bourgeoisie, the middle class and at times the poor who are daily begging to eke a livelihood. In the last two days, you have killed an ex-judge and you have ended the dreams of a former political adviser. There are instances when you operate like bandits, who plunder and dash into the bush to hide and share your loot. At times, you are terrorists who maim and kill and are even ready to die for what you believe in. You are so powerful that you have defied the police, the army and the secret police. Once in a while, they catch one or two of you, but largely you succeed in wreaking havoc and escaping into anonymity. You grant audience to the like of Sheik Guni, who is doing a yeoman’s job as your mouthpiece and is always warning us to stop calling you bad names. He says you are not bad, but only made worse by circumstances and are willing to turn a new leaf. For you, no land is sacred. You are attacking police stations and sacking officers and burning them down. You are burning electoral commission offices across the country. You have operated in churches, mosques and schools. When you invade schools, you grab students— male and female— in their hundreds and demand ransom in millions of naira, when you operate in churches, you grab pastors and priests, and when you operate in mosques, Imams become your prey. You are so talented to the extent that when governments refuse to pay, you threaten the parents of the abductees and get them to cough out the money. In one instance, you got the parents to raise N180 million. In another, you even got farmers to borrow money from a cooperative society to pay you off so that their members are not your victims. Such devilish ingenuity! Mr unknown gunmen, you are so disrespectful that when our president, our dear Muhammadu Buhari, reads riot act to you and when he asks that you be shot on sight, you become emboldened and I assume that you have formed the habit of laughing at our dear president and perhaps have labelled him toothless. I must tell you that you have made our country a bad place. You have made foreign missions warn their citizens against travelling to certain parts of Nigeria and you seem to have no qualms. To hell with Nigeria seems to be your message. Nigeria has failed you so you see nothing wrong in failing Nigeria. What you, however, fail to realise is that in dealing with Nigeria, you are actually misdirecting your anger. You are turning against people who have also suffered the side effects of inept leadership. In case you do not know, everyone is discontent and you are adding to the bad situation. I worry for our nation; I cry, and I wonder why you have chosen to pour pepper on our wounds. You should know that many out there are looking for jobs that are not available. Not a few have died this week all because what we call medical centres are consulting rooms that they have been in since the military era. Even the private clinics where we pay through our noses cannot compete outside of our shores. You have become so daring that the security agents have left the people to cater for their safety needs. The situation is so bad that you exist in all tribes, in almost all states and in all geo-political zones of the country. Your attacks on the electoral commission offices seem designed to ensure the 2023 elections do not hold. These are elections that I look forward to seriously, especially the presidential one. President Buhari is in the middle of his last term. If wishes were horses, I wish you can join your faith with mine on the kind of President we deserve in 2023, even though this has the potential to end your reign. For whatever it is worth, these are my wishes: We deserve a President who can right the wrongs of the past. We deserve a President who will make nepotism a thing of the past. We deserve a President who will ensure no Nigerian feels left out because of which part of the country he or she comes from. We deserve a President who will end this era of epileptic supply of electricity. I will be glad that day when our electricity generating sets will only be useful for picnics at beaches and such places where a temporary source of power is required. We deserve a President who will provide enough direction for members of the National Assembly to truly legislate in the interest of the people and not out of any pecuniary interest. I am sick and tired of the current situation where everything but national interest seems to take the first position. We also deserve a President who will give us a Nigeria where our schools can compete with others in the advanced world. I long for a President who will take Nigeria out of the Third World. What is wrong with being a First World? We equally deserve a President who will deliver a Nigeria where we can reap from medical tourism instead of the current situation where we are the major loser to this trend. We certainly deserve a President who will make our economy so robust that we can hold our head high anywhere in the world and our green passport will command respect and not scorn. What is wrong with having a President who will give us a Nigeria where oil takes the back seat and agriculture and tourism take the front seat and contribute more to our foreign exchange earnings and Gross Domestic Product (GDP)? Is it too much to ask for a President who will give us new songs, not songs of sorrow, not songs of despair, but songs of joy, songs of a country, which experiences orgasm at old age and hold on to it forever? And I have one last wish, which I doubt you will want to align yourselves with. My final take: We deserve leadership that will run these terrorists called unknown gunmen out of town. You guys do not deserve to be in business. You are bad news, you are sorrow, you are tears and you are blood. Our nation deserves peace and may we see your end. I say a big amen! 