 The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFCC) has asked all Managing Directors (MDs) of banks, Deputy Managing Directors (DMDs) and Executive Directors (EDs) to submit their asset declaration forms. It was learnt that they have up to two weeks to do so or risk a 10-year jail term. The top executives of the banks are first on the list of bankers who are expected to declare their assets. According to a top source, the directive to the MDs, DMDs and EDs are contained in a June 1, 2021 letter to them. The source said: “In line with the decision of the Executive Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, EFCC, Abdulrasheed Bawa to demand for the assets declaration forms filed by bankers beginning from June 1, 2021, the commission has demanded for the assets declaration forms of the executive management of all banks in the country. “The request for the assets declaration forms of the top executives of banks is contained in a letter to the managing directors of the banks dated June 1, 2021. “Listed among the officers whose assets declaration forms are expected by the Commission are managing directors, deputy managing directors and executive directors of all the banks. “The request is pursuant to the Bank Employees, Etc. (Declaration of Assets) Act, 1986, which mandates bankers to declare assets upon employment and annually thereafter. “Violators of the law risk imprisonment for a term of up to ten years.” The penalty for violation of the Act is contained in Section 7(2). The Act says: “It shall be an offence for an employee of a Bank to own assets in excess of his legitimate, known and provable income and assets. “Any employee guilty of an offence under subsection (1) of this section shall on conviction be liable to imprisonment for ten years and shall, in addition, forfeit the excess assets or its equivalent in money to the Federal Government. “For the purpose of imposing a penalty on conviction under this section, due regard shall be had to the amount or value of assets by which the assets of the convicted employee are in excess of his legitimate, known and provable income and assets.” On verification of assets, the law says the government can investigate bankers’ parents, spouses, children, associates and privies. It says: “The appropriate authority shall cause to be verified every Declaration of Assets Form and Annual Assets Declaration Form submitted under this Act and may direct that a thorough investigation should be conducted into the assets and activities of the employee concerned including the assets and activities of his spouse, child, relative, parent, associate or privy.” The law gives guidelines on how bank workers will disclose their assets. The Act also reads in part: “Employees to make full disclosure of assets. Every employee of a Bank shall, within fourteen days of the commencement of this Act, make a full disclosure of all his assets. “In the case of a new employee, he shall within fourteen days of assuming duty with the Bank make a full disclosure of all his assets at the time of his assuming duty; and for the purpose of this subsection, a transfer or secondment from one Bank to another shall be treated as a new employment. “The full disclosure of assets required under section 1 of this Act shall be made in the manner prescribed in the Declaration of Assets Form contained in Form A of the Schedule to this Act and shall be executed before and attested to by the Registrar of a High Court, the Court of Appeal or the Supreme Court. “The President or the appropriate authority may from time to time prescribe such other forms as may be necessary to achieve the purpose and intendment of this Act. 3.  “On completion and execution of the Declaration of Assets Form in the manner prescribed in section 2 (1) of this Act, the employee shall submit the form to the Chief Executive of his Bank within the time prescribed in section 1 of this Act. “The Chief Executive of the Bank to whom Declaration of Assets forms have been submitted under subsection (1) of this section shall, within seven days after the expiration of the time stipulated in section 1 of this Act, submit the forms to the appropriate authority together with the list of employees compiled in the manner prescribed in Form B of the Schedule to this Act.” It adds: ” The Chief Executive of every Bank shall twice in every year, but not later than 7 January, or 7 July, as the case may be, submit to the appropriate authority a list of all employees who joined or left the employment of the Bank in the immediately preceding six months expiring respectively on 31 December of the previous year and 30 June of that year respectively. “The list referred to in subsection (1) of this section shall be in the manner prescribed in the Biannual Returns of Employees Movements contained in Form D of the Schedule to this Act.” In the latest edition of its in-house magazine, the EFCC ALERT, the anti-graft agency confirmed what it described as “trepidation” in the banking sector over the June 1 deadline.” It said: “But with the June 1 ‘deadline’ just by the corner, there is trepidation in the banking sector amid permutations about the possible scenarios in the coming “The announcement drew mixed reactions, with some questioning the powers of the EFCC to issue the notice, while others applauded the move, saying it was long overdue. “Among those who are yet to tidy their assets record, there is said to be an air of foreboding regarding their fate. “The fear, though largely unspoken, is about the consequences of second guessing the resolve of the EFCC chair to apply the full weight of the law on erring bankers. “This is premised on the recent history of the banking sector, where a couple of former chief executives came under EFCC’s radar in the aftermath of the Central Bank of Nigeria’s whistle on the indiscretion of some bank Chiefs in 2008. “Two of the former bank executives have been jailed while others are still in court, battling to extricate their necks from the intricate web of fraud charges filed against them by the  anti-graft agency. “What will happen post June 1 remains a matter of conjecture. However, one thing is  certain; the steely resolve of the EFCC It quoted the Executive Chairman of EFCC,  Abdulrasheed  Bawa, as claiming that there is no going back on the June 1 deadline. “All we are saying is that come June 1, we are going to be demanding for it (assets declaration forms). “We want to look at it vis-à-vis other  information that we have. It is something  that as an institution we have resolved to do. Of course we expect stiff resistance, but we are determined,” Bawa said. Meanwhile the EFCC boss has recommended simple conditions for repatriating looted funds from abroad. He said the simplification of procedures will ensure timely recovery and return of stolen assets from developing countries. According to him, the EFCC will do its best to track, investigate and prosecute corrupt individuals behind looted funds. Bawa made the call at the Special Session of the UN General Assembly in New York, United States of America (USA) on the challenges and measures to prevent and combat corruption. He said, “Nigeria, therefore, calls for a multifaceted approach in addressing illicit financial flows as recommended by the High Level Panel Report on International Financial Accountability, Transparency and Integrity for Achieving the 2030 Agenda (FACTI Panel). “The report provides paths to financial integrity for sustainable development, strongly showing how to redirect the resources lost from illicit flows to finance the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the achievement of the SDGs. “Nigeria further calls for the simplification of evidentiary requirements and other mutual legal assistance procedures to seize, confiscate and repatriate proceeds of corruption, as appropriate, to enhance international cooperation for timely recovery and return of assets.” Bawa noted that corruption has had negative impact on developing countries, adding that  Illicit Financial Flows (IFFs) from developing economies to developed countries have deprived many nations of huge resources. He added: “Corruption across national borders has huge negative impacts on the stability, peace, and economic prospects of millions, particularly in developing countries. Corruption remains one of the most pervasive and daunting challenges facing humanity. “It deprives national governments of resources needed for sustainable development and facilitates illicit financial flows (IFFs) from developing economies to developed countries thus, weakening states’ ability to deliver developmental expectations targeted at women and youths. “Nigeria, like many other countries, has suffered from the damaging effects of corruption. The country has lost billions of dollars to foreign tax havens, stolen and expatriated by corrupt leaders and their foreign accomplices including multinational companies.” “Let me reiterate that the fight against Illicit Financial Flows is urgent and important in our collective efforts to address corruption.” Bawa said EFCC will do its best to track, investigate and prosecute corrupt individuals behind looted funds. He said: “We remain committed in our efforts to track, investigate and prosecute corrupt individuals and entities and repatriate such funds and assets to their countries of origin. “Nigeria looks forward to the full implementation of all the commitments expressed in the Political Declaration, particularly on Asset Recovery and return, to support development financing as well as the implementation of the agenda 2030 for sustainable development. ” 