Insecurity is not only keeping some 3,000 vulnerable children in Niger State outside their homes but also out of the classrooms, JUSTINA ASISHANA reports. The majority of the children in security-challenged areas in Niger State are facing double tragedy as they are out of their homes and schools. Over 3,000 children are facing this problem. Some, The Nation learnt, have been out of school for up to two years. A visit to the Gwada IDP Camp in Shiroro Local Government Area showed a reflection of this. The Gwada IDP Camp Desk Officer Habibu Musa told The Nation that there were over 200 children in the camp not going to school. Ironically, the camp is a school, yet the children do not attend lessons there even when classes are held. Pupils of the displaced Government Central Primary School-turned camp hold their classes under the trees since the IDPs occupy the classes. The benches and chairs are under the trees with zinc was used to cover the top to keep off sun and rain from the children while they study. A teacher in the school said the children who still received lessons were more than 2,000. Parents in the IDP Camp do not allow their wards to attend school because they feel their children are not at par with pupils of the school. The communities where the children in IDP camps come from could be classified as rural areas while Gwada where the camp is situated could be classified as a semi-urban area. Apart from the inability to buy uniforms, books and sandals that would enable the children to get enrolled in the school, many of the parents told The Nation that they did not allow their children to attend the school because ‘they are not equal to the other children.’ Rose Daniel, who has three children, between four and eight years said if her children went to the school, they would not understand what wasbeing taught, adding that this would be a waste of whatever money used to put them in school, especially when the money was not easily available. “My children cannot join them here because they are from the village and they do not know as much as the children here. And again, we also do not have money to buy uniforms, books and sandals which are the mandatory items needed for them to start school.” A father, Revd John Samari, backed this point as he said none of his four children were attending the school. “Our children and the ones here are not the same intellectually. My children even told me that they were afraid that these ones here would beat them if they joined them. Also, I fear that they would try to bully them because they would not understand themselves.” Speaking to reporters on the requirements to be met for the children to be admitted into a school, he explained that they needed to get uniforms, books and sandals and money for P.T.A. It was also observed that the Government Central Primary School, Gwada, is one of the schools benefiting from the homegrown school feeding programme but, unfortunately, the children of the IDPs who the food would have benefitted more are not beneficiaries of the feeding programme as they are not enrolled as pupils in the school. We are doing our best, govt says The Director-General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency (NSEMA), Alhaji Ibrahim Inga, explained that the government was doing its best in taking care of displaced persons across the state. According to him, the development is overwhelming the government which has reached out to individuals and organisations to help the state in supporting the IDPs. “It has not been easy taking care of the IDPs in the state. It has not been easy for the people and the victims. These days, the attacks are now daily and with the larger chunk of people affected are those in the rural areas and when these happen, those displaced flood the IDP camps and majority of them have children. “That is why we are calling for kind-hearted individuals and NGOs to come and help us with this situation because it has not been easy for the government to cater for the needs of the displaced persons especially with the lean resources and economic hardship in the country.” The Chairman, Niger State Universal Basic Education Board (NSUBEB), Dr. Isah Adamu, said the government was looking at ways of providing education for children in camps. According to him, the insecurity in 11 local government areas has led to the closure of over 30 government primary schools, adding that all the pupils in the schools were out of school. Isah said the government was exploring means by which the teachers from the displaced communities would be equipped to start conducting lessons for displaced children. “We intend to follow these children to their IDP camps and use the teachers who are displaced to give the children the functional education they need. Despite the challenge we are facing, we are doing our best in giving education to the children.” We have missed our schools, say children Interacting with the children, they narrated how much they missed schooling while others tried to mimic their teacher’s mannerisms to show that they still remembered what was being done in the school they were in. Eight-year-old Hadiza from Kaure Village said she was in Primary 1 when she and her family left the village for safety. “I miss my teachers. I miss going to school. I miss learning new things. It has been long I went to school. I will like to go to school again.” Seven-year-old Idris said he was sometimes envious when he saw pupils who attended the primary school taking their lessons. “Whenever the other children are here, I will just sit and look at them. I cannot join them because my mother does not have money. I would have loved to be among them. I have missed school.” Several of the pupils from the IDP camps indicated that they would want to return to back to school as they miss their schools. However, there are indications that the children may soon be helped to get education as the Victims Support Fund (VSF) has shown an interest in helping the children. The Executive Director of the Victims Support Fund (VSF), Prof. Nana Tanko, who visit the camp to know their challenges, said after the assessment, the Fund would intervene in the area of education. “If the children continue staying here without education, their future will be destroyed. After assessing the state of the camp and other IDP camps in Niger, we see that we have to come in to address the education challenge of the children. The fact that some of them have been in these camps for more than a year without education shows how much they will need this intervention. “In the IDP camps we visited, we see that the parents are willing to allow their children to go to school but they do not have the resources for the basic materials like uniforms, books, writing materials and sandals to qualify them to become enrolled in the school.”