Two persons have been confirmed dead and ten others injured in a pandemonium that ensured when suspected policemen allegedly from the Inspector General of Police Team stormed Ajaawa, Ogo-Oluwa Local Government Area of Oyo State on Monday evening. The police accused of shooting sporadically and specifically at some homes were said to have entered the town in three Sienna buses around 1am. Addressing newsmen in Ibadan on Tuesday, Chairman, Oyo Oluwa LGA, Ajaawa, Mr Seun Ojo, who was accompanied by the Alajaawa of Ajaawa, Oba Thompson Oyetunji and other leaders of the community, said the alleged perpetrators booked at the office of the Area Commander and the office of the Divisional Police Officer, Ajaawa, attesting to claims they were men of the Nigeria Police. Among the deceased, Ojo said, was Ifa Chief Priest of the town, Ifaleye Jaiyeola, noting his corpse, his wife and driver were later abducted by the suspected police team. Ojo said: “Early this morning, around 1am precisely, I was woken up by frantic calls from many people in Ajaawa, following sporadic gun shots that left the town terrified from midnight of Monday, July 28.” “Following quick checks by my office and the office of the Alajaawa, it was confirmed that the sporadic gunshots and direct shootings into some homes were carried out by some men of the Nigeria Police, who had invaded Ajaawa for no clear reasons “We were told that the team came from Abuja, supposedly from the office of the Inspector General of Police. “It was confirmed that the team made bookings at the office of the Area Commander and the office of the Divisional Police Officer, Ajaawa, so we had no doubt that they were men of the Nigeria Police. “We were, however, more than baffled that men of the Nigeria Police would invade a community, unleash sporadic gunshots and cause tension and panic, even loss of lives. “As we speak, at least two persons were confirmed dead from the sporadic gunshots fired by the police team members while at least 10 persons have been confirmed to sustain various degrees of injuries. “The final number of the injured was actually being put together as we speak since I had to hurriedly leave the council to make this report here in Ibadan.” Oyo Police Command was yet to release any statement on the matter as at the time of filing the report.