The Nigeria’s financial services landscape has gone through significant transformation in recent years as banks and allied service providers uptake technology and innovation to address unmet customer needs. Technological advancements have catalysed the development of array of innovative solutions such as electronic payment platforms, online banking and mobile apps among others. As a result, payment and banking services are becoming more accessible, lot easier, more convenient and faster. Noteworthy is the digital transformation of the banking system, which indeed, has been a major pillar for the Central Bank of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy (CBN-NFIS). The support of the banks and other institutions has resulted in the reduction of unbanked persons by 60 per cent as at end of 2020. EFinA in its 2020 report recommended innovation enablement, digital infrastructure, and technology talent, among actions that could further push the financial inclusion number higher in Nigeria. Polaris Bank is one of the major lenders driving aggressive technological expansion to leverage financial inclusion and depth. As a future-determining financial services institution, Polaris Bank under the immediate former Managing Director and now Senator, Tokunbo Abiru, had in 2019, laid out strategic initiatives for the Bank’s future growth, which included the commencement of the ”Digital Transformation” journey with the recruitment of professionals and set up of structures and systems. A major highlight of the initiative was aggressive refresh of information and communication technology infrastructure leading to the replacement and upgrade of aged, obsolete and sub-optimal performance of IT infrastructure. Also included was the launch of Polaris Bank’s agency banking platform “Sure Padi”, designed to provide banking services to the unbanked and underbanked as well as in locations in which the bank is not present among others. Management of Polaris Bank, however,  took another bold step on May 18, 2021 with the launch of its new digital banking platform, VULTe, for customers and non-customers of the bank. VULTe is a quick self-service digital solution, which allows users access to a range of banking services such as account opening and Wallet (NGN and USD), airtime and data top-up; fund account; funds transfer; bills payment; pay day loan; lifestyle and events (Discover); Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and Branch/Agent locator. Others included viewing of transactions history, generation of bank statements, profile settings like hide and show balance, hide and show accounts, forgot user identity or password, reset PIN , and banking services such as limit increase, request card or cheque book and block account or card among others. Chairman, Polaris Bank, Muhammad Ahmad, explained that VULTe was a product of the bank’s corporate goal to offer customers and non-customers alike a 24-hour seamless service, while its development began over two years ago. “This is a milestone in our pursuit of a strong and digitally-led retail brand. When we started the Polaris journey almost three years ago, we were very clear on the type of Bank we must build and the direction we must go. This was largely informed by the fast pace of change in financial service provisioning and the apparent technology-defined outlook of our business. “This is not another mobile App, but one with a world of difference, a mobile digital bank. This is your bank in your hand, affording you total Control of your financial service needs. With VULTe, you serve yourself, the way you want to be served,” Ahmad said. Acting Managing Director, Polaris Bank, Mr. Innocent Ike said VULTe means returning powers to the customer as king, as customers are now at liberty to enjoy unhindered, contactless and refreshing banking experience at the tip of their fingers. “With VULTe, we affirm our resolve to serve the customer better and make their banking experience, more pleasurable. Therefore, we will continue to launch an array of banking products to cater to the varying needs of our diverse customers,” Ike said. He added that the bank places premium value on its customer, noting that VULTe represents bold declaration to hand over control of banking services to customers and allow them to serve themselves as they would want to be served.’ According to him, as a Polaris Bank customer, one is at liberty to determine one’s banking experience since the bank has put itself in your hand 24/7. “You now have total control to serve yourself; it’s no more customer service but customer self-service. “Are you opening an account, setting limits on your account, verifying your identity documents, registering your biometrics, making inquiries, taking an instant loan? You are in total CONTROL – you do it at your time, at your convenience, and on your terms – you determine how delightful your banking experience will be,” Ike said. Chief Digital Officer, Polaris Bank, Mr. Dele Adeyinka, added that VULTe comes with numerous unique features and benefits that are hard to get elsewhere, and it is a game-changer. “VULTe will change everything that happens in the ‘brick & mortar’ space to clicks and buttons. The VULTe app comes in mobile (Android and iOS) and Web Applications, and it allows customers with either of the options, to access banking services at the click of the button,” Adeyinka said. He noted that VULTe is also unique because it is a wholly homegrown digital platform – built by staff of the bank, adding that the new digital bank has been widely acknowledged as best-in-class across user spectrum. ”VULTe is a new, more stable and robust platform that offers higher availability and transaction success rate for users. It is a fully homegrown digital solution developed internally by Polaris Bank’s Digital Banking and Information Technology teams,” Adeyinka said. As Africa’s largest economy and 200 million population – 40 per cent of which is financially excluded – the launch of VULTe, no doubt, further amplified the potential of digital platforms as a significant contributor to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). According to McKinsey, Nigeria’s growing youthful population, increasing smartphone penetration, focused regulatory drive to increase financial inclusion and cashless payments, and emergence of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs) are opportunities to tap. Also, with increasing customers’ demand for positive user experience of products and services, finding real value-add from a financial services provider would be exciting. The launch of VULTe had in attendance representatives of the CBN, key Financial Technology (FinTechs) industry players and strategic partners of Polaris Bank, who in their respective goodwill messages, attested to the bank’s unwavering determination to ensuring quality customer satisfaction at all times. 