The World Health Organisation (WHO) has stated that 77 per cent of all vaccine doses are being administered in just 10 countries. It indicated that since February 4, 2021, more people have been vaccinated against the COVID-19 than those that have been confirmed to have been infected since the beginning of the epidemic. The WHO decried the high-level vaccine inequity currently going on globally. It, therefore, stated that ensuring equitable access to vaccines for all countries – high, middle and lower income countries – combined with the adherence to public health and social measures are the ways to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic. The WHO Country Representative, Dr. Kazadi Mulombo, stated these in Abuja, during a joint news briefing on COVID-19 vaccination updates of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NHCDA), the WHO and the United Nations Children Emergency Fund (UNICEF). He said: “The global failure to share vaccines equitably is fueling a two-track pandemic, with some countries seemingly bringing the pandemic under control and others experiencing a third wave. “While a handful of countries have high vaccination rates and are now seeing lower numbers, other countries in Africa, America and Asia are facing stiff epidemics. The combination of the ineffective use of public health and social measures, including social mixing and vaccine inequity, continue to give COVID-19 an opportunity to mutate, spread and kill. “Ensuring equitable access to vaccines requires extraordinary measures and global collaboration. Countries sharing doses, companies engaging with and making COVID-19 technology accessible, allowing free exports of critical materials for vaccine manufacturing and manufacturing know-how, will all be critical in ensuring equitable access to vaccines. “Since the 4th of February 2021, more people have been vaccinated against the COVID-19 than those that have been confirmed to have been affected since the beginning of the epidemic. Seventy-seven per cent of all vaccine doses are being administered in just 10 countries. “As the vaccination with the second dose is in full speed in Nigeria, it is important to know that in extensive vaccination campaigns, it is normal for countries to identify persons that have experienced adverse events following immunisation. This shows that the surveillance system works and that effective controls are in place. It is important for anybody taking the vaccines to report any side-effects so that they could be investigated.” Regarding vaccinating children against the COVID-19 pandemic, Peter Hawkins, the Country Representative of UNICEF, who was represented by Dr. Gupta Gagan, said: “Based on evidence of the safety, efficacy and the local data, for now, the decision for Nigeria is to vaccinate all eligible population, which includes essential workers, people with comorbidities, people in the older age group. “Regarding the vaccination for children, a few countries have started it, but as we have more evidence and more knowledge in the subsequent phases, it will be discussed and deliberated and a decision will be taken.”