In the midst of widespread insecurity, rising ethnocentrism, economic recession characterized by rising  food prices and an intolerably high rate of unemployment, driving millions of young people into hopelessness and crime, #FixPolitics, a group committed to a citizen’s-led movement to fix the country’s  politics has urged the government and citizens to act to rescue the nation from the abyss of collapse. In a statement by its co-chairs, Professor Remi Sonaiya and Frank Nweke II, titled ‘The State of the Nation’ the group said it is time to act and the government must take concrete and swift action to restore security with respect for human rights. The statement said: “The constitutional duty of government to secure the life and right of citizens is inviolable and not negotiable. This is the fundamental social contract between the government and the people, and it must not be neglected. “It is time to build back social capital. Restore the citizens’ trust by showing respect, restraint and equity. These values underpin trust, and the current reality of trust deficit can only be reversed by a change in the language, tone and content of the communications between public leaders and the governed, and the actions that proceed therefrom. Avoid shrinking the public space. Respect the voices of citizens and their right to an opinion and also encourage healthy public debate.” The group also urged the government to demonstrate accountability to the rule of law. It added: “The culture of impunity at all levels of government has plagued our country for decades and seriously undermines social justice and equity, while also devaluing our democracy. Upholding the rule of law and ensuring justice for crimes committed is the  sure way to lasting peace, stability and a more perfect union.” The group equally enjoined the citizens to get involved because “the security of neighbourhoods require that citizens should collaborate and cooperate with community leaders and the formal security system on strategies that help to protect all law-abiding residents and indigenes, including security assets and personnel, without whom we are all  at risk”. It applauded communities that already have models of such communal policing and urge others to emulate them. It also asked the citizens to be a voice for peace. The co-chairs said dignity and respect for human life is a shared universal principle. They, therefore, enjoined all and sundry to take responsibility. Hey added: “Citizens must therefore categorically and unequivocally shun and condemn all acts of violence and lawlessness in conversations, public appearances, places of worship, and community gatherings. Every citizen must also verify every message posted and shared on social media to prevent the menace of fake news.” The group enjoined Nigerians to stop the attacks and be a partner in securing the community. The statement said: “Neither support nor enable criminal elements to attack security agents and infrastructure, in order to avoid a complete breakdown of law and order and descent to anarchy. “Effective and trusted security architecture is built on a robust intelligence-gathering anchored on the active participation of all citizens. See something, say something. The times are dire, and regardless of where one stands in Nigeria, the dark clouds are no longer at a distant horizon – much of our dear country is in the shadow of gloom and despair. “We are confident, however, that if we resolutely take on the political system with a determination to discipline the power of our democratic institutions to truly serve the people, a new Nigeria will emerge on the other side of our present storms.” It said nation-building is the responsibility of everyone, not just that of the leadership. “In  order to secure lives, property, communities, and our votes, as well as social  justice and shared prosperity; we must stand for each other, government and  governed alike, and uphold the enduring vision of a nation that is, by destiny, the hope and banner for Black people the world over,” it concluded. 