That is an academic question, some may be tempted to say of the title of this piece, citing the police position on the Ahmed Gulak case. As far as the police are concerned, it is an open and close case. Their position is informed by their strong belief that they have found and killed the ‘killers’ of Ahmed Gulak. Na do he dey easy? People are wondering on social media. They contend that if Gulak could be killed in the morning and his ‘killers’ found and killed a few hours later, why have the police not cracked the murder cases of Dele Giwa (1986), Bola Ige (2001), Marshal Harry (2003) and Funsho Williams (2006), among others, many years after they were killed? What gives the police the confidence that they actually killed Gulak’s ‘killers’? The story will be told as much as possible in the words of the police. It all started in the early hours of May 30 when Gulak, a former aide to President Goodluck Jonathan, and erstwhile Adamawa State House of Assembly speaker, left his hotel in Owerri, the Imo State capital, to catch an early morning flight at the Sam Mbakwe Airport. He never got there. A few metres to the airport, his cab was waylaid by armed men, who shot him dead in cold blood. The two other persons with him and the Toyota Camry cab driver were spared. After killing Gulak, the assailants drove off in their Toyota Sienna vehicle. What happened next is only known by those who witnessed the dastardly act and these are the other passengers and the driver. For now, the other passengers and the driver are only known to the police. This is understandable. Also, the police have not said anything about quizzing the other passengers and the information they got from them. The police have only volunteered information about the tips given to them by the driver that led to the tracking and killing of the hoodlums. Ordinarily, we should be clapping for the police and saying bravo to them for their swiftness, but something is just not right somewhere. The police story does not add up. Did the driver tell them the truth or he just made up the story to save his own skin? Did the police verify his statement from the two others who were also in the cab when the incident happened? From all indication, the police did not have time for such nicety as they were in a hurry to get the assailants before they escaped. Information from the other passengers too would have been of tremendous help in unmasking the killers, if only the police were not in haste to get just anybody to hang the killing of Gulak on. I am not saying that those the police killed committed or did not commit the act, all I am saying is was there concrete proof of their role in Gulak’s killing before they met their own death? The police may want to justify their action by saying that they acted in self defence. Their two statements, which are accounts of the last moments of Gulak before and after his death, were well crafted to absolve them of blame whenever, as they say, the shit hit the roof. In the first statement, the police said the hoodlums operating in a Sienna ‘intercepted, identified and shot Gulak’ at a spot close to the airport. This, the police added, was based on what the driver told them. What this implies is that the hoodlums were on a mission to kill Gulak. By that statement, the police ruled out any other motive for the dastardly act. Should the police arrive at such conclusion without first investigating the case? Again, they said he left his hotel without informing the police or sister agencies in view of the fragile security in the Southeast and Imo State, in particular. Is that the new norm? That citizens, whether high or low, must now inform the police about their movement for security reasons? Or, is this arrangement just for the high and mighy? If it is, does it not conflict with the Acting Inspector-General Usman Baba’s directive, withdrawing the police escorts of important personalities? To get the hoodlums, a combined team of operatives of the tactical unit, intelligence response team, and Police Mobile Force were quickly mobilised to the crime scene. Taking the direction given to them by the driver, they soon ran into the hoodlums where they were sharing onions allegedly seized from a truck coming from the north, to a crowd of people. You can smell a hint of ethnicism in that line – a truckload of onions from the North seized in the Southeast – and that was coming from the police, which should know the implication of such statement. As if that was not enough, the police team now unleashed their firepower on the hoodlums who allegedly fired the first salvo on sighting them. Of course, the police are not expected to confront hoodlums with biscuits in their holsters in the course of enforcing the law. But the shooting to death of a suspect should be the last resort. They can shoot to demobilise a suspect and prevent him from escaping in order to obtain information that will aid their investigation. Once a suspect is killed, that is the end because investigation may be stalled. I hope this will not be the case in Gulak’s murder. Did the slain hoodlums kill Gulak? Were they sent? Who sent them? Or, were they bandits? We may never know as they are no longer alive to say all they know about the incident. Well, may be the driver, who appears to be the police prime witness, and the other passengers can be of help in this regard. If not, the police are to blame for acting too hastily. Little wonder Governor Hope Uzodinma  described the killing as political assassination, apparently based on the police findings. This is the seed the police has sown in his and many others minds. For Gulak not to die in vain, his killers must be brought to justice. The killing of his supposed killers in an encounter has only left the police wide open to suspicion of having something to hide. Whereas, this may not be the case. It is left for the police to prove that.