Journalists have been urged not to rely on the social media as news source without thorough verification. The General Manager, The Herald, Ilorin, Kwara State, Mr. Yomi Clement Adeboye, gave this advice at  the 11th Doyin Mahmoud Lecture at the University of Ilorin Auditorium. The lecture entitled:”EndSARS Movement: Its influence and role of the media,” was  organised by the Department of Mass Communication, UNILORIN, to honour its  pioneer Head of the Department, the late Dr. Doyin Mahmoud. Adeboye urged journalists to be relentless and dedicated to their duties. “A journalist must be committed to his social responsibility. During the EndSARS protest, there was the  spread of fake news. The media can’t depend on social media as a news source nor include gory pictures from social media in their reports without getting enough evidence,” he said. The Chief Press Secretary to the Kwara State Governor, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, said the mainstream media performed its duties accordingly during the EndSARS protest  as against opinions that the mainstream media refused to cover it effectively. Host  of the breakfast show ‘Your View on Television Continental (TVC)’, Morayo Afolabi-Brown noted that the protest was a starting point which could be built upon. She, however,  added that  in this era of citizen journalism and fake news, using the social media reasonably was crucial. Youth Representative, Lagos State EndSARS Judicial Panel,  Rinu Oduala  hailed the protesters  for bringing about cultural unity,  transparency and accountability, youth expression and consciousness through effective use of the social media. Head of Department, Mass Communication,  Dr. Lambe Kayode Mustapha described the late Mahmoud as a scholar who came to redefine communication studies  in the country, and who represented many things and is still representing a lot. “Dr. Mahmoud was a  passionate academic and administrator, an epitome of excellence. He started the Department in 2005 on a sound footing and after three years, it was recognised by the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) as one  of the best Mass Communication training institutes in Nigeria. He who lives in the minds of those left behind is not dead. Doyin Mahmoud is not dead, he lives on,” he said. The event also featured the launch of the 10th The Lens Magazine produced by students of the Department. Personalities at the event include Senator Oyelola Ashiru (Kwara South), Alhaji Hammed Adio, former Commissioner for Education in Kwara State, first Professor of Mass Comm, UNILORIN, Prof. Adeshina Lukman Azeez, family of the deceased and lecturers.