The dream of every businessman is to conquer their targeted market terrain while in business. It’s no doubt that consummate banker and billionaire, Tony Onyemachi Elumelu, popularly called TOE, is in the league of business owners who are not giving anything to chance but want to take over every business space they venture. Many who have followed TOE’s telepathic rise to wealth would attest that he is a man who sees tomorrow. Like in the game of chess, Elumelu is very calculative, and every one of his moves is proof. He knows when to strike hard and when to retreat. Even though he has never retreated in business, he is a calculated risk-taker. After series of think-tank sessions with his team, carefully studying the insurance business scheme in Nigeria, the graduate of Ambrose Ali University, Ekpoma, finally launched Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life, an idea pregnant with innovative business modules that will change the face of insurance policy in the country. Over the years, the generous money-bag has built a reputation with a solid foundation on greatness, success, sincerity, dependability, and profit maximization. Having thrived excellently with the United Bank for Africa UBA, he also replicated his uncommon wizardry investing heavily in the area of Power generation, hospitality, Oil, and Gas, using the Transcorp brand. With the attendance of the Governor of Lagos State Babajide Sanwoolu and other top guests, on June 1, he officially launched the insurance arm of Heirs Holding with the commissioning of a 7-storey building edifice, which would serve as the operational headquarter. Sources disclosed that the launch of the Heirs Insurance and Heirs life is here to challenge the existing status quo. The company launched a web portal enabling customers to get an insurance quote in minutes on their mobile devices. “Elumelu’s investment in insurance is currently giving existing players and competitors a big headache. They are aware that in no time, Tony will take over the insurance business with more innovative ideas. He has also promised that customers will receive claims settlement in less than 24 hours. It has never happened in the industry before. He has done it in the past with the rise of UBA in the banking business. They are scared that he will replicate his magic wand in the insurance business in a little while,” the source divulged. 