 For Nigeria to feed its growing population sustainably, agricultural productivity must grow alongside the entire food system, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Budget and National Planning Mrs Olusola Idowu has said. It was during a dialogue between the Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG) in collaboration with the Ministry of Budget and National Planning, United Nations Nigeria and the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA). Mrs Idowu is the Convenor of UN Member State of the Dialogue for Nigeria They brainstormed on building effective food systems in Nigeria. The “private sector exploratory dialogue” featured private sector groups which explored, debated, and tried to shape pathways to sustainable food systems that will contribute to all the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). They also Identified the practices and policies that will have the greatest impact on the achievement of the desired future vision within the Nigerian local food systems. Furthermore, they considered the possibility of assessing progress towards improved food systems as well as determine who needs to be involved in achieving the overarching objective of building effective food systems in the country. The country representative of the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in Nigeria, Mr Fred Kafeero, noted among others that food systems touch every aspect of human existence and profoundly affects the people’s health, as well as the health of the environment, economies and cultures. NESG CEO Mr ‘Laoye Jaiyeola, in his goodwill message, said that there was a need to enhance processing and make the agricultural space more friendly. He advocated a partnership by all stakeholders as a way to sustain and improve the agricultural sector and help the country become more successful. In her closing remarks, Head, Public Policy Reforms and Intelligence of the NESG, Ms Seun Ojo, said the dialogue was an important step in improving Nigeria’s food systems through the provision of pragmatic solutions and that a framework will be created that will fit into the larger UN resolutions. “The best way to deal with food insecurity, malnutrition and hunger is collective and concerted collaboration and effort between government, private sector, civil society organisations and all stakeholders”, Ojo added. Earlier, Mrs Oluyemisi Iranloye, Founder and CEO of Psaltry Nigeria Ltd, said that the COVID-19 pandemic and raging insecurity has affected the agricultural industry and this has increased food, insecure citizens, from 25 million to 50 million. She said it was expedient to have private sector participation in Nigeria’s Agricultural system to help bridge the gap that exists in Nigeria’s food systems.