President Muhammadu Buhari will determine when the much-anticipated National Convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold, Governors elected on the platform of the party have stated. Chairman Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State disclosed this on Wednesday night after a crucial meeting of the Forum in Abuja. Briefing newsmen after the meeting, which lasted for more than two hours, Bagudu said the chairman of the party’s Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State, told the meeting the timetable for Congresses and National Convention are before President Buhari. Secretary of the Caretaker Committee, Senator John James Akpanduoehehe, had earlier said Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, APC Governors and critical stakeholders will determine the date for the Convention. Bagudu said: “There is a proposal before Mr. President and once he approves it, the National Caretaker Committee will announce the date.” He said the forum considered the timetable proposal by the Committee and made some inputs into it so that the exercise will comply with Electoral Law and the Constitution of the party. According to Bagudu: “We considered the timetable and we have made some inputs particularly to comply with the Electoral Law and the party’s constitution. Remember we governors are just one organ of the party (though a very important organ).” But when asked if the meeting agreed on a specific date for the Convention, Bagudu simply said: “There is a proposal before Mr. President and once he approves it, the National Caretaker Committee will announce the date.” He however added the Forum advised the Caretaker Committee “to ensure that they consult with all, so that at the end of the day, the final output will be such that all party members will be happy.” Bagudu further said the Forum passed vote of confidence on the Gov. Buni- led National Caretaker Committee for the progress recorded by the party under its leadership. Akpanduoehehe last week told newsmen the Committee had approved the timetable and schedule of activities for the party’s Congresses from ward to zonal level but was silent on the National Convention. However a week after directing the party’s Director of Organization, Prof. Al-Mustspha Ussiju Medaner to release the timetable, the party is keeping the timetable for the Congresses to its chest. At the December 8, 2020 emergency meeting of APC National Executive Committee (NEC), the party directed the Committee to ensure completion of its assignment and emergence of a new National Working Committee (NWC).