 No fewer than 25 cars, N15 million, sewing machines, hair dryers, hair straighteners ironing tables, pressing irons and other saloon and tailoring equipment were donated to residents of Ojomu Royal Communities in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. The donations were made last Friday by Hammed Tajudeen, a lover of grassroots education. For Tajudeen, one does not need to be a political office holder before embarking on poverty alleviation schemes or programmes to put smiles on the faces of your community people. Tajudeen, who is popularly known as Hammed Ajiran, has seen the good, the bad sides of life. He said: “I was born in Ojomu Royal Communities, my parents were very poor. It was so difficult for us to feed and live. It was so tough for us, so I did many odd jobs to survive. I was once a bus conductor here in Lagos, I hawked on the streets, and I did welding job and other menial jobs to survive and support my family.” Tajudeen is a lover of people and a leader that believes his greatest asset is the people. He also believes in human capital investment. Lagos Commissioner for Home Affairs, Mr. Olanrewaju Elegushi, stated that empowerment such as this was very key to the society and should be encouraged because when people are empowered there would be less crimes, and the economy would grow. He said: “I am overwhelmed by the gesture of Mr. Hammed, what he did today is something that is extraordinary for an individual who is not even a politician to handle, his passion to help people is so huge. The commercial vehicles given out today will advance the goal of the Lagos State government in the transportation sector which the governor, Sanwo-olu is working seriously to improve.” Continuing, he said: “Most rich Nigerians fail to empower the poor masses, and so these poor ones may have the only option of committing crime to survive because as you know all fingers are not equal and if one has a problem, it definitely will affect how others will function.  If we must grow as a country, those who have must be willing to empower those with little, to keep them busy and actively out of crime. We must help one another to grow. Whenever I remember what I passed through in life, I am moved to help people to reduce their struggle.” Tajudeen had embarked on the mission to reduce poverty in Eti-osa and beyond but have kept it low. He, however, urged other leaders of communities and anyone occupying any position of leadership to embrace human capital development as it will no doubt go a long way to reduce crime in the state and Nigeria at large. Pastor Ibukun Akintoye, who is one of the beneficiaries said: “I can’t even express my excitement over the gift. This is so great. Mr. Hammed is God sent to us all. He is bringing many out of poverty. Those people that got commercial vehicles will have a good source of income. May God bless him. Pastor Akintoye was lucky to get a car  because of the leadership roles he has been playing in the community. 