Governments at all levels have been challenged to do more for widows in terms of policy formulation and support mechanisms. This was the focal point at the commemoration of the 2021 International Widows Day (IWD) by a non-government organisation, Tender Heart Foundation. Chairperson, International Federation of women lawyers (FIDA) Nigeria, Lagos state branch, Mrs. Philomena Nneji, lamented widows go through harmful traditional practices such as not bathing for days, drinking water used to bath corpses and shaving their heads amongst others just because they lost their husbands. Her words: “The conditions are devastating and frustrating for the widows, the modern law has reduced a lot of these traditions but has not stopped them completely but upon that you still see some of the family members coming after the property of their husbands and taking it to a level that if not for NGOs like FIDA and other supportive NGOs most of those women would be in a serious problem” She said there are laws to fight for justice for women but no specific legislation for widows, noting there are provisions against harmful traditional practices under the Violence Against Persons (VAPP ACT) section 15 but noted they are not enough for the widows as they also have special needs. Speaking on the theme: ‘Invisible women, invisible problem,’ Nneji said the widows are invisible because they go into their shells, trying not to hurt people because they feel they are alone and their problems are not visible to the government and policymakers. She said that United Nations statistics have shown about 350 million widowers in the world of which 80 percent are widowed women and 20 percent widowers. Founder and President of Tender Heart Foundation, Ambassador Sally Otihiwa, said the programme was launched in 2010 to create awareness of the discrimination and abuse that widows face generally. Otihiwa said the United Nations is trying to create awareness that people and policymakers should be conscious of the plight of the widows and also create policies that can help to alleviate their suffering. She added the fundamental human rights of the widows are abused and most times they do not have land rights in land matters. “We have a start-up business and skill acquisition that we do for them the NGO is not for only widows but also the underprivileged women, vulnerable widows and young girls,” she shared. Group Head, Business Development, BOI Investment and Trust Company, Victoria Madedor, advised widows to speak out in times of depression, anxiety and hyperactivity. Madedor said she understood their pain and what it feels like to be depressed, advising them to be happy regardless of what happened.