The legacy of Kenneth David Kaunda aka “KK”, the sweet-sour first president of Zambia and international statesman, is a mixed bag.  He died on June 17, aged 97. On the international front, he was a clear model for good: unapologetic champion of the anti-apartheid movement — and for good reasons.  Northern Rhodesia, later renamed Zambia, was part of the historic disgrace of racial segregation, of Southern Africa and part of East Africa, where colour bar bit most. Southern Rhodesia, later Ian Smith’s break-away, Rhodesia and even later, Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe, Namibia, Mozambique, Malawi and South Africa itself, were all in the colour bar vortex.  Much of this activity, in pre-independent Zambia, was captured in Zambia Shall Be Free, Kenneth Kaunda’s famous political biography. But that anti-apartheid battle KK admirably continued during his long and colourful power years (1964-1991).  It is to his credit, and that of his campaign allies (particularly Nigeria, during the military years), that South Africa and the entire Southern African belt is free of racial discrimination and segregation, as state policy.  That is one sweetness to Kaunda’s memory that would last — as long as there is history, and there is human memory. Still on the international front, during Kaunda’s power years: Zambia was a strong member of Yugoslav Josip Broz Tito-midwifed Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). On paper, NAM was the neither-nor bloc of countries, neither aligned to the United States-led capitalist West, nor to the defunct USSR-led communist East, during the ideological Cold War era. In reality though, NAM offered Kaunda, and a few of his colleagues, to ideologically brand themselves in local politics, as free from the shackles of the dominant capitalism of their colonial years, roughly under the rubrics of “African socialism” —  Zambian Humanism (for Kaunda), Ujamaa, African Communalism (for the highly revered Nwalimu, Julius Nyerere of Tanzania) and “Consciencism”, for Ghana’s more ideologically radical Kwame Nkrumah. Kaunda was NAM’s chairman from 1970 to 1973, following his election at the Lusaka, Zambia, NAM summit of 1970.  That further shored up Kaunda’s international profile.  Kaunda was also twice elected the Organization of African Unity (OAU, now African Union, AU) chairman: 1970-1971 and 1987-1988. Post-power, Kaunda launched a high profile war against the spread of HIV/AIDS.  Masuzyo, one of his sons, died of AIDS in 1986, sparking Kaunda’s new public health campaign, under the auspices of the Kenneth Kaunda Children of Africa Foundation.  ”We fought colonialism,” he told Reuters in 2002. “We must use the same zeal to fight AIDS, which threatens to wipe out Africa.”  Again, that was Kaunda at his best — for continental and global good. Sadly, however, this excellent international portraiture was not always replicated in the ugliness of Zambian local politics, for which Kaunda himself was partly responsible.  His “Zambian Humanism” at best projected the much admired Kaunda personal traits.  But KK’s personality cult and deification, that developed from it, robbed Zambia of the building of solid and enduring state institutions that could have stood Zambia well, in its post-Kaunda era. Ironically — or is it fittingly? — Kaunda himself was prime victim.  Kaunda evolved a one-party state (in which his United National Independence Party, UNIP, was sole legal political party), to shoo other rivals, off the Zambian presidency. But his successor, the paranoid Frederick Chiluba, veteran trade unionist and leader of the Movement for Multiparty Democracy (MMD) that vanquished long-time President  Kaunda at the polls in 1991, used the same trick to fend off any possible Kaunda comeback. A Zambia high court, in 1999, declared Kauda “stateless”, following a controversial law that anyone with foreign parentage, was ineligible for the Zambian presidency. Kaunda’s parents migrated from Malawi, then known as Nyasaland. By that however, Zambian politics developed a brutality by which each succeeding president savaged his predecessor: Chiluba preyed on Kaunda, just as Levy Mwanawasa demonised Chiluba!  It took Rupiah Banda (who completed Mwanawasa’s term after the president’s sudden death in August 2008, from a stroke he suffered in June 2008), to restore some humanity to the Zambian presidency. It’s even a bigger irony that Kaunda survived all his misbehaving successors —  Chiluba who himself turned a Nwanawasa victim, under the guise of anti-corruption trials, that took a toll on Chiluba’s health.  Chiluba, after Nwanawasa’s death, but shortly before his own death, would be found innocent of all charges. But could all these macabre drama have taken place, if Kaunda had built sustainable democratic institutions, instead of a cult of personality that he probably hoped would gift him a life presidency? Still, that might be getting wise after the fact.  Despite his flaws, Kenneth Kaunda was a decent and compassionate man, who lived in the age of stark power cavemen.  Yes, he couldn’t rise above the power foibles of his generation.  But that didn’t sheer him of his personal, noble traits. There then, is the Kenneth Kaunda redemption, aside from moulding a disparate set of tribes into a Zambia unit, under his “One Zambia” policy.  With Kaunda now gone the way of his ancestors, Zambia indeed shall be free, from power clannishness!