To combat the menace of disabilities and deaths resulting from acute malnutrition, especially among children across the country, the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) will this year commit $10 million to procure ready-to-use therapeutic foods (RUTF). Describing the RUTF as lifesaving, UNICEF disclosed that Nigeria, with 17 million malnourished children at any point in time, and 2.2 million children with severe acute malnutrition (SAM), is currently first in Africa and second in the world with the highest-burden of malnourished children. It, therefore, advocates for increased local production of RUTF and micronutrient powders to augment the ones imported to the country by donors, in order to make treatment available, accessible and affordable. The UNICEF Chief of Nutrition in Nigeria, Nemat Hajeebhoy, who made these known during a virtual consultative meeting of the Minister of Health with local producers of nutrition commodities, said: “We must ensure that the resources allocated by the government to combat malnutrition are utilised. Severe acute malnutrition is a major killer, and it puts a child 11 times more at risk of dying of other diseases. If not treated, about 19 percent of the 2.2 million children with severe acute malnutrition will die. “Children with Sam can be treated with ready-to-use therapeutic foods. We also need to boost the local production of RUTF. “UNICEF, in partnership with the government, has committed to scaling up the treatment of acute malnutrition. In Nigeria, from 2018, UNICEF has spent between 11 million to 21 million dollars on RUTF. For 2021, UNICEF will spend 10 million dollars on RUTF.” It, therefore, urged the government to create an enabling environment for local producers of nutrition commodities through investment cases. In his address, the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, explained that the government fully supports domestic production and will back up any step required to facilitate that. “As much as the government wants to support domestic production, we also want to be sure that the producers make the rules and standards by NAFDAC. “In response to the high prevalence of malnutrition, the Federal Government of Nigeria has introduced the community management of acute malnutrition which is focused on early identification of malnourished children, and the treatment of those with severe acute malnutrition using the highly efficacious evidence-based RUTF. “Additionally, the Federal Ministry of Health, through a Memorandum of Understanding with UNICEF, committed to the procurement and distribution of RUTF to 6 geo-political zones in Nigeria to ensure the survival of severely acutely malnourished children. So far, more than one million cases have been treated, with over 850,000 cured,” Ehanire stated. In her remarks, the First Lady of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Mrs Aisha Buhari, who was represented by Dr Muhammed Kamal of the Aisha Buhari Foundation, said: “It is painfully true that Nigeria remains one of the highest contributors to Global malnutrition, despite the extraordinary efforts of government and development partners to improve the nutrition situation in Nigeria. There is still much work to be done. “In recent years, there have been significant progress recorded and I have been informed of some of the key achievements. For instance, there is now an increase in the quality of conversations or nutrition around the country. The National Strategic Plan of action for nutrition has been developed and approved alongside other policy documents. Budget lines for nutrition at the Federal level and most of the states have been maintained. “While acknowledging the efforts of the government, as a nutrition champion and ambassador, I have realised that the government cannot do it alone. Through my Future Assured program, and with other partners, we have championed advocacy for increased and sustainable funding for the prevention and treatment of all forms of malnutrition in Nigeria.”