SOKOTO State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal is not a rookie in the Nigerian political terrain. He is one of the leading lights in the nation’s political class. Despite his youthfulness, he has served the nation in different capacities playing an excellent role as a seasoned democrat, who believes in the unity of Nigeria. Under his watch as speaker of the House of Representatives in 2011-2015, he commanded immense respect. Anytime he speaks, he is given rapt attention. He is intelligent, brilliant, blessed with great human relation skills, and also a man of many interesting parts. The Governor of Sokoto has proved himself to possess distinguishable qualities that make a good leader. Despite throwing his hat in the ring to contest for the presidency at the 2019 general elections under the platform of the People’s Democratic Party, losing the ticket to former Vice president Atiku Abubakar, he is not relenting on his quest to fulfill one of his childhood dreams. Those close to him have often disclosed that all his life, he has always believed and stayed true to his dreams. His close associates often averred that if there is one thing left for him to achieve in his political career, it’s to clinch the Aso-rock top job as the President of Nigeria. “At a time when the country is on the precipice, the searchlight should be beamed on individuals who can give the nation positive vibes. Therefore, ahead of the 2023 general elections, I am sure he will contest again. Although he has not made his intention known but from his body language and political moves he is likely to join the race of those who succeed President Buhari in 2023.” A source close to him disclosed. Tambuwal is embedded with the innate skills to take very urgent decisions and solve impending issues confronting the nation. Under his governance, Sokoto state has witnessed tremendous development. With his age, he has been confronted by hardships brought on us by the destructive actions of former leaders, the highly cerebral seasoned politician is prepared to create a perfect environment to turn the situation around by get it to work for his generation and those yet unborn. He is devoid of religious and cultural bigotry and mixes freely with all sundry. His foray into the murky waters of politics has seen him moving from the Democratic People’s Party (DPP) back to the ANPP to PDP and then to APC and back to PDP. His fans maintain that despite his moving from one party to the other he never dumped his beliefs in the ideology of one Nigeria. According to them, the moves essentially got him close to more people from the different parts of Nigeria and prepared him for the roles ahead. 