The American Society of Safety Professionals (ASSP) Nigerian Chapter has donated an Occupational Safety and Health Electronics (IOSH) library to the Petroleum Training Institute (PTI), Effurun, Delta State. Described as the first of its kind in the country, the library was inaugurated last weekend. The Society’s President, Mrs. Mercy Omoifo lrefo, said the PTI leadership provided the venue for ASSP to site the library after Memorandum of Understanding was signed by both. She said the project was the signature project for her and other executives during their tenure. She said: “The passion to establish an e-library came after identifying this gap and considering what to do in my tenure as the President of ASSP, NC.  that would be most beneficial to ASSP and professional bodies in Nigeria. I finally chose my alma mater, the Petroleum Training Institute.” “My team and I approach the management of PTI during my courtesy visit and it was granted with their commitment to partner ASSP-NC to see that the project is not just coming up but also being involved in provision of space for the library, provision of office space for us to operate from and commitment to maintain and provide human resources to manage the library after handing over etc. The sacrifices and commitments went  a long way to see that the project came to reality.” She said the project was expensive and that she had to raise funds from organisations, government agencies, families and friends to achieve her objective, adding that the COVID-19 pandemic worsened the situation as many of the commitments were not met. She said only 70 per cent of the project was done. She appealed to the state Deputy Governor Kingsley Otuaro and others to help in completing the project. The items that are: 15pcs 3-1 computers valued N 3.9million; solar panels for the inverter unit N420, 000 and 60 ergonomic chairs N 1.3million. A total of N5.620million is needed, she added. She thanked Otuaro, the Principal and Chief Executive, Dr Henry Adimula and PTI, the Director of Library and Information Technology, Mr Richard Obashe, members of ASSP and others for making the project a reality. She advised the students to make good use of it. Otuaro praised ASSP for the gesture, noting that it would serve the state. He promised to assit in completing the library. 