DR DUMNAMENE: Dear Omobola, kindly assist me to wipe away my tears by asking for the implementation of my monthly pension that was stopped last year due to double PIN. I was referred to ARM Pension for recapturing, which I did with Fidelity Pension. I don’t know why it is lingering till now. I need your assistance. Thank you. – Dr Dumnamene form Rivers State. ANEKE: PenCom through The Nation asked me to send my pension details. My PIN number is Anonymous. PenCom should, please, look into my matter. SHAIBU: Good day, Omobola, my name is Shaibu. I work at a university. My complaint is that some of us have retired since January, 2021. When are we going to do our verification? THEOPHILUS: My name is Theophilus Adelokun Olasehinde. Is it a crime to serve our fatherland faithfully for 35 years? We are subjected to street begging, pushing us into poverty. We did not introduce ourself to contributory pension scheme but government did. Now the thing has turned into contributory poverty suffering. Please, address our issue before we all die because we served our fatherland. MUNDI: PenCom mulls pension increase, 33 per cent arrears for CPS pensioners and others. This is what was widely read from a lot of media sources on some overdue settlements on narrated arrears to be paid by the PenCom to her pensioners, which till date looks more of a mirage to those of us the beneficiaries. The much-orchestrated 33 per cent arrears payment on the Page 35 of The Nation of Wednesday, December 6, 2017, has not been put into reality. The transit balance arrears of those migrated into implementations of June 2004, Pension Reform Act has not been paid. Please, can we have clarity on these critical issues. Thanks, in anticipation. EYONG: This is a reminder to The Nation. I am Eyong. I served with Nigeria Police Force from August 1974 to August 2009. I am with Stanbic IBTC Pension. I want you to help me draw the attention of PTAD to Section 15 (a) of PRA of 2004 as amended. It said as from June 30, 2004 being the commencement of the Contributory Pension Scheme, the “Accrued Pension” right to retirement benefits of those who have more than three years to serve be kept in a bond till full retirement. The lawmakers saw that the accrued pension was meant to be transferred in PRA 2004 before the amendment in 2014, and included the word accrued being past tense so that one should not confuse it to include monthly pension. Under the Defined Pension Scheme, there is no accrued monthly pension before you retire but if you reach 15 years and above in service, you are entitled to gratuity only. Almost seven years after the act was amended and those who retired from 2017 till date have completed the 10 years pension given to them. Therefore, PTAD is supposed to have resumed their monthly pension. Also, Section 119 of the PRA 2004 as amended states thus” where any other enactment of any law is inconsistent with the Act, the Act shall prevail. Also, Section 48 (1) PRA 2004 as amended mandates PENCOM to make only regulations that ensures compliance with the Act. I am appealing to PTAD to resume our monthly pension for the years we served under the Defined Pension Scheme, which Section 45 of PRA 2004 imposes on PTAD as a duty. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore, Dr DUMNAMENE, ANEKE, SHAIBU, THEOPHILUS, MUNDI, EYONG, ANNONYMOUS and OBAKORE should look out for the newspaper next week for responses.