Hero MotoCorp, one of the world’s largest manufacturers of motorcycles and scooters roadshow heralds the entry of Hunter motorcycle into Nigeria market. The company said it has developed the specially made motorcycle for Nigeria. The motorcycle themed after the traditional hunter’s legendary strength, stealth, and wisdom in challenging terrains, the motorcycle according to the company is dedicated to the average Nigerian’s renowned ruggedness. Speaking on the integration of powerful ride, smart technology, and unmistakably stylished Hunter at the Ibadan roadshow, Managing Director, Automotive Division, Kewalram Chanrai Group, exclusive distributors of the bike, Mr. Anil Sahgal, said: “We are extremely glad to be the exclusive partner of Hero MotoCorp, the world’s largest manufacturer of motorcycles and scooters, in Nigeria. With our expertise in the market and Hero MotoCorp’s global excellence, we will provide the best products and services to customers in Nigeria. Our grand event in Ibadan, attended by the country’s top dealers, to launch the Hunter was a huge success. The initial feedback for the Hunter has been exciting. As our bikes travel across the entire country, they will definitely excite the customers. Our aim is to significantly increase our presence in the market this year.” He added, “The Hunter, which also comes with an industry-first 12-month or 75,000 km Engine Warranty, has an engine that has been extensively tested for performance in Nigerian conditions. One key feature is its utmost safety which includes a metallic bash plate protecting the engine on rough roads, a combi-lock to protect it from theft, and tyre pressure monitoring indicator (accessory) to prevent deflation & puncture while on rugged terrains.” Hero MotoCorp is also planning to have almost 40 outlets in 20 towns across Nigeria and will have a pan-country presence through dealers and parts distributors. In addition, an extensive network of over five thousand trained technicians across Nigeria will ensure easy access to service and parts for all customers.