The stage is set for the 9th Annual Nigerian Investors Conference organized by the Association of Asset Custodians of Nigeria (AACN), the umbrella body for Nigerian custodian banks, with experts and key players in the economy and capital market penciled to headline the event. Restoring a new normal, against the disruption inflicted by the COVID-19 pandemic, will be the fulcrum of the two-day capital-market focused conference, which holds virtually, on Tuesday, 15th and Wednesday, 16th of June 2021. It has the theme, ‘Nigerian Capital Market: The Road To New Normal’. Among headliners to participate at the event include representatives of the Federal Ministry of Finance, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Nigeria Exchange Group (NGX), and CSCS Plc. Others are Mr. Mobolaji Onibudo, Founder and CEO of Xendbit-Digital Transaction Services Ltd; renowned Africa Economist, David Cowan; Mr. Bola Ajomale, MD/CEO of NASD OTC Plc; and Igboa Abumere, CISO/DPO, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc. President, Association of Asset Custodians of Nigeria (AACN), Mr. Biodun Adebimpe said the choice of the topics was to reflect on the new volatility which the COVID 19 pandemic has imposed on the global economy, as well as specific markets, making it imperative to embrace any opportunity to unlock market reforms and economic activities that ensure a quick return to stability and normalcy. She noted that it has been such a turbulent journey which has reflected in the ups and downs of share prices and asset classes, adding that finding ways of mitigating future shocks is a task before all stakeholders in the capital market. Among topics to be dissected at the conference include ‘Nigeria Macroeconomics update’, ‘Securities service offering in the wake of a global pandemic’, ‘Key highlights of CAMA Act 2020 & Finance Acts 2020 and potential impact on portfolio investments’, and ‘Cybersecurity’. Mr. Deoye Oduntan, AACN’s Publicity Secretary, reiterated the commitment of the Association to promoting portfolio investments in Nigeria, especially at this difficult time that the country is trying to recover from the devastating global disruption inflicted by the COVID-19 pandemic. He assured that the AACN would continue to explore ways of supporting the growth and development of the Nigerian financial market by collaborating with relevant stakeholders as well as the Federal Government. He urged participants to register via 