Former Minister of Women Affairs, Chief Josephine Anenih has lamented growing cases of neglect, abandonment and abuse of the elderly in society by individuals, governments and organisations. She said it was worrisome the treatment being meted out to the aged persons, particularly senior citizens among them, despite their immense contributions towards country’s growth and development. Anineh spoke yesterday in Awka, Anambra State capital at a one-day Policy Dialogue on Alzheimer’s disease Foundation with state government agencies and relevant stakeholders on health, social well-being and protection policy for the elderly in the state as part of activities marking World Elder Abuse Awareness Day. The theme of this year’s event is “Elder Abuse Prevention-Let’s Talk.” The ex-minister, who is the founder of the organization, said the decision to establish the foundation was informed by the plights of the aged as well as the unfortunate death of her elder brother over Alzheimer complications. Commissioner for Social Welfare, Women and Children Affairs, Lady Ndidi Mezue said the ministry was committed to ensuring the inclusive policy of the present administration was factored in during the selection of beneficiaries’ interventions. Mezue, represented by Special Assistant to the Governor, Mr Onyeka Ebenebe regretted the erroneous impression that elderly people were outcast. She said: “We’re working closely with the national policy on the elderly to ensure the issue of the stigmatisation of elderly people becomes history. “We’re creating more awareness towards accessibility of the elderly which is part of the Disability Right Law of the state and to ensure at least 30 per cent of the elderly benefit from the interventions.” Other stakeholders who made their various commitments at the event included Commissioner for Economic Planning, Budget and Development Partners, represented by the Permanent Secretary, Dr Dan Ezeanwu and Director-General, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Charles Nwoji.