Former Sokoto State Governor Attahiru Bafarawa has cautioned Nigerians, especially politicians not to allow political tension to mar the country’s national unity and cohesion. Bafarawa, a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) during the last general election said political office holders should concentrate on governance, to reduce tension and improve the quality of life of the people. The former governor said Nigerians must close ranks to create an atmosphere for peaceful coexistence across the country. He said: “Rather than having political cohesion through acceptable political practise, we tend to breed and encourage mistrust among diverse Nigerians. It has always caused tension, bringing mistrust and threat occasioned by calls for restructuring and or secession among diverse Nigerians.” Bafarawa said it was time politicians started building bridges of unity to ensure positive development that would strengthen the confidence of the citizens in the democratic process. He added: “We should promote and sustain good governance by avoiding tendencies threatening our political journey as a nation.” The former governor also kicked against the clamour for zoning, saying the practice has distorted the nation’s political process. He said: “I see the idea of the rotational presidency as our key political mistake.” He said it was about time that politicians stopped promoting such ideas. He added: “They should concentrate mainly on the issue of good governance for the country to forge ahead in the right and acceptable direction for prosperity.” He urged politicians across tribal and regional divides to see the need of coming together for the common good of the country because under such circumstances the average citizen would benefit and have equal opportunity to realise his potential. The PDP chieftain said: “We should do everything possible to contribute our quota towards the peace and security of the country in other to bequeath lasting and sustainable legacy to the coming generations.” 