An All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant in Anambra, Chief Ben Etiaba, has said the party will win the forthcoming governorship poll. He said he joined the race to redefine governance in Anambra State and use the state to set the pace for the entire Southeast by giving priority to education, health, agriculture and security. Etiaba, who spoke at the national secretariat of the party on Tuesday, while submitting his nomination form ahead of the APC primaries coming up on June 26, said: “Anambra State is unique and dynamic and so deserves a leader that can further reposition it for greater advancement. I offer myself for service because I have values to add and I have the experience to turn things around positively for our dear state. “If we get it right and reposition, Anambra State stands the chance of being the number one State in Nigeria from any angle we look at it. “Our people are not only industrious, they are brilliant and focused. We have a history of excellence in wealth creation, business, entrepreneurship and even education but we need leaders who can help us explore all our potentials and refocus our energies.” Etiaba commended the Federal Government for various infrastructural development projects that have taken place or currently taking place in all the federal constituencies of the state. “I laugh when some people talk down this administration in the area of performances because I know the Buhari administration has done a lot to keep its electoral promises. “Unfortunately, those who should serve as chief marketers of the party choose to keep silent. That’s why we are clamouring for a new set of politicians to join the existing drivers of the party, especially in Anambra to further beat the drum for all about the significance of the administration to national development. “With what the party has so far achieved in the country and in the Southeast, plus other plans ahead, I’m not in doubt that with or without me as APC candidate, our people will vote for the party, come November,” Etiaba added. Etiaba, a former chairman of the United Kingdom chapter of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), said he deliberately came to the secretariat without funfair and pageantry because the time for celebration is yet to come. “Once APC wins, there will be a lot of reasons for us to celebrate because I think we should only celebrate when we begin to do the things that will make our people smile,” he said. The aspirant, who was received by the Secretary of the Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, expressed confidence he would emerge the party’s candidate. Akpanudoedehe thanked Etiaba for picking the ticket and choosing to run on the platform of the APC as his party. He added that the ruling party would provide a level playing field for all its aspirants.