President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Ahmad Lawan and House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase have felicitated House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila on today’s celebration of his 59th birthday. A statement yesterday in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, reads: “President Buhari congratulates Speaker Gbajabiamila on his 59th birthday, recognising the vision, maturity and courage he has brought to Nigeria’s leadership. “President Buhari felicitates with the Speaker and his family on the auspicious moment, joining the National Assembly, particularly members of the Green Chamber, in celebrating with the lawmaker, whose selflessness, forthrightness and patriotism continue to broaden the scope of policies, taking into full consideration the voice of Nigerians. “As the visionary leader turns 59, the President prays for his good health and strength, and the grace of God for more wisdom to keep serving the country.” In a personal statement in Abuja, Lawan said: “Rt. Hon. Gbajabiamila has provided exemplary leadership at the House of Representatives since his election as Speaker by his honourable colleagues two years ago. “He has also contributed greatly to the harmonious working relationship between the Senate and the House and between the National Assembly and the other arms of government. “The impactful achievements of the Ninth National Assembly, despite the COVID-19 pandemic and other contemporary challenges, are a testimony to the unity of purpose in the Legislature and the wisdom of our determination to work together as a team in national interest. “As Mr. Speaker continues to grow in age, stature and wisdom, I am sure that he will continue to become even more impactful in our mission to deepen democracy, enhance good governance and improve service delivery by government to the people of Nigeria. “May Allah grant Mr. Speaker many more years of selfless service to our great nation, Nigeria.” In a congratulatory message by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Mohammed Puma, Deputy Speaker Wase said: “On behalf of my family, my constituents and indeed all our colleges in the hallowed chambers of the House of Representatives, I wish to joyfully felicitate with my brother and a leader, a great humanist and a patriotic, the Right Honourable Speaker of the House of Representatives, His Excellency, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila as he clocks 59 years today.” Wase noted that Gbajabimila has demonstrated rare tact, wisdom and quality in the running of the House, which has brought stability and a sense of oneness to the entire lawmakers of the green chamber. “Through the Joint Task mantra, Speaker Gbajabiamila has been able to unite members of the House by giving everyone a sense of belonging. “He has been able to lead by example, carrying everyone along, irrespective of political affiliation. Mr. Speaker, working with you has been one of my exciting and finest moments of my political career. “Not only has Gbajabiamila also shown great commitment to the independence of the Legislature, his love for the growth and sustenance of our democracy through effective legislation is equally not in doubt.”