The Lagos State Government is addressing youth unemployment through job fairs and other programmes, DANIEL ESSIET reports. To the Lagos State Government, youth unemployment is an impediment to growth and sustainable development. At a job fair in Lagos, with the theme “Walk next to your dream job”, the Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, said the government was enhancing the synergy in youth development. According to her, the government has targeted unemployment and undertaken some initiatives to tackle it. “The job fair is expected to open several doors of opportunities for many job seekers to choose which organisation they would like to start their career. It is also an avenue for many employers to choose the best talents among available pool whom they feel would not only be an asset, but committed to the realisation of the organisation’s set goals,” she said. She added that the government was determined to reach disadvantaged youths, with new initiatives to strengthen their employability. She announced that the government was interested in partnering organisations that offer jobs, apprenticeships and traineeships to help youths gain acquire skills. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Kafayat Ajenifuja, stressed that approaches to promoting employment undertaken by the government were anchored on cooperation. To reduce youth unemployment and poverty, she said there were interventions to enhance the productivity and competitiveness of young people, allowing them to benefit from opportunities. Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH Nigeria Team Leader, Tobias Wolfgarten, said his organisation was providing training, support and access to information and services to enable youths to increase their incomes and improve their employment prospects. According to him, more young Nigerians need support to launch their careers and that GIZ is ready to help more youths discover their careers. The Acting Regional Director, Ford Foundation, Mr. Dabesaki Mac-Ikemenjima, said every youth, deserved an opportunity to reach their potential and succeeed. He emphasised the need for the government to provide integrated measures that could fuel a jobs-rich regrowth for the benefit of all, including job creation, search assistance, expanded training programmes, and access to entrepreneurship. What the economy needs, Mac-Ikemenjima continued, was a youth employment and skills strategy aimed to provide more flexible employment services and enhanced supports for youths to develop skills and gain the experience they need to successfully transition into the labour market. Despite numerous job losses after the COVID-19 pandemic, Senior Youth Engagement Associate, Jobberman Nigeria, Daniel Emenahor, said enterprises in some sectors, needed to recruit a large number of employees but were finding it difficult to fill positions. Emenahor said youths were facing unprecedented times and needed extra help to find the right job. Jobberman provides information for opportunities for youths. The Chief Executive, Ascentech Services Limited, Sheeju Prabhakaran,said through the fair, his organisation hoped to create a strong ecosystem that serves graduates and professionals. Based on its comprehensive talent development strategy, he said the company hoped to continue working with entities from the public and private sectors to build a positive, open, and cooperative talent ecosystem.   