 Senate President Ahmad Lawan and Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade, yesterday identified why insecurity is rising in the country. Also yesterday, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje called on the military to urgently flush out bandits gathering in a forest near the state, and planning to launch attacks on Kano. Lawan blamed the deepening insecurity on “people cynically projecting ethnic, religious, cultural and geographical diversities.” Ayade put it all on the doorstep of foreign interference with pecuniary interest. Lawan spoke at the Blueprint newspapers 10th anniversary and award ceremony in Abuja. Ayade spoke in Aso Villa after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari. Ayade said Western democracies were sustaining the crisis because of the abundant natural resources in the country. “As you know, what this international community does for Africa, once they see the large deposit of natural resources, they will be glad to see such country go to war. On one side, they’re funding enemies of state; on the other hand they’re funding secessionists so that they can be in the business of guns”. Lamenting the security situation, Lawan said “there can be no denying the fact that our country is going through a dark patch. Our economic and security crises are severe. The economic challenges are being felt in many parts of the world, with countries still seeking to escape the havoc of the COVID-19 pandemic on many aspects of life. “But insecurity in our country has taken an alarming dimension with killings, kidnappings and wanton attacks on public facilities becoming daily events in many parts of the country. “The Government is forthright and unrelenting in its efforts to contain the security challenges. “But that narrative is false. Our founding fathers were first to acknowledge our diversity. But they were also convinced that by standing in brotherhood, each generation can hand over to the next a banner without stains in the long race to building the great nation that they believed Nigeria is destined to be. I still fervently believe in that destiny. And in spite of the current clouds under which we are sailing, I urge every Nigerian to hold on to that faith”. Lawan challenged the Nigerian media to reaffirm their faith in Nigeria and rededicate themselves to their role as the fourth estate of the realm, saying “that role asks them not just to produce the first draft of a grim history but to set the agenda for a bright tomorrow for their country. That role requires them to responsibly moderate public conversation and debate, douse tension, resolve disputes including by providing context for issues, and help in stabilizing the polity. “In this age of information, the media play a crucial role in creating national unity and remodelling of public opinions. It is true that public opinion is always disturbed during a crisis. But in such situations, the media can control the public emotions and control the public opinion with a positive attitude.  “My colleagues and I at the National Assembly are also determined to step up our legislative interventions to protect Nigerians against insecurity and curb the deaths and destruction from criminal activities. “These interventions will seek collaboration with other arms of government and Nigerians in general. This is in line with the legislative agenda of the Senate which accords importance to working in harmony with the Executive Arm in addressing national challenges and harnessing opportunities for national development.” Ayade added: “I moved into the All Progressives Congress (APC) because of my personal relationship with Mr. President. I have watched him and I find honesty, integrity and I see his wish and commitment to the Federal Republic of Nigeria. To that extent, I have a leader that I trust. “Opposition in the third world means let everything happen that will made the other party look bad. “The increasing insecurity in Nigeria as Nigeria suffers attacks from extraneous aggressors, paid militia and bandits, the opposition party only celebrates that because they believe it gives them a chance to win in 2023. “So, opposition becomes very cannibalistic. So, you rejoice over the bloodbath in your country, you rejoice over the level if insurgency and killings in your country just because you are playing opposition. “The country is snowballing into a civil strife. We need to come together and support Mr. President to overcome the insurgency which is characterized by external militias who are paid for the purpose.” The APC urged the police to fine-tune their strategies. Secretary of the party’s Caretaker Committee, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, cautioned against judging President Buhari on the level of insecurity in the country which he described as “artificial” Admitting that there are some bad eggs in the Police, Akpanudoedehe maintained that the “Police have a system within its organisation, to try, dismiss and convict any Police officer who misbehave just as we have in the Army and the Navy. “And we use this medium to plead to the Police to reorganise itself, restrategise itself and reenergise itself and come to defend Nigerians not minding what happened. “I want to use this medium to plead passionately to the new IG of Police to get back the spirit of effective policing.”