The cream of the legal profession were in Enugu last week to honour the late Dr Joseph Nnabuchi Nwodo. The event held at the Enugu State Bench of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Bar Centre, Enugu. Also there were family, and friends gathered to extol the virtues of the departed. In her tribute, Chief Judge of Enugu State, Justice N. P. Emehelu stated: “Dr born in Nsukka on January 19,1944. Joe Nwodo, as he was fondly called, was born into the prominent political family of Chief  Igwe and Mrs J. U.Nwodo, a former Minister of Works, Eastern Nigeria. Justice Emehelu recalled that Joe was the first male child and second child of the family, a family filled with several prominent and accomplished personalities, including politicians, medical practitioners and lawyers. “This  sparking of a literary prowess East of the Niger started his primary education at St. Josephs School Nsukka in 1955 and  later moved to St.Patricks School, Ogbete, Enugu where he completed his primary school education. “For his secondary school education, he enrolled at the College of the Immaculate Conception (C.I.C) Enugu and  completed his O’ Level  with flying colours in November 1963. “At the CIC he held several positions of responsibility, including School Perfect 1959-1962, President Debating Society, 1961-1962, and Secretary, Debating Society, 1962-1963, among other positions in the sporting field. “Before proceeding abroad for tertiary education, he held the position of president United States Information Discussion Group, Enugu, Eastern Nigeria and was also the anchor of a weekly Television Debater Eastern Nigeria Television Service, Enugu, Eastern  Nigeria. “For his tertiary education, he  travelled to the United Kingdom at 19 in September 1963.There, he completed his ‘A’ Levels in Economics, History and British Constitution in a record three  months at Woodnewtoon Tutorial Establisment, Hanwell Castle Banbury Oxfordshire in 1963. “His principal at Oxford, Mr Browne said Nwodo was a very hardworking and diligent student who was interested in world problems that he could be relied on to treat people wisely and firm. Justice Emehelu recalled that at Oxfordshire,  Nwodo held several positions: School Prefect, President Castle Club and member first 11 (Football). Justice N. P. Emehelu said:“From there, he moved to London. His father had wanted him to study medicine, but he opted for Law. ‘’ She enrolled at the London School of Economics in September 1964 and left after 10 years bagging a Bachelor of law in 1967, a master of law in 1968 and a doctorate in law in 1974. “He returned home in 1974 where he remained until recently he died. “While in school, Nwodo, in addition to his schedule of studies engaged in paid employment while studying in United Kingdom. He worked at the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), worked at a Tax office in south East London and worked as a teacher at the south East London Technical College. He was a man of humility who rarely displayed his privileged background. “Nwodo  established his legal practice where he specialised in commercial law practice. “He held retainership for several corporations foreign and Nigeria Banks including: Deutsche Bank AG, Nigerian industrial Development Bank, Fichtel and Sachs AG, Wayss and Freytag AG (Sister company to Julius Berger)  AG machinery and plant limited, Man AG, The Salzgitter group – covering Salzgitter West Africa, Noell West Africa limited and Nigeria Commercial and Industrial Enterprises (NCIE), Wurzburg Corporation.” The CJ continued: “He added more German company retainer ships, including Micheal Thomas and Partner KG, and Ferrostaal AG. He said Nwodo promoted the development of Nigeria’s electrical infrastructure, encouraging  more domestic and foreign direct investment into the lucrative power sector. He obtained several licences for power generation, developing numerous power purchase Agreements (PPA) during his consultation. He was well versed in the modalities for implementing Nigeria’s electricity laws as shown on the various legal opinions and consultations he handled. “In the mineral sector, he stamped his feet and was involved with the search for solution to the problems of the coal production in Nigeria. “Foremost of his consultation was an investment of $10 billion in Nigeria coal sector by a consortium he packaged and headed by Consol Energy INC, an American mining company.” She said Nwodo made his mark in commercial law trade and practices. His most challenging yet rewarding legal brief and career was his appointment as the legal adviser to the German-Austria Consortium of 17 companies that developed and built the Aladja Steel Plant in Sub-Saharan Africa and was built for $1.8 billion. Nwodo had a flourishing legal practice. His clients, she said, were happy with his commitment to duty. Justice Emehelu continued: “As I hinted earlier, this iroko of a man manifested interest in politics and leadership early in life during his secondary and tertiary school years. His emergence as the political gigantophicus of Nsukka and of Enugu state did take time to materialise. “In 1991, he became the guberna-torial candidate of the defunct National Republican Convention (N.R.C) in the Enugu State Governorship election. Following the turbulence that followed the preparations for the election, he and his main challenger were disqualified by the military rulers.” “Nwodo drafted his younger brother,  Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo to take his place and run for the election. His brother won and sworn in as the first Governor of Enugu State (1991-1993). “He moved to the national scene and became a presidental aspirant under the same party (NRC) but was declared runner-up to the eventual winner of the ticket, Alhaji Bashiru Tofa. “It was Albert Schwaitzer who postulated that there is no higher religion than human services and to work for the common good is the greatest creed. “Nwodo served as a member of the Board of Warri Refining and Petrochemical Company (W.R.P.C), a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) where he helped facilitate several laws guiding the petroleum industry and contributed towards resolving various complex legal issues.’’ Justice Emehelu said it  was while at the Southeast London Technical College that Nowdo met his bride, Tina. They married and had the famously referred first class squad of six, because all their six children graduated with first class honours in their various disciplines. They are: Mrs. Nkiruka Genervieve Wakeley-Jones, a lawyer and Management consultant.; Mr. Chukwuemeka Agunechibe Nwodo, a software engineer and banker; Mr. Joseph Nnabuchi Nwodo (Jnr.), a lawyer at Dr. J. N. Nwodo & Co.; Mrs. Chinenye Nwodo Zakariyau; a lawyer, Miss. Obiageli Lorraine Nwodo; a chartered accountant (Fellow) and Dr. Odinaka Nwodo, a surgeon. A good family man and lover of his people.  His legacy is summarized by his ability to create lasting memories across any social circle because of his love for people, particularly the poor. Concluding Reflections Our departed legal icon ran the race of life most successfully and has hit the rope in a very commendable manner. Up until his death, Dr. Joe Nwodo, popularly called “Ochendo Umu-Ogbenye” (the protector of the poor), was a humanist per excellence.  He was intent on developing a robust agricultural programme for the people when death struck. He was a man who believed so much in transparent conduct and accountability, both in public and private life.  He exhibited these traits very well as a Legal Practitioner, Public Servant and a Politician. He served meritoriously and was not the man to be carried away by the trappings of public office.  He kept no social boundaries.  He had an enjoyed immense goodwill from his colleagues, learned friends and other associates. It is clearly impossible to cover the field of his life and times using this allotted space.  He had so many great qualities and recorded so many successes as a Legal Practitioner, Public Servant and as a Politician. As I conclude this speech, I am moved by the tested words of William Shakespeare in his literary work fitted “As you like it” that: “All the world is a stage, and all the men and women merely players; they have their exists and their entrances; and one man in his time plays many parts, his acts being seven ages…” Dr. Joseph Nnabuchi Nwodo has played his part and without doubt has taken a glorious bow.  He has left lasting and indelible footprints on the sands of time in the legal profession.  He was a man contented with life.  These and other legacies he left behind should comfort the immediate and extended families of this Iroko of a man, whom we pay our condolence. It is therefore our sincere hope that the love, life and times he shared with you all will forever remain green in your hearts. The siblings: Chief Mrs. Grace Uche Obayi – former Commissioner for Education, old Anambra State. Dr. Emmanuel Okwesilieze Nwodo – the first Executive Governor of Enugu State. Chief John Nnia Nwodo – Immediate past President General Ohaneze Ndigbo, former Minister of Civil Aviation and former Minister of Information & Culture. Dr. Mrs. Catherine Eyiuche Owelle. Prof. Mrs. Valerie Azinge, (SAN) Who are knit together and had kept the Nwodo family a reference point as a good family. In his own tribute, Mr. Joe Nwodo ( Jr) said:”The grieving process has not been easy and I am still struggling to come to terms with your departure to heaven. I wake up everyday with my heart feeling heavy but with some lightness to it because I know you’re in a much better place and also because of the great things you achieved, the sacrifices you made, your love for people particularly the poor and needy. You taught us that real wealth was never measured in terms of money but instead on the person you were, your values, beliefs and ability to make an impact on the lives of others. “The tributes pouring in are testament to this.  The opportunities you created for many who had no hope but today hold some of the most important public offices across all arms of government are also testament to this.  That indeed is true wealth, not the cars or houses we accumulate but the lives we touch and the opportunities we create for the less privileged in society. Growing up, you were my role model as a child. Your passion for the law was so infectious. You were also a visionary.  You ability to visualize problems and resolve them pragmatically with a sense of purpose was also something I admired. Daddy as we mourn your death we also celebrate your life. You did your best.  You fought numerous battles in life. You fought and fought until you could fight no more. “ You were a fighter. You are the true definition of a Spartan. On average you were admitted to hospital eight times a year. On each occasion you were told you may not come out alive but you kept fighting and fighting. Even in your sick bed, you were more concerned about others than yourself.  Those final moments with you in the hospital were very special moments even though very hard to watch. Something we will never forget as a family.  The doctors only gave you two hours to live but you waited until the whole family arrived and even when we arrived you decided to leave us when we were all distracted. In your usual way not wanting to bother anyone. “When death occurs and we lose a loved one especially one who was very ill we are sometimes selfish in the sense that we are more focused on ourselves and our grief rather than what the other person went through and the sense of relief they must be feeling now in heaven. As we work through our grief we must remind ourselves that this is really not a sad moment but a celebration. No more hospitals Daddy, no more pain. You can rest now. You can also now walk freely in heaven without a wheel chair.  We are so proud of you Daddy. You never held any political office but you are a household name in Nigeria because of what you stood for and the sacrifices you made so others could excel. “ You were the President Nigeria never had.  If you were President, I have no doubt that you would have created a fairer society that worked for everyone.  If you were President, I have no doubt that you would have addressed issues of national unity with sincerity and a sense of purpose. You had great plans for the country.  You gave a lot to your country. Unfortunately the country did not reciprocate but yet you never held any grudges. Instead still wanting to give more even in your sick bed. We miss your presence everyday. Adaeze misses you as well. She is glad she got to meet you before your departure to heaven. You prayed for her and gave her your blessings. You also gave her a wonderful Nickname – “Woman Leader”. I will let her know when she is much older. I’ll also tell her your story, so she knows she is the true grand-daughter of a King. Goodbye Daddy and continue to Rest in Peace. Till we meet again. A Tribute to A Great Soul – Dr Joe Nwodo, LLB, LLM, PhD (Lond), BL. In his tribute, Prof. Epiphany Azinge (SAN) stated that ‘Great souls die…our minds, formed and informed by their radiance, fall away.’ –       Maya Angelou, When Great Trees Fall, (1990) Joe [our great leader], as he was fondly called in the family was my brother-in-law and a great man; intellectually, professionally and in his private family life. He was also called Agadagbachiliuzo (Agada) and Ochendo Umuogbenye, titles he acquired by Ukehe customs and traditions. “Agada was a legal luminary, regent of Ukehe and heir apparent of the renowned Nwodo political dynasty. My early conversations with Agada revealed his profound intellect. But as is often said ‘the measure of intelligence is the ability to change’ and Agada worked passionately hard to change his immediate community, state and country through his political machinery and legendary agricultural policies. No doubt, his actions which has propelled his mentees into high-level political positions across Nigeria has been catalyst for positive change in the country. “While discharging his responsibilities, Agada mesmerized everyone with his oratory skills. His speeches were well-crafted, compelling and poetic with the aim of conveying an optimistic worldview with practical strategies towards achieving same. Agada was simply poetry in motion, a strength that endeared him to his people who would often chant in response‘Joe Nwodo, Joe Nwodo, ka’anyi ga eso, ona  eje je ka ona na na Joe Nwodo ka’anyi na eso’. His relationship with his people strongly revealed his ability to dine with kings without losing the common touch, this distinctive feature was fundamental in deepening our relationship as brothers.  “Agada was my wife’s brother, but beyond this role, he was her third parent. I was opportune to observe their relationship around the 1980’s at the London School of Economics (LSE), when my wife (Val) and I were students, and Agada, a stellar doctoral graduate of the same University. Agada supported my wife, guided her and gave her the much-needed protection at all times. Agada inspired my wife with his work ethics in law and exposed her to his law practice in many jurisdictions in Europe. Agada also encouraged my wife and I to not just excel but to thrive. He always celebrated our achievements.  “ When Val became the Secretary of the 2014 National Conference, Agada was always one call away to give her the much-needed guidance. When she became a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Agada blessed and celebrated her accomplishments. Agada extended the same support he showed my wife to my entire family, selflessly. I remember when we dealt with a family emergency; Agada not just empathised with us, he also promised his unwavering presence. Despite his busy schedule, Agada lived up to his word. He remained physically and emotionally present with words of encouragement, updates and prayers. Like a brother, Agada was my family’s rock through difficult days.  “In writing this tribute, I often wondered what I could say about Agada that would do him justice? That would connect you to the greatness my family and I experienced. Agada had many virtues, too many to extol, yet he remained humble. This says a lot about a man who achieved so much. I would tell you that Agada was an icon of words, an orator and an intellectual giant of many paths. Agada was a lawyer per excellence and the political juggernaut of our times. Indeed, Agada was the President Nigeria never had, the President Nigeria will forever miss. He lived for the downtrodden and closed class divides, a characteristic that earned him the title Ochendo Umuogbenye. Agada left us too soon, but as a great soul, he left us with an indelible guide of how to model our thoughts with kindness and how to live our lives with love. I do not doubt that his legacy will live on, in us” Azinge stated The Chairman Nigeria Bar Association ( NBA) Enugu branch Mr. Jude Ezegwui stated in his tribute that: “We came not only to mourn Dr. Joe Nwodo but to celebrate him. Pain tugged our hearts as we tried to absorb the news of demise of this great man late Joseph Nnabuchi Nwodo, PhD London, who slept in the Lord on 10th day of March, 2021.  “How could Dr. Joe Nwodo die? He stood like a colossus over the legal and political terrene of Nigeria. My mind keeps going back to his numerous outings where he bamboozled the people with his stature and eloquence. How he toiled in de the field of law and politics; made invaluable and indelible mark yet to beaten. He has achieved so much in such a short time. He had a long winning streak of phenomenal successes as one of the most iconic leaders for our time. Before he succumbed to his last fight, he has survived many fights. “ He was exceptional-a sagely intellectual, a dogged activist and development practitioner, a prodigious administrator and patriotic nation builder. Above all he was a friend to many people. So how could he die? I have no answer to the question. I could only be rescued or consoled by the clear provisions of book of Ecclesiastes chapter 3 verses 1-2 “to everything there is a season, and a time to every purpose under heaven: a time to be born, and a time to die;..” Few lines hymns 798 of scared songs and solo did say “they fade away like the stars of the morning, losing their lights in the glorious sun thus would be pas from this earth and its toiling only remembered by what we have done”  We fondly remember  Dr. Joe Nwodo today. One of the most remarkable traits of Dr. Nwodo is his ability to build genuine bonds of friendship with so many people from so many people from many different backgrounds all over the world in the course of his political and legal life. Every engagement with leave you with an indelible impression of his passion for excellence.  “His interest is first to you as a human being before any other interest. He was stellar and he had obsession for birthing ideas, nurturing them to success continuously.  He was one of those that fought for democracy in this country putting in all he has to actualize it. There is no way you will not be infected by dr. Joe Nwodo’s good nature and friendship once you are contact with him oozing out great familiarity as if you have known him for so long. He was equally infectiously witty and at the same time deeply caring about people. He was highly place yet he condescended to men of low estate which earned him the name “Ochendo Umu Ogbenye”. He was irreverent of power structure when the occasion demanded to court the power that be and mobilize stakeholders toward achieving developmental objective and protection of his people, human right and rights of his numerous clients. He was an achiever per excellence! “Dr. Joe Nwodo, lying lifeless here, was a great asset to the legal profession especially lawyers in Enugu state. We pride ourselves about him at all place and at all levels. His understanding of the law, wealth of experience and his undisputable achievement in commercial law practice has generally contributed immeasurably to the success and promotion of joint ventures between foreign companies and Nigeria entities. He shall be greatly missed. He was mainly an international lawyer specializing in international commercial practice with wide cliental spread. Most of his clients are multinationals. Dr. Joe Nwodo had his PhD in international law and has turned down severally when he was beckoned to sit as a judge in the international court of justice. He was always in UK, Germany, USA  and all over the world including village doing good. He has trained and produced many senior lawyers, politicians, ministers, Professors, SANs and Judges” Ezegwui stated  Mr. Onyekach Okafor,  Chairman of NBA Oji River branch stated that: “The Demise Of  Dr Joseph Nnabuchi Nwodo reminds us of th quotation made  by Leonardo Da Vinci Who said: “As A Well Spent Day bring happy sleep, so also a  life well lived brings happy death”  “Dr Joe Nwodo lived a good life and impacted positively on others when he was alive. We submit that it is due to his absolute belief  in the equality of all men in the eye of the natural law that emboldened him to become a human right advocate as well as the  voice for the voiceless or Ochendo Umuogbenye (Protector of the poor). President Eisenhower, The 34th President Of USA Said: “America is great because it is good. And America cease to be great when it Cease to be good”. “As a matter of fact, considering the testimony of people about late Dr. Joseph Nwodo, he was indeed a good man when he was alive. It is this great personality that we have all gathered here today to pay our last respect.  “Those Of us In Nigerian Bar Association Oji-River Branch Use This Medium To Advise The Children To Endeavour To Emulate Their Father So As To Live The Good Life Their Father Lived.  My Lord, The Chief Judge Of Enugu State, I crave your indulgence to submit that by virtue of the profile of our learned friend late Dr. Joe Nwodo,  he was indeed a great man when he was alive.  On this note my Lord,  I  hereby adopt my tribute in honor of our departed learned colleague Dr. Joseph Nnabuchi Nwodo” Okafor stated  —  