It has been said that nothing is so thoroughly bad that it cannot serve as a bad example. To that extent, no human being or entity can be so comprehensively useless as to foreclose or foreclude their deployment as an example of how things ought not to be. Future sociologists of deracinated nations will have a lot to ruminate about contemporary Nigeria. As the nation hurtles towards an inevitable rendezvous with fate, it is showing all the classic symptoms of alienation. In clinical psychology, alienation is the most severe form of self-estrangement, a condition in which there is a total dissociation of personality; a permanent battle for supremacy among contending neuroses. Far from being at peace with itself, the individual is a vast battlefield of countervailing impulses. In some radical variants of Political Theory, alienation occurs when institutions made by humankind and for the benefit of humanity suddenly disentangle themselves from the hosting body to assume an independent life of their own. In their disembodied form, the alienated entities take the host as hostage as they begin a reign of terror which has nothing to do with the original inspiration or aspiration. Anarchy and chaos reign supreme. But the afflicted appear powerless to do anything about their parlous state. The physics of rapid industrialization is replaced by the metaphysics of baleful groaning and utter paralysis.  Everything appears like a monstrous fetish; a primitive ritual without the sorcerer or his apprentice. In the modern era, the most powerful dramatization of alienation can be found in Franz Kafka’s novella, The Metamorphosis. Kafka himself has been famously described as the classic representative of the Age of Anxiety; a walking distillate of combustible alienation. He was a German-speaking Czechoslovakian Jew. Talk of multiple displacements in the post-Empire epoch. In The Metamorphosis, Joseph K went to bed only to find out that he had become an insect, a beetle-like dung to be precise.  But since punctuality remains the soul of business, all his subsequent efforts that morning were geared towards getting up to get to work. Meanwhile, the wall clock ticked away with merciless precision reminding the embattled human beetle of its contractual obligation to the deity of modern capitalism. The wall clock has become a master symbol of human alienation from its own designers. Honed to precision by western technology for ease of business transaction if not exactly invented by it, it has now assumed a life of its own as a terroristic contraption regulating human existence with unrelenting modern rationality without any further reference to its originating summons. Nowhere is the concept of political alienation more germane and apposite than in postcolonial Africa. Here, and particularly in Nigeria, the nation-state paradigm which was imposed on Africa by the colonial masters to regulate and rationalize the chaotic pre-colonial fiefdoms and expired empires had disembodied itself from the notions of the modern nation to become a terror machine in its own right, spreading fear and mayhem among trembling denizens and unhappy captives. Those who still believe, despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary, that the Nigerian union of disparate nationalities  is divinely ordained or an indissoluble nuptial which no human being can do anything about are the most afflicted victims of this form of alienation. They need to be pitied provided they are willing to come to terms with their affliction. In the name of their sick and psychotic notion of the nation, they inflict unspeakable horror and crimes against humanity against compatriots. Human life no longer matters. It is their disembodied notion of the nation that does. If the Nigerian crisis degenerates into wanton bloodshed as a result of their medieval arrogance and obtuseness, they may yet have their day at the International Court for crimes against humanity. But as it has been famously observed, a man can make for himself a throne of bayonets, whether he will be able to sit on it is another matter entirely. This past week, the heat of national alienation seems to have finally reached the presidential kitchen shattering General Mohammadu Buhari’s glacial imperturbability and unflappable mien. For those who have been warning about the mismanagement of ethnic diversity in Nigeria which has escalated during the current regime, it may be sheer fun laced with macabre humour watching the Nigerian presidency roiling and roasting in a national conflagration of its own making. But for many die-hard Nigerian patriots, it is a distressing sign of a dire national emergency. Having returned from peace-making abroad over the Malian debacle where he appeared glum-faced and forlorn, General Buhari was immediately confronted by the festering crisis at home. This was against the background of escalating stagflation, the death of the former Army chief and his aides in an air crash and the wanton destruction of government properties in the east as a result of what has snowballed into well-heeled guerrilla insurgency in the troubled region. Receiving a report from the INEC boss over the obviously orchestrated torching of the properties of the electoral body in the South East, General Buhari finally blew his top, noting that those misbehaving in certain parts of the country were obviously too young to know the travails and loss of lives that characterized the Nigerian civil war. The president then concluded with chilling resolve: “Those of us in the fields for thirty months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand. We are going to be very hard sooner than later”. Twitter, the international media conglomerate, promptly deleted the tweet from the presidential handle sparking off a global media fire fight with the Nigerian authorities which culminated in Nigeria’s government banning Twitter from the nation. General Buhari’s anger and frustration are quite understandable. The wanton destruction of life and property, the targeted elimination of security forces by rogue non-state actors in the old Eastern region, is quite unfortunate and a direct challenge to the authority and legitimacy of the Nigerian postcolonial state as currently constituted. A man with a military cast of temperament and regimented mind-set is not expected to take this lying low. Unfortunately, this is a propaganda war the federal authorities can never win. If anything, the testy and unmeasured responses can only attract more international opprobrium for the Nigerian president. Twitter, like all western medium consortiums, is founded on the tenets of western liberal democracy, however repulsive and insensitive to the plight of fractious nations this might appear. By deleting but not suspending his Twitter accounts, the global media octopus is sending a dire signal to the Nigerian presidency. But the situation has now been compounded by the Twitter proscription. General Buhari would from now on have to watch his back. This is the treatment normally reserved for leaders that the western civil and political society has grown tired of. They are preparing a Yugoslavian scenario for Nigeria. It is a sad day when the Nigerian president hugs the international limelight of notoriety with an outlaw and political deadbeat like Donald Trump, the disgraced American former president who has just been banned by Facebook for two years. It is worthy of note that recently, and against the run of play, Britain granted the right to asylum for members of the proscribed IPOB. Yet it would have been another matter entirely if the entire country were to be solidly behind the retired general. Unfortunately despite the hoopla and alleluia chorus about infrastructural revamp, the country has never been this divided and sharply polarized with several important segments so disillusioned and disappointed that they want out. It is not the thought of happy grandchildren that fuels wars and revolutions but the memory of defeated and enslaved ancestors. It is worthy of note that Twitter was probably forced to delete the presidential tweet as a result of being swamped by a tsunami of protests from outraged and affronted Nigerians in and out of the country.  By making a barely veiled reference to vanquished Biafra and the savage nature of the last civil war, the president tactlessly touched on raw nerves, reviving ethnic animosities in an already inflamed polity and ancestral memories of persecution. This is more so when it is widely believed that he has not found the pluck and courage to address the issue of his marauding ethnic kinsmen who have decided to put the entire country to sword leading to even more widespread bloodshed, mayhem and looming famine. Modern governance is predicated on integrity and squeaky cleanliness. Do not come to equity if you have soiled hands. It is not hard to see where bungled elite harmony and the mismanagement of ethnic diversity are leading the country. It has led to growing radicalization of hitherto sedate and statesmanlike ethno-cultural organizations. Nothing concentrates the mind more than the thought of looming political extinction. This week, it was reported that Ohaneze, the Igbo apex ethno-cultural organization, has petitioned the United Nations about the plight of the Igbo in contemporary Nigeria. This externalization of the national crisis is an ominous departure from Ohaneze’s normally cautious and cagey engagement with the federal authorities. It is an admission of growing frustration and despair over the National Question. Stunned into action by the spectre of looming political irrelevance and finding its constituency evaporating as IPOB seizes the Igbo political imagination, Ohaneze is fighting for its political life. In the old east, IPOB is now in power while the ruling parties are in government or government houses as the case may be. The national emergency cannot be more concerning. In the west, the secessionist clamour is growing daily acquiring more respectable and hitherto mainstream voices and a fierce Diaspora lobby fuelled by abstract idealism.  This past week, a Yoruba traditional ruler made an articulate and well-reasoned plea for decoupling the Yoruba people from Nigeria. The danger for the current Yoruba political elite is the possibility that given the parlous plight of economically disempowered underclasses that are becoming increasingly restive, things might degenerate into messy class warfare. There are lots of burgeoning rogue cells out there in pristine forests with rudimentary military training waiting to take advantage of state collapse. If General Buhari already does not know, we beg to inform him that the embryonic outlines of the Second Nigerian civil war are already here with us. But what is probably occluding his vision is the fact that it is not going to be the symmetrical warfare for which he is trained in military academies. As at this moment, Nigeria is plagued by asymmetrical forces which despite their mutual hostility and contradictory ideologies are in paradoxical complicity to unhorse the state. But there is still something play for. If we are going to be ruthlessly honest with ourselves, Nigeria is a product of elite failure with the dominant and hegemonic group most guilty. But everybody has played their unheroic bit. It is a tragedy with very few heroes. In its current messy state, even if Nigeria is split into a thousand new nations, they will be nothing but a proliferating atomistic mess. Nothing will come out of nothing. We must not bequeath this mess to our children in whatever form despite the inflamed passions and separatist catcalls. We must begin the process of dis-alienating the messy and chaotic amalgam that is Nigeria as currently constituted. It is going to be a Herculean task. But it can also be a learning curve for our barons of disintegration dreaming of an Eldorado once Nigeria is Balkanized. Proliferating identities is a human phenomenon and a strategy of survival in all human societies. Those who cannot handle big nationhood will never be able to handle small nationhood. This is a task that calls for a visionary statesman and not somebody with a military mind-set dreaming about expresso conquests and summary subjugation of people with different cultural outlook and antithetical modes of political, economic and spiritual production. Given the proliferation of arms and their bearers in the nation, the Nigerian post-colonial state has passed the point where it can impose a military solution on the Nigerian crisis of nationhood. If he still has anything left to offer the nation, General Buhari must immediately begin the process of healing and national reconciliation, a procedure of disalienation, by bringing all the warring sides to a negotiating table. To achieve this, there are two urgent national imperatives. First, in order to restore legitimacy and authority, he must be seen to have taken off his gloves against rampaging herdsmen who have turned the nation into a living hell. Second, he should carry out an immediate cabinet make over and rid himself of the deadwoods who have become a menace unto the government and the nation. These are obviously tall orders for a man with a stubborn fidelity to ethnic particularity and whose sense of loyalty to the old feudal code appears to preclude a sense of obligation to the larger nation. But we must caution that where national mediation fails, international arbitration must surely follow.