Beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) under the umbrella of Presidential Amnesty Program beneficiary forum (PDF) have commended Interim Administrator of the project Col. Milland Dikio (rtd) on the recent appointment of beneficiaries into the workforce of the PAP. The group lauded the bold initiative as heart-warming but urged him to employ more beneficiaries into the Presidential Amnesty Office because many beneficiaries of the programme are jobless. It said: “No one is more qualified to work in the interest of the programme than the beneficiaries of the programme. “Any initiative by the Amnesty Office to invest in job and wealth creation or its equivalent will help to scale up development underpinning a viable means of facilitating the re-integration of the beneficiaries in society”. It added the ex-agitators who have not been accommodated should be catered for in a new phase of the programme, giving the success recorded by the programme thus far. This, they said, will scale down violence and militancy in the Niger Delta region. The group leader, Comrade Senibo Spencer, told newsmen in Port-Harcourt, the River state capital, that the appointment of the interim administrator came at a time when all untrained and unempowered beneficiaries needed benefits of the Amnesty Programme most. He called on the delegates and critical stakeholders to give their support to the interim administrator as his appointment has brought fresh hopes for beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, stating “nothing can change in the world if we don’t have the support of the people around us”. Spencer thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for appointing a qualified and well-seasoned diplomat with a vast range of experience to oversee the affairs of the Presidential Amnesty Programme. He called on the President and the National Assembly to grant Dikio the mandate to launch the fourth phase of the Presidential Amnesty scheme to accommodate those marginalised or too scared to accept the Presidential Amnesty during the 2009 proclamation by late ex-President Umaru Yar’Adua.