The Nigerian Army has announced the redeployment of 11 Generals and other senior officers in a major shakeup, following the appointment of the new Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Maj.-Gen. Farouk Yahaya. The redeployment is coming few days after 29 Generals, who are seniors to the COAS, were reportedly retired. A statement on Thursday in Abuja by the Director of Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, reads: “The Nigerian Army has released postings and appointments of senior officers. This is in line with the Chief of Army Staff’s vision to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish assigned missions within a Joint Environment in Defence of Nigeria. “Those affected in the reorganisation include: Maj.-Gen. F. O. Omoigui, from Headquarters, Theatre Command, Operation Hadin Kai to Land Forces Simulation Centre, Nigeria and appointed Director General; Maj.-Gen. C. G. Musa, from Nigerian Army Resource Centre, to Headquarters, Theatre Command, Operation Hadin Kai and appointed Theatre Commander; Maj.-Gen. O. R.  Aiyenigba, from Defence Headquarters (DHQ) to Headquarters, Nigerian Army Corps of Military Police and appointed Provost Marshal (Army), and  Maj.-Gen. I. M. Jallo, from Defence Space Administration to Headquarters, Theatre Command, Operation Hadin Kai and appointed Deputy Theatre Commander 1. “Others affected in the posting include: Brig.-Gen. N. U. Muktar, from Nigeria High Commission, Islamabad, Pakistan, to Office of the COAS and appointed Director of Procurement; Brig.-Gen. = O. Nwachukwu, from Defence Headquarters (Director, Defence Information) to Headquarters, Directorate of Army Public Relations and appointed Director; Brig.-Gen. A. E. Abubakar, from Department of Training and Operations (Defunct) to Headquarters, 22 Brigade and appointed Commander; Brig.-Gen. K. O. Ukandu, from Office of the COAS (Director Procurement) to National Defence College and appointed Directing Staff. “Brig.-Gen. I. B. Abubakar, from Nigerian Army Armour School to Army Headquarters, Department of Army Operations and appointed Deputy Director Operations; Brig.-Gen. A. M. Umar, from Army War College Nigeria to Office of the COAS and appointed Chief of Staff to the COAS, and Brig.-Gen. A. J. S. Gulani, from Nigerian Army Armour School to Headquarters, 24 Task Force Brigade and appointed Commander. “Also affected are: Col. K. E. Inyang, from Headquarters, Department of Army Logistics, to Office of the COAS and appointed Military Assistant to the COAS; Col. O. O. Braimah, from Headquarters, Theatre Command of Operation Hadin Kai to the Nigeria High Commission in Islamabad, Pakistan and appointed Defence Attaché; and Col. I. P. Omoke, from Office of the COAS to Defence Intelligence Agency and appointed Assistor Director, Foreign Liaison/Liaison Officer (Army). “The COAS, Maj.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, urged all the affected senior officers to justify the confidence reposed in them. All postings and appointments are with immediate effect.”