No fewer than 21,000 retirees of the Federal Government Treasury Funded Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) are set to be verified online for onward payment of their pension benefits by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). Although the retirees quit service between last year and this year, the commission has not been able to conduct the physical pre-retirement enrolment due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Consequently, the commission developed an online enrolment application to stop the disruption of validation and determination of the accrued pension liabilities of the would-be retirees for the government budgetary purposes. PenCom Commissioner, Technical, PenCom, Anyim Nyerere state this at the Pension Desk Officers (PDOs) workshop on Online Enrolment Application in Lagos. He added that the commencement of the online enrolment would start  soon. He explained that it is an norm within PenCom to conduct physical yearly retirement verification and enrolment on the MDAs scheduled for retirement within the next fiscal year. He said: “This exercise is aimed at validating and determining the retirees’accrued pension liabilities for budgetary allocation by the Federal Government. PenCom regrets their inability to conduct this physical annual pre-retirement enrolment exercise due to the Global COVID-19 pandemic. The need to observe the necessary safety measures as directed by the government thus becomes inevitable. “The PDOs and the public within the pension industry will appreciate the challenges in not conducting the physical pre-retirement enrolment exercise. Hence, the commission’s  desire to ensure that this exercise must be done so as not to affect the validation and determination of the accrued pension liabilities of the would-be retirees for the government budgetary purposes.” “The commission has developed the Online Enrolment Application with the capabilities to register, verify and enrol prospective retirees and provide the guidance note accordingly which will help to compute the retirees’ retirement benefits. This nouveau application, which will be hosted on the Commission’s website. We urge prospective retirees to log on to register with their details on the Retiree Registration Module (RRM),” he noted. On roles of the MDAs he said: “The MDAs will be required to upload the list of potential retirees who have not been enrolled before (All Employees who have retired but missed previous enrolment must be listed); MDAs would upload the full name and signature specimen of its authorized signatories; MDAs will assist Retirees who cannot do online registration on their own,” he submitted. “It is on this note that the roles of the PDOs in the Online Enrolment Application becomes very germane. The workshop, therefore, is necessary in order to; expose the PDOs to these newly developed Online Enrolment Application procedures for the verification of the prospective retirees; PDOs will guide prospective retirees on how to complete the information on the Online Enrolment Application Form; and equally ensure that the retirees’ information submitted by the MDAs are accurately completed in line with the online enrolment guidance notes. “The workshop will also help equip the PDOs with the requisite knowledge on how the Retiree Registration Module operates for the smooth implementation of the Online Enrolment Application. Necessary safeguards and modalities have equally been put in place for this exercise and we hope the PDOs will strictly comply with the provisions of the guidance notes on the enrolment for the conduct of the upcoming nationwide pre-retirement verification and enrolment exercise” Nyerere said.  