TeamApt, a financial technology (Fintech) company,  processed $16 billion transactions between April 2020 and April 2021, with  68 million transactions. It promised to cemented its leadership position in providing access to financial services in Africa. According to the company, its last month’s value of transactions stood at $3.5 billion, N1.4 trillion, which was higher than $2.4 billion (over over N1 trillion ) transactions in March. Speaking during a media parley  in Lagos on the company’s plans  to transform financial services in Africa, TeamApt CEO and founder, Tosin Eniolorunda said the company has in less than two years  grown its agency banking network to over 100,000 agents. He said the company remains a leader in agency banking industry, providing financial services for the underserved mass market through Moniepoint – its financial access product, and Monnify, which is its payment gateway infrastructure. He said the company, which was founded in 2015, started out by building infrastructure for Tier 1 financial institutions, a testament to its technology prowess. Eniolorunda said: “To achieve our mission of providing financial happiness for all, we started out by building working infrastructure and distributing this in every of Nigeria’s 36 states. So far, Moniepoint has served over 25 per cent of the 48 million banked Nigerians, previously underserved by the financial system. This is a great feat but we still have a lot of work to do. Many Nigerians are still underserved, and with this pain not exclusive to Nigeria but shared among Africans, we intend to scale into more regions of the continent. “We remain focused on innovating, and we expect that in the future, through Moniepoint, we will reach more people across Africa and build their trust in the financial system and processes.We look forward to empowering our agents with the facilities to offer other financial services directly to customers, beyond deposits and withdrawals. Since its launch in 2019, Moniepoint by TeamApt has gained ground as Nigeria’s largest agency banking platform with about 100,000 agents across the nation. Report from Shared Agent Network Expansion Facilities (SANEF), an initiative of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governing agent banking, confirms that TeamApt accounts for 74 per cent of the agent banking industry based on the volume of transactions processed monthly.