As I set out to write this tribute in honour of Sam Omatseye, who turned 60 on June 15, my thoughts went to the United States of America’s poet, Maya Angelou’s: Caged Bird, which is perhaps one of the most poignant poems on freedom versus bondage. At a time, when Nigeria is roiling is mass disaffection with the status quo, I consider it a fitting tribute to use the poem as the background to celebrate Sam Omatseye at 60. I met Sam when I was invited to join the editorial board of The Nation, sometime in 2006. Prior to that, I had occasionally read Sam’s scathing criticism of President Olusegun Obasanjo’s government in The Sun newspaper. Ever insightful, critical, and sometimes contemptuous and disparaging, Sam in irresistible language dissected the government led by President Obasanjo, and many times put it to the sword. So, unlike many who have written tributes in honour of Sam Omatseye at 60, I didn’t take notice of his great exploits in his days at Concord newspaper or other earlier journalism career. But I can say without equivocation that it is at the editorial board of The Nation newspaper, which he chairs, that Sam blossomed. Not just in his journalism career, but as a journalist, writer, poet, novelist, and television personality of national and perhaps international repute. Sitting with Sam nearly every week since 2006, physically, and virtually since COVID-19 birthed on the scene, there is no better tribute than to buttress Sam’s wish for a new Nigeria, in the mould of the first and fourth stanzas of Maya Angelou’s stimulating poem: Caged Bird. By words and action, the tantalizing prospects of the two stanzas, I dare say, is what Sam has devoted his career in literary and other intellectual works, and most recently his television broadcast to profess. Though set in the redoubt of the black man’s struggle in the United States of America, for freedom from slavery and bondage, the poem poignantly accentuates the potentials of the freeborn and attenuates the disillusionment of the slave in bondage. Many in Nigeria today, see themselves as shackled by bad governance, in a manner not different from that of slave denoted by Maya Angelou in the poem: Caged Bird. Sam, every week, in the print and electronic media, excoriates the pitfalls of government at all levels, which has manacled the potentials of Nigerians, in ways not different from that of the caged bird. His weekly offering on Mondays in this paper, titled: In Touch, is arguably the best written weekly prose in any newspaper in Nigeria. Scented with poetic dilations, Sam Omatseye, uses literary, historical and didactic anecdotes to corral the power elites to free Nigerians from the fetters of bad governance. Of course, he proffers better ways, to make Nigerians the free birds, where the country to be a truly democratically governed country. As Maya Angelou wrote: The free bird leaps/on the back of the wind/and flouts downstream/till the current ends/and dips his wings/in the orange sun rays/and dares to claim the sky. Should those in power rule with democratic fervent, Nigerians can with ease claim the African sky and contend with Europe and America for the world sky. But nay, what we have is a stale president who misguidedly believes that he can force the states to create what he calls a grazing route, instead of modern ranches. A president who naively believes that because he has temporal executive powers he can decree that his kinsmen who own the roving cattle are the freeborn, while the rest are slaves. A president who would use his office to grant the wishes of the minority, which offends the laws of the land, against the majority, constitutional democracy be damned. Of course, because of his actions, there are significant numbers of Nigerians, who believe the president sees the rest of Nigerians as slaves, like the caged birds. Again Maya captures the mood of those manacled by the poor governance. She wrote: But a bird that stalks/down his narrow cage/can seldom see through/his bars of rage/his wings are clipped and/his feet are tied/so he opens his throat to sing. Not long ago, the youths of Nigeria sang @ #EndSARS and the consequences were catastrophic for the caged bird and the free bird. With the experience of that unfortunate outcome, the federal authorities are no longer amenable to even allow the bird to openly sing the song of disillusionment and despair. Those who tried to sing at the June 12 remembrance met canisters of teargas and staccato of bullets. The third stanza of the poem reminiscences how the caged sings/ with fearful trill/ of the things unknown/ but longed for still/and his tune is heard/ on the distant hill/ for the caged bird/sings of freedom. This part captures the faith of the Nigerian youths whose potentials have been mismanaged. Who shine in other less endowed countries, and who would wish that their country could unleash her potentials so that they can be free. The fifth stanza further portrays the tragedy of our dear country, whose citizens are buried with their dreams, because their wings are clipped and their feet tied. Maya wrote: But a caged bird stands on the grave of dreams/his shadows shouts on a nightmare scream/his wings are clipped and his feet are tied/so he opens his throat to sing. There is no doubt that Sam Omatseye has dedicated his life to push for Nigerians to actualise their dreams. Indeed from accounts, Sam has remained a frontline activist since he graduated from the university. He tumbled with the civil rights movement during the feisty days of the military. From his overseas redoubt, he remained in touch with nation’s socio-economic throes, firing his salvo against oppression and bad governance. Since his return, he has not taken his foot off the throttle for a better Nigeria. He has authored several works, including his famous: My name is Okoro, set in the period of the Nigeria civil war. To write that work of faction, Sam researched on the war, read and heard variegated stories, and is actually a better commentator than President Buhari who boasts about his one-sided civil war account. Sam also has collections of poetry, Mandela’s Bones and Other Poems and Lion Wind and Other Poems, and of course Dear Baby Ramatu. He is also a playwright. His first novel The Crocodile Girl: “digs deep into a society in the throes of hatred and injustice.” While his second: My name is Okoro, is history emblematised in fiction. An ardent follower of the Nobel awards, this writer predicts that Sam could be the next Nigerian Nobel Prize winner in Literature. Happy birthday, my chairman.