Nestlé Nigeria Plc has partnered the Lagos State Ministry of Environment to plant 60 trees across six primary schools and communities in Lagos in a first step of their collaboration on ecosystem restoration which aims to plant 50,000 trees this year. Nestle said safeguarding the environment is a collective responsibility, adding that it is delighted to partner the Lagos State Ministry of Environment on this initiative to leverage nature’s own solutions to reduce carbon footprints to help slow down climate change. “Natural resources are shared by everyone and must be preserved for people today and for generations to come. Our partnership with the Lagos State Ministry of Environment on Ecosystem Restoration is in line with our commitment to protect the environment for future generations. The Tree planting campaign rightly ties in with this year’s World Environment Day theme. Trees do not only provide aesthetic value, but also optimise air quality. According to a popular proverb, the best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago and the second-best time is now, so we are taking action together, today,” Victoria Uwadoka, Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager, Nestlé Nigeria, said on the collaboration on World Environment Day. The World Environment Day is celebrated on  June 5 yearly to raise global awareness and action for the protection of the environment. This year’s commemoration is expected to galvanise global efforts and initiatives that address the growing concerns around the environment such as climate change, global warming, food security and water supply. Director Sanitation Services Department, Lagos State Ministry of Environment and Water Resources, Dr Hassan Sanuth, who represented the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, said the call to action on ecosystem restoration for this year’s celebration recognises the need to accelerate restoration of our ecosystems, pushing to halt and reverse the decline of the natural world. “The huge social and economic development in the state has also had some negative impacts on the environment. Many communities in Lagos State are named after landmark ecosystems which, unfortunately, have been destroyed by the activities of mankind. We all need to act together in making sure we restore the environment to serve us better,” Sanuth said. Nestlé Nigeria said it will continue to work alongside stakeholders as partners to protect the environment for future generations, stressing that investing in the development of sustainable packaging, enhancing responsible water stewardship and helping to create awareness of sustainability among children and stakeholders has become part of the company’s culture. Uwadoka reiterated that Nestlé will continue to work with stakeholders and partners to advance the health of the planet while driving societal progress. The two-day celebration in Lagos focused on measures for restoring the ecosystem around the state, with activities culminating in the unveiling of the Urban Regeneration Garden along the Lekki-Epe Expressway by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu.