The Africa Fintech Foundry and Access Bank’s ‘W’ Initiative  are hosting a fireside chat for ‘Women in Tech’ today. It is themed ‘Women in Tech: Driving diversity in the African tech industry’. Head of the African Fintech Foundry, Daniel Awe, said: “The African Fintech Foundry has always been committed to leading disruptions in the fintech ecosystem by leveraging digital transformations across board. As a result, championing a cause that focuses on inclusion and diversity in the technology industry is, for us, a necessity. “The current trajectory of the technology industry shows that a non-proactive approach to gender diversity will lead to a reduction in the number of women involved in the tech space 10 years from now. This is why African Fintech Foundry has decided to host ‘Women in Tech’ to encourage more female participation in this sector.’’ The Group Head/Coordinator, “W” Initiative, Access Bank, Ayona Trimnell, added: “Gender diversity and inclusion has improved in many industries but tech is still lagging behind in this regard. Considering the crucial role technological innovation will play in most sectors of the economy, the prolonged underrepresentation of women in tech will present a major challenge to the economy if left unaddressed. Hence, partnering with the African Fintech Foundry to increase the participation of women in the technology industry is timely and we are excited about the prospects this event presents.” This virtual event is open to businesswomen, women-owned tech startups, tech CEOs, students, tech enthusiasts, venture capitalists, bankers, among others. The speakers include Teju Ajani, County Lead, Apple Inc; Ire Aderokun, Co-founder, COO and VP Engineering of BuyCoin; Eniola Edun, Head Engineer, Awarri; Ola Brown, Founder, Flying Doctors Healthcare Investment Company; and Tosin Faniro-Dada, CEO, Endeavor; Others are Eloho Omame, Founder, FirstCheck; Fade Ogunro, CEO, Bookings Africa; Simileoluwa Afolabi-Jumbo, Founder, SQL Babe; Professor Olayinka, David-West, LBS Academics Director; Audrey Muthopi, CEO, Systemic Logic; and Fara Ashiru Jituboh, Co-founder and CTO, Okra.