Shareholders Of EkoCorp Plc have approved the proposal to sell 110 million ordinary shares to Geoff Ohen Limited. At the court-ordered extraordinary general meeting held in Lagos, 79.39 per cent of the shareholders voted for the approval of the sale of the shares to Geoff Ohen. It would be recalled that in order to shore up the financial position of the foremost hospital, in 2007, the company entered into a share purchase agreement with Geoff Ohen Limited to issue its 110 million ordinary shares at N4 each. On August 3, Geoff Ohen paid N440 million as agreed and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) subsequently approved the deal. However, there arose some issues from the private placement of the shares, leading to court and tribunal cases. Subsequently, the court declared shares as improperly acquired. But, on March 4, 2021, the Appeal Court ordered a general meeting of the company to approve or reject the sale of the shares. Shortly before voting, a shareholder, Dr Faruk Umar urged shareholders to approve the deal. ”We appreciate the work of the founders of the hospital. We want the company to continue to provide medicare that Nigerians will enjoy. Let it be that what we will do will be in the interest of shareholders, staff and patients,” Umar said Another shareholder, Nornah Awoh, who likened a corporate organisation to a human being, said the huge cash gave the company a financial bulwark and that this was vital to its sustainability. Mrs Thorpe Oludewa, whose family has been patronising the hospital since 1994, said its growth and development were important to her. ”We needed the injection of funds in the company to make it world-class. This resolution should be passed,”Oludewa said. Other shareholders reiterated why the shares should be approved, especially as Geoff Ohen Limited gave the money a long time ago. Not approving the capital, they said, would amount to maltreating the firm and its owner who helped the EkoCorp at a time it needed assistance. Acting Chairman, Ekocorp Plc, Prof Joe Irukwu expressed optimism on the outcome of the voting. He said the step was a good idea for a company quoted on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX). ”I support the majority of the shareholders that the company should be run properly and profitably,” Irukwu said. He urged them to buy more shares, adding that the more the merrier for the company. The hospital’s Chief Medical Director, Dr Adegbite Ogunmokun reiterated the importance of the facility to the government’s policy on medical tourism. “By the resolution, I strongly believe that a new era has come. It will bring positive changes. Once we are able to get new funds, the sky is the limit,”Ogunmokun  said. First known as Mercy Specialist Clinic, EkoCorp PLC started operations in 1977, as Eko Hospital with its name coined from its three funders – Dr Alex Eneli, Dr Sunny Kuku and Dr Amaechi Obiora.  In 1991, it became a public liability company and three years later, the firm changed its name to EkoCorp PLC with branches in Ikeja and Surulere, Lagos.  