The police in Delta State have arrested two brothers and an accomplice with a container filled with fresh human blood during a stop and search operation at Nsukwa Junction along Ogwashi- Uku/Kwale road, Aniocha South LGA. A statement signed by Delta Police image maker DSP Bright Edafe, Tuesday, said the suspects who hail from Ebenta Village, Ohuakwu LGA, in Ebonyi State have made useful confessions. He said the suspects were arrested after their Sienna Commuter bus traveling from Asaba to Kwale were intercepted by a police team and upon search of all passengers three suspects were found with human blood. The police identified the three suspects to include Monday Nwite, 27 years old, Madabuchi Nweke, 26 years old and Nwite Sunday, 21 years old. Edafe said the suspects confessed to have murdered an unknown person in Ebonyi State and were on their way to deliver it to a native doctor residing in Kwale, Ndokwa West LGA. According to the police, the suspects said the container of blood was for ritual purposes, adding that a rosary necklace tied with charms was recovered from the suspects. Part of the statement reads, “On the 28/6/2021 at about 1145hrs, Dragon Patrol team (31) while on stop and search duty at Nsukwa junction along Ogwashi-Uku/Kwale road intercepted a commuter sienna bus travelling from Asaba to Kwale, all passengers were asked to submit themselves for search, during the search three suspects were found with a container filled with fresh human blood, the three suspects namely Monday Nwite ‘m’ 27yrs, Madabuchi Nweke ‘m’ 26 years and Nwite Sunday ‘m’ 21yrs all of Ebenta village in Ohaukwu LGA, Ebonyi State were immediately arrested. “During interrogation, the suspects confessed to have murdered some unknown persons in Ebonyi State and were on their way with the murdered person’s blood to a native doctor whose identity is unknown for now but resides in Kwale. “They were taking the blood to the said native doctor for rituals purposes. One rosary necklace tied with charms was also recovered from them. An investigation is ongoing.”