The Presidency, on Wednesday, said it had no hands in the ongoing amendment processes to the Nigerian Press Council (NPC) Act and the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) Act by the National Assembly. A lot of outcries from media stakeholders had greeted the amendment processes, with some describing it as another attempt by the federal government to gag the media and others describing it as a reintroduction of the obnoxious Decree Number 4. Responding to questions from State House Correspondents after the week’s virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC), presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said the issue of the amendment had nothing to do with the presidency, but a government matter. According to him, the amendment initiative is a government thing, which only the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, can address. Asked to comment on the issue, he said: “That is not strictly a Presidency thing because the President has nothing to do with that. It’s a government thing and it’s the Minister that can talk about it. So, thank you.” Adesina also revealed that the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, is studying the ruling issued by the ECOWAS Court to the effect that Twitter users cannot be arrested or prosecuted, following the suspension of the activities of the microblogging site in the country. He said the AGF would advise the federal government on the next step to take. Adesina affirmed that the committee made up of ministers to engage with Twitter has begun to meet. “The Attorney-General of the Federation is going to study that report and then he’ll advise government on the way forward. The committee set up by the President to engage with Twitter is actually holding a meeting about now, or it will hold a meeting Wednesday towards engaging with Twitter,” he said. Meanwhile, Adesina informed journalists at the briefing that President Buhari had approved that the Second Peer Review Country Self-assessment Report should be carried out. “The only thing of interest I would like to talk about is the second Peer Review Country’s Self-assessment Report. “Nigeria is ready for the second Peer Review Country Self -assessment Report to be done by AUDA-NEPAD. I think the last self-assessment report was done 10 years ago in Nigeria. Now, Nigeria is ready for the second review self-assessment report. “It’s been discussed at the Council and the President has granted the approval that that peer review report can be conducted on Nigeria. “Actually, if you have an insight into the report that was presented, which the woman in charge of NEPAD, Mrs. Akobundu, can give you, Nigeria has made progress in several areas and on several fronts. “While 10 years ago, petroleum contributed more than 70%, even up to 90%, to GDP, you will find that today, petroleum contributes just about 45% and non-oil products contribute about 55% to the Nigerian economy. “So, if Nigeria had been talking of diversification for 40, 50, 60 years, the economy can now be said to be diversified because our GDP, non-oil revenue, contributes about 55% to 45% of oil. “So, it’s one of the highlights of the Peer Review Country Self-assessment Report that was presented at the Council meeting today. Details of that can be gotten from the AUDA-NEPAD office. “That is the only thing we can talk about FEC today. if there’s any question, then I’ll gladly take. Yes. Yes, thank you,” he said.