Managing Director of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) Dr George Moghalu has said his main mission is to restore people’s confidence in governance. Moghalu disclosed this on Friday in Lokoja, Kogi State while speaking with newsmen at a symposium to mark the 46th birthday anniversary of Governor Yahaya Bello. The governorship aspirant said one of the major challenges stymining development is the disconnect between the people and the government. “So, my mission mainly, is to restore confidence, restore the people’s confidence in their government before you talk of infrastructural development. “The people will be willing to work with the government once their confidence is restored in the government. It is about engagement. “When people see your honesty, your commitment, your dedication there’s no way they won’t listen to you. Issues of insecurity, insurgence and what have you are issues that will also attract my immediate concern,” he said. On his chances in APC governorship primaries in Anambra, Moghalu said: “I have offered myself and I know that I have what it takes. “For me, I believe very strongly that power belongs to God and he gives to who He pleases at His own time. I’m confident that by the grace of God, I will make it.” He attributed ills of the society to falling family values and parental upbringing, saying as a country and as a people, “we must look at our values to see where we got it wrong. “We must develop a system where we look at our values. Our family values. We must accept the right values and reject the wrong values. “A situation where people who are not worthy of celebration are celebrated, acepted in churches, accepted in families and celebrated in communities should stop. “Wrong things are wrong, right things are right. So, we must develop a system where we identify the wrong things and reject them wholly and when we see the right things, we accept them. “So when we do that we are sure that the situation will change, the people should work hard, they should be committed, remain focused, put their eyes on the ball, rely on God and work hard.”