 Victor Ola, CEO of TravelbySelf, a travel edtech platform in Nigeria, is set to host a free webinar to provide Nigerians and Africans with information on immigrating to Canada permanently as well as clinching choice Canadian jobs in 2021. The webinar is open to those in need of guidance on the easiest, most reliable and direct way to permanently live and work in Canada without knowing any embassy official or paying exorbitant fees to travel agents. Speaking about the purpose of the webinar, Ola stated there are opportunities available for Nigerians to obtain knowledge, skills and gainful employment in Canada. He explained the webinar was born out of the need to help people avoid hasty disappointments and prepare them for a successful career path while becoming permanent resident in Canada. “Many people are on the verge of giving up on their dreams of moving to Canada. It may appear to be a difficult path to tread but it’s not impossible. “There’s an easier way to go about it, the webinar will provide a solution to all the travel fears that people might have. “I want to ensure that the qualified applicants from ages 18 to 45 years get all they need to have that great future without having to break the bank. “I’ll be disclosing the surest way for anyone to secure lucrative jobs that can guarantee them over $50,000 per annum. “The good news about the pathway I’m revealing in the webinar isn’t limited by class or status, but works for all – skilled or not skilled, rich or average, there will be key learning to help every class of Nigerian including other African nations,” he said. He added: “Participants of the webinar are expected to discover how to fast track permanent immigration to Canada, how to properly apply for a work permit, how to obtain a Canadian passport for themselves and their family members, the proper process to migrate a family to Canada legally and how to land a well-paying job within short time of arriving in Canada.” Victor Ola is an emigration expert with many years of teaching experience on Canadian immigration and citizenship. Having become a permanent resident and citizen in Canada, his teaching ranges from immigration process, applying for work permits and successfully immigrating families to Canada legally and successfully.