In four years, the distinguished professor of Science Education, Peter Okebukola, has promised to strengthen the Samuel Adegboyega University, Ogwa, Edo State. The university owned by The Apostolic Church Nigeria (TACN), LAWNA Territory, will keep Okebukola who retired from the Lagos State University (LASU) in February after clocking 70 busy as Pro-chancellor/Chairman of Governing Council. Speaking after the inauguration of the council, Board of Trustees(BoT) and Resource Mobilisation Committee for the university at TACN Council Hall in Ketu, Lagos, Okebukola said the Council would collaborate with the university management and BoT to improve the university. Okebukola said: “God will give us the enabling to move Samuel Adegboyega University higher. Here, as I speak, there are 39,200 universities in the world. The first university was established almost like 2,000 years ago actually 1,921 years ago. Samuel Adegboyega is like a toddler just 10 years old so we cannot expect it to be better than the old ones but I assure you that as the Lord liveth in the next four years, Samuel Adegboyega University, as you said, will come up really strong.” The former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC) said his findings from the NUC revealed that the institution was not doing badly after 10 years of existence. “I asked the Executive Secretary, National Universities Commission …, Tell me what Samuel Adegboyega University is in the profile of the Nigerian universities and he checked and he told me that we are not doing badly at all. Academic development – our programmes – all of them fully accredited with our physical facilities that are passable for its age, our academic staff are top notch. They are very good,” he said. In his speech, the Visitor/Chancellor of the university, Pastor Emmanuel Segun Awojide, said the 10-man BoT chaired by Prof. Samson Fatokun, would serve a tenure of five years, while the 18-member Council would serve for four. He charged the new members to make transparency their watchword. “Members are called to service with love knowing full we shall all account for our ability on the day of judgment.  Transparency and accountability should be our watchword.  The Board and the Governing Council should raise the standard of accountability and probity in the university,” he said.