 Kelechi Iheanacho led Leicester’s hunt for a spot in the champions league during last weekend’s 5-0 triumph over Sheffield United. Iheanacho was the star player during this game, recording his first hat trick in the EPL. This was the second hattrick for the Super Eagles striker, having scored three goals during ManCity’s 4-0 triumph over Aston Villa during their fourth-round FA Cup match in 2016. Before Iheanacho’s incredible performance last weekend, several other Super Eagles players had recorded a hattrick at the world’s most famous football league. These players include: To the average Arsenal fan, King Kanu is not a player who will be forgotten any time soon. Kanu’s silky movements, deft touches, and killer goals for Arsenal made him exceptional, recording a great hattrick against Chelsea during the October 1999 London Derby. Kanu’s hat trick helped the Gunners win the game against Chelsea, coming from two goals under, ending the game 2-3. His feat is even more impressive as he came in the game as a substitute and scored the three goals within 15 minutes. For many punters at Betway and Super Eagles fans, Yakubu is among the players that evoke bitter-sweet memories. Yakubu recorded some incredible goals while with the Super Eagles, although most people will never forget that he missed a goal from six yards during their must-win Group B World Cup game against South Korea in 2010. Regardless of his failure during the 2010 world cup game, Yakubu was loved by many sports betting fans who wager with betway as he was a goal machine in the EPL. Yakubu scored 119 goals while playing for seven different English clubs, with 96 of them recorded in the EPL. He also recorded hat tricks for Everton, Portsmouth, Blackburn Rovers, and Middlesbrough. While the former Stoke City and West Brom player wasn’t exactly prolific, he left fans with memorable goals. Odemwingie recorded 15 goals during his first season with West Brom, with his first hattrick coming in 2012 during a game against Wolves. Additionally, his 30 goals in 87 EPL appearances remain a club record. A Nigerian Super Eagles squad member that dominated the continent in the 1994 Nations Cup, Efan Ekoku was the first Nigerian player to record a hat-trick in the EPL. The former Nigerian International recorded this amazing feat in October 1993, after scoring four away goals for Norwich, helping them beat Everton 5-1 in Goodison Park. By scoring the four goals, Ekoku became the first Premier League player to record over three goals in a single game. However, Ekoku never recorded a single goal in his brief career with the Super Eagles, despite recording 37 goals with Wimbledon. With Iheancho recording his first EPL hat trick last weekend, it’s evident that Nigeria still has many talents. The country has produced celebrated EPL players like Jay-Jay Okocha, Joseph Yolo, and Finidi George, to name a few. However, not many are in the same class as Iheanacho, having recorded an EPL hattrick.