Streets of major cities were deserted on Saturday as anti-government protesters defied warnings that Democracy Day should be celebrated quietly. Tear gas fumes filled the air in Abuja, Lagos, Ibadan and Calabar as the police battled to keep pockets of anti-government protesters in check. Dozens of such protesters were arrested by the police across the major cities. The protests were generally peaceful, although an anti-government agitator was mobbed in Abuja by some pro-government activists during their own rally. The victim, bearing a placard, had walked up to the venue of the pro-government rally. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State joined protesters in Ibadan as did Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu of Edo State in Benin. The anti-government protesters demanded good governance and an end to insecurity and unemployment. Some of them asked President Muhammadu Buhari to quit. Canada, UK, US, and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) told security forces to allow the protesters express their views. The streets were generally deserted, the markets empty and vehicular traffic low in most cities as residents feared that the protests might be hijacked by hoodlums. There was a heavy police presence all over. At some point, the police shot into the air and fired  tear gas into the crowds to disperse the demonstrators, who held placards and chanted “Buhari must go”, particularly at Ojota in Lagos and Gudu in Abuja. Policemen shouted at protesters who were converging on the Gani Fawehinmi Park, Ojota, Lagos, asking them to leave. Officers were also seen smashing mobile phones confiscated from protesters, some of whom criticised the government’s decision to suspend access to Twitter. “We cannot continue like this… all the bad governance must stop,” said Samson Okafor, one of the protesters in Lagos, where teargas canisters smouldered in the street as police shouted at demonstrators to leave the scene. The police positioned their patrol vehicles on the Ikorodu/Maryland Expressway, near the park, preventing people from entering the park. Some of the protesters wore red berets, gathered on the expressway and chanted solidarity songs. A senior police officer, who pleaded anonymity, advised the protesters to be civil in their approach. “I am not stopping you from protesting, but do it without inviting hoodlums to take over the protest,” he said. The protesters, however, did not heed the officer’s advice as they continued to chant solidarity songs. This made policemen to release gunshots into the air, forcing the protesters to scamper in different directions for safety. The leader of the police team told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that no one was arrested at Ojota. “We only dispersed the protesters by firing into the air,” he said. A group identified as Indigenes of Lagos held its own protest against the anti-government agitation. One of their leaders, who did not want to be identified, said: “We are indigenes of Lagos. We don’t want trouble in Lagos again. We don’t want what happened during the EndSARS protest to happen again. “We want peace, not war. We are law-abiding citizens.” The Commander of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the state police command, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, who met with the latest protesters at noon, advised them to go about their lawful businesses. He assured them of adequate security. “Everyone is entitled to protest but the protest must be within (the limits of) the law. “Everyone should go about his or her business. “We are going round Lagos. There is no way for hoodlums to operate,” he said. The State Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu said last night that his men averted a hijack of the Ojota protest. He said in a statement through the Command’s spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, that some hoodlums had blocked the Maryland/Ikorodu Expressway with the intention of attacking motorists that got stuck in the artificial traffic congestion caused by the arranged blockage. Adejobi said Odumosu also moved round the state to assess the general security of the state. Among the places visited were Lagos Island, Lekki Toll Gate, Surulere, Alausa and Ojota where he “addressed the protesters on the need to be peaceful and avoid depriving other Nigerians of their human rights to free movement and doing their businesses; noting that blocking the roads will only cause more harm to other innocent Nigerians and threaten the security of Lagos State.” He said: “The Police boss engaged the protesters in a tete-a-tete for more than one hour at Ojota, Lagos State, assuring them of the police’s support and responsibility to provide security for them and other Nigerians. “He also reaffirmed that the police will never deprive them of their rights to freedom of speech, protest and peaceful rally. But they were urged to always notify the police of any intending protest or rally in order to plan with them so that such protest would not be hijacked by miscreants. “The Commissioner of Police, therefore, reiterated the command’s commitment to providing adequate security for all and sundry in Lagos State, sustain the core values of policing and tenets of democracy, especially respect for fundamental human rights of citizens in Lagos State.” Lekki, Lagos, which witnessed massive violence during the #EndSARS protests, was generally calm yesterday as residents shunned calls for protests. Vehicles moved freely on the Lekki-Epe expressway with security agents deployed to the toll gates to ensure peace and orderliness. Both toll gates were centres of violence during the EndSARS protest which took place on October 20, 2020. Many youths had gathered there to express their grievances over alleged police brutality. Pedestrians went about their businesses while shops and supermarkets were opened to attend to customers.  Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State unexpectedly showed up at Bodija, Ibadan to join hundreds of protesters expressing their anger over the situation in the country. The governor, who drove himself to the scene, was said to be heading somewhere else when he ran into the crowd. He promptly pulled over and addressed the protesters. He commended them for their peaceful conduct, reminding them of their right to call government to question when things are not done properly. Many streets of the city were deserted for fear of violence. But business and social activities picked up later in the day. A group of angry youths were seen at the Mokola Roundabout in Ibadan demanding better governance. The youths carried posters, placards and banners with different inscriptions conveying their displeasure over the situation in the country. Protesters in Ondo State blocked the Akure-Ibadan highway and insisted on searching vehicles. The development caused heavy traffic on the busy road. But their efforts led to the recovery of two guns and other dangerous weapons in a Toyota commercial bus. The owners of the weapons were handed over to operatives of the Ondo Amotekun Corps. The protesters resisted attempts by military personnel to remove the blockade on the Akure-Ibadan highway. They vowed to continue their protest and must search all the vehicles plying the route. However, the blockade by protesters near the Oba Market in Akure was dismantled by youths from the town who had pledged not to participate in any protest for fear that it could be hijacked by hoodlums. Security operatives arrested three journalists and a human rights lawyer in Calabar over the June 12 protests in the city. Arrested were Agba Jalingo, publisher of Cross River Watch online newspaper, his news editor, Jonathan Ugbal, a yet to be named reporter and James Ibor, a lawyer. The police also dispersed a group of protesters around the Rabbana Roundabout and Atekong Junction. The security operatives, who were masked, rode into the areas in vehicles belonging to Operation Akpakwu. The protesters carried placards with inscriptions such as “Ayade, pay owed salaries and pensions”, “Ayade, fix our roads”, Ayade, change your style of governance”, among others. One of the protesters, Mr Timothy Ushang, said the protest was going on peacefully when the policemen fired tear gas canisters at them. According to him, the essence of the protest is to draw government’s attention to areas that needed urgent intervention in the state. Governor Ben Ayade had earlier warned that he would not tolerate any form of protest or procession in the state. Jalingo, who was earlier imprisoned for nearly a year over an alleged attempt to topple Ayade’s government, was detained by the police on allegation of gun running. Before the arrest of rights lawyer James Ibor, police had ransacked his law office on Kings Street Calabar, where his staff were threatened. Police personnel dispersed June 12 protesters and members of the proscribed Islamic Movement of Nigeria (IMN) at Gudu, Abuja. The protesters, who were led by activist Deji Adeyanju, chanted “Buhari must go”, “Say no to injustice”, amongst other solidarity phrases. They also carried placards with inscriptions such as “This is Not A Dictatorship”; “#Buhari Must Go #Revolution Now”; “Digital Right is Human Right”; “Bandits Now Have Colony Within Our Country”. Addressing the protesters, Adeyanju said: “Why we are on the street protesting is that the government must meet certain demands and ensure that its primary responsibilities like protecting lives and property, the insecurity across the country, and extrajudicial killings ongoing across the country are tackled. “Constant attacks against protesters, the issue of Twitter ban should be addressed. The turnout all over the country was massive; even abroad. We thank all the organisers who joined us on this cause.” One of the protesters, John Ola, said: “We cannot continue like this … all the bad governance must stop,” as police shouted at demonstrators to leave the scene. Spokesman for the Federal Capital Territory Police Command, Mariam Yusuf, said that the command had restored calm in the area, adding that the group and other protesters had targeted inciting public disturbance and breaching public peace. She said that no arrest was made but that the action of the command was necessitated by concerns of some agitated residents. She said in a statement that the police dispersed the protesters to stop incitement of public disturbance. Her words: “The FCT Police Command on Saturday, June 12, 2021, successfully restored calm at Apo-Gudu axis after professionally dispersing a protest by some members of the proscribed Islamic Movement of Nigeria – Shiites and others targeted at inciting public disturbance and breaching public peace. “Consequently, the action of the command was necessitated by the concerns of some agitated residents. However, no arrest was made. “In view of the above, the command wishes to state that it is committed to ensuring that FCT residents enjoy a hitch-free Democracy Day celebration and will not hesitate to bring to book every person or entity that attempts to breach the peace or cause a breakdown of law and order in the Federal Capital Territory. “The command implores residents to remain calm and law-abiding while reaffirming its unwavering commitment to the protection of lives and property within the FCT.” Justifying the use of tear gas on protesters, chief spokesman for the Nigeria Police, Frank Mba, said the police action was in line with international best practices of dispersing violent protests. Mba told Channels Television that the Abuja incident was even an isolated case because the protesters turned violent. He said: “We had an isolated case in Abuja where some of the protesters became unruly, and in line with international best practices, police fired teargas at them. “And that is an acceptable mode of engaging violent protesters anywhere in the world, whether it is in Abuja, Lagos, Paris, London, or New York or California. That is internationally accepted. “We would have problems if we had fired live bullets at them. But when you fire teargas at protesters to disperse them, you are not in breach of any known code, either nationally or internationally. “I also want to use this opportunity to state clearly that no citizen, either in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Kano or anywhere, is currently in detention as a result of this isolated incident. “As long as protesters conduct themselves within the confines of the law, they do not constitute themselves into nuisance, they do not breach the rights of other citizens, they do not obstruct traffic, they do not compel other citizens to join their protests, the police will largely work with them. “When you protest in contravention of these set of conditions I have given, clearly, you are coming in direct conflict with the laws of the land, and the police will never stand by idly and watch you create problems for the entire polity.” Some people held their own rally at the Unity Fountain, Abuja to express support for President Muhammadu Buhari on the occasion of Democracy Day. They wore customised T-shirts and placards, some of which bore the inscriptions ‘Nigerians say no to fake activists’, ‘Nigerians say no to violence’. They claimed they were promised between ₦1,000 and ₦1,500 to participate in the rally. The Osun Civil Society Coalition and the National Association of Osun Students (NAOS) held a peaceful protest in Osogbo, calling for a better Nigeria. Members of the groups moved from Alekuwodo to the popular Oke-fia roundabout,  carrying  placards with different inscriptions. They also chanted solidarity songs. Security operatives were seen at strategic locations during the protest to forestall violence. The Coordinator of Osun Democracy Vanguard, Mr Emmanuel Olowu, who spoke to newsmen during the protest, said that democracy was the bedrock of development of any society. He urged that all Nigerians must embrace democracy to the fullest. Some youths in Kano used the occasion of Democracy Day to offer special prayers for Nigeria’s socio-political and economic prosperity. Abba Isma’il, who led the youths, said a group of patriotic Nigerians mobilised their friends for the prayers. He said though they have been praying daily for the country’s prosperity, yesterday’s special prayers were specifically to mark the Democracy Day being celebrated nationwide. He said: “Every citizen of the country knows that what the country needs currently is divine intervention in many fronts. “Challenging the leadership of the country or the system of governance will not bail us out of our predicament because we are all part of the issues.” Hundreds of Edo State residents gathered in Benin to demand good governance during the Democracy Day rally. The peaceful protest took off from the National Museum at Ring Road, Benin and moved to Government House, where participants were addressed by Edo State Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, who described godfatherism as the bane of democracy in Nigeria. He commended the protesters for conducting themselves peacefully. The leader of the Edo protesters, Kola Edokpayi, a frontline human rights activist, called on the Godwin Obaseki administration to ensure that the 14 members-elect of Edo House of Assembly were given the opportunity to represent their constituencies instead of being shut out. He said: “What we now hear is ‘unknown gunmen’ who are killing people in the Southeast zone and other parts of Nigeria, while the country is becoming unsafe to live in because of insecurity. “Prices of goods and services are also moving up daily, beyond the reach of the common man. “In Edo State, the Benin-Ekpoma-Auchi-Abuja Road is still unsafe, despite the efforts of the federal and state governments as well as the security agencies.” Edokpayi also stated that governments at all levels must be responsive and that the residents must not be docile but put the leaders on their toes in order to ensure good governance and the sustenance of democracy. Residents of Enugu shunned the Democracy Day protest championed by the Save Nigeria Group (SNG) in parts of the country. The city was peaceful and calm yesterday. The popular Michael Okpara Square, usually the epicentre and meeting point of such protests, was practically empty. However, there were a few patrol vehicles and officers of the Nigeria Police Force at the square and other strategic locations in the city. Meanwhile, Mr. Vincent Michael, who was at Okpara Square for a fitness exercise, said that residents of the state did not participate in the protest for fear of the unknown. Michael said that the security situation in the area and responses from security agencies were enough to make anyone to lie low. The Democracy Day celebration was low key in Sokoto State with residents going about their normal activities. However, residents called for commitment of government in providing dividends of democracy instead of giving priority to ceremonies while marking the day. Malam Abunakar Mailato said uplifting the living condition of people required planning ahead and absolute determination to attain set goals. “There is the need for those at the helm of affairs to be pro-active and determined to attain set goals, just as they struggle to surmount challenges that will come their ways,” he said. Mailato, who is a youth leader, said although progress had been made in the struggle to ensure a sustained democracy in the country, there was still room for improvement. Another resident, Sidi Muhammad, emphasised the need to strengthen the justice system to ensure respect for rule of law that would guarantee equity and peace. Muhammad urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of constructive criticisms in their efforts at correcting the lapses of leaders, rather than deliberately “hunting for faults to win political goals.” It was business as usual yesterday across Imo State despite the Democracy Day celebration. Residents who had at first hesitated to come out trooped out to go about their economic and social activities. A protest scheduled for the day was cancelled after the police said no one would be allowed to disturb the peace. Some Nigerians residing in the United Kingdom also staged a protest to mark Democracy Day. The protesters converged on the National Gallery in London. Akintunde Babatunde, who shared some of the footages from the venue of the protest, commended the professionalism of the police whom he said were decent and were guiding them, unlike their Nigerian counterparts. He said that the protesters were using the occasion to the call the attention of the world to the terrible situation of governance in Nigeria. “We are currently protesting in London and there’s no violence from police officers. They’re decent and guiding us well without shooting or tear gas. This is what I want for my country,” he said. “We’re sending a strong message to the world of the terrible situation in our dear country.” Other protesters carried placards that boldly read: “SAY NO TO GOVERNMENT FUNDED TERRORISM”; “WE DEMAND JUSTICE, GOD IS GOD ALL THE TIME.” Some were also seen waving ‘Biafran’ and ‘Oduduwa nation’ flags. The Canadian, United Kingdom and United States missions in Nigeria asked law enforcement agencies to respect citizens’ rights to freedom of expression and peaceful demonstrations. The US embassy in a tweet said: “We’re committed to promoting democracy, transparency & accountability,” adding, “#Democracy carries responsibilities. Calm and restraint support fundamental freedoms.” The Acting Canadian High Commissioner Nicolas Simard said: “Right to peaceful assembly is also a fundamental human right protected by #Nigeria’s constitution and international human rights instruments. “We call on all parties to exercise restraint and on Nigerian law enforcement agencies to remain within proportional use of force.” On its part, the British High Commission called for the protection of the right to peaceful protests. Amnesty International said it had been receiving “disturbing reports of attacks on peaceful protesters in Abuja, Lagos and Ibadan.’ It said: “Some protesters have also been arrested while others were injured #June 12thProtest#Nigeria. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday condemned what it called a clampdown on peaceful protesters on Democracy Day. The party’s spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, branded as sacrilegious “the brutal clampdown on Nigerian citizens.” His words: “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) condemns, in the strongest term ever, the violent clampdown by agents of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and President Muhammadu Buhari on Nigerians who are peacefully protesting on Democracy Day. “It is awkward that the APC and President Buhari, who were allowed their freedom when they protested in 2014, would turn around to subject Nigerians to actions of inhumanity including the use of firearms against the people, as being witnessed today.’ According to the PDP, the failure by President Buhari to call security operatives to order during his Democracy Day speech “places the culpability for whatever befalls Nigerians in the face of the violent attacks by security agencies, on the APC as well as Mr. President’s desk.” The family of the late Chief M.K.O, Abiola, the main honouree of Democracy Day, said yesterday that there were not enough benefits yet for his family to show for the huge sacrifice he made for the enthronement of democracy in the country. Secretary of the family, Engineer Rahman Abiola, said no monetary benefit had accrued to the family from government to cushion the effects of losing such an irreplaceable pillar. Rahman commended President Muhammadu Buhari administration for the recognition accorded MKO Abiola as the winner of the June 12, 1993 Presidential election and declaration of the day as Democracy Day, but he noted that the family also deserved government’s compensation that would directly impact on Abiola family members positively. The Family Secretary made this position known while speaking with newsmen yesterday in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital when the entourage of the state government’s team, led by the deputy governor, Engineer Noimot Salako-Oyedele, paid the usual annual visitation to the Abiola’s family house at Oke Agbo Abeokuta metropolis in honour of the deceased. He said: “We are happy indeed that the Buhari led Federal Government deemed it fit to honour our breadwinner, late Chief M.K.O Abiola, particularly with the highest title of the land: Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) and declaring June 12 as the official democracy day in Nigeria. But so far, not so good! “The family has not benefited anything from the Federal Government. But Ogun State Government, right from the administration of the former governor, Aremo Olusegun Osoba, that of Otunba Gbenga Daniel, Ibikunle Amosun and the incumbent state governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has found it good to honour late Chief M.K.O Abiola, even before the Federal Government took it up to honour him every June 12. “We have not seen any of the promises of the Federal Government on June 12. At the state level, they’re trying, and I give kudos to them. The governors have been coming to solidarise with the family towards ensuring that June 12 is celebrated.” Speaking earlier Deputy Governor Salako-Oyedele advised the citizens, particularly politicians, to always emulate the virtues and philosophy which late Abiola stood for. She said: “We give thanks to Mr. President for formerly declaring this day as Democracy Day. As you are aware, the late Chief M.K.O Abiola (GCFR) is an unpoliticised and detribalised Nigerian. Nevertheless, this is his state and he is our son here in Ogun State and a son that we are very proud of. “Even before Mr. President declared this day, in Ogun State and in the entire South West, we have been commemorating this day every year as the day that Nigerians voted for him wholehearted across the country to be the president of this country.” “Unfortunately, the mandate was denied. But now, we can look back and try to emulate the virtues and the principles that our late father, Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola, stood for. “We hold in high esteem the late Bashorun M.K.O. Abiola and he believes in the same virtues, and that is why he is propagating the government of inclusiveness and a government of “building our future together”.