The Lagos State Ferry Service Company (LAGFERRY) has flagged off a promo tagged “Sailin ‘N’ Smilin” Raffle Draw. LAGFERRY said it was meant to encourage water transportation and also reward customers. At a briefing in Ikoyi Terminal, LAGFERRY’s Managing Director AbdoulBaq Ladi Balogun winners would go home with a brand new car and other mouth-watering prizes. According to him, everybody that patronise the company will win something. Balogun said since its February 6 inauguration by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, LAGFERRY has moved 502,000 people on the Lagos waterways. “We achieved this feat with 12 boats and now the governor has added eight other boats making 20. This is excluding other private operators or local boat operators. “In Nigeria, no boat operator owns up to 20 fleets in operation. We are making history by having that much in our fleet,” he said. He recalled how transported the Super Eagles from Lagos to the Benin Republic through the waterways, noting that water transportation was the safest means of movement. “With the support of the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA), LAGFERRY has never recorded a single accident on waterways in all the 13 ferry terminals in the state since it started operations. “This is because the regulator, LASWA, ensures that our captains, deckhand and other personnel are adequately trained to sail Lagos passengers safely,” he said. General Manager of LASWA, Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, hailed the collaboration from both the public and private sector, adding that no single sector could harness its potentials alone. Emmanuel applauded LAGFERRY for the initiative and commended the support of other agencies for making the promo possible. Coscharis Group General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Abiona Babarinde, said collaboration with Lagos State was adding value to water users in the state. Babarinde said that the promo would give opportunities to Lagos residents to become car owners, courtesy of LAGFERRY. Partnering with LAGFERRY, Babarinde said, was another way of extending the company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to more Lagosians. General Manager, Lagos State Consumer Protection Agency, Mr Afolabi Sholebo, said that involving consumer protection had shown the level of sincerity of the stakeholders in the promo. Chairman, Obalende Local Government Community Development Area (LCDA), Mr Fuad Atanda-Lawal, said the promo was a win-win for both Lagos State government and ferry users. He said the promo would also generate money for the government without increasing ferry fares.