 Just a few years back, Enado Odigie worked in a telecommunications outfit while slowly transitioning to event planning. These days, Enado thrills audiences across the world with a host of roles under her belt, including the charming but highly-complicated Funbi in Africa Magic’s ‘Unmarried,’ currently streaming on Showmax. “I worked in telecoms: it was a transition to getting what I wanted to do at that phase, which was event planning,” Enado shared in a recent interview. “I used to plan events – concerts, weddings, and birthday parties. By nature, I’m good with organising and very much in my element with taking charge, so event planning came naturally to me and I loved it.” However soon enough Enado developed a relationship with film and when the choice came to pick between event planning and film, she chose the latter. “From time to time, friends and family still deem to use me for planning events but I don’t necessarily do it as a business. Entertainment is my full-time business now.” Enado left tongues wagging and critics dumbfounded with her role in Biodun Stephens’ faith-based flick, ‘Joba,’ featuring Ronke Ojo and Blossom Chukwujekwu. Speaking of her role in ‘Unmarried’, Enado shares that aside from a love for fashion and friends, she shares nothing in common with her on-screen character, Funbi. “There aren’t many similarities between my character, Funbi, and my person. However, I’ll say Funbi can be silly and playful and I think Enado can be silly and playful within the right environment. Also, Enado loves fashion like Funbi and has a strong relationship with her girls. I have my band of friends and we’re very close so it was easy to translate how my friendships are in real life with the girls on set.” So what’s Enado like when the cameras aren’t rolling? The ‘Unmarried’ star shares that she’s very much about her growth. “Enado is about her growth and development. I spend a lot of time going through material that will help me grow in my career and personal development. I’m very big on personal development and personal relationships. I’m a girl who’s into her girls and family of course. I’m also about food, sleep, and social activities. Fun could be on TV or listening to music. And I like to dance.”