 The K5 luxury sedan since its launch in Nigeria, has continued to create head-turning experiences to people across the country. It’s wide acceptance and awe are a testament to Kia’s commitment to design, quality, and the ownership experience and shows that the brand’s dedicated philosophy of building forward-thinking sporty sedans is resonating with customers and car enthusiasts. K5’s aesthetically beautiful exterior and fresh new look are cited as reasons the premium midsize sedan remains appealing to all. The eye-catching design amongst other technologically innovative features put it atop the premium mid-size sedan segment in Nigeria and across the globe. According to Olawale Jimoh, Marketing Manager, Kia Nigeria, the impressive number of test drives K5 continues to reel in proves that the premium sedan holds an important place in a crossover-dominated market and has created a niche in the Nigeria market. Jimoh said: “Customers’ experience after taking the new K5 for a spin, proved that they are impressed with its unique style, well-organised interior, premium materials, sporty driving manners, and outstanding safety technology. “The K5 offers the best blend of features and fun on a budget, making it the best option for car buyers. K5 has continued to give enthusiasts something to lust over at an affordable price point as it offers the best blend of features and fun on a budget, making it the preferred option for car buyers in the country.” Kia Nigeria Assistant Vice President Sales Debanja Paul said: “Kia has a longstanding commitment to innovation, quality and driver satisfaction, and we’re honoured that the Nigerian market and car owners appreciate these values in our vehicles” The all-new Kia K5 is a fastback evolution of Kia’s global best-selling sedan, combining a striking new design with a driver-focused interior, cutting-edge technologies, and all-new powertrain options. Evidently, the K5 won’t just play a central role in strengthening Kia’s presence in the global sedan segment. Almost a decade on from its game-changing predecessor, it also represents the latest milestone in Kia’s transformation into a creator of desirable, world-class cars. Lauded for roomy, high-tech interior, sharp handling and fresh new look, the K5 surprised the market with emotional design and luxurious ride quality. Greater levels of cabin, high-tech safety features, and revised chassis characteristics mean the K5 is more relaxing, confidence-inspiring and engaging to drive than ever before.