 As the world tries to battle the COVID-19 pandemic and the cocktail of its variants across the globe amidst the global vaccine inequity, Nigeria has multiple health concerns. There has been a cholera outbreak in Bauchi State in the North East axis that has been battling with insurgency and other social and environmental issues. About 24 people were reported to have died and hundreds hospitalised. Cholera is an acute diarrheal illness caused by infection of the intestine with Vibrio cholera bacteria. It could come from contaminated food or water. Cholera spreads fast in places with poor water supply, poor water treatment, poor sanitation and general lack of hygiene amongst the people in an infected community. Bauchi State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Aliyu Maigoro, raised the alarm of the epidemic a few days ago through a press conference. According to him, nine local government areas have recorded a total of 322 cases within a month, with a damning fatality ratio. Already, the commissioner indicated that it had spread to some neighbouring communities in nearby states. “We are very worried that the poor health situation of citizens in the state and in fact the whole country would be further exacerbated by this cholera outbreak. We already know that as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the fragile health infrastructure in the country has already been overstretched and reaching breaking point. To add a cholera outbreak would be a monumental health disaster”, he said. Just last April, there were reports of the same cholera outbreak in Gombe State with hundreds of reported cases. To be clear, reported cases are just numbers of those with access to hospitals and as such their details are recorded. Most of the victims merely sit back at home and self-medicate or resort to drinking concoctions that ultimately worsen their cases. Our question then is, why do governments resort to a seeming ‘fire-service’ approach to health issues? Why wait till there is an outbreak? Cholera and its causative factors are known and simple sanitary rules and information can help. It is still a mystery what value the Federal Ministry of Water Resources brings to the Nigerian water supply chain annually.  If cholera is mainly a water-borne disease, we assume then that it is not a natural disaster that man has no solution to. Just adequate supply of clean water and a reorientation of the people as regards keeping healthy habits can help curb the spread. It is a known fact that supply of well treated clean water and good sanitary habits are needed to keep the spread of cholera at bay. If governments at all levels are to take this seriously, the cases of cholera outbreaks would be drastically reduced, if not eradicated completely. It is the duty of governments at all levels to protect the welfare of the people at all times; to continue waiting till there is an outbreak of any infection says a lot about the mentality of most people in governments. The two most important sectors in any nation are the health and education sectors and we expect  that the various tiers of government must treat them as such because even the United Nations, knowing their importance, puts a benchmark on their budgetary allocations but the various tiers of government in Nigeria never adhere to them and as such, enough funds are never available for ministries, agencies and departments to optimally function to prevent certain  negative outcomes like illiteracy and the various epidemics that burden the people. The irony is that the country seeking development continues to lose its most priced human capital. Human beings drive development, so an ill-educated and unhealthy people cannot join the global development race that builds a better future.  A country like Nigeria with its resources should not be reporting incessant cases of cholera and other preventable diseases in the twenty-first century. We must reorder our priorities and give the health of citizens the needed attention to save lives. In a world beset by a global pandemic that seemingly keeps mutating into more dangerous variants, Nigeria cannot afford the laisser-faire attitude that jeopardises the health of citizens. Prevention is always better than cure.