Popular Nigerian comedian, Francis Agoda better known as I Go Dye has written to the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami to release the 4.2 million pounds Ibori loot recently returned by the United Kingdom to Delta State. I Go Dye, who was writing in his capacity as one of the illustrious sons of the State and a Goodwill Ambassador, charges the AGF to release the money for a monumental project that will better the lives of people in the State. The letter reads; “With utmost sense of responsibility and desire for #globapeace and sustainable development and in my capacity as a goodwill Ambassador against corruption. I make this plea to draw the Federal Government’s attention to the position of Deltans and Delta State who are the victims of this loot that, any other decision taken that is contrary to above appeal will be harsh and amount to corruption, discrimination, which is contrary to Section 42 of the 1999 Constitution of Federal Republic of Nigeria. “When the fund recovered from His Excellency, Joshua Chibi Dariye, in the United Kingdom was repatriated to Nigeria; it was remitted to the account of Plateau State Government. When Diepreye Alamieyeseigha was convicted in the United Kingdom and about £1,000.000 (One Million Pounds) was recovered, it was also paid to the Bayelsa State Government. These are precedents which should serve as a guide to the Federal Government. The Federal Government cannot on the basis of this precedence treat Deltans and Delta State Government differently.” Continuing, he added, “Let me remind AGF that the agitations that caused the militancy in the Niger Delta were as a result of under development. As of today, Delta State stands out to be very peaceful and should be commended for embracing such peace, contrary to the escalating cases of insecurity in some parts of the country occasioned by kidnapping and agitations that have continued to expand military operations. We therefore urge the Federal Government of Nigeria to allow this peace to remain. “Furthermore, His Excellency, President, should lay a good foundation of leadership that will be emulated by directing the refund of the said money for the development of Delta State, in order to motivate other citizens of Nigeria to take it upon themselves to fight against corruption.” I Go Dye has become a social commentator and a political activist of sorts for a number of years now. He has written to many other Nigerian leaders in the past concerning national issues.