Chairman Oyo State Security Network codenamed Amotekun Corps, General Kunle Togun (rtd) has alleged foreign Fulanis have encamped the entire Southwest region and may strike if nothing is done urgently. Togun, a former Director of Military Intelligence (DMI) and former Deputy Director-General of State Security Service (SSS), however advised people to be security conscious and prepare to defend themselves. According to the Oyo Amotekun boss, the foreigners have been penetrating localities in the region to monitor the environment over the years to pave way for the big strike. The strike, according to intelligence report, he said will be aided by local collaborators based on the belief God has given them Nigeria, especially, the Southwest as inheritance. Togun spoke while fielding questions from journalists after presentation as a guest lecturer at the Institute of Peace and Strategic Studies Student Association (IPSSSA) University of Ibadan. His lecture was entitled “Security Challenges: The significance of regional security dimensions.” He said:“The foreign Fulani herdsmen have invaded South West. There is nowhere in the South West that they are not. They are there. “They are the Okada riders. They are the ones using wheelbarrows to sell carrots and other things. I said they are foot soldiers. “They said they have come in to take the inheritance given to them by Allah and that is Nigerian land, particularly South West. “So, they will still strike. I am not just screaming aloud. So, everybody has to be ready. “It is only a foolish soldier that would say he wants to die for his country. His death cannot help his country. You are to stay alive to help your country. “When as a soldier, you are sent to capture a particular place, they did not send you to go and die. If he gets there and scared them and the people run away, he has done what he supposed to do. “But if he was shot at and he fired back, he did not shoot to kill anybody, but to defend himself and keep himself alive, so that he can help his country. “For over 10 years, I have been saying it that the 10 local government areas of Oke-Ogun and the three local government areas of Ibarapa, both in Oyo State, have been saturated by these foreign Fulanis. “After that, they brought in their children, selling pepper, tomatoes, carrots and so on with wheelbarrows. “All of us are looking at them. You cannot say Amotekun will do everything. Members of the public must help with credible information. “My advice to the Federal Government is that they should support regional security outfits.” He added: “Before Amotekun took off, this problem has been there. They have invaded all Yorubaland. These people are just starting the plans they already had on ground, not that they are just coming in. “And these foreign Fulani are still coming in. They have saturated already Yorubaland before Amotekun was established.”