Friday, May 28, 2021, was the ninth anniversary of the death of the pioneer Coordinator of the Weekly Campus Life pull-out published in The Nation Newspapers, Ngozi Nwozor Agbo whose contribution to the development of campus journalism in the country is hard to forget. While she coordinated the campus pages which attracted contributions from students in tertiary institutions nationwide, she was not only their editor but confidant and mentor who ensured that they excelled in their academic pursuits and other interests. Aunty Ngozi as they fondly called her was the mother hen who shielded the students from harassments by school authorities that were not comfortable with some of their reports. She organized various training sessions for student journalists, along with awards for excellence. The indisputable fact that Ngozi sacrificed so much as the coordinator of publication and invested time and resources in grooming the student writers is evident in the success most of them have recorded in their careers. Many have maximized what they learnt from her and become accomplished professionals in all field of endeavours. Listening to some of them pay tributes to Ngozi during the lecture in her honour confirmed how well they appreciated the opportunity of their meeting her and the impact she made in their lives. I remember the sleepless nights she spent producing the pages, reaching out to the contributors for one clarification or the other and travelling to the various campuses to attend some of the events they invited her for. Campus Life was for her more than just a job and that explains why she went beyond the call of duty to get many things done for the impact we are seeing years after her death to be felt. Before she started coordinating the Campus Life pages, Ngozi was one of the best young journalists I worked with.  She produced exclusive stories, insightful analysis and investigations that stood her out among her peers. She later went to work with a Non-Governmental Organisation but returned to the newsroom where she had the opportunity of helping to mould the lives of the students and did not fail to take on the challenge. As the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy who was the Editor of The Nation when Ngozi coordinated the Campus section, Mr Gbenga Omotoso testified, the deceased was very dedicated to her assignment and made the best of it. I am glad that the beneficiaries of her sacrifice of love have thought it fit to have a foundation in her honour. The  Ngozi Nwozor-Agbo Initiative (NNAI) will further espouse the vision of Ngozi Agbo for the Nigerian youth and preserve her ideas and legacies. The laudable objectives of the foundation will include the following: