A crash along Ilumoba/Aisegba road in Gbonyin Local Government Area of Ekiti State involving a luxurious bus with the registration number BDG-47-WT and one Hummer bus marked ABC-82-XH has claimed seven lives. The accident which occurred on Tuesday at about 6am also left several occupants of the two buses severely injured with life-threatening wounds. An eye-witness who spoke on condition of anonymity told our correspondent that the incident occurred as a result of brake failure of the Hummer bus and the driver lost control before crashing into the luxurious bus. The source said that the Hummer bus which was heading to Abuja from Lagos was speeding when the brake failed and ran into the luxurious bus coming from Kano to Lagos. He added that seven people died on the spot of the fatal accident including the driver of the Hummer bus, while several occupants of the buses sustained life-threatening injuries. “Around 6am on Tuesday, the driver of the Hummer bus lost control of the bus and ran into a luxurious bus. Seven people died on the spot, while several travellers sustained life-threatening injuries.” When contacted, the Spokesman of the Ekiti State Police Command, ASP Sunday Abutu confirmed the incident, describing it as unfortunate. Abutu said that the number of casualties would have risen but for the immediate intervention of Traffic Officers from Ode Divisional Police headquarters and men of the Federal Road Safety Commission who rushed the injured survivor to Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital for medical treatment. “It should be noted that at about 0600hrs of today being 22/06/2021, a Luxurious Bus with Registration Number BDG-47-WT and one Hummer Bus with Registration Number ABC-82-XH had a head-on collision along Ilumoba/Aisegba road which led to the death of seven (7) persons including the driver who were inside the Hummer Bus while several others inside the Luxurious Bus sustained different degrees of injuries. “A team of Traffic Personnel from Ode Divisional Police Headquarters led by the DPO and some personnel of the Federal Road Safety Corp immediately mobilised to the scene, rescued the injured survivors to Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti and evacuated the seven confirmed dead bodies to the mortuary. “The Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, while commiserating with the families of the deceased travellers, prays God grants their souls eternal rest. The Commissioner also wishes the victims who are currently receiving treatment in the hospital a quick recovery,” he said.