Gbenga Kikiowo, a notorious armed robber that has terrorised residents in Ghana and Nigeria, has explained why he took to armed robbery despite the fact he was born with a silver spoon. Kikiowo who claimed he started robbery at the age of seven said he wanted to be as popular as Shina Rambo and other notorious robbers. He was arrested with his gang in Akure where they were planning to go for a deadly operation. Speaking at the Ondo State Police Command where he was paraded alongside other robbers, Kikiowo stated that his journey to the underworld began at his Igbara-Oke village, in Ose Local Government Area. Kikiowo who said he has been to jail three times said spiritual attacks from his family members pushed him further into armed robbery. According to him, “I started committing crime since I was seven years old. I don’t have any genuine reason to what led me to crime because I was born into a rich family. I suddenly started stealing from my parents. My parents believe in traditional custom and that is what they practice, so the more they use spiritual solution to my criminal act, the more I steal. “I went to Ghana. From there I brought my squad to Nigeria and we were arrested during an operation in 2015 and I was remanded in the Olokuta prison. “After I got released in 2019, my father died in 2015 so no one to help me because they believe I am a criminal so I see crime as a perfect way for me to survive. “My father’s name is Kikiowo Ayodele. He married 6 wives and gave birth to 24 children. He was a well-known retired soldier, a political thug and a farmer. He is well rich in his own capability, not educated but believes in his rugged life and farming. “Throughout my lifestyle in crime, I have never achieved any good thing but sorrow. The gun the police arrested me with was my last hope. I had decided to leave all this local crime to advance internationally. That was why I took my risk to look for gun. “I wanted to become international armed robber like Mufu Olosha oko and Oyenusi because I wanted my name to reign. I believed that it was through crime that it could reign. “If not for the gun, there was no way they can arrest me because l believe more on intelligence. “High way robbery is the best we do in Ghana. We can’t do any other operation there. From there I invited them to Nigeria after convincing them that I have the key point of Nigeria, that we can operate successfully. “In Nigeria we went for first, second operations and the third one I was arrested and I landed in prison. “I urge government to tamper justice with mercy and help me. I love to be in Scorpion Squared and to work with them to backfire on people called criminals, I have decided to stop crime because I have no gain,” he said. Ondo Police Commissioner, Bolaji Salami, said Kikiowo has confessed to be involved in other robbery operations within and around Ondo State. Salami said Kikiowo and other paraded suspects would soon be charged to court.