The Ondo State Government on Tuesday paid a condolence visit to the family of Prophet Temitope Joshua popularly known as TB Joshua, founder of The Synagogue Church of All Nations. The Speaker, Ondo State House of Assembly, Bamidele Oleyelogun, who led the delegation to the deceased’s residence in Lagos, described his death as a great shock. He noted that the renowned televangelist would be missed by the people of Ondo State, Nigeria and his followers all over the world. Oleyelogun who said the visit was to commiserate with the immediate family, added that it was on the directive of Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu. The speaker encouraged the family to take solace in the knowledge that life is not measured by longevity but by enduring legacies and lives touched positively. He then presented a letter of condolence from the governor to the family and assured them that the state government was in solidarity with them. The Chief of Staff to Governor, Olugbenga Ale, who condoled with the family said the popular prophet lived his life to the fullest and in the service to humanity. Member representing Akoko North West Consistency 1, Jamiu Maito, said the people of Akoko had lost a leader not only for his spiritual contributions but for touching many lives through his philanthropic gestures. Other lawmakers and local government chairmen who were in attendance also extolled the virtues of the departed. The Chairman, Akoko North West LGA, Ayodele Akunde, who extended the condolences of the Akoko people to the family, explained why late T.B. Joshua would forever be remembered in the area. The wife of the deceased, Mrs Evelyn Joshua, thanked Gov. Akeredolu, the leadership of the state assembly and the Ondo people for reaching out to them at their moment of grief. Mrs Joshua promised that the family would sustain the legacy which the man of God was known for. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Joshua died June 5, at the age 56. He hailed from Arigidi-Akoko in Akoko North West LGA of Ondo State.(NAN).