The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has given Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai 21days to pacify Nigerian students on the increase in school fees ahead of its National congress slated for July 19, 2021. This is coming as a student of College of Education, Gidan Waya, Kafanchan was allegedly shot dead by security operatives during a peaceful protest against the planned hike in their tuition fee. National President of NANS, Comrade Sunday Asefon who received the news of the student’s killing, registered the Association’s anger over the incident, saying that, if the incident is confirmed to be true, the entire Nigeria students will occupy Kaduna. A peaceful protest was said to have been organized on Monday by the students of the College of Education, Gidan Waya, against a planned hike in their tuition fee, but later turned violent as one person was killed and another injured by security operatives. Eye witness, who pleaded anonymity, said that the security operatives fired shots to disperse the protesting students following a confrontation after they tried to force their way into the school. He said the students also blocked the highway in front of the school thereby preventing free flow of traffic. However, the Provost of the College, Prof. Alexander Kure who confirmed the development to journalists on Monday said, “The incident happened on the highway and not inside the school. I was told by the security that one student was killed and another injured. “I offered an ambulance to take the corpse to the mortuary, and the other person that got injured to the hospital for treatment. Professor Kure said the school was shut on Sunday for a mid-semester break, noting that he was not aware of the reason for the students’ protest. “The school was shut down Monday for mid-semester break and students are to resume next Monday. I don’t know why they were protesting. The school was closed and we heard there was a protest on the road, and I am not privy to happenings outside the school,” he added However, efforts to reach the Kaduna State Police Command PPRO, ASP Mohammad Jalige were not successful as he was not returning phone calls to his phone. Meanwhile, the National President of NANS, said the Association will deliberate on the incident at the College of Education also added that all organ and sister bodies of NANS nationwide have been put on alert to relocate to Kaduna State to further press home there from the state government.