Quadri Aruna will be making his third appearance at the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan next month but the best performing African table tennis star in the history of the Olympic Games passage to Tokyo was not without its hassles. OLALEKAN OKUSAN writes.  Quadri Aruna has always had a smooth passage to Olympic Games when he featured at the 2012 and 2016 Olympic Games in London and Rio. His qualification has always been tied to finishing in top four at the African Games but with the change in the system to qualification to Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games in Japan, it was indeed a bumpy ride for the Oyo State-born athlete. With the failure of Team Nigeria to pick the continental sole ticket through the 2019 African Games in Rabat, Morocco after losing to Egypt in an epic finals of the men and women events, it behooves on Aruna and Nigerian compatriots to pursue their tickets with their might. The journey for all African table tennis players to Tokyo started in Tunis at the African Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Tunis and apart from Egyptian players who had already secured their places in Tokyo by the virtue of their triumph in Morocco, the best stars in the continent were present in Tunis for the eight slots (four men and four women) available for the continent in the tournament. The venue was the Rades Sports Complex in Tunis and the date was February 27 to 28 and like every top seeds, Aruna was considered the favourite to qualify from the group A which has Ibrahima Diaw (Senegal), Kokou Dodji Fanny (Togo), and Adam Hamam (Tunisia), while group B has Olajide Omotayo (Nigeria), Larbi Bouriah (Algeria), Kizito Oba Oba (Ivory Coast), and Kerem Ben Yahia (Tunisia) with the two top players expected to pick their tickets to Tokyo. On February 27, he took down Togo’s Kokou Dodji Fanny 4-0 (11-7, 11-4, 11-7, 11-3) while his second group match against Senegal’s Ibrahima Diaw became his undoing as a recurring thigh injury truncated his fine form to concede the match to the Senegalese at 4-2 (11-7, 11-8, 11-8, 6-11, 11-13, 11-7). In the final group match which would have afforded him the opportunity to pick the second ticket after the Senegalese has picked the first ticket from the group, Aruna has to forfeit the final group match to hand Tunisia’s Adam Hmam his first ticket to the Olympic Games. His decision to forfeit the match against the Tunisian was based on medical team advice in order not to aggravate the injury. Down but not out, a not-too-happy Aruna was ruled out for three weeks but he was determined to seal his place at Tokyo and he was still ranked 18th in the March 2020 Olympic Games Ranking and the then President of the Nigeria Table Tennis Federation (NTTF), Ishaku Tikon was sure that Aruna would make it to Tokyo despite the injury setback. Also in his bid to pick his ticket through the World Singles Qualification in March this year in Qatar, Aruna was edged out in the first round by Russia’s Vladimir Sidorenko 4-2 (11-3, 11-13, 11-6, 9-11, 4-11, 7-11). And with his performance at the World Table Tennis (WTT) Tournaments in Qatar, where he worked his way to the last 16 of the men’s singles, Aruna was able to garner some ranking points to aid his rating as the second best player behind England’s Liam Pitchford in the ITTF Olympic Ranking. And on June 1, his ticket to Tokyo 2020 was confirmed by ITTF after the final Olympic ranking released by the world body. Aruna, who is the first African to reach the quarterfinal of the table tennis event at the Olympic Games, told NationSport from his base in Portugal yesterday that the qualification to Tokyo remains the toughest for him in his career. “I knew I would eventually qualify but I wanted to do it early but it was a bit difficult especially at the African qualifiers in Tunis where I had the chance to qualify easily but injury forced me to abandon my last group match. But God knows the best and this did not stop me from ensuring I maintained my world and Olympic rating in order to be certain. I am happy that all my efforts have been rewarded with the final confirmation of my qualification for Tokyo,” Aruna said.