Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has procured some birds/wildlife equipment including bird scaring gas canons, 15,000 rounds of 12G (heavy caliber bird scaring pyrotechnics), Hi-tech bird laser among others in a bid to improve on safety of flight operations by effectively managing birds/wildlife hazards at the nation’s airports. The airport authority said  the equipment, when deployed will usher in an era of safe flight operations, as incidents relating to birds strikes which have increased of late will be mitigated. At an event held at FAAN’s headquarters annex in Lagos, the Managing Director of FAAN,  Captain Rabiu Yadudu, who was represented by the Director of Commercial and Business Development, Alhaji Sadiku Rafindadi noted that the equipment are some of the best you can get around, as the Authority procured them on the recommendation of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). In his remarks, the Authority’s Director of Airport Operations, Captain Muktar Muye expressed his delight at the arrival of the equipment. He noted that what was being commissioned is not just the equipment but a complete package that also include the recommended storage facility, patrol vehicle and trained personnel in line with ICAO/s Standards and Recommended Practices. Some of the hitech equipment commissioned include 3 different models of bird scaring gas canons, Dayboxes for carrying pyrotechnics during Operations for safety, 15,000 rounds of 12G (heavy caliber bird scaring pyrotechnics), Hi-tech bird laser, Personal Protective Equipment for staff dealing with wildlife, Purpose built TYPE IV explosive storage magazine, Brand new Hilux jeep for Runway wildlife patrol, amongst others. The event climaxed with a practical demonstration of the use of some of the equipment by the representative of the MD/CE and the Director of Airport Operations. Also in attendance were the General Managers; Operations, Mrs. Olajumoke Oni; Environment, Mr. Nehemiah Auta; Special Duties, Mr. Kabiru Muhammed; Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Service, Mr. John Ekpe; Regional General Manager, South West, Mrs. Victoria Shin-Aba; representative of the GM Corporate Affairs, Mrs. Christabel Eromosele; Chief of Staff to MD/CE, Mr. Lawal Abdullahi and others.