A medical doctor has been taken into custody for allegedly spiking her cakes with hard drugs, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) said. Also, an ex-soldier was apprehended for allegedly dealing in various drugs including cocaine and marijuana. NDLEA spokesman Femi Babafemi said yesterday in a statement that Dr Jane Chioma Ofoma was arrested in Auchi, Edo State, where she operates an online catering outfit Omachi’s Kitchen that offers Omachi’s Kitchen, through which she sells drugged cakes and biscuits. The agency arrested Sgt Ibrahim Musa, 52, for allegedly being in possession of 12.167kg of Arizona (cannabis sativa), four grams of cocaine and 25 grams of Flunitrazepam in Kwara State. The statement said narcotic personnel stormed Ofoma’s kitchen on June 19 and arrested the medical doctor following reliable intelligence. She was apprehended with 94 pieces of the cakes spiked with Indian hemp. “Chioma, 26, who is a graduate of medicine from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka recently completed her housemanship at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. She has confessed to baking the cookies with skunk in her statement while under interrogation,” Babafemi said. He said Musa, an army deserter, was arrested on June 17 in Ilorin, Kwara State  metropolis when he arrived from Lagos to supply his customers. He said, “Sgt Ibrahim Musa worked in the maintenance department at Abalti Army Barracks, Lagos from where he was deployed to 117 Battalion in Chibok, Borno State, before he deserted the Army.” Babafemi said the ex-soldier arrived in Ilorin accompanied by his wife Basirat in his Honda Accord car with the drugs on board. He was arrested at the point of delivery by operatives of the state command of the Agency. “Under interrogation, Ibrahim revealed that while at Chibok he got the connection of a supplier of Arizona (Cannabis) and other drugs in Lagos who he immediately contacted when he deserted the Army in October 2020. “He said he went into the illicit drug business to enable him fend for his two wives and three children. Babafemi said a 30-year-old, Emmanuel Ehiramhen was also arrested by officers of the Edo Command of the Agency for dealing in crack cocaine.