Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (Delta North) has faulted his suspension by the Delta State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said the purported suspension was null and void because no local or state level of the party is constitutionally empowered to take disciplinary action against governors and members of the National Assembly. But he asked his supporters to exercise restraint by not taking the laws into their hands. Nwaoboshi, who made his position known in a statement by his Legislative Aide, Phillip Elueme, said: “The attention of Sen. Peter O. Nwaoboshi (Spon), representing the good people of Delta North Senatorial District, at the Senate was drawn to the purportedly, satirical and hurriedly, conspiratorial, very laughable caricature of an action by the Delta State Working Committee of the PDP purportedly suspending him from the party, as signed by its publicity secretary on Wednesday, the 23rd of June, 2021. “Spon notes curiously that this irrational, laughable, illegal and unconstitutional action of this bunch of alarmingly, anti-democratic forces masquerading as the State Working Committee is against the principles of fair hearing – Audi Alteram Paten – as enshrined in the Nigerian constitution, a document that supercedes all other documents.” He said the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) does not empower ward, local government or State Executive Committee (SEC) to consider disciplinary cases against governors and members of the National Assembly. The statement said: “Curiously and very authoritatively, the PDP 2017 constitution As amended, chapter 10, article 57(7) page 99 states categorically: “Notwithstanding any other provision relating to discipline, no Executive Committee at any level, except the National Executive Committee, shall entertain any question of discipline as may relate or concern a member of the National Executive committee, Deputy Governors or members of the National Assembly provided that nothing in the constitution shall preclude or invalidate any complain submitted through the… “By these provisions, the State Working Committee has demonstrated complete undemocratic and anti-constitutional behavior which has rendered their uncharitable pronouncement on the suspension of Spon, purportedly as null and void and of no consequence whatsoever.” He pleaded with his supporters to remain calm despite the unbecoming action by those he described anti-democratic elements in Delta State PDP. The statement added: “In the light of the above abysmal development, Spon wishes to use this medium to beseech all his teeming supporters, loyalists and numerous party faithful in Delta State and beyond to remain calm in the face of this latest, ridiculously irrational charade and unbecoming action by anti- democratic, ‘Gestapo – fascists’ and forces of darkness, masquerading as party officials who, unfortunately, are tele-guided, sheepishly and ‘remote controlled.” “Spon wishes to use this medium to reassure all his numerous supporters and well-wishers to remain calm and watch this unfolding political thriller with stoic equanimity!”