 Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State has joined the growing ranks of state governors who have thrown their weights behind the king of games, as IBB Cup frenzy hits the Niger State capital city as the annual Minna Polo Tournament The e polo-loving governor who recently assumed his responsibility as the President of the Minna Polo Club is making sure that the “Power State” hosts one of the most memorable and the most exciting polo tournaments this year. Billed to hold between June 15 and 19, Minna polo tournament is all about the IBB Cup, the event’s biggest prize at stake and this year the quest for diadem as all the high-goal teams leading others ambitious teams  from across the country, as laying claim to the trophy. Minna Polo Captain, Jamilu King confirmed to the NationSports in Kaduna, adding more than twenty teams have confirmed their readiness for jostle for top honours in the event that annually attract thousands of polo buffs and tourist to the state. King also disclosed that apart from the IBB Cup, the prestigious event offers four major trophies and a dozen of selected prizes would be at stake during the five -day event. He gave the names of the trophies as the Governor’s Cup, Emir of Minna Cup and General Hassan Usman Katsina Cup.  Other selected trophies to be competed for include the General Abdulsalami Abubakar Cup, General M.I. Wushishi Cup, Ahmadu Bahago Memorial Cup, Talban Minna Cup, Senator Idris Ibrahim Cup, Veterans’ Cup, Kere Ahmed Cup, General Gado Nasko Cup and the Beginners Cup. Minna Tournament Committee Chairman, Mohammad Babangida confirmed that Niger State is set to host the glamorous polo fiesta which remains the biggest annual sporting event in the state and one of the most attended polo tournaments in the country. Two years ago, Nigeria’s most successful high-goal  polo team, EL-Amin sent out a  Georgian Cup  warning to their  rivals after their established  never- say-  die traditional saw them retain the high stake IBB Cup  title and  Abdulsalami Cup  at the expense of hard fighting opponents, Malcomines from  Jos. EL-Amin  defeated Malcomines who had earlier shocked the many times defending champions in their opening game, 7-41/2  in a thrilling final at  the foremost IBB Sports Complex venue of the prestigious annual polo  festival,  to retain their 16th IBB Cup crown and head into the Georgian  Cup rumble full of confidence. The Murtala Laushi and his Jos Malcomines, that won Governor’s Cup, their first major polo title in the power state last year, hit Minna with the mission to cart home the event’s biggest Prize, IBB Cup, and were well on their way to success, until the rattled EL-Amin came out of their shell to deny the ambitious miners. Team patron, Babangida was understandably delighted with EL-Amin’s first major win in this year against Malcomines, which sets them up nicely for another expectedly Georgian firestorm at the Kaduna international polo tournament holding at the legendary Murtala Mohammed Square later in the year. “The IBB Cup and Minna annual tournament is a major part of our build up toward other high goal tournaments and to win the event’s biggest prize and General Abdulsalami Cup as well before our teeming supporters who travel from across the country to cheer up, is a major plus for us,” Babangida declared. 