Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has been described as a rare blessing to the state. His Special Assistant on Political Intelligence Prince Abiodun Abu, who is the Chairman of the  Forum of APC Local Government Party Chairmen, showered encomiums on the governor for giving an excellent account of himself as an uncommon leader with monumental achievements in the last two years. Abu said Sanwo-Olu has delivered on the THEMES developmental agenda, which he promised to the electorate, adding that he has not disappointed the party and his followers. Abu exxpressed satisfaction with the progress  made in the last two years, saying that the enormous accomplishments has placed our state at a vantage position. He said more tha before, the programmes of the government have been people’s oriented and focused on making life more abundant for the masses. Abu emphasized that the agenda of the Sanwo-Olu administration is geared towards ensuring a safe and secure society, with the general wellbeing of the masses as the priority. He stressed:“It is obvious that the governor has consistently matched his word with action and worked tirelessly, to transform into reality our shared aspiration to have Lagos as one of the most functional and habitable cities in the world. “Governor Sanwo-Olu had laid a very solid foundation for the transformation of our State through strategic interventions and meaningful executions beyond this period,” Abu said. “We can see the significant progress that has been made in education since the beginning of this administration, the governor has accomplished great turn around in primary, post primary and tertiary levels of education in our State, despite the pandemic last year, the government ensure that leaning was made possible through different e-learning platforms, massive employment was also done in education and the infrastructural rebirth that happened to our schools have made teaching and learning to be more stimulating.” Sanwo-Olu is very proactive about healthcare delivery. The governor commissioned a brand new, fully equipped 110-bed Maternal and Child Centre, which will reduce maternal mortality rate and address complications that may lead to birth defects. Four of such has been delivered in two years, others located at Eti Osa, Alimosho and Badagry. Abu said Lagos cannot forget the governor’s excellent performance as the Incident Commander, curbing the spread and management of COVID 19 pandemic in 2020. He said progress have been made with infectious diseases control. Government has increased the capacity to detect new variants of Coronavirus (COVID-19), with the procurement of the latest PCR machine and plan are underway to build a world-class Infectious Disease Centre in Yaba to support research for diagnosis and treatment of contagious diseases. This administration had executed various laudable projects across the urban and rural areas in Lagos State for efficient healthcare delivery. This administration has also left no stone unturned to achieve greener environment that will be conducive for all to live, the government has also adequately empowered the waste management agencies to ensure ideal environment for business in Lagos State, our government is also proactive about climate change with formation of Action Plan that will help the State project impacts, coordinate responses and achieve resilience under challenging climate conditions till 2025. Abu said Lagos has witnessed tremendous infrastructure development under the leadership of Sanwo-Olu. THEMES agenda, Abu said transport and traffic management, this is because easy movement of people that goes about their daily business matters to this administration. 500 units of First and Last Mile buses and 100 high and medium capacity buses for standard routes have been launched by the government, as an alternative to addressing the menace and security threat constituted by Okada riders. Also 100 brand new high and medium capacity buses was added into the fleet of Lagos Bus Service Limited (LBSL) to replace vehicles burnt at BRT stations during the endsars violence. This will give the teeming population the choices they deserve, reducing congestion and time spent in transit as they go about their daily activities. ‘We can also see that the governor is working tirelessly to adequately deliver on the Integrated Mass Transit System, which includes the blue and red line rail projects, water transportation, Bus Reform Initiative (BRI) as well as other projects focusing effect transportation in Lagos State. He said he is also happy for the Governor’s commitment to ensure the actualisation of rail transportation and complete intermodal bus terminals at Ajah, Abule Egba, Iju, Ojota and Anthony Village before the end of this administration. Abu said, the Lagos State Government recently procured brand new crime-fighting equipment for the State Police Command, which includes hundred and fifty units of double cabin vehicles, 30 patrol saloon cars, four high-capacity troop carriers and two anti-riot water cannon vehicles among others, this is a way of assisting the Police Force to rebuild, after the violence and massive destruction that followed the protests last October. This expressed determination to stabilise the security situation in Lagos State for safety of lives and properties. Also, emergency infrastructure that will increase the capability of the State Government in responding to emergency situations have been made with the Emergency and Security Regional Dispatch Centre for swift response to emergencies and the effective management of disasters, we can all see that this administration is working round the clock. Other efforts made by the governor on technology innovations, capacity building, community, market, sport and youth development are highly commendable. The governor also empowers the women from time to time and gives sense of belonging to all ethnic groups in Lagos State as a way of promoting peaceful coexistence in the State. We are really proud of governor Sanwo-Olu as he has proven to be a rare blessing to Lagos State. 