A socio-political group, Delta Icons (DI), has been inaugurated in Delta State as part of plan towards giving citizens the right to choose Governor Ifeanyi Okowa’s successor in 2023 The group, whose primary interest is to promote inclusive governance and development of the state, installed Justice Vincent Ofesi, a retired Judge of the Delta State High Court, as its chairman. It has prominent Deltans professionals, religious leaders, community leaders and accomplished rights activists drawn from the three senatorial districts and all ethnic nationalities in the state as members. Justice Ofesi, in his inaugural speech in Asaba yesterday, said the group was formed to create a greater, united, industrialized and prosperous state using the engine room of politics that will put the people first. The Retired Judge commended the administration of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for its developmental strides in the last six years, saying Deltans are happy with his pragmatic leadership. He added that the group will work to ensure that the governor’s achievements in the areas of infrastructure, health care, education, rural-urban development and others will be sustained. The DI chairman said the group believes in fairness and equity that is rooted in the existing power sharing arrangements in the state even as the 2023 general elections approach. He noted that Delta Icon will collaborate with government to pursue policies that will make the state a model of industrialization, prosperity, employment and security for its citizens. Stating the objectives of the group during the inauguration, Justice Ofesi declared  that DI seeks to make Delta State a bastion of wealth, industry, prosperity and employment, peace and security. The group also seeks “A Delta State that will  attract Nigerians from all sections of Nigeria and abroad as a place of employment, empowerment, wealth creation, economic opportunities and stability. Furthermore, the Delta Icons seek a “Delta State that is not only the first and best in sports, but in all indications of development, including infrastructure, economic growth, industrialization, resource mobilization and utilization, employment, agri-businesses, social service delivery and citizen welfare and wellbeing. The group would ensure that the political leadership that is capable of moving politics and the political structure and its dynamics beyond personality cults onto a broad, popular, and inclusive platform for transforming governance is continued in the state ” Among those present at the inauguration were the  immediate past President  General of Isoko Development Union  (IDU), High Chief Iduh Amadhe and  Olorogun Lucky Oghene- Omoru. He assured that the group with the calibre of its members will vigorously mobilize Deltans in selecting the best candidate that will actualize its “pan-Delta dream” of an industrialised and developed state.