The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is said to have raked in N315 million from the sale of nomination and expression of interest forms to aspirants jostling for the party’s governorship ticket for the November 6 Anambra State Governorship elections. At the close of sales and submission of nomination and expression of interest forms yesterday, The Nation gathered that 14 aspirants purchased the forms which were sold for N22.5 million each. The Nation further gathered that despite the 50 per cent waiver given to prospective female aspirants, none showed up to purchase or signified intention to contest for the state prime office. In 2017 governorship elections, over 20 aspirants bought the nomination and expression of interest forms. At a point the party leaders expressed concern over the lukewarm attitude towards the sale of the form. The timetable and schedule of activities earlier released by the party showed the sale of expression of interest and nomination forms which began on April 16, will climax with the party’s primary election slated for Saturday, June 26 where the party’s flag bearer will emerge for the November 6 state governorship election. The 14 aspirants to be screened for eligibility by the party for the June 26 primary included Senator Emmanuel Andy Uba, George Nnadubem Moghalu, Chidozie Nwankwo, Johnbosco Onunkwo and Azuka Okwuosa. Others are Mr. Paul Izuchukwu Orajiaka, Chief Ben Etiaba Jnr, Col. Geoffrey Onyejegbu (rtd), Rev. Godwin Okonkwo and Comrade Maxwell Okoye, Amobi Nwokafor. The Secretary of the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanduoehehe said the state executive of the party and not the National Caretaker Committee will determine the mode of primary to be adopted for June 26 party primary. “The National Executive Committee (NEC) of our party has directed that the State Executive and not the National Caretaker Committee will determine the mode of the primary election for Anambra State. “For the Caretaker Committee, we are going to ensure a level playing ground for all aspirants. We have no anointed or preferred candidate. The party is set to work with anybody that emerge from the party primary on June 26.”