Speaker of the Adamawa State House of Assembly, Aminu Abbas, cried at the weekend as he gave an account of his last two years in office during which he presented empowerment items to his constituents. At a ceremony in Mararaba Mubi,  a community in his Uba/Gaya Constituency in Hong Local Government Area where he donated 23 cars to youths, five ambulances to primary health care clinics and undisclosed sums of money as cash empowerment to 600 women.  Abbas said the last two years had been challenging but eventful for him. He recalled that he ran an inspiring campaign but faced a difficult election two years ago because opponents who were of the ruling party that time were determined to snatch victory from him. He said part of the insults he found painful was accusation that he was seeking election because he needed the office to enrich himself, adding that if it was money he was after, he knew places to make more money from than the House of Assembly. “It was tough but we fought for what was ours and today I am glad to say I have fulfilled most of the promises I made to my people,” he said. He said over the past two years he has been in the Assembly, he had initiated and completed many projects, including facilitation for the electrification of Uba Town, installation of solar street light in Uba Town,  as well as construction and equipping of computer centres in Garstanu and Chika. Others include the construction of boreholes; five across Kurmi-Mayo Lade and some more in Anguwan Sarki, Anguwan Malasika, Anguwa Jauro Adamu, Anguwan Fali Meza, and Zadkwa of Hildi community, as well as Construction of primary health care centre in Zah and construction of classrooms in Kurmi Primary School and Njairi Primary School. The speaker said some of the projects he has executed or is executing were really dear to him, including free deliveries and free Mama’s kits for nursing mothers across his constituency and assisting small businesses with funding to assure sustainability. He thanked his colleague, especially those in the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC), for supporting him in the service of the Assembly to Adamawa people.