Penultimate Friday, President Muhammadu Buhari took one of his fastest decisions since he became the country’s leader in 2015. Prior to that, the slow pace at which he took decisions, even in matters that other leaders would consider an emergency, had earned him the sobriquet of ‘Baba Go Slow’ in some quarters. In homes, in public buses, in offices and even on the traditional and social media, the word was that we had a president whose speed at taking decisions on state matters was slower than the snail. He himself admitted that much during a dinner he hosted in honour of chieftains of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja in January 2018. “I keep telling people that while I was in uniform, quite reckless and young, I got all the ministers and governors and put them in Kirikiri (maximum prison). I said they were guilty until they could prove their innocence. I was also detained too. I decided to drop the uniform and come back. Eventually, I am here. So really, I have gone through it over and over again. This is why I am not in a hurry virtually to do anything. I will sit and reflect and continue with my clear conscience,” he said. But that changed for once last week as the President proclaimed a ban on the operations of Twitter in Nigeria 48 hours after the social media platform deleted a post in which he threatened to deal with secessionist agitators “in the language they understand”. All hell has been let loose since the President announced the ban as individuals, groups, governments, world leaders and supranational bodies have taken turns to threaten, criticise, urge or beg him to rescind the decision they considered an affront on the fundamental human rights of 200 million Nigerians, particularly the right to free speech. President Buhari, apparently convinced that he had taken one of his best decisions since he took charge of the nation’s affairs in 2015, has stuck to his guns, insisting that the decision to ban the micro-blogging site would not be reversed until the owners do their penance and vow to no longer make it available to be “persistently used for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence”. As it would be expected, the media have been awash with reports of billions of dollars the country is losing on a daily basis on account of the suspension of Twitter’s operations. On personal level, influential Nigerians, including President Muhammadu Buhari himself, have reportedly lost contacts with billions of their followers on the social media site, translating into a huge loss of revenue. But of what significance is the loss of a trailer load of pound sterling to a cause designed to preserve and protect the corporate existence of a heterogeneous country like ours, particularly at a time the drumbeats of war are getting louder and louder? President Buhari’s critics ought to realise that he would not have risked losing his 4.1 million followers on Twitter as reported in the news media if money and followership were all that mattered. If only they were blessed with half his gift of vista, foresight or clairvoyance, they would realise how grossly insignificant the billions of dollars the country might lose to the ban on Twitter is in the face of the massive social and economic benefits the ban would attract to us as a nation. For the first time in a very long while, the global spotlight is on President Buhari and not on Nnamdi Kanu, Sunday Igboho, Abubakar Shekau or his other local political rivals as had been the case in recent years. Nothing can be more gratifying than the realization that the President, once regarded as a passive leader, has become the subject of a global discourse. So much so that for the first time in contemporary diplomatic history, the leaders of G7 countries are practically on their knees, begging our President to rescind his decision about Twitter. Obviously, Buhari’s critics are oblivious of the saying that there is a silver lining behind every cloud. At a time the government is racking its head on how to save the jobs of the staff of the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) and other agencies rendered obsolete by the internet and other modern systems of communication, there is no better way to achieving it than impose a total ban not only on Twitter but any medium of communication with structures that can be exploited by subversive elements whose number appears now to be on geometric rise. I have no doubt that national peace will be guaranteed if Buhari returns the country to using town criers as veritable tools for communication.