  Nigeria’s energy sector has continued to be in the news and in focus, and the reason is not far fetched. This country is sustained primarily by revenue derived from the oil and gas sector, and the volume of this contribution in revenue terms is estimated to be well over 90 per cent. It is understandable therefore that the sector’s regulator, the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), under the leadership of Sarki Auwalu, is leaving no stone unturned in its efforts to maximise whatever revenue that can be derived from this wasting asset. This initiative dovetails into a broader plan by the oil industry regulator of expanding the playing field for local oil firms, thereby bringing to fruition government’s agenda that Nigerians become more actively involved in the oil and gas business, going forward. Since the discovery of oil in Nigeria over six decades ago, the main players have been and remained the International Oil Companies (IOCs) typified by Shell – the Royal Dutch Company, Chevron, Total, Agip, Exxon Mobil and a host of others, including ConocoPhilips, Statoil, Petrobras and Addax Petroleum, just to mention but a few. The true picture which has been a source of concern to government and indeed the citizenry, is that Nigerians and indigenous players are no where near in reckoning (until very lately maybe), to the olympian height of the IOCs. From the very onset of oil exploration and production (E&P), whether by accident, but more by design, so it is perceived, the business of this huge enterprise is wrapped, managed and controlled by foreigners. This is expected. The technology and expertise required to tap crude from its depth is not within the reach of Nigerians, neither is the proprietary right obtained with ease. Besides, oil is big business, conferring certain fundamental privileges and power on its producers and it’s economic power globally, is overwhelming. It is no secret therefore that information sharing, or diluting shareholding of this resource is not achieved on mere dialogue over a cup of tea, or on a round table. What brought about the 57 marginal oil fields on offer to the table for this laudable exercise and acclaimed feat, is much more than dialogue, willingness or persuasion. These played a role in the process, no doubt, but the determining factor, more or less was security investments.  Economic benefits  For DPR and its Director/Chief Executive, Sarki Auwalu, there are undeniable economic benefits  derivable from this initiative. In addition to boosting the revenue profile of government, the measure no doubt, will reduce unemployment following from the job creation potential that will normally accompany the resumption of activities in the various oil fields. Provisional award letters already dispatched by DPR, requested that signature payments be made within 45 days in order to secure the awards. Auwalu had previously confirmed that he expects Nigeria to net almost $500 million from the signature bonuses, but at the same time, he gave companies the option for the first time to pay in either dollars or naira. Sources also said the bonuses each company will pay range from a few million dollars to more than $12 million. He said at least, half of the successful marginal field investors have accepted the offers and have made the mandatory payments of signature bonuses to the Federal Government which is targeting about $500million revenue from sale of the new acreages. At the presentation of letters to the winners in early June, Auwalu said that a total of 591 firms submitted their Expression of Interest forms, saying of the number, 540 were pre-qualified. He 161 companies were shortlisted as potential awardees, out of which 50 per cent  met all conditions and therefore, were eligible for awards. “We are set to ensure opportunities are extended to other deserving applicants to fill the gap,” Auwalu stated. Employment opportunity Beyond the obvious financial gain to the government, another key objective of the project will be its potential for job creation and opportunities for employment for Nigerians as some of the hitherto dormant marginal fields will now come on stream under the present DPR initiative. It is given that from the onset, investment capital will be directed and targeted at these 57 fresh acreage awards, resulting in almost immediate engagement of workers at the various production levels, and the underlying fact that all the firms are 100 per cent indigenous oil and gas companies, cannot be overlooked in the particular case of employment and job placement as it relates to the indigenous workforce. This much is evident going by the achievements in employability already recorded by other indigenous players like Aiteo, owned by Benedict Peters, Nestoil managed by Ernest Azudialu Obiejesi, Seplat with Bryant Orjiako at the helm of affairs and quite recently, Tony Elumelu with his firms, HEIRS Holdings and Transcorp’s acquiring interests in OML 17 Licence Bloc in the Niger Delta, with $1.1billion commitment in place. Even at a very conservative estimate of a few hundreds personnel each per marginal oil field, tens of thousands of direct jobs will be created, in addition to other indirect employment opportunities that other service related engagements, like suppliers, logistic firms, Customs Clearing agents and other support services providers will factor into the operations of these 57 marginal operating companies. It is common knowledge that the oil and gas sector operations rely heavily on highly skilled personnel in the various fields of engineering and related disciplines. Therefore it is almost given and safe to assume that this initiative will give rise to the training and engagement of a new crop of professionals that, going by the rule governing the Local Content Act, must be sourced locally. The mileage that this development will bring in terms of skills’ acquisition, professionalism and enhanced material and human resources management, can only be imagined.  Local Content  There’s no gainsaying the fact that this initiative in an environment that had been hitherto dominated by foreigners, will positively impact the fortunes of the locals, including the oil bearing communities in more ways than one. A key objective of the Local Content policy is to increase Nigerian participation in the oil and gas sector and enhance the use of local services and materials for the advancement of technology and skill acquisition to the Nigerian labour force in the oil and gas industry. With the award of  57 acreages to local investors, the expectation is that the initiative will enhance indigenous manpower in the oil and gas industry, and afford them the  opportunity to gain traction and enhance their potentials, preparatory to assuming control of operations in the industry in no time. In addition to creating the much desired jobs, communities in the oil bearing areas, stand the chance of enjoying much higher standards of living through the wealth that is expected to be generated from the investments. The patronage of local spares’ suppliers and fabricators of needed inputs, the engagement of competent local welders (both surface and undersea), fitters and other artisans as stipulated in the Nigerian Content Act, will no doubt provide a new vista of opportunities, psyching the new workforce to rise to the challenges of the occasion, and eventually with time, becoming masters in the game. The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) will of course be at hand to lend the necessary support, including making funding arrangements and intermediation that will enable the new entrants gain the required speed and traction within the shortest possible time. The NCDMB, has over time proved itself to be up to this task. The Content Board has developed a set of rules of engagement, all of which will be applicable in this dispensation, leading to the  growth of the local economy, stimulate industrial development, increase local capability, build a skilled workforce and create a competitive supplier base. Also, the DPR initiative in compliance with the NCDMB, will cub capital flight and the reason is understandable. In Nigeria, for example, the control of oil and gas resources by the IOCs has led to a lot of capital flight, occasioned by wholesale award of contracts to foreign companies, outright outsourcing of spares to overseas companies, preference for hiring foreigners in the place of locally and readily available competent hands, resulting in a drain on the forex. It is on record that Nigeria recorded an estimated capital flight of about $380 billion in the 50 years between 1956 when oil was discovered and 2006, when the Nigerian Content Act was initiated. Marginal fields, as the name implies,  are smaller oil blocks typically developed by indigenous companies. Nigeria is looking to producing from the fields to bolster state finances and increase local participation in the oil sector, which provides the bulk of the country’s foreign exchange. While local companies have become increasingly important to the industry, it remains dominated by international oil majors. The entry of the 57 marginal field operators into the oil and gas sector under the current DPR auction, will no doubt help to tilt, albeit marginally the ratio of IOCs players in Nigeria to local ones in the industry.  Contribution to reserves  There is no question whatsoever that whatever addition to oil output, or gas acreage is discovered by any of these 57 companies, no matter how infinitesimal, will definitely add to the stock of reserves either in crude oil or gas that is presently credited to the country. Reserves are the quantum of discovered but untapped oil resources or gas as the case may be. As at 2016, Nigeria was said to hold over 37.07 billion  barrels of proven oil reserves, ranking 10th in the world and accounting for about 2.2 per cent of the world’s total oil reserves put at 1.651 trillion barrels. Nigeria’s proven reserves is equivalent to 237.3 times its annual consumption according to available data. With the coming on stream of the 57 marginal fields, the expectation is that these new entrants, when fully rehabilitated and commissioned, will over time be in position, through their exploratory and drilling activities, contribute to growing the reserves commensurate with their respective levels of engagement and capability. This could be achieved standing alone, or as a collective, given the special midwifery role the DPR has offered to play under the special   arrangement.  Transparency  Expectedly, there were concerns raised by some observers that the process leading to the awards of the 57 marginal fields licences were somewhat compromised. They were worried about the transparency of the whole process, although they concede that given the pervading circumstances of the period, such as the  covid-19 pandemic, the lull in global oil markets and the nose diving of spot market oil prices, some bidding rules, they admitted may have to be overlooked. There were also questions raised that expected rigorous vetting and verification of the technical and financial capacity of each investor to develop allotted oilfields were not strictly adhered to. Auwalu however dismissed such narratives, while outlining the meticulous procedure that was adopted in the exercise. He said the vetting of applications by DPR was carried out in two phases – the expression of interest and prequalification, as well as technical and financial phase. He said the first phase  ensured that applicants were subjected to screening of basic documentations, such as shareholders’ details, directors, management team, procedures and systems, legal and association status, basic technical capability, financial capability and corporate accountability. The DPR, he assured, “will continue to follow up and guide the awardees every step of the way,” pointing out,  for instance, that “a guiding template of working agreement has been drafted for joint awardees and discussions have reached advanced stage between DPR and leaseholders on the Farm-out agreement and other technical enablers.”  Multiplier effects  It is given that a project of this magnitude will leave a lasting imprint on the nation’s economy, given the pivotal role that oil plays in revenue generation and as a primary contributor of foreign exchange both at home and to the country’s foreign reserves. It’s an established fact that Nigeria depends substantially (above 90%) on oil proceeds as its source of revenue. The multiplier effects on the economy of this resource cannot therefore be overemphasised, which is why the DPR initiative in resuscitating  these assets is a most welcome development. Its multiplier effects on the economy cannot be a subject of debate, it is better imagined. 