  Avoidable fire — that’s what some South West hot heads court. Which is why the May 23 anti-secession caution, by the South West political order, was reassuring, even if belated. That order should now follow its caution with full blast counter-mobilization, against lobbies sworn to torching the region’s dry thatch, in the harmattan of high discontent. Dangerous developments, in the South East, make that even more imperative. On May 30, Ahmed Gulak, ex-aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, was killed, in cold blood, in Imo State; en route to the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport. A report by The Punch claimed the Police had killed the Gulak-killing gang; at a spot in Aboh-Mbaise local government area, where they were allegedly playing Robin Hood, gifting locals free onions, from a seized truck, from the North. Killing the alleged assassins would make investigations into their motives a tad problematic. Still, everyone looks up to the Police for answers, after a thorough investigation. Until then, no one should jump into any hasty conclusions. But the Police have earned rare praise, for apprehending the felons on the double. Still, as historical trends go, it appears deja vu: 1966 all over again!  A January 1966 coup, dubbed “Ibo” coup, cleared top political and military officers from the North and the West. That provoked a fearsome pogrom, of “Easterners”: majority Igbo, but not excluding other Eastern and Midwestern minorities — or even Yoruba look-alikes, in the North. But those massacres were a precursor, to the “revenge” coup of July 1966 — with hundreds more of “Eastern” officers (including Mid-West Ibos, in the present Delta State) killed, displaced and sent scuttling to their Eastern homeland. Welcome, Biafra!  But that secessionist nightmare would well-nigh wipe out the Igbo starting gains in independent Nigeria (thanks to the North/East elite power coalition from 1960, with its winner-takes-all bragging culture), which continues to fuel Igbo victimhood till today. Still, compare and contrast the 1966 trend with now, using Imo as grim metaphor. First, the murder of nameless northern “suya” sellers, during a community brawl.  Now, the killing of a northerner with a name. To boot: the economic sabotage of rogue Robin Hoods, playing charity with a truckload of others’ onion-sweat!  But that cargo could well be an Igbo merchants’!  Double jeopardy? Now add the dark spice of Nnamdi Kanu and his IPOB, baying for blood, en route to own peculiar Biafra, without caring a hoot about millions of Igbo ordinary folks, who would be poor cannon fodder; or even millions of peaceful Igbo doing honest and legitimate business, all over Nigeria. So, what if some northern “youths” — the favourite Nigerian romantic coinage for tolerable mischief — decide on their own counter-killings?  1966-1970 all over again? Those who refuse to learn from history risk being consumed by history! You think this is ethnic finger-pointing across the Niger?  Welcome to the macabre parallels, of today’s South West, to the unfortunate events of 1966!  Yet, the region that Awo built prides itself the palladium of reason in Nigeria! Chief Obafemi Awolowo left gaol to be crowned the Asiwaju Yoruba, even as the old power partners, North and East, that plotted Awo’s persecution and gaol — or prosecution and gaol, if you’re legalistic-minded — fell upon themselves. Today’s South West, successor to the old West, has another Asiwaju Yoruba, in the illustrious, celebrated and respected historian, Prof. Banji Akintoye.  That sparks the Karl Marx quip of history repeating itself — whether as tragedy or farce, time will tell! Suffice it to say: while the original Asiwaju Yoruba steered the Yoruba from the perils of secession, the current Asiwaju Yoruba goads them right into Oodua Republic, though the celebrated author, of the latest authoritative account of Yoruba history, swears it would be “peaceful”, waxing poetic on the doctrine of self-determination. But the secessionist foot soldiers?  Now, that’s quite a Babel, between Oodua Republic and re-federalized Nigeria.  But the base motive is clear: scalding Fulani hate faking hot Yoruba love. The stark Sunday Igboho bravely grapples with what he little understands. “Field Marshal” and celebrated hero of the Igangan Fulani campaign appears the Yoruba equivalent of Nnamdi Kanu, with his happy-go-merry anarchy! Gani Adams, who crows over his Aare Oona Kakanfo title, even with its bag of  chequered tragedies, merrily conflates “restructuring” with some romantic “Yoruba nation”, in which he and his atavistic crowd would have some say — and sway. Why, good old Afenifere is also there, standing “gidigba”, as old fox, former President Olusegun Obasanjo, would crow.  On restructuring it stands.  But it won’t mind playing the bogey of “Yoruba nation” as bargaining chip — a glorious double-speak, that sits pat with both agenda.  Talk of having your cake and eating it! What a Babel, in the Yoruba country! Hardly a surprise then: that May 23 caution, by the South West APC governors, elders and leaders of thought in the formal polity, came under a bombast of vulgar abuse and base name-calling, by a little-known group called Apapo Oodua Koya (AOKOYA), in a statement by one Col. Abimbola Sowumi (rtd).  Contrast with Agbekoya of the 1970s! AOKOYA might be a beautiful Yoruba pun, which could mean “We’ll prevail”.  But while the Col. Sowumi screeched insults for barely any attention, Gen. Alani Akinrinade, in the cautioning camp, didn’t have to say a word to grab attention. The General had fought a war.  Even from the winning side, he knows the horrors of war to openly glory in, and thirst for it — unlike some of these Yoruba data-tigers, belching hate in the social media! This cacophony, driven by hate fuelled by ethnic hubris, echoes W. B. Yeats’s poetic quip: “The best lack all conviction, while the worst/Are full of passionate intensity”! That is why the South West political order must boldly counter these reckless voices — who screech shrillest, about a grim business, they least comprehend. But they are only excitable puppets dancing to the hidden juggling of puppeteers — cold elite faking personal grudges as ethnic slurs.  This band too must be checked. As a boy growing up in Lagos, it was often perplexing to see and hear adults brand anything and everything bad as “Ijebu” — particularly fake money: “owo Ijebu”. Then, the jarring saying: “Ijebu o da; Ijesa o sunwon; iyen wa l’oun Ijebu-Ijesa!” [The Ijebu are no good; the Ijesa equally worthless.  Yet the daft calls himself Ijebu-Ijesa!]. As at that time, the venom had left those intra-Yoruba bigotry, leaving behind a playful tease.  But later reading up history, it was clear these were explosive intra-Yoruba biases, cresting in the Kiriji War (1877-1893), well ahead of the Awolowo make-over. A nation, founded on hatred of others, will consume its own, when there are no more “aliens” to hate.  That might just be the fate of “Oodua Republic,” if this hate-filled secession-by-emotion continues unchecked.