Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, has identified infrastructure, as major challenge confronting investors in the country. Sule spoke yesterday shortly after undertaking a tour of a facility owned by the Halibis Industries, a private firm owned by an indigine of Nasarawa State, operating in Abuja. Sule, who spoke from his experience in the organized private sector, specifically identified lack of good motorable roads, power supply, capital, among others, as factors responsible for the high cost of production in Nigeria. According to him, companies in countries such as India and China, produce at low cost mostly because of the minimal cost of energy and labour, among others factors. He called for adoption of Private Public Partnership (PPP) as a means of reducing the increasing rate of unemployment in the country. He said PPP will greatly help to boost state economy of the country in the face of global economic recession. He expressed satisfaction with what he saw at the factory, commending the President of Halibis Industries, Alhaji Adamu Aliyu, for his vision and initiative, noting that Halibis Industries can metamorphose into the next Nestle or Cadbury. Sule added that it was a thing of pride to see an indigene of Nasarawa State, venturing to set up such an industry, starting in even a much bigger manner than most of the big players in the food industry. The governor explained that he is always excited when he sees people being employed and empowered, adding that the state government will partner with Halibis Industries, with a view to expanding the business. “I want to appeal to you, as you expand, Nasarawa State needs lot of employment, try to remember Nasarawa in your employment status,” Sule said. Earlier, President of Halibis Industries, Alhaji Adamu Aliyu, said his company, which produces food items for distribution nationwide, seeks to take the company to the next level by establishing the Afritox, an offshoot of Halibis Industries, that will export products to other African countries. Aliyu, an indigene of Nasarawa Local Government Area, added that the Afritox is attracting lots of partners, with Halibis Industries, soon to get approval, for the groundbreaking of the project. The Halibis Industries president sought for the support of the Nasarawa State government, adding that there are lots of opportunities in the venture.