Laura Ikeji’s second visit to her surgeon in such a short time span has elicited a number of reactions from social media users. The wife of the elder brother to popular former professional footballer, Kanu Nwankwo recently returned to her surgeon for a “touch up” on her nose. Taking to one of her social media pages, Laura posted a video of herself sitting on a surgical bed with plaster on her nose as she looked into her phone and laughed. She posted:“The kinda things I can endure. If u know you re gonna abuse me pls act like u didn’t not see this post. Went to @iamdrbea for some touch up.” Meanwhile, it is fast becoming a common practice among Nigerian celebrities to get work done on their bodies but not many of them have been open about it. Last month, the socialite took her fans on her journey of changing the appearance of her nose. The mother of two shared a video of herself with the doctor as she showcased her new nose that was now pointed. Laura never hid the fact that she would love to change her and which she eventually did. She had captioned post; “Finally… I present to u, Laura with the pointed nose. A dream come true. This time I threaded my nose for a more permanent result.” However, reacting to this, some social media users have mocked her as they referred to her as “upcoming Micheal Jackson”, while others have asked if she intends to “touch up” her nose for the rest of her life. angellymeek said; “Remember Michael Jackson oooo.. hmmm.” xenia_rocky tweeted: “Abeg no vex I want understand something Na so you go dey go retouch am for the rest of your life?” kelechine stated: “Try all you can you can never be a white.” mizsheyshey wrote: “So you gonna maintain this nose forever, I really do not get.” onwurahadaobi said: “All this people saying I love you, why una too dey lie? Just say what’s on your mind fake love everywhere my own question is, nne is this how you will be be re- touching it all your life?” crown_nwachukwu tweeted: “Like really? Is this what you’re going to be doing every now and then? Is it really worth it?” wigsbylustre stated: “Naso Micheal start with maintenance o.” onyenekeloveth wrote: “Wahala be like nose maintenance.” jacquelinebamuh said: “Soon that nose of urs will be like Michael Jackson’s.” pretychi66 tweeted: “Just go for a reconstruction of nose surgery and stop suffering your self. Add height surgery to it too.”