Baobab Microfinance Bank has disbursed over N100 billion loans to customers, its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Kazeem Olanrewaju, has said. The bank chief, who spoke  at a briefing in Lagos, said the lender’s average monthly loan advancement stands at an average of N3 billion, adding that 237,550 customers have accessed the loans since inception. He said the bank’s share capital unimpaired by loss stood at N4.72 billion as at December 31, last year. He said the bank is also reaching more people across various states where it is not  present with its e-payment channels. Olanrewaju said the bank will continue to invest in technology to create value for customers and reach the unbanked. Some of the e-payment channels deployed by the bank include USSD, the magic code is *732*348#, Autopay, and debit card. The bank has also  partnered Interswitch to deepen e-payment deployment and transactions. On raising new capital for the bank, Olanrewaju said:   “Without meeting the capital requirement, the bank cannot have a licence and without a license, the bank cannot operate. “I am happy to announce that as it stands, by the end of last month, our capital was already N4.7 billion. What the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) requires us to do is to have N5 billion capital base by April 2022. From our projections, and what we are seeing this year, by October, this year, we should have the N5 billion that is required even ahead of time.” Continuing, he said: “From our retained earnings, we expect that our capital will go up to N5 billion before the deadline. We also have a fallback position of shareholders bringing in money if we are not able to meet this, but given the level of activities we are seeing and the profitability till date, we do not think that will be needed”. Olanrewaju said that the N300 million required to achieve the N5 billion minimum capital base for its operations will be raised before the end of October. On the business side, he said the bank has continued to ensure that its customers are staff are safe despite the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the bank is back on the path of growth and expansion. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic, he said the bank restructured 90 per cent of its loan book adding that majority of the restructured loans have paid down. “We have less than two per cent of the restructured loan in our book, which means that some of the opportunity we gave to the customers to come back is working. We discharged the customers of all the penalties, part of the loan interest and in some cases, we tried to enhance the loan even when those people have not fully paid,” he said. Olanrewaju said the customers were given three options, you either pay following the repayment schedule you have before, and there will not be any charge. “Customers can also pay the backlog, or they were given opportunity to extend their loans depending on the cashflows. Each of the these customers tool advantage of the restructured loans to be able to continue in business,” he said.