Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has assented to two bills passed into law by the State House of Assembly to enhance access to quality healthcare and enable government fulfill its contractual obligations. The bills signed into law by the governor were the Public Procurement (amendment) Law No.1 of 2021 and Contributory Health Protection Programme Law No.3 of 2020. Wike, who signed the bills at the Government House, Port Harcourt on Monday, said with the new laws, residents and people of the state, who wanted health insurance could participate in the scheme. He said: “Let me on behalf of the Executive Council sincerely thank the Speaker and members of the State Assembly for passing into law Public Procurement (amendment) Law and Contributory Health Protection Programme Law, particularly the second one that has to do with health. “This is something that has become a reality today. We have had a lot of pressure from people and also Nigeria Medical Association so as to give health insurance to those who would want to participate. It is not compulsory for those who want to leverage of it in order to promote their health system.” The governor urged civil servants in the state to leverage on contributory health protection programme to boost their health status. Wike further explained that the Public Procurement (amendment) Law, would enable the state government fulfill its contractual obligations. He attributed the reason why contractors often asked for contract variation to low percentage of the project sum they received from government. “Government ought to pay penalty, because under the law, if a contractor is not paid as at when due, there ought to be sanction against the government,” he said. The governor said the need for the state government to expedite and fulfill its contractual obligations, necessitated the amendment of the Public Procurement Law. The Speaker of the Rivers state House of Assembly, Rt. Ikuinyi-Owaji Ibani said the two bills signed into law by Wike were critical elements in developing society.