Youths serving under the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) scheme in Oyo State have been enjoined to consider non-oil exports as a way of creating jobs for themselves after the one-year mandatory national service. The Trade Promotion Advisor of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Ibadan Export Assistance Office, Mrs. Bolanle Emmanuel, stated this at the orientation camp at Iseyin, Oyo State. In her paper titled: ‘Export Business opportunities for youth corps members: Export procedures and documentation’, Emmanuel encouraged them to key into the export business through some of the avenues for export. She said there are opportunities young graduates can take advantage of instead of roaming the labour market as job opportunities continue to shrink in the formal sector. Some of the avenues for export, she mentioned, include African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), ECOWAS Trade Liberalization Scheme (ETLS), African Growth Opportunities Act (AGOA), International Trade Centre (ITC), She Trades etc. “Opportunities abound for you to start a business in the export sector,” she said, adding “A lot of corps members may have several abilities and talents that can be engaged productively. Some others have deliberately acquired skills in order to make a living because not all of you would be absorbed in employment immediately.” Stating further, Emmanuel, who was a former Head AGOA at the NEPC, Lagos office said: “Export sector has opportunities for you to do business especially under AGOA, the most important thing is to plan to go into business.”  Admonishing further, she advised, like minded youths with same goals may team up to register a limited liability company and prepare for the future in export business. “Getting resources may not be as easy as you think, like-minded people among you can team up to register a limited liability company and have a plan to export. “NEPC will guide you on how to go about it under the zero to the export initiative of the Council. Form a team and pull resources together so that you can move fast instead of wasting time operating individually,” she counseled. CEO of Jokelinks Clothing Ltd. & Planet 3R; an eco-friendly outfit, Adejoke Lasisi, delivered her paper on Accessing grants and loans for export business. Lasisi, the winner of the 2020 MSME Award of the Year, spoke extensively on different sources of grants for Corps members to start up an export business. She however enjoined the participants to be deliberate about life and be careful about their social media activities. “Do things that are reliable, don’t allow your social media handles to be full of junks. If you have junks there, please this is the time to go and clean it up,” she counseled. Lasisi who had benefited from grants to enhance her business told the participants that grant agencies may decide to run background checks on social media on their would-be beneficiaries “I applied for a grant on Instagram and they tagged me on Facebook. They must have gone running a background check on me to find out if I was genuine. “When you want to get a job, they will go and search for you online. If you are the type that uses bad languages online, they will not take you seriously. I have a friend that lost a very big job because of what she posts on Facebook. So let’s be careful,” she advised.