On Sunday, June 20, Nollywood actress and producer, Mercy Aigbe and her estranged husband, Lanre Gentry had a go at each other’s image over the Father’s Day celebration. For two years now, the estranged couple has continued to engage in an exchange of words over fatherly duties and role to their 11-year-old son, Juwon Gentry. For the 2021 celebration, the single mother of two took to her Instagram page to praise herself and her efforts on her children maintaining that she has all the rights to celebrate the day without hesitation or fear. She wrote: “Happy Father’s Day to me and all the responsible fathers out there! 2 Kids (1 international student) …. changing naira to dollars with this dollar rate! “Abeg it’s not easy but God has been Gracious! Please no one should come and tell me how I shouldn’t take the shine off fathers oh! (Fatherhood is beyond just impregnating a woman if you are a man and do not perform your responsibilities towards your kids, Biko you ain’t fit to be called a father and that’s on period!)… “So, since I am playing a dual role in my children’s lives, allow me to celebrate myself every day! cos it’s not easy! May the Lord grant us long lives, in good health to enjoy the fruit of our labour,” she posted. Reacting to the post, Lanre Gentry submitted –on his Instagram page – that some women don’t have good background hence can’t make a good mother to their kids. “Some women over there will say happy Father’s Day to themselves when they are not good to be a mother or housewife to their children. But fathers always make them happy when they are in the house. “But you cannot blame them, they have no good background, they don’t have their parents together, that is why they don’t know what Father’s Day is,” he wrote. In a swift reaction, Aigbe shredded her ex-husband saying, “Mr Lanre Gentry, you better stop with the stupid lies! You better don’t just infuriate me! “Gentry call your useless father to order oh cos, really, I have had enough of his nonsense!” she wrote before concluding by saying, ““And the most irresponsible father award goes to my Ex! This shameless man who, instead of him covering his face in shame will rather come online to post rubbish! “I normally ignore you when you respond to my Father’s Day post! But you see this one! Bring it on! I am READY! Alailojuti.”