Nollywood actress Damilola Adekoya, popularly known as Comedian Princess, has released fresh evidence against embattled actor, Olarenwaju Omiyinka aka Baba Ijesha. The Nation reports the embattled comic actor was alleged to have molested a 14-year-old foster daughter of Comedian Princess. He was arraigned before Magistrate Peter Nwaka on charges of rape, sexual assault and abuse of a minor but his fresh bail application was rejected on the ground that the Lagos State Ministry of Justice had filed charges before a High Court. Princess, in a series of posts on her Instagram page, shared screenshots of messages from other victims who also alleged they had been sexually harassed by Baba Ijesha.   She also shared another voice note of Baba Ijesha allegedly giving orders to spread false information on social media and to also counter her claims. In the voice note listened to by The Nation, Baba Ijesha was heard saying “When something happens to someone that has a name, one must tread carefully so that the matter will die down. “If you keep answering her, the matter will not die down. After she said this, she cannot say another thing tomorrow. She cannot go to social media again because they have banned everything. “You people should not fret; all of you should just keep doing publicity for me but act as if you do not know me. “Share messages; I know you know how to write good articles. Just say that we do not know the truth yet but Baba Ijesha will still come out by himself. That is all you need to say. Apply wisdom in all you do.” In one another post, Makinwa Elizabeth, a lady who identified herself as the embattled actor’s staff and admin of his WhatsApp group, claimed she and her sister were almost victims of Baba Ijesha. “My name is Makinwa Elizabeth. I am Baba Ijesha’s worker; his secretary and the group admin. Seriously, as I am chatting with you, I am in tears. When you levelled the allegation against him, I knew you were not lying because Baba Ijesha is a flirt. “But I thought what you said seven years ago was not real. We are all disappointed in the group we belong to. I understand your pain and I feel your pain. “I have been uncomfortable ever since I watched that video. We, members of the group, went to him and asked him for the truth, but this man lied. You will be surprised about the lie that he told us. “Please, do not be angry at me. Seriously, I know what you are saying. He has done this thing to me before; apart from harassing me, he did it to my blood sister. It has not been up to six months ago. God saved her.” Elizabeth also claimed that several other members of the WhatsApp group had reached out to her to narrate their experiences of alleged harassment by the actor since the sexual assault saga started. Princess said. “#Survivingbabaijesha Forgive & forget is what got us to where we are today. People keep committing crimes & dehumanizing others but they are the ones who turn round to claim they are victims,” she wrote. “His victims are numerous and spans over 20 years for God’s sake!!! Yoruba ronú, we need to stop covering evil if we want to move forward. “Trying to smear my name and bully me at all cost shows you are a rape apologists. Baba Ijesha has a case with Lagos State, go and face the government and leave me alone.”