By OLUSHOLA RICKETTS  The Oniru of Iru Kingdom, Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal, and his wife, Olori Mariam Lawal, had a busy week of celebration in the palace last week. Tuesday was Olori Lawal’s birthday and she was showered with public affection by her husband. Coincidentally, Wednesday also marked a year since Oba Lawal was crowned Oniru of Iruland. In celebration of his wife, Oba Lawal penned down a lovely message on his Instagram page. Nicknaming his wife ‘Maiseme’ (Monitemi), he described how special she has been to him and the kingdom. His message in part read: “Before I proceed further, I need you to know how special you are and how important today is. One of the proofs that God has blessed me is the gift of you. You are a living proof that God is good. You fill all my emptiness with your endless love and I’m so thankful to have you as my wife. “The more years go by, the more I learn new things to love about you. You are the most amazing woman to me. Oh, how you beautify the palace with your gorgeous smile, carriage and presence. You have the most perfect dentition I have ever seen. “Thank you for always dishing out wisdom. You are indeed a strong pillar of support. The past 1 year with you on the throne has been awesome. I am not afraid to rule because you are my peace.  “You haven’t changed in your ways of support and encouragement; right from my training days at the Police Academy in Wudil Kano, up until when I got deployed to Birnin Kebbi in Kebbi State as a young police officer. Now here I am still in love with you in Iru land.” Feeling overjoyed, Olori Lawal also took to her Instagram page to appreciate and praise her husband. She reacted: “Long before you ascended the throne of your fathers, you have always been the king of my heart. Your heartfelt messages to me on my birthday truly brought back sweet memories of our early life together and also set the tone of a most memorable day. “Indeed, saying ‘yes’ to you has been one of the best decisions of my life. I love the way you love me. Thank you for always being the wind beneath my wings.”