 World view about Roman Abramovich changed in Portugal Saturday when it came to public consciousness that the billionaire Chelsa FC of England owner was meeting with his team’s manager Thomas Tuchel for the first time. What a man. It said a lot about his astuteness in handling the business side of Chelsea not anchored on sentiment but resolve to hit the zenith at the shortest possible time. For Abramovich you either win or you go for his coaches. Tuchel’s resolve to always acknowledge Frank Lampard’s contributions to his world-class Chelsea is legendary. Not many coaches do so. Many a football lover would be wondering how it was possible for a manager to accept a job without meeting with the owner of the business at least to exchange phone numbers. In such civilised climes where sports is a business, every arm is contracted to people who are experts in such spheres using the law of comparative advantage which recognises specialisation. Such experts in the case of coaches and players are called agents and they do the business side of their wards especially with their contracts. Agents serve as the hub of players’ and coaches’ contractual transactions. Tuchel confirmed this assertion of the importance of agents to coaches and players when he said in a post-match interview Saturday that: ”I think that I have a clause that makes my contract a bit longer if I win the Premier League or the Champions League.  ”I’m not 100 per cent sure but my manager said it some weeks ago. ”There are no doubts I want to stay and it’s even not the most important thing. If I have a one-year contract, I will work in the same way as if I have a three or four-year contract. I’m very happy to be here, it’s a fantastic beginning and we go now for the next one.” Nobody could explain Abramovich’s reason to sack Frank Lampard in January. Maybe it was simply because he sensed an opportunity. Doing the right thing at the right time is everything in sport and maybe that extends beyond the field of play, too. So back in the winter when Abramovich was criticised for cutting a Chelsea hero’s management career off at its knees following an FA Cup win over Luton, maybe it was simply about the timing. Many asked what the owner could have told Tuchel if the Blues lost on Saturday? One word – Abramovich could have avoided Tuchel. In business, there isn’t any room for a second impression. You either hit right or crash into oblivion. The two men shared their first-ever meeting on the pitch at the Estadio do Dragao. Meeting his club’s manager for the first time says a lot about the owner’s penchant for sacking underperforming coaches the moment he identifies the problem of his side to coaching. But Tuchel knows his onions and is prepared to lay what he wants on the owner’s table irrespective of Abramovich’s antecedents with coaches. ”I spoke to the owner right now on the pitch,” said Tuchel as he celebrated his triumph. ”It was the best moment for our first meeting, or the worst because from now on things can only get worse! ”We will speak tomorrow and I am looking forward to it. I can assure him I will stay hungry. I want the next title and I feel absolutely happy. I feel part of a really ambitious club and strong group that suits my belief and passion for football. ”We have work to do to close the gap (on Manchester City in the Premier League) and this is what I am all about. It will be nice to meet him (Abramovich) a bit closer. We are in constant contact but not personal. He knows what is going on from me but not directly, now it is nice to meet him.” Two of a kind, if you asked this writer about Abramovich and Tuchel. We wait. Many may credit Tuchel with the resurgence at Chelsea but certain players made it happen for the German, especially the petite N’Golo Kante. Frenchman N’Golo Kante was pivotal in the Blues’ 1-0 victory over much-fancied Manchester City side in the UEFA Champions League final game at the Estadio do Dragao in Portugal. Before the match last Saturday, Kante was rated as being doubtful for the tie. In fact, he only resumed training a few days before what has turned out to be an epic event in his soccer career. Kante has recorded 218 appearances for Chelsea since he joined the Blues from Leicester City in 2016. Kante virtually neutralised the impact of City’s midfielder Kevin De Bruyne until he was replaced due to an injury from an unfortunate incident with Chelsea’s Antonio Rudiger. Indeed, the match statistics showed that Kante won 100 per cent of his tackles without conceding a single foul. Incredible, if you ask this writer. In the last five years, pocket-sized Kante has won the World Cup, the Champions League, the Europa League, two Premier League titles, and the FA Cup. Those six trophies achieved under five managers goes to show his ability to play any role assigned to him by the different coaches. Kante is ready to showcase his talent, no matter who barks out instructions for the Blues from the dugouts during matches.  Indeed, Daily Mail’s ace writer Martin Samuel described Kante in one of his post-match analysis thus: ”Kante is the archetypal selfless, flawless diamond: 37 out of 38 games to win the league with Leicester, 35 of 38 with Chelsea, and now this. It is a stellar panel that fronts the biggest Champions League fixtures for BT Sport these days. In both legs of the semi-final with Real Madrid, and now the final, the man of the match award has been given to N’Golo Kante.” Awesome submission by Martin, no doubt. Nothing more to add except the pun on his height by his mates last Saturday, as he had to be lifted by one of his mates and countryman Kurt Zouma, an unused substitute during the podium celebrations after Chelsea won the UEFA Champions League trophy, beating Manchester City 1-0 at the Estadio do Dragao in Portugal. Daily Mail’s Martin wrote further that: ” N’Golo Kante’s feet did not touch the ground. First, swept him up in both arms like a big baby, and paraded him around the pitch. When he put him down, others rushed over and did the same. Kante became a human trophy. Everyone wanted to touch him, kiss him, hold him aloft for the world to see. He even got a hug from Roman Abramovich.” Chelsea’s captain Cesar Azpilicueta’s post-match comments on Kante captured the Frenchman’s qualities succinctly pointing out that: ”He does everything with the energy he brings.  ”I don’t know how many ball recoveries he had, but the way he then dragged it forward and covered so much ground, he’s special. When we didn’t have him, we missed him. ” ”Yet after winning the World Cup, winning the Champions League, he is still so humble as a person. I’m so happy for him because he’s a massive part of this team and I’m so very happy to have him next to me. Arsene Wenger (do you still remember him?), working as a pundit for BeIN Sports, branded him absolutely outstanding, adding: “We have seen a man who is above everybody else, N’Golo Kante.” Former Liverpool FC great Jamie Carragher said of Kante, per the Metro: “When he finishes, I think this guy will be spoken about as one of the greatest players or midfielders we’ve seen in the Premier League.” While  a former Chelsea FC midfielder Joe Cole said, per the Mirror: “I played with Makelele who I thought was the best in that position until I saw this kid. He’s got Makelele plus extras.” However, it was reported that while other Chelsea players hugged and celebrated with their wives and girlfriends in the dressing room after the game against the Citizens, Kante was hugged by his mother, a very nostalgic setting which the players, their wives, and girlfriends acknowledged. After helping Chelsea win the UEFA Champions League, N’Golo Kante said: “This the result of lots of efforts together. Some good results, some bad. “But we stayed together. We did very well in the second part of the season and we enjoyed this title altogether. The World Cup winner was then asked what it felt like to beat Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City three times in a row and he replied: “That is secondary.  The main thing is the result we had, the win we had and altogether we fight for this result. This is beautiful to fight for this kind of title together.” What is apparent about Kante is that he is selfless. Did anyone say that dynamite comes in small packages? You are right. Kante is indeed a stick of dynamite.