Former Governor Peter Obi has congratulated Valentine Ozigbo for the victory. He lauded the other contestants for their hard work and sacrifices. Obi urged them not to see the conclusion of the primaries ‘as the end of the beginning, but as the beginning of the end.” He said: “I thank the National Chairman who, together with his leadership, has remained neutral. I congratulate the PDP family in Anambra State which has given the state the most peaceful and organised process of choosing a candidate,” he said.” Obi, however, called on the party in the state and beyond to pull together as a family towards ‘a journey of building a better Anambra State for the future of our children and the true light of the nation’. Former PDP governorship candidate Oseloka Obaze said the real work has just started for the party to reclaim the state from another party. Former Senate President Bukola Saraki also congratulated Ozigbo. A statement by his media aide, Yusuph Olaniyonu, appealed to party leaders across the state to support the candidate to ensure victory for the party in the governorship election. Saraki, who noted that Ozigbo emerged from a keenly contested election, said his emergence would ruffle some feathers in some quarters. He urged Ozigbo to be magnanimous in victory and immediately start reaching out to his co-aspirants to ensure they work as a team for the party’s victory. The statement reads: “Ozigbo must let all his co-aspirants know that there is ‘no victor and no vanquished’. The victory is for our great party, and his immediate efforts should be geared towards convincing all that he is a team player and ready to work with them to ensure victory for the party that can best represent the interest of Anambra people. “I have spoken to some of our leaders in Anambra State on the need for us to work together as one united, indivisible team in the coming campaigns, and I am particularly happy and impressed by their disposition. They are ready to bring all on board and get PDP to reclaim Anambra State. “I am further appealing to all our stakeholders in Anambra State that we should remember this is a time we need to place the interest of the country, state and party above our individual interests. The party can only field one candidate despite the fact that as the foremost political platform in the state, all its aspirants are qualified and capable. “Now that the primary process has been completed, we have to move round to talk to all our stakeholders, make necessary reconciliations and give more assurance. Anambra State is naturally a PDP state; we need to use the November election to re-affirm this. “This election is important for us to re-assure the people that PDP and its candidate will work tirelessly to ensure that Anambra claims its rightful position as a leading state in Nigeria, the one that can create a prosperous, developed and conducive atmosphere for all residents.”