Experts in the aviation industry will gather in Lagos on July 25, 2021 to examine issues bordering on the management, policy and regulations of the sector at a conference put together by the League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents. The conference, which has already received the endorsement of the Ministry of Aviation, the Nigeria Civil Authority (NCAA), the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN), Nigeria Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Accident Investigation Bureau Nigeria (AIB-N) and the Nigerian College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) will provide a veritable platform for stakeholders to chart the way forward for the industry. The conference, which is the 25th edition in the series would hold at Sheraton Hotels, Lagos. Expressing their commitments to the forthcoming event, NCAA said it would always support the league at all times. The Director-General, NCAA, Capt Musa Nuhu in a statement affirmed its agency’s support and endorsement of the conference. He said; “We continue to partner with the League of Airport and Aviation Correspondents for a successful outing as scheduled. “This is in line with our resolve to invest in project that could elicit solutions to the myriad of challenges confronting air travel in the face of the global Covid-19 pandemic. “We look forward to a fruitful deliberations and stronger industry.” Also speaking on the annual conference, Managing Director of FAAN, Captain Rabiu Yadudu described it as a rallying point for the industry that provides lasting solutions for aviation- related challenges. He said,” The League of Airports and Aviation Correspondents annual conference has become a notable rallying point for developing lasting solutions to critical aviation-related challenges in Nigeria and beyond. “The theme for this year’s edition; ‘Nigeria’s aviation industry: Policy, Management and Regulation’ could not have come at a better time. This is because a balanced combination of Policy, Management and Regulation is the most critical ingredient needed to achieve efficiency, productivity and sustainability in the industry. “I and my team are definitely looking forward to participating in the conference.” The 25th Conference and Awards 2021 is expected to be attended by over 250 aviation industry professionals; physically and virtually, cutting across the aviation agencies, security agencies, international and domestic airlines operating in Nigeria, aviation support services, travel trade sellers and buyers and captains of the aviation industry in Nigeria. According to the organisers top aviation personalities would deliver insightful papers on a wide range of topical issues in aviation at the annual conference.