The alleged killing of a man in Imo State by an Air Force official is now a subject of investigation, police commissioner Abutu Yaro has said. Oguchi Unachukwu was on his way to the Owerri airport en route Hamburg, Germany, his base, when he was reportedly shot and killed by the military man. His family was with him when the incident took place, it was learnt. The alleged killer was part of personnel on guard at the airport on May 31, The Nation learnt. Unachukwu’s widow, Mrs Ijeoma Unachukwu, urged the state Commissioner of Police to ensure that her husband’s killers did not escape justice. Yesterday, CP Yaro said that he had ordered a thorough investigation into the killing. The CP in a statement issued by the command’s spokesman Bala Elkana, asserted that his office would ensure that justice is served. The statement read, “The Commissioner of Police Imo State Command, CP Abutu Yaro, fdc has ordered an in-depth investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of one Oguchi Unachukwu ‘m’ near the toll gate of Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri on 31st May, 2021 at about 0804 hours. “The deceased person is alleged to have been shot by personnel suspected to be staff of 211 Regiment of the Nigerian Air force, responsible for the security of the International Airport. The deceased is said to be on his way to catch a flight to Lagos. A survivor stated that one of the Air Force operatives shot the car of Oguchi when he failed to stop at the Air force checkpoint after they had flagged him down. “That following the information, the Air force team at the toll gate, who were already on red alert especially considering recent killing of a high profile politician around the same area, intercepted a fast approaching Mercedes Benz vehicle. “That they flagged down the vehicle and ordered the driver to park by the roadside for search but the driver who at first slowed down and pretended to move to the side of the road, suddenly took off. “According to the Air force, that being suspicious of the mission of the occupants of the said vehicle at the International Airport, they made effort to demobilised the vehicle. That when the vehicle eventually came to a halt, the operatives rounded it and ordered the occupants out. “That it was at this point that a female passenger in the car mentioned that the man driving the vehicle is her husband and that he was rushing to catch his flight. He was however,  rushed to hospital by the Air Force team for medical attention where the doctors on duty made frantic efforts to stabilised him. He later died at about 1900 hours of the same date.” The Commissioner of Police called for calm and assured family and friends of the deceased person that no stone will be left unturned in unravelling the circumstances surrounding the death. “Members of the public will be updated on the outcome of the investigation,” he said.