A nationwide protest billed for June 12, the celebration day of Nigeria’s Democracy, has elicited a flurry of reactions. The Nation learnt the Publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore had called for a nationwide June 12 protest on Nigeria’s Democracy Day against the President Buhari-led administration. Recall that on Monday, Sowore and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) police command disagreed over alleged shooting of the rights activist by a female officer at the Unity Fountain, Abuja. The Abuja protest was to prepare ground for the June 12 nationwide protest. Topping Twitter trendsmap with over 28,000 tweets – #June12Protest, Nigerians in solidarity called for series of mass action across the country to register their displeasure about the country’s state of insecurity. Sowore in a Twitter post on Tuesday said, “Good morning oppressed citizens! We urge you to please join us nationwide/worldwide to engage in massive street action on June 12, 2021. #June12Protest #BuhariMustGo #Revolutionnow” Reacting using the hashtag, many Nigerians who expressed support for the protest advised that a “sit-at-home” order will be a better option than hitting the streets and blocking highways especially amid the present state of insecurity. David Smile argued that “Protest will never change this government or remove Buhari. Try something else, let’s stop repeating the same method and be expecting different results.” Another user, Theophilus posited that “Sit at home is the best form of protest we need to engage now. Enough innocent bloods have been shed on our land and we can’t afford to lose more people to this draconian regime. Enough is Enough #BuhariMustGo” Owelle also said “Let’s apply the sit at home method to gradually cripple this government than coming out to receive bullets from Unknown Security Agents used by this administration. Enough of the Innocent lives being killed in Protests since 2015.” Ruky Martins advised that “Trust me, this your BuhariMustGo and Revolutionnow hashtag has no weight in the north neither in the south, use hashtags that directly addresses the situation of the country right now. Insecurity, hike in fuel and food price etc. BuhariMustGo, and then what?”