BBNaija star Nina Ivy has come under intense heat sessions from social media users after being dragged by a body enhancement brand for undergoing plastic surgery barely three weeks after she allegedly signed a deal with them as their influencer. The Nation reported Nina had decided to follow the path of some BBNaija ex-housemates who had gone under the knife to enhance parts of their bodies by undergoing a plastic surgery procedure in faraway Florida, United States of America. The enhancement brand located in Nigeria called out the US-based ex-BBNaija housemate following a viral video that showed she just underwent surgery to further enhance her feminine features. They revealed the termination of contracts with Nina following her act and explained the reality TV star has done huge damage to them. The brand also noted that the reality star was paid millions to represent them yet she went ahead to use the money for plastic surgery. The brand demanded Nina refunds them in full and also tender a public apology to address the supposed damage her act might cause them. The brand’s boss explained they have invested so much in building what they have today and the reality TV star will not be the one to end their brand. They have threatened to deal with the mother of one and make her pay dearly for her actions. This development has made social media users express their disappointment, noting the social media personality acted badly and should refund the brand their money with an apology to follow. evelyn____xx stated: “But Nina you signed an endorsement deal with body enhancement store not even up to 1 month and use the money to complete your surgery payment. E choke for your side. Better refund the money.” wf_ella_berry wrote: “U use ambassadorship money go do surgery wetin u want to make people wey u dey influence for the brand talk na oo ehn Nina bagrand.” debblissimports said: “But refund the enhancement ambassador deal you got. Period.”\ Iizzyypp stated: “The ‘bagrand’ of the criticism is you just signed an endorsement barely 3weeks ago about organic enhancement & yet go for this almost immediately, that move alone cud wreck ur sponsor’s biz…After 3yrs, sense still far.” de_vibes_angel wrote: “Nobody is criticising her for getting her body done.. as most celebrities does.. we are just saying.. she shouldn’t have accepted the deal if she know she wasn’t gonna use their product.” chef_weli said: “Ok, Oya refund them the endorsement money back let everyone zuruike.” blaq_beeuutee stated: “Funny how the ones with inferiority complex talk about or know people who are depressed. If you weren’t depressed yourself you wouldn’t be bothered about getting a new butt or bleaching your skin. Oh well, everyone is claiming to be doing what makes them happy. By the way, I hope you have refunded the brand you are signed to market their butt cream.” queenkonia wrote: “You shouldn’t have accepted the deal with Mav herbals if you know that you have it in mind to do your body. Hian!” ida_oyedele said: “Madam no one is hating you for getting your body done. Why did you sign a deal with a brand and not represent what it stands for. No business owner will take it likely. I hope other brands learn from this most of these influencers are just after the bag they don’t care what happened to your business.”