Olusegun Mimiko, medical doctor, former Minister of Housing and one-time governor of Ondo State, is not off the political radar. He is always strategising. A source said the former governor may dump the Zenith Labour Party (ZLP) for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). According to the source, Mimiko has held meetings with the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice,  Abubakar Malami (SAN). Also, the former governor has met with the Chairman of the APC National Caretaker Committee and governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, and two other governors. However, it is not clear whether the ZLP governorship candidate in last year’s election, former Deputy Governor Agboola Ajayi, would also return to the APC. Ajayi had dumped APC to run against his estranged boss, Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) at the poll. A source close the national headquarters of the APC confided that the move to draft the former governor to the party was to strengthen the chapter for a certain agenda ahead of 2023. He said: “From the look of things, our man, Akeredolu, appears not to be on same page with the Aso Villa, owing to his recent position on certain national issues. “So, we are working hard to ensure the former governor joins us to take charge of the party because we cannot afford to toy with any state in the Southwest.” However, Ondo State Commissioner for Information Donald Ojogo dismissed insinuations that the positions taken by Akeredolu were targeted at the Presidency. He said: “It’s a good thing, if those who left the party or even willing ones are coming to join the party; but the slant that Governor Akeredolu’s stance on some national issues is responsible for the search for fresh frontiers is dismissable. “Whatever position he has taken in the past or would take on national issues can only be propelled by altruism and patriotism. So, if anyone finds opportunity under such cover to blackmail the governor as being at loggerheads with the Villa, it will be unfortunate. “But, if it happens, we won’t be surprised because some persons take politics to boundless levels, not minding whether the wellbeing of their folks is endangered or not.” Efforts to elicit reaction from Mimiko was abortive. The text message to his media aide, Eni Akinsola, was not replied. 