Four Females and two males have received US$ 1,000 each for winning the 2021 “Taking Responsibility Enabling Entrepreneurship Contest”, organised by the Summit Bible Church in Abuja. The winners, Ms Bisola Asala, Ms Vanessa Vese, Ms Mary Oluwaseun Omoloyin, Ms Esther Adeoye Ohiyumere, Mr Precious Zamdayu, and Mr Darlington Onwukwe, were all rewarded on Saturday in Abuja during the “5th Edition of This Generation 2021 Conference”. Pastor Andy Osakwe, the Convener, represented by Mr Kingsley Bangwell, the Project Coordinator, said that the entrepreneurship accelerators programme was done to cushion the harsh effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on young striving entrepreneurs. According to him, “we received over 256 applicants who displayed strong passion and vision towards their entrepreneurship goals and among which 60 participants were selected. This number was whittled down to 47 who participated till the end of the competition. “The 47 participants were from Delta, Kaduna and Abuja and the top 10 were selected after three different pitching competitions. They went through six weeks of mentoring by seasoned entrepreneurs. “The initiative is because many challenges we face as a nation are massive opportunities for young innovators and entrepreneurs to emerge with unprecedented solutions that address these challenges and create wealth.” Following the lockdown, he said, “one area that the government and well meaning organisations have been paying more attention to is how to improve the economy and help many affected businesses. “As a man of faith and a believer in the new Nigeria, I can say that each time I read about the gallant achievements of Nigerian youths, it gladdens my heart because it also aligns with the word of God. “And this were basically the reasons why we decided to allow our youth to showcase and exhibit themselves in order to get cash gifts to boost their dreams,” he said. He advised the winners and other participants not to relent in pushing for their dreams to come through and for a better Nigeria. He also advised the winners to optimise the cash gift and create more opportunities for others too. Otunba Adeniyi Adeba, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, via a zoom call, congratulated the winners of the competition and urged them to keep their vision alive. The minister also urged the youths and young entrepreneurs to not relent in making wealth and in striving to carve a niche for themselves in the country. He encouraged them to be diligent in all their legal and legitimate endeavours in accordance to the laws of the land and scriptures in the Holy Bible. Ms Esther, one of the winners, lauded the initiative by the church to empower the youths, especially young entrepreneurs. She urged more churches and the government to emulate the programme by identifying the areas of strength of the youths and engage them in those areas for a more productive generation. Also, Mr Precious Zamdayu, another winner, applauded the organisers, the sponsors and the mentors who facilitated the entire six-week programme. He also called for more innovative platforms across spheres of government for the youths. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the winners went through six weeks “Young Entrepreneurship Accelerator Programme”, during which seasoned entrepreneurs mentored and tutored the young visionaries on practical industry knowledge. (NAN)