 Claim: A viral video making rounds in Niger state claimed to be of people fleeing from attacks by herdsmen in Niger state heading towards Kebbi. Conclusion: Although analysis is ongoing regarding the location of the video, the video however is not of people fleeing from herdsmen attack in Niger state. Full Text A video on the 10th of June was circulated on Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp. The video portrayed that people in Niger state were running towards Kebbi from attacking herdsmen. On Facebook, one of the accounts that shared the video is Deyemi Saka, who claimed to have obtained it from a friend Ismat Suleja. His post reads: “This was sent to me from a friend in Niger State and claimed “these are people who are fleeing from attack by herdsmen in Niger state and heading towards Kebbi” Ismat Suleja  Thanks for sharing.” On Instagram, it was shared by @thelowdownstations whose post reads: “Northern Nigeria…These are not migrants, these are Niger state citizens…indigenes…who have been sacked by insurgents who came intp Nigeria through the borders and won’t stop killing and kidnapping. “Now they are migrating in mass from Niger in to Kebbi..These foreign bandits are everywhere…North..South of Nigeria.” On WhatsApp, it has been shared to several individuals and in various groups. Verification While analysis is still ongoing for the exact location where the video takes place and the language being spoken, preliminary verification revealed the following: ●      The language spoken is not Gbagi, Kambiri, Nupe or Hausa which are the major languages in Niger state which can also be found in Rijau local government area. ●      The video showed people moving but on closer look, it was observed that the people were not running which should be if they were really fleeing from the attack of herdsmen. This can be seen when watching the video from 37 -39 seconds. ●      Some of the women were seen wearing hats which are small in nature and which is not typical of the women of Rijau local government area of Niger state. ●      Watching the over three minutes video, no one seem to fall which should have been the case should a group of people be fleeing as indicated by posters of the video. In a crisis suituation, there should be something like a rush and one or two people would be bound to fall down. ●      In the 50-54 seconds, a young girl was seen confidently hawking what seems to be like bread and she wasn’t running. This seems unusual for a suituation which should be said to be about people fleeing from attacks ●      In 1.05 minute, some women stopped to adjust the baby on one of the women’s back.  About Rijau Distance from Kebbi to Rijau    144 km 89 miles Niger Commissioner of Information, Mohammed Sani Idris, in a statement debunked the rumour. He said: “Our attention has been drawn to a video of a number of fleeing people believed to be refugees purported to be fleeing from Rijau. “The story is untrue. We investigated the origin of the video and discovered that it is not from Nigeria. “As Niger state, and the entire country, is experiencing a security challenge, some unscrupulous characters have decided to chance upon the situation as an opportunity for mischief and political profit. “To the characters responsible, know that, firstly, God is in the know of your machinations and would judge you accordingly. Secondly, the Government will trace the story to its origin like it has done before and will be hard on both the authors and those responsible for spreading the falsehood. “We cannot permit mischievous individuals to deepen the anxiety of our people and exacerbate an already difficult situation. The government will come down hard upon these criminals, and will see to it that they are made to face the full wrath of the law.”