 Coach Falz took delight in taking a pound of flesh from Coach Darey as the knockout stage ended in the ongoing The Voice Nigeria season three. For week ten, the four coaches Yemi Alade, Falz, Waje, and Darey Art Alade were entertained as Darey’s six-talent team took turns to share the spotlight. With the reminder that the three other coaches – Falz, Yemi Alade, and Darey Art Alade – had the opportunity of stealing any of the talents after their performances, Anu became the second talent to be stolen in the knockout stage. As expected, the 10th episode of the talent reality TV show was filled with drama and unending emotions which had Darey, Waje, and Falz losing, stealing, and pitching to some talents on Dare’s team. In the eighth week, KPee was stolen by Darey after Falz sent him to the danger zone.  Just as it has now become the norm with the coaches stealing from one another, Falz decided to retaliate against Darey’s decision to steal KPee in episode eight of the show. And just as Waje battled for KPee but lost to Darey, she battled for talented singer, Dapo but again lost to Falz. Waje was however consoled with Ayomikun, who was left in the Danger Zone by Darey even after his rendition of Bruno Mars’ Just the way you are. In an interesting twist, five of the members of Darey’s team made it to the battle – either through stealing or save. However, Blescene’s journey on the talent show after failing to make it to the next round despite her rendition of Pussycat Dolls’ hit single, ‘Stick with you.’ Rachel’s rendition of Smash into you by Beyonce got her into the Battlefield just as Esther’s rendition of Westlife’s flying without wings landed her a spot on the battlefield. Jeremiah got into the next round after being saved by Darey from the Danger Zone. Dapo made it to the next stage after he was stolen by Falz while Ayomikun got himself a place in the next round after winning Waje’s heart. Five talents in Darey’s team namely Rachel, Esther, Jeremiah, Dapo, and Ayomikun joined Nuel Ayo, Inioluwa, Eazzie, Vanilla, Kitay, Naomi Mac, Peace, KPee, Tamara, Anu, and Toscene on the Battlefield. With 16 talents already through to the battlefield, the coaches gear up what promises to be the battle of the fittest. The week ended with the show’s headline sponsor, FirstBank intensifying on its promise to reward viewers with the FirstBank moments through its social media handles. The FirstBank moments require viewers and respective fans to respond to questions asked on the show, whilst being rewarded. Six fans that rightly answer the questions asked in the course of the show are rewarded every week. Sponsored by FirstBank, Baba Ijebu, and produced by Un1ty, The Voice Nigeria further showcases the bank’s role -through partnership – in enabling Nigerians by passionately empowering and investing in youths while giving voice to everyone. FirstBank’s Corporate Communications Group Head Folake Ani-Mumuney reiterated the bank’s commitment to strengthening the creative industry which is fast growing into a multibillion-dollar business, with the potential to be a leading contributor to Nigeria’s GDP soon.