Rector, Ogun State Institute of Technology (OGITECH), Igbesa, Ogun State, Dr. Olufunke Akinkurolere has urged fresh students of the institution to develop their entrepreneurial skills to give them an edge over their counterparts in other institutions. She spoke at the institution’s 15th matriculation where over 2,000 students were matriculated. The event held at the Dapo Abiodun  Twin Lecture Theatre. Those who attended  include the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Igbesa Police Divisional headquarters, Mr. Abayomi Adeniji, principal officers of the institution, members of academic board of the institute, the parents of the new intakes, among others. The rector, who  described students of the institution as the ‘nation’s pride’, told the new students they were fortunate to be admitted. She said:” This ceremony marks the official entry of newly admitted students into the institution. We have formally admitted candidates who have been tested and tried. In fact, they are fortunate to  have been  offered admission into this great citadel of learning. “This institution is a place  where  premium is placed on academic excellence, godliness and moral values.” She said the institute had got approval for two new programmes in Higher National Diploma (HND), Estate Management and Valuation and National Diploma (ND) Welding and Fabrications in the  accreditation exercise which  held in February this year. Akinkurolere urged the matriculants to shun  misconduct and social vices, noting that the institution’s leadership would not hesitate to sanction erring students. “I implore the new intakes  to show respect to their colleagues, staff (both teaching and non-teaching) in the institute to make their stay fruitful and productive. Also, shun all forms of deviant behaviour and other vices and remain focused,” she said. The rector also  enjoined them to be modest and decent in their dressing  and adhere to the rules and regulations  in the students’ handbook. She charged them to make use of the opportunity offered by parents and  ensure  they attend classes at the right time.