The annual business summit powered by the Thriving Business Women Fellowship, an arm of the Victorious Praying Women Ministry, starts this week. It will hold all through the month. Now in its 13th edition, the Business Summit 2021 will be hybrid (both physical and online). Themed “Reposition,” this year’s summit aims at helping businesses affected by the COVID-19 pandemic regain their strength, refocus and reposition for the new normal. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA looks at how the summit that has been grooming the next generation of entrepreneurs has moved a notch higher to helping businesses ride the COVID-19 storm.  The Creative Director, Delightsome Boxes, a company that makes gift boxes, Oyeniran Oluwatoyin, owes her rise to fame and fortune to her participation at the June 2017 edition of the annual business summit of the Thriving Business Women Fellowship (TBWF), the business fellowship arm of the Victorious Praying Women Ministry. Although she joined TBWF in 2016, it was the Fellowship’s Business Summit platform, the following year, that birthed Delightsome Boxes in 2017. “Today, we churn out boxes in hundreds and we are doing powerfully well,” Oluwatoyin said. She couldn’t have imagined that Delightsome Boxes would grow in leaps and bounds, but the opportunity of mentorship and experience sharing during the 2017 business summit made that possible. “One of the speakers that came to the summit when I was in attendance was into boxes. She makes gift boxes. Somehow, I got interested and I went after her to learn. She thought me and also became my mentor. I was assigned to her at the post-summit event so, she took me by the hand; she opened her doors to me and from time to time I could go to her and now I am on my own,” Oluwatoyin narrated. Held all through the month of June every year, the TBWF business summit is the most-sought-after annual business summit for start-ups and aspiring women entrepreneurs, including sit-at-home mothers, fresh graduates as well as people in paid employment. The summit gathers successful business people to share their stories and experiences, talk about their challenges and how they were able to overcome them so that other women would learn from them. The summit was an offshoot of TBWF’s Inspirational Tuesdays, with Pastor Mayokun Oreofe as the convener. Oluwatoyin is, however, not the only budding entrepreneur that rode on the back of TBWF’s business summits to carve a niche for herself in the world of business. The Chief Executive Officer, Tiwa Hair Vitamins, a hair care line, Dolapo Ogunwale, is also counting herself lucky for participating at the 2019 business summit. “It gave birth to my hair care line, which is still running till date. After the sessions, I was greatly motivated by Oreofe, and the Holy Spirit laid it in my heart to start a hair care treatment range,” she said. Oluwatoyin and Ogunwale are just two of the several success stories of start-ups and aspiring women entrepreneurs that have blossomed into vibrant business owners by riding on the back of the summit. And their testimonies and exploits must be responsible for the great anticipation by aspiring women entrepreneurs from diverse vocational backgrounds for this year’s edition of the summit, which begins next month. The anticipation is not without justification considering the timing and choice of theme for the Business Summit 2021, which holds every Tuesday. Coming at the time of COVID-19 pandemic, the summit, now in its 13th edition, is themed “Reposition” and it will be hybrid (both physical and online). The Team Lead, TBWF Business Summit, Olamide Agbalaja, explained that the theme was chosen to reflect the reality of the time and the need to help businesses affected by the COVID-19 pandemic regain their strength, refocus and reposition for the new normal. “The choice of the theme was informed by the Holy Spirit. Secondly, as a result of what we have in our present world today, many people didn’t know that there is going to be COVID-19; that a lot of things will change. And you know because of this pandemic, a lot of businesses have been affected. So, the whole essence of the theme “Reposition” is to help you reposition your business and become a better person in your industry, to help you use this pandemic as an opportunity to come out strong and do greater exploits,” Agbalaja said. She expressed optimism that with this edition, businesses would rise again, plant more businesses and be able to affect the world. She hinged her optimism on the success of the summit’s previous editions, which, according to her, not only birthed many businesses but also saw many at the point of crumbling rise again. “If something is not working, people will not come again. If you go to our website, you will see peoples’ testimonies; you will see businesses move from ground level to big businesses,” the Team Lead said. Agbalaja said reposition dealt with how businesses are going to cope in the new normal. “We are repositioning for the new normal,” she stated, pointing out that this year’s summit will be a hybrid session. “We will have people coming in to be live with the speakers, then we will now do broadcast on Facebook, YouTube and other social media platforms as well. So, there is going to be physical and virtual,” she explained, adding that the conference would bring people from all walks of life to talk to business owners about their businesses and how they can expand. Agbalaja further said: “We are also giving them (start-ups and aspiring women entrepreneurs) mentors that will hold them by their hands. Speakers will come to share their grass-to-grace stories so that participants can identify with such stories. So, we are also assigning mentors who are successful in their own field to them. If you are a caterer, for instance, you have a successful caterer come to tell you how to run your business better and also open your eyes to opportunities that will help you climb the ladder of success.” The Business Summit 2021 is free for participants, but registration is compulsory. Although over time, the number of participants has risen to 3, 000 each year, Agbalaja said TBWF expected between 5,000 and 6,000 participants this year, since the summit was not just physical, but also online. “The beautiful thing is that we will have the summit on Facebook and YouTube, so, you can always go back and watch it.  So, we are targeting like 5,000 to 6,000 participants this years. The summit is free and anybody can go back and watch it,” she stated. It will also have plenary sessions that are industry focused. “We have the agric industry; we have education; we have catering, fashion, and events. The whole essence is having a mentor talk to you about your business and how you should go in this new normal, how you can reposition, how you can expand your business,” Agbalaja said, pointing out that, although, TBWF did not give participants money to start businesses, “having people that you can depend on to help you bring your ideas into fruition, overall, will make you do well.” The Team Lead was emphatic that with an array of speakers, cutting across several industries with high-level wealth of experiences and expertise, this year’s edition, which would build on the success of previous editions, would be game-changing. And the icing on the cake for prospective participants is, perhaps, the post-summit event during which some speakers will be attached to mentees for a period of time. Apart from Oreofe, who is the convener, others in the line up of speakers include Business Strategist and MD of Bubez Foods, a competitive player in Nigeria’s food processing & packaging industry, Ijeoma Ndukwe; Chief Operating Officer (COO) and Executive Director of SAS Textiles Ltd, Oluwatoyin Bakare; General Manager, Mars Multiconcepts Limited, Ijeoma Nwakuche. Nwakuche will bring her 16 years’ experience working across various sectors of the oil & gas industry to hone the entrepreneurial skills of participants, while Ndukwe’s passion for business, beginning in her undergraduate days, with the sale of products such as Mary Kay and Senegalese etc, will come in handy for aspiring start-ups. Bakare, on the other hand, is a seasoned entrepreneur and an alumnus of several renowned business schools. She also sits on the board of several companies and foundations. Other confirmed speakers include the Managing Director, Delightful Toyshop, an organisation that specialises in children’s toys and early learning materials, Omotola Lawson; and Manager, Teelonis. a personal shopping and gift consulting services in Nigeria, Temitope Olonilua. Under Lawson’s leadership, Delightful Toyshop became the distributor for leading global toy brands and is the sole Nigerian distributor of Little Tikes and LOL surprise brands, among many others. Olonilua is an accomplished entrepreneur with over a decade experience running a proudly Nigerian company that serves other countries, including the United Kingdom and the United States of America. She is a pioneer of personal shopping and gift consulting services in Nigeria and has successfully built a cache of individual and corporate clientele. 