Popular gospel singer Sola Allyson has weighed in on the knockdown of trending song “Oniduro” by Tope Alabi. Alabi had descended on the song by Adeyinka Alaseyori, saying it was meaningless and not inspired by God. But Allyson insisted God is the ultimate guarantor. Tope Alabi, during a song ministration in a church, had said: “What kind of song is that? God is not my guarantor, he is more than a guarantor. “Although I have tried to correct the singer (who isn’t the original composer) but she got angry. I loved that song but when I tried to sing it the Holy Spirit told me to shut up”. Alabi’s comments had drawn reactions from the public, including her colleague Sola Allyson who took to social media to air her opinion. Sola said: Oníìdúró mi, Ẹ ṢÉ OOO! For me and many souls which connect to this song, Oníìdúró mi, we have stories which clearly show that we would have been forgotten long ago if not for the guarantor side of The FATHER that was expressed in our lives… Commending Yinka Alaseyori, she said: “I commend Yinka for making the song more accessible to souls all over the world and I wish her more help in all her doings. “The song tells the story of many of us who had no backing from anyone and none to rest on or be as hiding place as to what our tomorrow would have been. “I first heard this song years ago from Mama Bola Are at my home-out-of-home, @agape_pground in Akure and I immediately connected with it because, me, I would have been ridiculed and deserted and forgotten! The song helps me express my gratitude in that respect very succinctly. “I have come to learn that we understand the concept of GOD differently, depending on how we were “given” and how much we are granted to see as we make effort to dig deeper. And that’s why I live my life devoid of divides which different abilities in understanding breed… “I don’t know much about life. I am still a learner who seeks for my mind to be renewed daily but one of the few things I know dunjúdunjú and dájúdájú in life is that I received the help of a guarantor, an Oníìdúró from The Realms of GOD, The Almighty, at times when it was obvious that generational jànkárìwọ̀ would have stalled me from fulfilling destiny. “Times when, as a lawful captive, foundational voices vibrated higher than my own and I was going to be consumed! I was set free by The ultimate Guarantor, Oníìdúró mi! And I became totally free to walk as I should in destiny, to grow and thrive as should be… “We see in parts. GOD, The FATHER Is revealed to us in different ways and sides depending on many things… “Concluding based on the bit we are granted to see is dangerous and not fair on humanity. There are many ways we approach GOD and words we use based on our limited understanding but I know that by mercy, the state of the heart is understood…
Is it not by mercy that we can approach in the first place? Remember that I am a learner. “ONÍÌDÚRÓ MI, Ẹ ṢÉ OOOO! Mo dúpẹ́!!”