The food sector is an economic powerhouse, a jobs creator and major contributor to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Policymakers across Africa are making efforts to provide the most conducive condition for the industry to thrive. In the last 10 years, attention has been given to upgrading the agricultural transportation system, including the establishment of logistics and manufacturing clusters, to lift food production. Some giants in the industry are partnering the government to establish strong agribusiness and food processing sectors. Consequently, big corporations are establishing large food processing areas close to the ports to help grow the export sector. Addressing the Africa Economic Zones Organisation (AEZO) meeting, African Development Bank (AfDB) President, Dr Akinwunmi Adesina noted that special economic zones are helping to grow the economies of many countries. His words: “Their numbers have exploded from less than 200 in the 1980s to 5,000. Collectively, they have contributed exports worth $3.5 trillion, roughly 20 per cent of global trade in goods. “In Africa, special economic zones are operating in 38 countries, accounting for annual trade turnover of $680 million.” He maintained that special economic zones have not been as successful in Africa compared to Asia and other parts of the world, for several reasons. Reason? “First, is the more limited infrastructure, with Africa’s infrastructure financing gap estimated to be $64-$108 billion yearly. “Second, is the weaker institutional environment and coordination challenges. Third, is the limited access to financing to develop well-integrated value chains.” While special economic zones have been focused on exports, attention should be given to the regional markets in Africa. He continued: “Special economic zones should allow Africa to develop its manufacturing capacity, competitive regional value chains, for exports into the African Continental Free Trade Area, and to expand their integration into global value chains.” According to Adesina, a former minister of agriculture, the agribusiness is the sector with the largest potential for wealth in Africa, which may hit over $1 trillion by 2030. Tapping into this large market requires a structural approach to develop better integrated agriculture value chains. That’s why the AfDB is supporting the development of Special Agro-industrial Processing Zones (SAPZs). These zones will focus on agro-industrialisation, by investing in integrated infrastructure, and value chains – processing, marketing and logistics. He is not alone. In an interview with The Nation, the President, Association of Micro Entrepreneurs of Nigeria (AMEN), Prince Saviour Iche, noted that free zones and ports are vital for development. He said for the food processing sector to be efficient, infrastructural facilities should be located within special zones or near the ports.The proximity to various ports, according to him, will provide  facilities and hinterland connectivity, thus ensuring a reduction in logistics costs. Such zones, he added, must connect key actors in the value chain such as farmers, importers, exporters and logistics service providers. Iche said such facilities should be positioned for businesses to access and serve the global market. He said small business could explore the right blend of incentives, workforce, business climate to be successful. He said there is also a network of support services, technical expertise and resources. He said the establishment of FTZ would bring many benefits to SMEs as more jobs would be created for the processing of farm produce for export and re-export to overseas market. According to him, packaging and food processing factories set up within such facilities would provide better quality jobs for locals, which is in line with the government’s direction. An exporter, Anga Sotonye, urged the Federal Government to expedite action on the setting up of FTZs as well as agro commodities industrial clusters. He explained that farmers needed such facilities where agricultural produce, could be processed into grades for export to the overseas markets. When the produce are not exported, he said they could be sold in the local market. Without such facilities, which enable producers to enjoy sufficient economies of scale, some exports could become uncompetitive. With so many ports and free zones, he noted that the country’s position as a primary gateway for trade with other nations within the West African region, will be enhanced. Anga, who is the Coordinator, Agribusiness & Youth Empowerment, Community of Agricultural Stakeholders of Nigeria, said the food processing industry, holds tremendous potential to grow, considering the large raw material base that the country offers, along with a consumer base of over 100 million people. He said the zones would provide facilities for cleaning, grading, sorting, specialised storage, pre-cooling, testing, packing and other services. The goal, he said, was to support the development of the food-processing sector through the provision of centralised, modern facilities and equipment, including logistics and cold chain infrastructure. The Chief Executive, Kereksuk Rice Farm, Rotimi Williams, said the industry is facing challenges, including a weak transport and logistics system. Because of logistics management, causing congestion on the way to the port, it was difficult to transport the large volumes of cargo, calling for initiatives to enthrone a strong food supply chain that can help smooth and speed up the journey from farm to fork. He added that the logistics system must respond with solutions to help them anticipate future needs. For the economy to blossom, he maintained that Nigeria’s free zones and well-equipped ports to handle various cargoes, including food. Williams, also the President, Young Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria, noted that the economy could be on its path to growth by focusing its energies on boosting economic advantages, exceptional infrastructure and lifestyle attributes and expanding food sector has the ability to add exceptional value and convenience. Food testing, processing and packaging facilities as well as transportation firms, packaging design, equipment, and specialised refrigerated storage, he stressed, should be located within the farmers’ proximity. As part of its strategy to become a major centre of commerce in the region, the government is hoping to complement the development of new transport infrastructure with the establishment of new trade areas. So far, FTZs in Lagos and other major cities are attracting a growing number of companies. The Lagos FTZ, a private sector initiative developed and managed by a Singaporean firm, the Tolaram Group, has some food firms, including Raffles Vegetable Oil, Kellogg’s Cereals, and Dano Milk.The zone is integrated with a new deep seaport development, scheduled to be completed next year. The Managing Director, Nigerian Export Processing Zones Authority (NEPZA), Adesoji Adesugba, said the cluster of zones, when fully developed, would be a catalyst for the industrialisation. The Calabar Free Trade Zone, based in Cross River State, established in 2001, has attracted more than $50million investments in the past two decades. The 36 firms in the zone include combination industries, a food company. Free Trade Zones (FTZs), also known as free commercial zones, are a sub-category of special economic zones. They are fenced-in, duty-free areas, offering warehousing, storage, and distribution facilities for trade, transshipment, and re-export operations, without the intervention of the customs authorities. There are several definitions of FTZs referring their different characteristics: However, the FTZ regime attempts to provide favorable conditions that decrease business transaction costs, promote investments, facilitate trade, encourage employment generation and guide certain economic reforms. Free-trade zones are mostly settled around major seaports, international airports, and national frontiers—areas with many geographic advantages for trade. Free zones fall into one of four categories: free trade zones, export processing zones, special economic zones and industrial zones. Free trade zones, typically located near seaports or airports, mainly offer exemptions from national import and export duties on goods that are re-exported. Local services gain, even if little, as value added to the goods traded. – Export processing zones go a step further by focusing on exports with a significant value added, rather than only on re-exports. – Special economic zones apply a multi-sectorial development approach and focus on both domestic and foreign markets. They offer a vast of incentives including infrastructure, tax and customs exemptions and simpler administrative procedures. – Industrial zones are targeted at specific economic activities, like media or textiles, with infrastructure adapted accordingly.