Real estate giant RevolutionPlus Property said it has concluded arrangements to celebrate her seventh year anniversary on June 26, 2021. Group Managing Director of the company, Mr. Bamidele Onalaja, said the seventh anniversary milestone was worth celebrating because the company has achieved great feats within seven years of being in the real estate sector. He said, for instance, that from just a single office in Lagos, RevolutionPlus Property now has branches in Abuja, Abeokuta, Ibadan and Port-Harcourt, with an international office in Dallas, Texas, USA. Aside these, Onalaja said the company also has several other businesses aimed at building a sustainable economy for Nigeria, Africa and the world at large.   He said, for instance, that the Corporate Dinner and Award Night will witness the official launch of a new group of companies known as RevolutionPlus Group and introduce its 11 subsidiaries to the public. Onalaja listed the companies to include RevolutionPlus Property Development Company Limited, RevolutionPlus Constructions and Infrastructure Limited, Remarkable Hotels and Apartments Limited, and Remarkable Foods Limited. Others are Remarkable Real Estate Investment Club, Remarkable Impact, Revplus School of Real Estate, Remarkable Impact Facility Manager (RIFMA), Chris Bamidele Onalaja Foundation (CBOF), Angelic Lingerie Limited and Happy Bet. The RevolutionPlus Property boss, who spoke with newsmen to intimate them on plans for the anniversary celebration, said the company started operations in 2014, with the vision to be the number one real estate company in Sub-Saharan Africa as well as the world. He said the company was conceived from the desire to bridge the housing deficit in Nigeria, by helping clients achieve their real estate dreams through its total commitment to affordable housing using multi-channeled services. A former banker, Onalaja has never hidden his desire to change the narrative that only a wealthy few can afford homes in the country. He said this was why, with his wife’s support, he   took the bold step to start-up what is now known as “The RevolutionPlus Brand”.  Online purchase of petroleum products ‘ll reveal actual consumption – IPMAN From Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja  The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria,  (IPMAN), has backed the decision by the Pipeline and Product Marketing Company (PPMC) to commence the sale of petroleum products online, saying that the method would reveal the actual daily consumption in the country.  IPMAN, in a statement on Thursday by its National President, Sanusi Fari, noted that the strategy would go a long way in assisting the government plan effectively for the oil and gas sector in the years ahead.  The association assured of its readiness to partner the federal government in its ongoing effort at curbing trans border  smuggling of petroleum and allied products.  The statement said: “We are supporting the federal government through the Ministry of Petroleum Resources and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) on its efforts in curbing trans border smuggling of petroleum products.  “Our members are ready to partner and cooperate with security agencies toward the eradication of smuggling of petroleum products across our borders.  “My administration can boast a good working relationship with the leadership of the National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO) and the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG).  “This working relationship can always yield positive results if harnessed by the federal government to curb smuggling.”  Fari dismissed media reports indicating that factions exist in IPMAN, stating that the association remained one by virtue of a December 14, 2018 ruling by the Supreme Court, which affirmed the indivisibility of IPMAN.  “I want to reaffirm that IPMAN under my leadership is not factionalised. I remain the National President of IPMAN by virtue of a Supreme Court judgment of 14th December, 2018 that recognised the 1997 IPMAN Constitution and the instrumentality of automatic succession to the Presidency of IPMAN as interpreted by the Federal High Court, Calabar on February, 21st, 2019.  “I call on government and the security agencies to ignore any person laying claims to the office as all the units and zones of IPMAN in the entire country are under my supervision.  “I can authoritatively confirm that my members nationwide have been complying with their renewal of bulk purchase agreement they entered into with the PPMC.  “I am therefore calling for closer cooperation with government authorities to enable the populace to continue to enjoy constant availability of petroleum products”, the IPMAN President added. 