Leadership ideally is hands-on, and a good leader is expected to personally hold the fort in times of crisis. That is what is meant, obviously, by the popular saying about leading from the front. Not that leadership never works by delegation or remote guidance, but that isn’t what you would expect in situations requiring personal responsibility and precision of judgment in crisis management. Absentee leadership has its day, but certainly not in times of emergency. Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello seems to have a different view of leadership. Few hours after the abduction of nearly 200 children in an Islamic school in Tegina, Rafi council area of Niger, the governor travelled out of the country reportedly in search of possibilities for strengthening the state’s security architecture. It would have made no difference had he travelled out on vacation, though, because reports said he was accompanied by his wife and there is no set date for his return other than it would be “within the shortest period.” A statement by the governor’s spokesperson strained to make clear he remained in charge of state affairs and would be remote-guiding governance. It said the governor had issued directives to security operatives and government officials to ensure rescue and safe return of the abducted Islamiyya children and others held by kidnappers, and assured people of the state that “government will continue to do all it can to protect the lives and property of its citizens while guaranteeing continuing peace and stability of the state.” Noting that Mr. Governor had directed that a situation room be activated to update the public on developments, the statement added: “While assuring parents of the abducted children of their safe return as security agencies had been directed to do all they can to bring (them) back as soon as possible, the governor urged citizens to cooperate and share information that would help in the quick rescue of the children.” Meanwhile, since the governor left town, kidnappers of the Tegina Islamiyya students have demanded N110million ransom for the children – a demand that has been referred to the state government. After chairing a security meeting last week, Deputy Governor Ahmed Mohammed Ketso said government would not pay ransom for abductees but would rather negotiate with the abductors to secure the hostages’ release. In other incidents, no fewer than 15 persons including a riot policeman were killed and a police station razed when bandits attacked Beri and Kasanga in Mariga council area of Niger. Four persons abducted in Batati community, Lavun council area penultimate Friday regained their freedom following Sunday night only after families reportedly paid N5.5million ransom. For a state so insecurity-prone as Niger, it shocks that Mr. Governor considered it a greater priority to travel out for whatever reason rather than be on hand to manage the crisis of the siege of bandits. Actually, it sucks!