The World Investor Week (WIW) being organised by the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) will focus on investor education and protection in post-COVID-19 pandemic era. IOSCO’s membership regulates more than 95 per cent of the world’s securities markets in some 130 jurisdictions. Nigeria is a signatory and member of the board of IOSCO. It holds from October 4 to 10, 2021, however, each market can choose any other week of October or November to promote financial and investor education, considering the conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. IOSCO, the global body of securities market regulators, organises the WIW, a week-long global campaign, to raise awareness of the importance of investor education and protection and to highlight the various initiatives of securities regulators in these two critical areas. The key messages of the IOSCO WIW campaign will be based on two themes of sustainable finance and frauds and scams prevention. These messages complement those of previous IOSCO WIW editions, such as online investing, initial coin offerings, the basics of investing, and digital learning and online education. In a statement, IOSCO noted that the WIW campaign continues to gain support among a growing number of jurisdictions, stakeholders and major international organisations. “In last year’s IOSCO WIW, participating jurisdictions undertook a range of mostly virtual activities, adapting and delivering them in exceptionally challenging circumstances. This dedication underscores the relevance and top priority that WIW participants give to financial education and investor protection,” IOSCO stated. Chair, IOSCO Board and Chief Executive Officer, Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, Ashley Alder, said the yearly global initiative has disseminated key investor protection messages worldwide, particularly when a growing number of retail investors are participating in securities markets. “Despite the pandemic, the IOSCO WIW´s educational initiatives continue to play a critical role in fostering confidence in the markets and protecting retail investors,” Alder said. 