Judiciary workers in Rivers state have relaxed the ongoing nationwide strike action of the Judiciary staff union of Nigeria (JUSUN). JUSUN national office on April 6, 2021, directed their members to proceed on indefinite strike, following the failure of state governments to grant their demand for financial autonomy. The leadership of the Union said there is no going back until their demands are met. The development led to the closure of all courts in Nigeria, including Supreme and Appeal Courts. Litigants, Lawyers and businesses around the courts have lamented hardship as the result of the situation. However, Governor Nyesom Wike expressed fury on the participation of the state JUSUN in the strike, claiming that his administration is already implementing financial autonomy for the judiciary in the state, stressing that the state workers are simply on sympathy strike in support of their colleagues in other states. He threatened to withdraw their salaries to implement the “no work no pay” policy from the month of June if they refuse to call off the strike and return to work as soon as possible. The Governor made the threat during a public function in the state last week, by early hours of Monday, June 7, the state union via a telephone call directed their members to return to work the same day. When the Nation visited the court Tuesday, most of the workers were seen in their courts either doing clean-up of their offices, tables and seats, updating court registers and preparing case lists in readiness for the resumption of sitting. However, no magistrate or Judge was sighted in the premises, but some lawyers were seen around. Some JUSUN members who spoke to our Reporter expressed delight returning to work after two long months, saying that they were tired of staying at home, as they greeted one another “happy new year.” Meanwhile, the Nation learnt that the outcome of the meeting of JUNSUN leadership and the government is ongoing in Abuja as at the time of filing in this report.