It is commendable that the Ogun State government, disturbed by the prevalence of smoking among secondary school students in the state, has intensified its campaign against drug abuse and cigarette smoking. Commissioner for Health Dr Tomi Coker highlighted the state’s fight against smoking at an event to mark this year’s World No Tobacco Day in Abeokuta, the state capital. The state’s Drug Control Committee has been active in the anti-smoking campaign, she said, adding that the establishment of Drug Free Clubs in public and private secondary schools in the state has helped to reinforce the campaign. Other states in the country should also be concerned about smoking among secondary school students. The state governments, and the Federal Government, should make greater efforts to tackle the problem of smoking among young students, who are regarded as the leaders of tomorrow. The theme of this year’s World No Tobacco Day, on May 31, “quit tobacco to be a winner,” emphasises the negatives of smoking. According to Coker, more than 16,000 Nigerians die of tobacco-related illness annually, adding that cigarette smoke contained more than 7,000 harmful chemicals, “70 of which are known to cause cancer.”  ”Tobacco use is the single most preventable cause of death in the world,” she observed.  ”It kills more people than AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria combined.” It is noteworthy that a Nigerian professor of pediatrics, Edwin Eseigbe, in a paper to mark World No Tobacco Day two years ago, drew attention to the need to protect the Nigerian child from tobacco use and smoke through anti-tobacco advocacy and capacity development. According to him, “3.6 -16.2 per cent in-school Nigerian adolescents aged 13-15 years smoke. Twenty-50 per cent of these in-school children are exposed or at risk of being exposed to second-hand smoke.” These figures are alarming. The situation raises questions about parental responsibility. It suggests that more and more parents are not playing their roles effectively.  It also suggests that more and more students are yielding to peer pressure and influence. Irresponsible behaviour by others can encourage smoking among young ones. For instance, there are people who think nothing of sending youngsters on errands to buy cigarettes.   It is not for nothing that the sale of cigarettes to minors is prohibited, and enforced, in several countries. This is a challenge the authorities must deal with. Importantly, agents of socialisation, including parents, teachers and religious leaders need to recognise the smoking problem among youths and intervene. Tobacco smoking is a public health issue that also involves people outside the country’s school population, which is estimated to be more than 25 million children and adolescents. About five million Nigerians are reported to use tobacco products; more than three million smoke, and more than two million are daily smokers. The National Tobacco Control Law 2015, which came into effect under President Goodluck Jonathan, has positive features.  But the extent of enforcement of the law is lamentably low.  The highlights of the law include ban on smoking in public places, ban on tobacco advertising, sponsorship and promotion, ban on sale of cigarettes in single sticks, ban on sale of tobacco products to minors and mandatory warning messages on cigarette packs. The authorities need to raise the level of enforcement of the law. Smoking has bad implications for individuals as well as society. This is why all societal stakeholders should be involved in the anti-smoking campaign. World No Tobacco Day was created by the member states of the World Health Organization (WHO) in 1987, “to draw global attention to the tobacco epidemic and the preventable death and disease it causes.” Significantly, it helps to keep the anti-smoking campaign on the front burner in Nigeria.