Minister of State for Health, Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora, has said the Federal Government has continued to ensure that the healthcare sector receives increased allocations, despite revenue constraint and demands from other competing sectors. Mamora said this during the inauguration of four projects, including out-patients clinic, molecular laboratory, students’ hotel, isolation ward at the Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Oshodi annex, Lagos. The minister, reiterating the commitment of the Federal Government toward improving healthcare delivery, said the projects would add value to healthcare service delivery in the country. “The Federal Government under the leadership of President Buhari, is aware of the importance of the mental health of Nigerians. It is important to mention that there has been a tremendous improvement and development of infrastructure in our healthcare institutions across the country. “The Buhari’s administration, despite revenue constraints and demands of other competing sectors, has continued to ensure that the health sector receives increased allocations. Health bills have been given priorities in our annual budget. I wish to emphasise that the improvement of the healthcare delivery and social wellbeing of Nigerians is on the front burner of this administration because we believe that a healthy nation is a wealthy nation. “The inauguration of these four projects is a demonstration of the commitment of the present administration of the President Muhammadu Buhari towards improving the healthcare in the country because we are committed to ensuring that Nigerians have access to quality healthcare at affordable costs.” Mamora also commended the management of the hospital for the projects and tasked them on adequate maintenance of the projects to enable them to serve for a long time. On her part, the Medical Director of the hospital, Dr Oluwayemi Ogun, lauded the Federal Government for its commitment to development of mental healthcare service delivery in the country. She said the projects would go a long way to enhance mental healthcare delivery in the country and also help to create more awareness about mental healthcare in Nigeria. “We appreciate the government for making the projects a success and we look forward to further support for more of these kinds in the future,” she said. The Chairman, Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Dr. Babajide Bello, noted that sound facilities are central to effective healthcare delivery and retaining of health practitioners. Bello said that dilapidation of health facilities and lack of availability of needed equipment in the healthcare system contributed to the exodus of many healthcare practitioners to other countries in search of a better working environment.