Money management consists of four simple strategies: Budgeting, Spending the money wisely by cutting unnecessary spending, Saving the money more wisely and investing diligently to grow money. Keeping some portion of your monthly income as savings is perhaps a great habit. Financial security gives us peace of mind about the present as well as the future. Financial security comes from managing your income intelligently. If you have good financial skills such as budgeting, investing in assets that grow, making purchases at the best possible prices, that means you’re well on the path of a worry-free, financially secure future. What are your financial priorities? Getting debt-free, paying the bills, or retiring early. Can you determine your financial priorities by looking at the spending habits in the last few months? By looking at your spending history, you will get a fair idea of where your money is going – on essential items or non-essential items. Don’t be disappointed if you’re not happy with your spending behaviors. Now, look at your future goals. Suppose you want to go on a Dubai tour. You determine that the tour package will require around ₦570,000. That means continuous savings per month for a while. Now, suppose you want to go to Europe instead, the budget will increase 2-3 times. For many of us, this won’t be possible to achieve without savings alone, so they need to have a sound investment plan that they need to start early on to reap benefits. You need to align your spending, savings and investing with your future goals. We often hear the term ‘net worth’ when someone is referring to a company. But it’s not just companies; even individuals can determine their net worth. Net worth= Total Assets (cash, savings, investments, properties, etc.) – Liabilities (debts, expenses, taxes etc.). If the subtraction results in a negative value, don’t worry; you’re not alone. But it is undoubtedly not a good sign. Your number one priority should be getting rid of debts. Remember, every time you take a loan, you may be robbing your future. Try to minimize your debt as much as possible so that your net worth can be positive. Many people avoid budgeting. They don’t want to this tedious task, noting down every expense, adding up the numbers each week or month. But budgeting is an essential part of money management. Make a simple budget with just two columns: income on the left side; expenses on the right side. If not fond of traditional pen and paper, use an app; there are plenty of budgeting apps on Android and iPhone like Good Budget, Monefy, Mint by Intuit or you can use simple Google Sheets for this. Financial experts recommend creating a comprehensive budget that should include all the items related to money: liabilities, investments, savings, donations, monthly/yearly expenses, life insurance, taxes and so on. This way, you will have a complete picture of your net worth and help you determine how to adjust your spending to meet future goals. Budgeting will also help you track your spending. Whether your income is being spent on essential or non-essential items? Look at the non-essential spending such as movies, dining out, grocery bills, and other things. Could you trim down them to have a positive balance sheet? If you want to have a financially secure future, you must go hard on unnecessary expenses. Do you purchase at the best possible price? Do you pay your credit card bills on time? There are various ways you can determine and make adjustments in your spending behavior. As stated earlier, the best money management starts with cutting down your spending on unnecessary expenses. For instance, a new iPhone 12 might be tempting but not a wise decision to spend your hard-earned money to pay 470,000 Naira if you already have an iPhone. The best way to limit your unnecessary expenses is to set a monthly and yearly budget. This will help you to spend your income within the set budget. Although it is helpful for those who spend wisely and pay their bills on time, it is perhaps an enemy for a lousy spender. Ensure that you use a credit card only if you are sure that you will pay on time. Resist the urge to buy things that are not required. A bad credit score can also affect your future loan requirements. So, use the credit card wisely. Try to limit the spending to 30% of the total available credit. Money is the means to achieve personal goals. You must be having life goals that require money. Why not give a monetary value to your life goals? First, draft a financial vision board to get you started – write down everything you want to accomplish in your life. Now add financial goals to your vision board. For each financial goal, write the monetary value, time to accomplish, how much saving it will require, etc. Now determine whether your spending habits and income are aligned with your financial goals. If not, then you know what you need to do – cut down your expenses and start investing. It is much easier to build wealth if you start saving and investing from a very young age. Right with your first payslip, if you have started putting aside some money for investing and saving, you’re more likely to have a financially secure future. Everything from life-insurance to term plans usually has a lower premium for young people than senior investors. You can invest early to reap benefits of compounding interest. Also, when you start investing early, there is a chance you can make an investment at much lower cost as an example many tech stocks are now trading 10-20 times from what they were 2-3 years ago. Early investors would have gotten same investment at lower cost. But it is important to note that Investing involves risk taking. Starting early gives you more flexibility on risk taking ability as you don’t have many family responsibilities. As a young investor, you can take risk by building diverse portfolio with a mix of low-risk and high-risk investments. Trade Forex Nigeria says “There are various investments and instruments in the financial markets from less risky options with low returns to high-risk investments with better returns like – mutual funds have a lower risk compared to other investments, while gold, stocks & indices have a medium-to-high risk, whereas complex instruments including derivatives i.e.: CFDs & Options, Online Forex Trading, few volatile Commodities like Crude Oil have the highest risk and are not suitable for most investors.” “Risk is an inherent part of every investment which can’t be removed; investors must be aware of this fact before they invest in anything.” As a beginner it is a best to invest on low-risk investments and invest through Mutual funds with experience & track record. If you are looking to invest yourself in the markets, start by learning the basics & risks. Once you gain enough experience you must trade in the markets yourself only through a regulated broker with a sound plan, diversified portfolio strategy and proper risk management. As an investor it’s also very important to look at the license, regulation and track record of a fund manager or broker before investing. For example, a Mutual Fund manager must be licensed by SEC and have a good track record, a Stock broker must be regulated by NGX with good performance rating, while a good forex broker must be licensed with top tier regulators like FCA with good reviews. Start small, learn, grow & diversify. It doesn’t matter how much you save or invest; what is essential is the practice of starting saving and investing early in life. And lastly be consistent. Life is unpredictable, so keeping aside some money for an emergency is perhaps a great idea. Marriage, childbirth, and various other life-events are unavoidable expenses. So, planning ahead is undoubtedly a great idea. Similarly, job loss and financial crisis can be beyond your control. So, keeping at least three to six months’ salary as an emergency fund can help you make the rollercoaster rides of life easy. Create an emergency fund that remains easily accessible. You set the amount aside at home or deposit in savings account in bank. Personal finance expert Nathan W. Morris, in his book ‘Your 33 Day Money Action Plan’, writes, “every time you borrow money, you’re robbing your future self.” And that’s true. Higher debt can rob you of a financially secure future. Getting rid of debts/loans should be your priority and is perhaps the No.1 money management tip. Talk to a financial expert who will help you structure/plan repayment of loans more economically. Make sure that you pay your installments on time to avoid the penalties. Save more money to repay your debts as early as possible. It doesn’t matter at what age you’re currently, buy a retirement plan now. Invest some amount in provident fund, long-term government securities, pension schemes, insurance every month. While choosing a retirement plan, consider these points: In the end, money management is the art of saving, investing, more importantly, spending wisely. 