Chaka Technologies, a digital investment platform, has secured Financial Technology (Fintech) licence from Securities and Exchange Commission of Nigeria (SEC). The tech company received the Digital Sub-Broker/Sub-Broker Serving Multiple Brokers from the SEC, in line with its commitment to regulatory compliance. The new licence  makes Chaka the first recipient of this new licence by the SEC, as part of the commission’s efforts to foster regulation within the investment-tech space. The SEC is, also through the licence, ensuring the safety of the public  and encouraging innovation within the sector. Co-founder & Chief Executive Officer, Chaka Technologies, Tosin Osibodu,  said the company is committed to achieving borderless investment and make Nigeria’s investment climate safe and future bright for investors. He said the company has a digital first philosophy, and will continue to promote financial inclusion in the country. Osibodu said:  “We are honoured to be the foremost fintech company to receive SEC’s first Fintech licence in Nigeria, the Digital Sub-Broker licence. For us, this is an important step towards achieving our vision to level the playing field for African investors, and a defining moment for the future of digital investments in Nigeria, and Africa at large. Receiving this new licence will enable us to continue to power on our mission to enable digital investing for businesses and individuals in the country and beyond.” He explained that as Nigeria remains an attractive hive for fintech innovation, the  new licence from the SEC is the much-needed guide to help safeguard the investing public amid the ever-evolving landscape. This licence represents a significant milestone for all players within this industry. “We are proud to set this precedent and are excited for the long-term impact of this new regulation and what it signals for the future. We are also thankful for the continued trust from our investors and partners, as we remain committed to fulfilling their needs,”  Osibodu stated.