A total of 127 suspected traffic robbers have been arrested by operatives of the Lagos Police Command since March, the police said Thursday. The suspects, according to a statement by spokesman Olumuyiwa Adejobi, were said to have been arrested at different parts of the state. He said the Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu assured residents the menace would soon be history with the deployment of additional resources to combat it headlong. With the deployment of more crime fighting equipment to the command by the Lagos State Government, Adejobi said efforts have been intensified to fizzle out the crime completely. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered that the combat training, musketry and range practice for police personnel in the command be continuous as the command also commenced the training of the police operatives attached to the newly formed Anti Traffic Robbery Squad to tackle the menace of robbery in traffic in Lagos State. “CP Hakeem Odumosu strongly attributed successes recorded in the fight against crimes and criminality in the state to training and re-training of police operatives and constructive collaboration with the public and other security agencies in the state,” he said. Among those arrested were Tunde Ramoni, 21, and Samuel Adepoju, 34, alleged to be notorious traffic robbers who operated along Ikorodu Road. They were arrested by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) on June 15, around Tipper area, while allegedly robbing motorists with an unregistered motorcycle. Police investigation revealed that Ramoni was in 2019, arrested with a gang of suspects pickpockets and was prosecuted, convicted and sentenced to six month jail time. Also, one Ibrahim Abidun, 26, was arrested on Wednesday at Agbomalu by policemen attached go Apapa Division with two locally-made pistols, two cartridges, assorted charms and weeds suspected to be marijuana. Adejobi said the CP has directed that the suspects be transferred to the Command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for proper investigation and possible prosecution. “While reiterating the command’s zero tolerance for crimes and social vices in the state, CP Hakeem Odumosu, ordered the Area Commanders, Divisional Police Officers and Tactical Commanders to redouble their efforts in securing public space,” he said.