The appellate court, sitting in Akure, last week added to the confusion rocking the Ondo state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) when it upheld Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s victory in the October 20 governorship election, dismissing the appeal filed by the PDP and its governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede, and ruled that the appeal lacks merit. Earlier, the Election Petition Tribunal had struck out Jegede’s petition. Jegede and his party have vowed to challenge the Appeal Court ruling at the Supreme Court. The PDP stated this in a statement signed by Kennedy Peretei, its publicity secretary. “The PDP and candidate of the party at the October 2020 Gubernatorial election will challenge the Court of Appeal decision at the Supreme Court. In concluding her lead judgement, Hon. Justice Theresa Orji-Abadua said the Appeal was partially dismissed and partially allowed. To the ordinary man in the street, the judgement was “inconclusive” and we must approach the Supreme Court to help them conclude the judgement. The kernel of our petition was whether or not Mai Mala Buni, as a sitting Governor of Yobe State, can double as National Chairman of APC,” PDP said. But observers of the politics of the state say this is not the best of times for the PDP in Ondo State. The party is unarguably beset with many intractable problems. Between last October, when it lost the guber election to the ruling APC and now, the party has had a series of internal crises ranging from leadership tussle, to suspension of prominent chieftains and disagreement over zonal executive committee positions. While it is understandable that contests for guber tickets usually come with intrigues, machinations, horse-trading and strife, it appears the fallout of last year’s Ondo PDP primary election have left bitter tastes in the mouths of many party leaders and members. Today, party members are not only singing discordant tunes, but are at daggers drawn with one another. The party is factionalised and the members are daily confused by the wrangling among their leaders. The raging battle over the control of the party’s structures in the state was compounded by the supremacy battle between Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo state and former Governor Ayo Fayose of Ekiti as chieftains of the party in the state lined up behind their preferred leader between the duo, to continue their political brickbats. A faction of the party in the state loyal to Jegede, and led by the state chairman, Fatai Adams, has been very consistent in their support for Makinde while the other faction under the leadership of immediate past national Vice chairman of the PDP, Eddy Olafeso, belong to the Fayose camp. This division has already ran down all the way to the grassroots as supporters of the two camps across the state join the raging political battle to further factionalise the troubled party. Although the Party had been experiencing some internal scuffles earlier, the crisis became pronounced last year during the primary election that produced Jegede as the flag-bearer. Some aggrieved members of the PDP had protested against the alleged manipulation of delegates’ list for the gubernatorial primary election held on July 22. It was alleged that the leadership of the party in the state was doing everything to favour one of the governorship aspirants. The angry party stakeholders condemned the state working committee of the party for allegedly planning to doctor the delegates list for the primary election of the party in order to pave the way for the emergence of their preferred candidate. The aggrieved members also called for the disqualification of a particular candidate for allegedly being involved in the manipulation of delegates’ list. The aggrieved PDP stalwarts alleged that over 101 fake delegates were smuggled into the ad hoc delegates’ list of the party. Like Jegede, Olafeso contested for the party’s guber ticket. Jegede was elected the candidate of the PDP even as Olafeso and some other aspirants faulted his emergence. Concerted efforts by party leaders kept the disagreement over the outcome of the primary election under wrap as the party prepared for the gubernatorial election proper. But contrary to a decision of party leaders that Jegede will pick one of the aspirants from Ondo South that contested against him as running mate, he picked a member of the House of Representatives, Hon Gboluga Ikengboju. This further created bad blood ahead of the election. The crisis was to attain a more serious dimension during the guber campaigns when some of the aggrieved aspirants disassociated from Jegede’s campaign activities, accusing the party’s candidate of high handedness. One of the aspirants, Banji Okunomo, in a communique issued by his campaign organization, directed all his supporters to refrain from joining forces with all political activities which relate to Jegede and his gubernatorial ambition till further notice. The PDP members said they observed with displeasure the overbearing political “modus-operandi” of Jegede since he emerged as the PDP candidate which they said demonstrated obvious display of dictatorship. They accused Jegede of manipulating the PDP structure to favour his political camp at the expense of others “winner takes all fashion”. “The previous recommendation by the PDP leadership including ELDERS COUNCIL and Party leaders to the effect that Mr. Eyitayo should drop the idea of Mr. Ikengboju Gboluga and pick from the list of names of those the Party found most suitable to foster the bond of unison and reconciliation needed to guarantee landslide victory for the PDP in the forthcoming gubernatorial duel scheduled for 10th October, 2020 was utterly jettisoned by the Party’s flag bearer. The BBO Campaign Organization hereby wishes to profoundly affirm our decision to remain resolute against anti people and undemocratic tendencies threatening the core values of our party with heavy cost on the winning chances of the PDP in Ondo State in respect of the coming Governorship election,” the communiqué read in part. It was also the fresh crisis ignited by Jegede’s choice of running mate that led to the exit of the then deputy governor, Agboola Ajayi, who also contested the primary election, from the party. And Olafeso and some other aspirants were to distance themselves from the party’s campaign following an attack on Fayose at one of Jegede’s rallies in Akure, the state capital. “As Fayose ambled to his seat on the podium in the packed venue of the event, thugs marched his way aggressively. One thug yanked off the green cap emblazoned with the name ‘Eyitayo’ from Fayose’s head. Moments later, the group of thugs engaged the former governor’s security personnel in fisticuffs as a melee ensued,” an eyewitness recalled. Expectedly, the ex-governor’s supporters didn’t waste time before blaming the camp of Governor Makinde for the events that transpired at the venue of the rally. With the party’s defeat at the polls came more trouble for the PDP in Ondo state. The warring factions didn’t let go their grievances and by November 2020, a party leaders’ meeting in Ibadan, the Oyo state capital, presided over by Makinde, exposed the festering crisis once again. At the meeting, former Osun State Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola was named as head of a five-man committee to reconcile aggrieved members in the zone as well as ensure unity and success in future elections. Adams led the state’s delegation to the meeting. But a parallel PDP South West leaders meeting was promptly convened in Lagos and attended by some Ondo PDP leaders, led by Olafeso. Angered by the presence of Olafeso and others at the Lagos meeting where Fayose held court and as usual, poured venoms on Makinde and his allies, Adams returned to Ondo and set up a disciplinary committee headed by Prof. Jejelola Jones, pursuant to Section 57(1) and 57(2) of the party’s Constitution (2017 as Amended). Other members of the committee are Gidado Ola, Ade Adeniyi, Adejare Andrew Orina, Solomon Tunyan Esq, Akin Layo Akinbibola and Bashorun Banji Abitogun (Secretary). “We are law abiding and will always follow the path of the truth. As of today, the meeting held in Ibadan was convened by the Zonal Caretaker Chairman who is the recognised body to call such meeting at the instance of the leader, Governor Seyi Makinde. He is the only serving governor the PDP has in South West. The committee set up in Ibadan is to look at issues in the party in the six states in the South West. It is to make sure we are of the same page, we are one united family. To ensure PDP is put in a position to win election any time any day. Any other meeting held somewhere is an aberration,” Adams said. Meanwhile, Olafeso said he has the backing and support of a majority of the Ondo PDP. He said it was a few of the Ondo PDP executive that are against the Fayose faction. “There was a meeting in Ibadan and some of us were left behind and those left behind decided to hold meeting in Lagos under the leadership of former Governor Fayose. The committee wasted no time in suspending some prominent members of the Olafeso camp from the party. Chief Oyedele Ibini, Hon. Lad Ojomo, Mr. Ayo Fadaka, Hon. Rasheed Elegbeleye and Hon. Ebenezer Alabi, were suspended by the State Working Committee of the PDP in Ondo State on December 22, 2020. However, their suspension was soon overturned by a letter from the then zonal Secretary of the party, Daisi Akintan, a loyalist of Fayose’s. The Zonal Caretaker Committee in a letter to Adams, a copy of which was made available to newsmen, called for restrain and urged the chairman to always ensure that his actions were in consonance with all extant laws of the party.  “It was confirmed that they were arbitrarily suspended by the State Working Committee without any preliminary hearing as demanded by the constitution. Therefore this action falls short of procedures as laid down by the party’s constitution,” the zonal leadership said. That was the situation until the last zonal congress of the party in the southwest was held. The Makinde camp emerged victorious with the emergence of Taofeek Arapaja, the Oyo governor’s nominee, as the new zonal Vice chairman of the PDP. In Ondo, Adams and his men returned home as winners having cornered all the zonal positions allocated to the state into their camp. Olafeso and his men left Osogbo, the venue of the congress dissatisfied but with their heads held high. While Arapaja jas been working round the clock to reconcile aggrieved party men within the zone since his emergence as zonal chairman, the crisis rocking the PDP in Ondo state is not abating. Observers say the current silence in the party can be likened to the peace of a graveyard. “The crisis is still very much on and the chieftains are merely pretending. As we speak, the two camps don’t relate together and the members are confused as to what is really happening. “Despite the charge by Governor Makinde and former Governor Fayose after the zonalm congress that the warring factions should sheath their swords in the interest of the party, especially as the 2023 general election draws closer, our leaders here in Ondo are still at loggerheads. Instead of the last zonal congress to unite the party in Ondo, we are yet to see the fruits of all the reconciliation meetings. It is very important that the leaders should come and end the crisis here in Ondo so that the party can move forward,” Hon Sola Fawehinmi, former state spokesperson of the Action Alliance (AA) and a chieftain of the PDP, told The Nation. Signs that the crisis is yet to be over emerged few days after the zonal congress when Fayose and Olafeso, who had earlier accepted the outcome of the election, accused Makinde and his supporters of winning the congress through intimidation and over voting. Expectedly, the statements caused fresh bad blood between the two camps within the PDP in the zone. In Ondo, the Adams’ group and other allies of Makinde accused Olafeso and his supporters of being bad losers. To them, Olafeso and Fayose, in the interest of peace, should stop speaking ill of the Oyo state governor. Fawehinmi added that it was unfair for Olafeso to go to a national television to attack Makinde and impugn the integrity of the peaceful and transparent congress. “One is surprised that less than 48 hours after that accepting the result of the congress and promising to work with Governor Makinde to build the party, these people turned around and started attacking the governor. Olafeso was on television to start the attack. Fayose followed the next day. As supporters of Makinde, we are not certain that the other group sincerely want peace in Ondo PDP,” he said. Speaking on the outcome of the election few days after accepting defeat and congratulating Arapaja, Olafeso gave inklings that the crisis remains unresolved when he said, “there are a lot of things the public didn’t know about the Congress. There are a lot of flaws and frauds. But as a party man who has been a member of the PDP for 22 years, I decided to give peace a chance in the PDP Southwest. It’s a fact they used thugs; it is obvious and should be noted how the rules were broken. Apart from the controversial delegates list from Oyo State, it may interest you to also know that 10 out of my votes were voided. Ten votes were voided against me and also, a clear case of over-voting was established.” A member of the PDP Board of Trustees in Ondo State, Chief Segun Adegoke has said the crisis rocking the state chapter of the party is unnecessary. “There is no reason for the grievances but I can’t say that somebody does not has a right to be aggrieved. It is better to resolve all matters arising amicably in the interest of the party. I am appealing to every members of the party to allow peace and harmony to prevail because no one is bigger than the party.” Similarly, a leader of the PDP in Oyo State, Alhaji Adebisi Olopoeyan, has urged Arapaja to aid the healing process within the Ondo state chapter of the party by reconciling with both Olafeso and Fayose. Olopoeyan, who together with Fayose supported Olafeso against Arapaja at zonal congress, said such reconciliation will make the party stronger.