The Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) has urged Governor Seyi Makinde to check the violence being perpetrated by road transport workers in the state. The party said it is unfortunate that Governor Makinde who was elected on the platform of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) is following the footsteps of the previous PDP administrations in the state when violence by road transport workers reigned in Ibadan, the state capital. In a statement, APC Publicity Secretary, Abdulaziz Olatunde said the orgy of violence unleashed on the innocent traders and passersby in Iwo Road axis were condemnable. The statement reads: “The people of Oyo State are again reminded of the promise of Governor Makinde when he visited Igangan after the bloody mayhem of Sunday, June 6, 2021, that the incident would be the end of a security breach in Oyo State. But, he failed to keep to his promise. After the Igangan mayhem and the one that took place subsequently on Iwo Road, Ibadan, on June 16, there have been daily occurrences of violence within the Ibadan metropolis. According to the APC, park managers created by the governor are responsible for the latest mayhem, like previous security breaches. “It is essential that we remind Makinde, once again, to put politics aside and embrace good governance at least for once,” the statement said. It added: “Moreover, the youth that are daily and systematically suffering from the lackadaisical attitude of Makinde to the security of Oyo State are the backbone of the development of any society; imagine the anger and the despondency of the youth which forced them to carry the victims and casualties to the office of Governor Makinde. “Unfortunately, eyewitnesses say operatives of Amòtékùn security outfit watched helplessly while the orgy of violence and mayhem was being unleashed. This, perhaps, confirms the fear of the populace that unqualified persons were recruited into the Amòtékùn outfit for an ulterior motive.” “Finally, for any state to attract investors, security of lives and properties is the major prerequisite, as witnessed during the last administration led by Sen Abiola Ajimobi when foreign direct investors flowed to Oyo State. As stakeholders in the affairs of Oyo State, we are once again advising Governor Makinde to brace up and rejig the security architecture of Oyo State, by convening a security summit, so that the gains recorded between 2011 and 2019 would not be eroded just like that.”  