The Enugu State government has said that it has commenced the prosecution of violators of COVID-19 safety protocols. Coordinator of the governor’s Task Force on COVID-19 Containment, Prince Chris Amalu, said yesterday that violators would henceforth have their days in court as the team concluded the second phase of sensitisation campaign on the need for residents to adhere strictly to safety protocols. Addressing reporters, Amalu said no single individual in the state would feign ignorance of the COVID-19 safety protocols, adding that his team had visited institutions, schools, markets and the state’s three senatorial districts and sensitised the people about the need to adhere strictly to COVID-19 safety protocols while the battle to contain the spread lasted. He said Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi had signed an executive order empowering the task force to apprehend anybody violating the safety protocols. Some of the facilities visited by the task force include Enugu State College of Education Technical (ESUT), Niger Foundation Hospital and Diagnostic Centre Independence Layout, Enugu and Institute of Management and Technology (IMT), Enugu among others. Amalu, while addressing the management of those facilities, explained that the aim of the awareness was to sensitise Enugu residents on the governor’s executive order on COVID-19 health protection regulation. Prince Amalu encouraged the management of the facilities and institutions visited to continue to ensure that they promoted education on COVID-19 prevention among the students address and customers. A member of the Task Force and Public Health Physician ESUT Teaching Hospital Enugu, Dr. Chukwuma Igweagu, noted that the purpose of the visit was to sensitise the people on the need to continue to maintain the Covid-19 prevention protocols. He maintained that though the prevalence of the virus might seem to have been on the decline in Enugu State, he advised that people should not relax yet as the virus had not been fully defeated. Igweagu however, urged everyone to a make themselves available for the second dose of the oxford AstraZeneca Vaccine, which is on-going in some designated centres in the state.