Senator Aishatu Ahmed (Binani) has inaugurated a total of 82 boreholes and two transformers for the people of her constituency, the Adamawa Central Senatorial District. The boreholes comprise 72 solar-powered and 10 motorised hand pump boreholes, while the transformers are of 500/32 KVA capacity each. Inaugurating some of the boreholes and transformers in Ngurore in Yola South Local Government Area and Song in Song LGA, Senator Binani said they were executed in fulfilment of her commitment to the well-being of her people. She said: “The provision of potable water through 32 solar-powered boreholes of 20,000 litres each, 40 solar-powered boreholes of 15,000 litres capacity each and 10 hand-pump boreholes throughout the 76 political wards of Adamawa Central District is a significant milestone. She also said the development gladdened her heart because safe water reduces chances of water-borne diseases by 50 per cent, thereby promoting healthy living. In Ngurore where her inauguration tour began, she said the community, a large settlement along the busy Numan-Yola Highway had not had electricity for three months due to a lack of transformer. “The two transformers of 500/33KVA being inaugurated in the two locations of Ngurore Ward will definitely provide relief to our people,” she said. Senator Binani said water and electricity facilities are the things her people need most urgently from their representatives and that she would at all times be mindful of her people’s needs. “I assure the people of Adamawa Central Senatorial District, and indeed the whole of Adamawa State, that our people’s welfare, well-being and interest will ever remain a topmost priority in all my engagements in the Senate and in my politics,” she said. The Chairman of the projects inauguration ceremony, Alhaji Ibrahim Bilal, who is also the Caretaker Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa State, said, Senator Binani had done her part by bringing the facilities. He urged benefiting communities to guard the projects against vandals.