Novak Djokovic did not try to play it cool after setting up a dream Roland Garros showdown with Rafael Nadal. The world number one defeated Matteo Berrettini 6-3 6-2 6-7 (5-7) 7-5 on Wednesday to secure a semi-final match-up with the 13-time French Open champion. Djokovic admitted his meetings with Nadal are “not like any other match” and said he expects a “great battle” Friday when the pair meet for the 58th time. “Let’s face it, it’s the biggest challenge that you can have playing on clay against Nadal on this court in which he has had so much success in his career,” Djokovic told a press conference. “In the final stages of a grand slam, it doesn’t get bigger than that. “Of course, each time we face each other, there’s that extra tension and expectations. Just vibes are different walking on the court with him. “But that’s why our rivalry has been historic I think for this sport. I’ve been privileged to play him so many times.” Djokovic holds a narrow edge against the man he called his biggest rival, with 29 victories to Nadal’s 28, but the Spaniard has won the last two meetings — including a straight-set triumph in the French Open final last year. “Obviously different conditions are going to be played on Friday then was the case in the finals of last year, so I’m hopefully going to be able to also perform at a high level than I have, especially in the first two sets in the last year’s final. “The quality and the level of tennis that I’ve been playing in the last three, four weeks on clay — Rome, Belgrade and here — is giving me good sensations and feelings ahead of that match. “I’m confident. I believe I can win, otherwise, I wouldn’t be here. Let’s have a great battle.”   Djokovic had to battle Wednesday to defeat the ninth-seeded Italian, letting loose a primal scream when he finally put the match away in the fourth set. The Serbian said the crowd was Davis Cup-like before fans were ushered out due to the local curfew. “The crowd lifted him up. He was playing some really powerful tennis,” Djokovic said. “Especially in the third and fourth he served tremendously strong and precise. It was just very difficult to read his serve and play someone like him. “He’s very talented. He can play well from the back of the court. He’s got a lethal forehand, drop shots. … When he’s on, it’s tough to play him.”