Four aspirants have been cleared to contest today’s governorship primary of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). They are Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo, Sir Damian Okolo, Okwudili Ezenwankwo and ThankGod Ibe. Southeast Bureau Chief NWANOSIKE ONU profiles the aspirants The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) is scheduled to conduct its governorship primary today, to pick its flag bearer for the November 6 election. They are Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo, Sir Damian Okolo, Okwudili Ezenwankwo and ThankGod Ibe.  Soludo: Prof. Charles Chukwuma Soludo is undoubtedly the favourite as the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) goes into today’s governorship primary. Soludo is not new in the politics of Anambra State, as he had contested for the governorship seat before now; he was the governorship candidate of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in 2010, but there was a gang up against him because he was seen as an anointed one. When he came out again to challenge incumbent Governor Willie Obiano for the APGA ticket in 2013, he was advised to relax that he would be the favourite to replace him. Thus, during the campaign for Obiano’s second term, he came out with this mantra “if it is not broken, why mend it?” This suggested that Obiano was the best man for the job. After he made that remark at Dr Alex Ekwueme Square, it became the sing-song in the state to date. Apart from being the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor during the era of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Soludo has held many other positions in the country. Currently, he serves in the Economic Team of President Muhammadu Buhari. With the backing of Governor Obiano in the race, political pundits have already started addressing him as the ‘next big thing’ (governor) in the state. Other contenders that are likely to pose a challenge to Soludo’s ambition have been disqualified to pave the way for him to emerge as the party’s flag bearer. They are Chukwuma Umeoji, Nonso Smart Okafor and Akachukwu Nwankpo. The decision has already thrown APGA into confusion ahead of today’s primary, both at the national and state levels. Soludo, a renowned economist was born in Isuofia, Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State.  He had his primary in his community, while his secondary education was in Uga Boys Secondary School, both in Aguata. He was born on July 28, 1960; he will be 61 in a month’s time. He had his university education at the prestigious University of Nigeria Nsukka, where he made first class in 1984. He also obtained his Master’s Degree and PhD degrees subsequently with distinctions on both occasions. Soludo was honoured by the Federal Government with the prestigious Commander of the Federal Republic (CFR).  Okolo: Sir Damian Okolo is one of the contenders for the APGA ticket cleared to contest today’s primary. He is an accomplished lawyer and surveyor of many years standing. A consultant Estate Surveyor and Valuer who worked with a firm known as Eze Anumnu and Co between 1977 and 1981 before he established his own consultancy outfit, Okolo, Okolo and Company. He hails from the commercial city of Nnewi and has earned a reputation over the years as a philanthropist. Though he does not stand much of a chance in defeating the anointed choice, Okolo is not a pushover in the contest.  Ezenwankwo: Okwudili Ezenwankwo became a household name in the state as the chairman of Anambra State Markets Traders Association (ASMATA). He made enormous wealth and became one of the leaders of the party in his area, Nanka, Orumba North Local Government. He currently represents Orumba North and South Federal Constituency at the House of Representatives. But, he is derisively described as one of the ‘siddon dey look ‘ members in National Assembly; implying that he does not contribute much to the deliberations of the house. Ezenwankwo is also has a good reputation because of his philanthropic gestures in Anambra State.  Ibe: ThankGod Ibe can be described as a political neophyte because he is virtually unknown in Anambra politics. Many would-be hearing his name for the first time. The governorship aspirant has been described differently by different persons. Some say he is an instructor; others say an intern supervisor, content developer and web editor.      