They went to the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) for a Law degree, but ended up falling in love. Usman Abdulrasheed and Musinat Zubair-Usman found ways to nurture their relationship despite pessimism by their friends and coursemates. Now married with two children, the happy couple share their law and love stories in separate interviews with ROBERT EGBE Mr Usman Abiola Abdulrasheed  My name is Usman Abiola Abdulrasheed (a.k.a) B20, I am from Osi in Ekiti LGA of Kwara State. I am the last of seven children of the family of the late Mr and Mrs Usman Ajaludo, both from Osi. My dad was a mechanic at the National Electric Power Authority (NEPA) before his retirement.  Jebba train encounters I attended NEPA Junior Staff Primary School Kainji, Niger State. I went to three secondary schools in all: Government Secondary School Omu-Aran; UMCA Comprehensive High School, Jebba and lastly NEPA Secondary School, Kainji. I have a lot of memorable experiences of those days, too many to mention. The one I feel I should share was from my time at Jebba. Any time we missed the bus to the camp, we would have to walk through the first and second railway bridges down to tollgate before getting to Kara and our eventual arrival at the camp. Whenever the railway passes while we were on the bridge, it was always a scary experience.  UNILORIN alumnus I went to the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), graduated in May 2010. Studying Law was such an interesting experience; among other things, we had a dress code. Students from other faculties of the university used to envy us a lot. I had many challenges, but we bless God today.  No history of lawyers (There were no lawyers in my family). The only person that was close who is a lawyer is Barrister Abdulkareem, who married our fourth born and he was such an inspiration.  Law School I have always wanted Law and I had to wait for few years to eventually gain admission for my desired course. Law School made me the Lawyer that I am, university, to me, had little impact on my Law (journey). Law School did the real law teaching and things I now come across in my everyday Law. If I had my way, I would do a reform for university law to be four years and Law school to be two years. Not much time for recreation at the Law school, you are there for a specific goal and, because you don’t want your mates to become your senior, you will have to give your best.  Call to Bar My family members were in Abuja in their numbers (for my Call to Bar). There was no party as such but there was plenty to eat and drink, then we took plenty pictures.  No academic awards, but… I didn’t win any academic award (at the university or law school); but maybe I would have won an award for the guy who chased the most girls at the university if there was such an award. (Laughs).  First solo court appearance It was at the Court of Appeal, Ilorin Division. I thought I was there to only pick a date but, unfortunately for me, the record of court showed otherwise. I struggled to convince the court that I couldn’t go on as I was not really abreast of the facts of the case. I was eventually allowed to pick a date after plenty of backlash from my Lords. But, to the glory of God, this experience gave me so much courage moving forward.  Embarrassing court experiences (I have had) Plenty. We are not expected to know the whole law especially as a junior. Sometimes judges see us as unserious and when you suffer a backlash from them, you prepare better next time to appear before them.  Wig and gown In my opinion, if it can be scrapped, it will be a welcome development. Leave every other piece of our dressing but take away the wig and gown; the bibs are enough to distinguish us with our lovely white shirts and dark suits.  Judge, SAN or Prof? I wish to be a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) one day, but, above all, I want to be a very rich legal practitioner.  Problems in the legal profession The only thing I don’t like about Law thus far is the fact that, there are a lot of quacks in our midst, helping clients to devalue the core lawyers. Sometimes you see clients offering amounts they can’t offer agents on registrable documents. NBA should do more in this regard.  Marrying a lawyer I met my beautiful wife at the university. I was in Part 5 at the time while she was in Part 3. We became friends and all. Several people met with her to discourage her that she was messing with the wrong person, but we ended up disappointing them in their numbers. (Laughs) Just kidding though, but a lot of persons actually thought we couldn’t (make our relationship) work, but today, we have two kids together, A female and a cute young man. By the grace of God, I would like our kids to follow in our footsteps.  Law vs football I love football a lot; I am from a football family. One of my brothers is a national team coach. We all like football in my house, but if I have up to a fifth chance to choose a profession, it would still be Law.  JUSUN strike I am in full support of the strike; the judiciary above all other arms of government needs autonomy to be able to dispense justice without fear or favour. I want to encourage both the federal and state governments to do more to avert subsequent strikes of this nature. A lot of Nigerians were affected by the strike, some languished in prison while others who needed affidavit or court orders to correct some immediate wrongs had to suffer cos courts were under lock and key.  Fed Govt’s threat to prosecute persons using Twitter When there is no law criminalising an act, it cannot become an offence overnight except there’s a legislation to the effect. I will not want to dwell too much on this but we play too much politics in this country not putting into consideration its effect on the electorate. Mrs Musinat Zubair-Usman  I am Musinat Adebola Zubair-Usman (Alias Mrs B20) from Ifelodun Local Government Area (LGA) of Kwara State.  Family of girls I was born and raised in Surulere area of Lagos State. I was born into a family of all girls by very spiritual parents. I spent most of my childhood in the company of my mother and sisters. I am the third and the last girl of my mother although (I have) several half siblings. My father is a clerical man who believes in his father’s last wish of propagating the teachings of our lord in Kwara State, precisely Amodu Asungbolu. My mom on the other hand is a non-governmental organisation practitioner with more than 30 years’ experience of active practice.  Memorable secondary school experiences I attended Dawah Nursery and Primary School in Jakande Estate, Oke Afa, Isolo, Lagos State. Upon completion of my primary education in September 2000, I proceeded to Federal Government Girls College (FGGC) Omu Aran in Kwara State to join my two older sisters. While one was in Senior Secondary (SS) Two, the other was in Junior Secondary (JS) Three. Spending six years in a boarding house made me more brave and self-independent. In senior class, I bagged several awards in literature, government and Islamic studies. My Art Class teachers were top-notch and I found myself so interested in all Art subjects. Boarding house was fun and at the same time very challenging. I remember a period of water scarcity and we decided to go to the school stream which was quite a walk from the school. On our way back, it rained heavily. While we were trying to network our way back to the hostel, some of us fell and got injured. Luckily for me, when I got to the hostel, I was still strong but not with a single drop of water. We were all rushed to the school clinic for proper check-up and the rest was history. In 2006 I graduated from secondary with top grades in my O’ Levels.  Tough first year at Unilorin In 2007, I proceeded to the prestigious University of Ilorin, in Kwara State to pursue my law degree. At the university, unlike secondary school, I had no mentor or guardian. I was all by myself and tried to find my feet with my colleagues. When our first exam result was released, it was so bad. For instance, I was expecting an A in the Law course, Legal Method, but to my dismay, I got a ‘C’. The course lecturer later told us that we did not answer the questions ‘legally.’ We did some other ‘minor’ courses in my first year, and we had issues with other departmental lecturers such as those in the Social Science, Political Science and some other departments. When we came back to the Law faculty in 200 level, I had a few senior friends who then advised us about building our Grade Points (GPs) and all. At this point, I started working towards making a 2.1 (Second Class Upper) degree. Eventually, I graduated with a 2.2 (Second Class lower) degree, just a few points from a 2.1.  First lawyer in the family To my knowledge, I am the first lawyer in my immediate family. However, we had a few close family friends that are lawyers. They include Fajimite, Dairo and Barrister Faoziyyah Bakare. At one point or the other, each of them was of good mentorship to me.  Inspiration to study Law I grew up reading the write ups of people like (the former president of the International Court of Justice and Nigeria’s first Attorney General after independence) Taslim Olawale Elias and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Gani Fawehinmi. At such early days, I knew I wanted to be part of people who protect the interest of fellow women and the masses. Law is the only choice I made in my teenage years. I would still choose law over and over again.  Law School less difficult than expected I attended the Lagos campus of the Nigerian Law School. I enjoyed every piece of the experience. I would say it was less difficult than expected. I recall that right from my 100 level at the university, our lecturers kept telling us that there was quota for Law School and Law School was as difficult as anything. I got in in 2012 and was called to the Nigerian Bar in 2013 with a 2.1. No award was won though, but I was well known amongst my peer for being modest and intelligent. My Call to Bar celebration was well attended with my mom, dad and my husband and his family. We had a party in Abuja with friends in attendance.  First solo court appearance After my Call to Bar, I joined John Baiyeshea SAN & Co. My first appearance was before a female judge who was so calm with me and made me feel I wasn’t a fresher at the Bar. After I left the SAN’s office, I joined the law firm of J.W. Iroju in 2015.  Embarrassing court experience I would say that at one of the sittings at a high court, my boss called me over the phone to take up the brief without giving me the file. I announced our appearances, obviously the matter was for a motion for an extension of time within which to file a statement of defence, and the judge asked me for the computation of time. I was lost. I didn’t even know for how many days we were out of time, let alone of the penalty to be paid. The judge was furious at me, but I learnt my lessons never to go to any court without being prepared.  Wig and gown I feel the wig and gown are symbols of uniqueness and honourary. They should not be scrapped.  Judge, SAN or Prof? I prefer being a SAN because it gives room for more opportunities in the practice of law.  Dating a law student, marrying a lawyer I met my husband while I was in my 300 level and he was in 500 level. A lot of people discouraged me about forging ahead with the relationship, but, at last, here we are, married with two kids and still waxing strong. Being married to my colleague has been so eventful though with a few hiccups. But on the whole, I will still choose being married to a learned man over other professions.