Leader of the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) Uchenna Madu has commended the people of Biafra for their overwhelming compliance with the sit at home exercise saying the late Odumegwu Ojukwu who declared the anniversary 54 years ago remains the greatest Biafra hero. Speaking in a statement on Tuesday, Madu said that the success of the exercise in commemoration of the 54th-anniversary celebration of the Biafra declaration on May 30th, 1967 by Dim Odumegwu Ojukwu was a clear demonstration of the people unquenchable quest for Biafra. “Our people have dramatized a strong statement that can never be ignored,” he said. “The sacrifices, dehumanization, subjective and inhumane sufferings our parents underwent during Nigeria Biafra war shall never be forgotten. The deep hatred and conspiracy of the British government in collaboration with Northern Arewa people exhibited against the people of Biafra during the Nigeria Biafra war are still very fresh in our memories. The spirit of Biafra can never be quenched.” He said the exercise would motivate the United Nations to consider granting a referendum to determine the independence of Biafrà. “The people of Biafra have once again demonstrated their unshakable and undeniable love and quest for Biafra. “This year’s overwhelming compliance of the sit at the home commemoration of Biafra anniversary day will motivate the United Nations and other relevant international organs to consider organising a referendum to determine the independence of Biafra from the Nigeria state,” he said. Describing Ojukwu as an incorruptible leader, he noted that the personal sacrifices of the warlord would not be forgotten easily. “Ojukwu is incorrupt, eloquent and fearless. He sacrificed his father’s wealth in pursuit of Biafra. He led Biafra with enthusiastic intimacy with the diverse indigenous ethnic tribes that made up the Biafra nation. His name and ideology are inseparable from Biafra. The person of General Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu and ideology of Biafra are interwoven. Ojukwu still remains the greatest Biafra leader whose no living man can match his shoes. “MASSOB extends our gratitude to the people of Biafra in diaspora and Biafra residents in Oduduwa, Arewa and Middle Beltan lands for honoring Biafra in compliance of observing the sit at home exercise. “MASSOB salutes our traditional, religious, markets, political leaders. We acknowledged the leaders of transport unions, Keke unions, students unions, Banks and other commercial institutions for their obedience in complying with the sit-at-home exercise. MASSOB equally salutes our governors who do not oppose the yearnings of our people. “We are more determined and resolute in our quest for the actualization and restoration of Biafra sovereignty,” he added.