The heat is on at the on-going Nigerian Idols. Contestants are keeping up with the pace.  At the last edition, the astonishing renditions of the five contestants were highly commended by the judges, who also encouraged them to put in their best. In particular, Kingdom Kroseide’s performance was trailed by praises from the judges. Other contestants Faith Onyeje, Comfort Alalade, Akunna Okey, and Francis Atela also performed marvelously well. Unfortunately, it was also a time that saw Emmanuel Elijah’s evicted. The judges gave Kingdom a standing ovation as he performe jazz genre song “Feeling Good” by Nina Simone and Pop lyrics “Just the Way You Are” by Bruno Mars. He took control of the stage, with much excitement from the judges and the audience, and commendation from Seyi Shay who said “your vocal performance was amazing, you are the strongest vocalist in this competition,” while Mr. P, stated thrice “This is your kingdom”, you will shine and go places.” It was quite exciting with the contenders displaying exceptional skills in their stage performances to make it to the next episode on June 20. Faith sang Someone you Loved, and Would rather go Blind, with comments from Seyi Shay eulogising him saying “You look incredible, I love your vocals,” and Obi Asika with the words, “You deserve to be part of the top five, you sang the song beautifully.” Mr. P was not left out as he advised that Faith should not stop playing the guitar as it adds colour to his rendition. Comfort, who also sang beautifully, thrilled the judges and the audience with the song Think out Loud and Save the Last Dance for Me; likewise Akunna performed Put a Spell on You by Nina Simone and Wrecking Ball by Miley Cyrus. Francis also excites with Too Good at Goodbyes and Hello by Lionel Richie. DJ Sose was impressed by his performance and said to him “You brought Las Vegas to Lasgidi.” The elated Seyi also put in good words that his voice never disappoints her. “Well done,” she added. The competition continues till July 11, when the winner will go home with a recording contract with a leading record label and N50, 000,000 (Fifty Million Naira) worth of prizes. Nigerian Idol is proudly sponsored by Rite Foods’ Bigi soft drink with variants such as the Bigi Cola, Bigi Orange, Bigi Apple, Bigi Bitter Lemon, Bigi Soda Water, Bigi Lemon & Lime, Bigi Tropical, Bigi Chapman, Bigi Tamarind, Bigi Cherry Cola, Bigi Ginger Lemon, and the Bigi Ginger Ale. Other Rite Foods’ products comprise the Rite Spicy, Bigi Beef, and Rite Sausages which have been the mark of excellence for the industry, while its Bigi Premium Table Water, produced with global best practices in purification, offers quality, freshness, confidence, and reliability. Established in 2007 as a subsidiary of Ess-Ay Holdings, Rite Foods’ inventiveness has earned high recognition in the energy drinks market with the first-ever packaged polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle brands for the Fearless Red Berry and Fearless Classic.   