Officials of the Oyo State Park Management System (PMS) have called on the State Government and police authorities to investigate an alleged plot by some men to abduct the chairman of the Disciplinary Committee of the PMS, Mukaila Lamidi, aka Auxiliary. Deputy Chairman and Secretary of PMS, Jimoh Tajudeen and Oluwatomiwa Omolewa respectively, told reporters that some men claiming to be officers from the Inspector General of Police Abuja came to the office on mufti to invite Auxillary without ID cards on Monday. Omolewa said: “We were in our office when we suddenly saw about six men who stormed our office requesting to see the Chairman. “But, as our men tried to interview them and enquire on their identity, our chairman overheard the conversation and asked that they be allowed to come him. “Upon interrogation, they claimed that they are police officers from the IG office and that the IGP requested that our chairman accompany them to Abuja immediately. “We observed they were not in police uniform and that they had no identity cards when they were asked to present it. “As such, the chairman said he will not follow them to Abuja because they had no evidence to prove they were genuine police officers. “They also claimed that they had earlier reported to the CP and the Area Commander but were not attached with any officer from the Oyo Command and those were the reasons that Chairman insisted that he would not follow them and we allowed them to go.” Tajudeen added: “We didn’t see them as policemen because they were not in any police uniform and the car they brought had no number plate on it. “We didn’t also see any police officer in their company as an attestation to the claim that they had earlier reported to the CP. “Their action could be interpreted as plans to either assassinate or abduct. And that’s how it happens everywhere. “We want to use this medium to appeal to the federal and state government that they look into the matter. “If not for the wisdom and security consciousness that was displayed by our chairman, he would have just followed them despite not meeting up as security operative. “We appeal to the Oyo state government to investigate the matter so as to nip in the bud the activities of such individuals. “We urge our Governor not to take this matter with levity because if such a thing could happen to our chairman, then it could have happened to anyone else.”