The Federal Government said it is expecting  covid-19 vaccine consignment from COVAX between next month and September, it was learnt on Tuesday. It explained that although no exact date of delivery has been communicated, bilateral conversations are ongoing to see how the country can access the surplus vaccines being stockpiled by developed countries. It added that as of June 1, 2021, 1,956,598 of targeted eligible Nigerians have been vaccinated with their first dose of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine. The government added that 73,465 Nigerians have also received their second dose across 36 states and the FCT. The Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) Dr. Faisal Shuaib stated these in Abuja, during a joint news briefing on COVID-19 vaccination update of the agency, the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF). He said: “I will begin with an update on our vaccination efforts. As of today, 1,956,598 of targeted eligible Nigerians have been vaccinated with their first dose of the Oxford/Astrazeneca vaccine. Of this number, 66 per cent are frontline workers, 22 per cent are healthcare workers, while 12 per cent belong to the elderly group. “Furthermore, 73,465 Nigerians have also received their second dose across 36 states and the FCT. They include President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who both received their second doses on Saturday, May 29. Similarly, you would have seen that in many states, the governors, members of the legislature, traditional and religious leaders have publicly started taking the second dose of their vaccinations. “Only yesterday, members of the Presidential Steering Committee, including myself, received our second doses of the vaccine. I can assure you that we are all doing well. Indeed, on my part, the side effects following the second dose were much less than the first dose. “We continue to advise that all Nigerians who have received their first dose should check their vaccination cards for the date of their second dose, and proceed to the same health facility where they got their first jab, to ensure full protection against COVID-19.”