The coalition of First Ladies against Cancer (FLAC) has expressed worries over global shortage in the supply of Human papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine, which prevents cervical cancer in the girl-child. It noted that Nigeria and other countries have been unable to include HPV vaccines into its routine immunisation schedules despite high political will and making funds available. It, therefore, called for global co-operation among governments, pharmaceutical industries, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), and multilateral agencies, to translate words into actions, in order to accelerate the elimination of cervical cancer. Wife of Kebbi State Governor Dr Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu disclosed these in a statement on behalf of the FLAC, to commemorate this year’s Day of the African Child (DAC), whose  theme was “30 Years after the Adoption of the Charter: Accelerate Implementation of Agenda 2040 for an Africa fit for Children.” She further called for serious introspection and commitment towards addressing the numerous challenges facing children across the continent, as half of the continent’s population is children. She said: “The Day of the Africa Child 2021 is one to celebrate the future of the Continent, our children, and commitment to pursue solutions to the myriad of human development barriers faced by children from Cairo to Cape Town, Lagos to Mogadishu. “Though we have recorded significant progress in the last three decades, we are yet to overcome the injustice that the heroes of Soweto bravely rose up against in 1976, access to quality education is far from a reality in many communities across Africa in rural and urban areas. “The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has been a significant setback for African countries, forcing the suspension of successful health and human development programmes in many instances. “Fifty per cent of children in Sub-Saharan Africa live in extreme poverty; this translates to poor outcomes across socio-economic metrics. We can no longer continue at this pace of development, we must accelerate toward the 10 aspirations of the Agenda 2040 to deliver an Africa fit for children within the space of 20 years.” She added: “Achieving cervical cancer elimination by 2030 as prescribed by WHO’s Global Strategy to Accelerate the Elimination of Cervical Cancer is not feasible if this situation persists. “We expect to see partnerships similar to those that transformed HIV care across the globe. We have also seen a highly commendable and swift global action in the creation, production and rollout of the COVID-19 Vaccine. The same can be done for HPV Vaccine. The time to act is now. Do it for the African Child.”