Some 29 bandits were on Sunday killed in shootouts in Benue and Niger states. Fourteen of the hoodlums were killed when they attacked a police station in Katsina Ala town, Benue State. Police spokesperson Kate Anene confirmed the incident. She said some suspects were arrested and detained on Saturday at Katsina Ala Divisional Police Station for investigations. But on Sunday morning, about 1am, some gunmen numbering about 50 launched a blistering attack on the police station in attempt to set the suspects free from lawful custody, Anene said. The police spokesperson said police at the Division engaged the gunmen in a shootout and 14 of them were gunned down. In Niger, 15 bandits were gunned down in a shootout with military men. The incident took place on Saturday in Anguwan Mallam area of Kontagora local government area of the state. The Nation learnt that the military men who were on patrol saw the bandits on their motorcycles a few kilometers from Kontagora town. The bandits, upon seeing the military men, opened fire and the militray men replied, killing 15 of the hoodlums. Unconfirmed reports stated that a military officer also died in the incident. The state police command was yet to issue a statement on the incident at the time of filing this report. Also, 15 persons kidnapped on May 30 alongside 200 pupils of Tanko Salihu Islamiyya, Tegina, Niger State have escaped from their abductors. It was learnt that they fled from where they were kept in a Zamfara State forest at the weekend. Two guards watching over them were asleep at the time of their escape, it was said. The escapees said they were separated from the schoolkids after the abduction, and did not know where the pupils were taken to. A source said the 15 persons narrated how they went in different directions to make it hard for their abductors to recapture them. Some arrived in Tegina on Saturday while some turned up on Sunday. It was learnt that those who escaped have been admitted in some undisclosed health facilities. Some sources in Tegina confirmed the arrival of the abductees, adding that the community was expecting that the pupils would be released soon. The Nation also learnt that those who escaped were received by the Vice-Chairman of Rafi local government area at Birnin Gwari community of the local government area.