How was the last season for you at Sivasspor? Wow! It was a fantastic season for me. I played the 2019/2020 season with Gaziantep and it was fantastic also. In the just ended season I had fun with Sivass and I would say it was one of my best performances, especially in the Europa League. I enjoyed it very well. You scored 11 goals in the season. How do you feel about that? You know I am used to it. I would have done even better with Sivass but due to limit of playing time. I still did great to score 11 goals in the season. I scored one goal in the FA Cup, four goals in the Europa League and six goals in the League. It is not bad for one season and I thank God for it. In Europa League, you had a fantastic outing even though you did not progress as much as you would want to, what is your take? I’ve been playing Europa League for a while and this is my third time so I’m used to it. I have a lot of experience playing in Europe and that helps me a lot. I picked up quickly in other to help the team stabilize and deliver whenever they need me to. We did well. What we lack is in the defense area. We had problem in that department and many players too, quality ones at that, were out to injury. Covid-19 also destroyed many plans. The season ended very well for Sivasspor and you qualified for Europa League again. How are you looking forward to the new challenge next season? I have tried my best playing for Sivasspor. They are a great team and I enjoyed myself there. But, I would like to step up my game and play in the Champions League. When I was in Shaktar, we played Champions League, so I want to have a feel of that again and play in one of the top clubs in Europe. My agent is up and doing and should be giving me update by next week. Transfer window will open soon and good thing is coming up. I’m thinking of moving out of Turkey, but it depends also on what Shaktar is saying. So, my agent is going to have a conversation with them to see how I can get a better place where I can play Champions League. Your confidence is high and so is your goal scoring, what did you do to transform yourself to this top level? It is all about discipline, a lot of discipline. I keep myself in top shape. I have good agent and I tell them what I want. I want to put myself in the same mix with Christiano Ronaldo. I love his discipline and the way he works himself. I want emulate him. Not only for himself but for his family. There are some things that you don’t have to do as a football player and that are the most important thing. To know what you are doing and what you must not do to keep playing top notch football. I try to discipline myself. Then, to work hard. Maybe, I will be one of the best players in Africa soon. What other routine has helped you? I always think about where I’m coming from. I look back to see where I’m coming from and of course I wouldn’t want to go back there. Whenever I remember where I grow up I tell myself I have to work harder to improve on whatever I have achieved. I want to keep going high. I don’t want to come down. I want to keep doing those things that have kept me up there and keep the people that have motivated me to get here and keep the same energy that has helped me achieve the top position. My agent is also trying to add quality things to my career and so it is important to have the right agent and people working with you. You talked about growing up and working hard so as not to go back to where you started. Tell us more about your humble background? Believe me, it is rough. I started from the streets playing Five-A-side without help from any quarters. And a lot of players in Africa began just like that. It is an experience that must be turned into a book. I want people to know where I started from, what I passed through and how I made it. That, I would love to do someday. What could you consider your best goal in the last season? The goal you celebrated more than the others? That would be against Fenerbahce because I’ve not won any match against them. It was a game we needed badly because we wanted to qualify for Europa League. They had the opportunity to win the match but we were ready too. I believed we could do well too and I was focused. I scored the first goal and it is one that I was excited about. To score against one of the big clubs in Turkey. Looking at the array of football stars in the world, who would you like to play alongside? I can’t lie to you I would like to play alongside Christiano Ronaldo. I have a chance to play with him when I was in Girona but the coach did not give me the opportunity. I played for 10 minutes and since then I wished I could play much longer with him. I love him so much. He’s my idol. I have much love for him. That is why I always watch him, watch his videos, watch his clips, his work out, everything about him is fantastic. What do you like to share with Nigerian youth? I can’t lie to you; we know that things are quite difficult with government and the people right now. I want up and coming footballers to focus on their game. I don’t want any distraction for them because of what is happening around them. They are footballers, forget about politicians. Focus on your work, football is your work. Just focus on it and one day you will get a better offer and everything will just explode for good. They must also believe in themselves. Like me I started from the scratch. There was nobody to help but I was determined, I was focused, I was adamant to get to the top. The road to success is tough but they must give up. That is why I say that I have a book to write about my success routes because it was not an easy one. They can achieve everything they set their minds on. If not for my agent and dogged spirit maybe I would be in Ibadan selling fufu.  Eating habit My eating routine is different. Football players are different and as for me I go with normal food like pasta and a lot of vegetables to keep me fit. After preseason I can eat food like Eba, say once in two weeks. I can’t take it all the time. Wifey agent My agent is my wife. She motivates me a lot. She knows a lot about football. What you need to do, eat and how you must keep yourselves. So, we work together and she keeps me going higher and focused. Forward looking Football is everything to me.  After my career I will still be in the line of football as agent or coach. I’m building my football academy slowly. When I’m out with it is going to be massive. It is not something I want to do now but when I round off my career. I want to something big in that area. I want to show the world that in Africa, we can also do something like this. I have two locations in mind, Epe side or the Island-Lagos. Managing success That is why I say when you have good agent everything will work good for you. I manage it because I have good people managing me. I can’t say I do it alone. I also have a brother, his name is Ugbanugo Ugochukwu. He helps me to do a lot of things. So when you have people like this around you, you won’t make mistake in your life. There are many things involved. I follow good people and I listen to them.