The peculiar security situation across the country is not abating. The relative peace enjoyed by Nigerians across the various region of the country is fast fizzling out. There has been a spike in the activities of ‘gunmen’ across the country in past months, especially with cases of kidnapping for ransom and banditry being reported weekly. Similarly, different attacks on security agents and their stations have assumed a worrisome dimension in the past months. Many security agents, particularly policemen, have been brutally murdered in Abia, Imo, Anambra and Ebonyi states during attacks by gunmen who usually operate in large numbers. The development has become a cause for concern among the people who are now worried that it could degenerate into the ugly situation. The frequent attacks by gunmen or UGM as many widely call them have given rise to tension and apprehension across various states as residents now live in perpetual fear of what could happen next. · Tersoo Ahu: In January, the All Progressive Congress (APC) ward chairman of Gboko south, Tersoo Ahu was reportedly killed by gunmen in Gboko. · Amb Prince Godwin Metie: A former chairman of Ugbori community in Warri South council area of Delta, Amb Prince Godwin Metie, was killed by reportedly gunmen suspected to be assassins. · Hon. Salihu Dovo: In January, gunmen reportedly killed the Council Chairman of Ardo-kola local government area of Taraba, Hon. Salihu Dovo and his nephew, Timothy Aminu. · Dr Amos Arijesuyo: One of FUTA’s Deputy Registrars, Dr Amos Arijesuyo reportedly died from injuries he sustained from gunshots wound after he was attacked by gunmen along the Ilesa-Akure highway. · Obiezu: The younger brother of the state’s Accountant General Valentine Obiezu simply identified as Obiezu was reportedly killed by gunmen. Obiezu, said to be a millionaire, was killed after the gunmen earlier made an unsuccessful attempt to kidnap him in his village, Akatta in Oru East Council area of the state. · Elliot Ofa: Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) councillorship candidate in Delta, Mr Elliot Ofa was allegedly killed by gunmen. · Malami Salihu: The former Education Secretary of Nasarawa Local Government, Malami Salihu was reportedly killed by gunmen while travelling to Toto Local Government. · Terkula Suswam: The elder brother of former Benue State Governor Gabriel Suswam, Terkula Suswam alongside his aide was reportedly killed in an attack by gunmen, which occurred at Anyiin in Gaambetiev of Logo Local Government Area. · Alhaji Abba Abbey Gidan Haki: Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko’s personal Aide, Alhaji Abba Abbey Gidan Haki, was reportedly abducted and killed in Sokoto by gunmen. · Okiemute Mrere: The Chief Provost of Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS), Imo State Command, Okiemute Mrere was recently killed by gunmen. Mrere was reportedly assassinated on Owerri-Port Harcourt Road in Owerri. · Justice Stanley Nnaji: Gunmen in May reportedly killed former judge of the Enugu State High Court, Justice Stanley Nnaji while he was driving in his Mercedes Benz Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). Justice Nnaji was reportedly shot on the chest and robbed of his SUV. · Reverend Father Alphonsus Bello: Catholic priest, Reverend Father Alphonsus Bello, was reportedly killed by gunmen who invaded St. Vincent Ferrer Catholic Church, Malumfashi in May. · Solomon Akeweje: In May, gunmen reportedly killed a Commissioner in the Kogi State Pension Board, Mr Solomon Akeweje, and abducted the Chairman of Yagba West Local Government, Mr Pius Kolawole. Akeweje and Kolawole were travelling back to Egbe from Kwara State when they were attacked by yet-to-be-identified gunmen. · AIG Christopher Dega: Gunmen reportedly killed the Senior Special Assistant to Benue Governor Samuel Ortom on Security, AIG Christopher Dega (Rtd) in Jos, Plateau State Capital. The Nation learnt he was shot in the chest several times by gunmen.