For over a century, these popular brands have existed and are still growing stronger. These companies were created in a time where there was no internet, no computer. Some of them were created when there were deadly virus, like polio and HINI influenza (the birther of the Spanish Flu Pandemic) without the luxury of vaccines. They weathered the Great depression and World War II. These companies and brands haven’t been existing just as they were before. They have reinvented themselves multiple times, remained at the fore front of branding and marketing. They have evolved with the times and simultaneously leveraged their timeless appeal and adapted to changes to stay current. They have remained relevant over the years, proven their resilience and endurance by standing the test of time. Rolex is a luxury watch manufacturing company based in Geneva, Switzerland. The company was originally founded as Wildorf and Davis by Alfred Davis and his brother -in law in London, England 1905. The company registered Rolex as the brand name of its watches in 1908, and became Rolex Watch Co. Ltd in 1915. The company changed its name again and was registered as Montres Rolex SA in 1920 after moving from England to Geneva in 1919. Montres Rolex SA eventually became Rolex SA in later years. Rolex SA offers products under the Rolex and Tudor brands. Montres TUDOR SA is a sister company to Rolex as it is owned by Hans Wilsdorf Foundation. The aim of the Tudor brand was to offer a more affordable watch that would preserve the Rolex reputation for quality. Upon the death of Hans Wilsdorf’s wife in 1944, Wilsdorf established the Hans Wilsdorf Foundation, a private trust, in which he left all of his Rolex shares, ensuring that some of the Company’s income goes to charity. Wilsdorf died in 1960 and since then the trust has owned and run Rolex SA. In 2018, Forbes ranked Rolex as the World’s 71st most valuable brand and in June 2019, the top ten most expensive watches ever sold at auctions. Coca Cola is a carbonated soft drink manufactured by the Coca – Cola company. It was invented in the late 19th century by John Stith Pemberton intended as a patent medicine and originally marketed as a temperance drink. The fizzy drink went round as tonic for numerous health ailments, it contained cocaine which wasn’t removed from the formula until 1903. The Coca-Cola company was Incorporated in 1892, several years after the beverage was Invented by the Pharmacist John S. Pemberton. Asa G. Candler purchased the rights to the product from its creator, Dr. John Stith Pemberton, prior to his death. Over the years, the Coca-Cola Company has grown to become a giant in the beverage industry, ushering in other popular soda brands, including Sprite, Fanta, Schweppes and Diet Coke. Coca-Cola has a global brand value of over $70 billion. The company now operates in more than 200 countries and operates nearly 450 brands. Panasonic Corporation formerly known as the Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. founded by Kōnosuke Matsushita in 1918 as a lightbulb socket manufacturer, is a major Japanese multinational electronics company, headquartered in Kadoma, Osaka. In May 2003, the company announced that “Panasonic” would become its global brand, and launched the global tagline “Panasonic ideas for life.” During World War II, the company operated factories in Japan and other parts of Asia, which produced electrical components and appliances such as light fixtures, motors, electric irons, wireless equipment and its first vacuum tubes. Panasonic announced its new range of products in April 2015, and re-launched its brand in South Africa. The company intends to use South Africa as a spring board into Africa with Nigeria and Egypt as its initial target. Panasonic’s products ranges from cameras, to Television sets, Air conditionals and so on .The current CEO of Panasonic is Kazuhiro Tsuga. Kelloggs doing business as Kellogg’s, is an American multinational food manufacturing company headquartered in Battle Creek, Michigan, United States. Kellogg’s produces cereal and convenience foods, including crackers and toaster pastries and markets their products by several well- known brands including Corn Flakes, Frosted Flakes, Pringles, etc. Kellogs was founded by Will Keith Kellogg on February 16, 1906 and was previously known as The Battle Creek Toasted Corn Flake Company, Kellogg’s took on its new and lasting name in 1922, once it expanded into making other cereals. Kellogg’s has continued to innovate over the years and now owns a number of major food brands. Kellogg’s largest factory is at Trafford Park in Trafford, Greater Manchester, United Kingdom, which is also the location of its UK headquarters. The products are manufactured and marketed in over 180 countries. Nikon was founded July 25, 1917, from the merger of three Japanese optical manufacturers and has its headquarters in Minato, Tokyo. Nikon is a member of the Mitsubishi group of companies. Nikon had produced its first pair of binoculars by 1921, followed by its first microscope in 1925. But it wasn’t until after World War II that Nikon became a brand name for small cameras and earned the attention of the global consumer market. For the latter half of the 20th century, Nikon had the floor to develop new technology and build its customer base. The speed at which Nikon iterates new products gives it an advantage over its younger competitor, Canon. Colgate is a company that originally sold soap, starch and candles on Dutch street, New York. It was founded by William Colgates. Colgates oral hygiene products were first sold by the company in 1873, 16 years after the death of the founder, William Colgate. It is an American brand principally used for oral hygiene products such as toothpastes, toothbrushes, mouthwashes and dental floss. Its toothpastes were previously sold in glass jars since 1873. Tubes were introduced in 1896. Colgate became popular in the 1950s with the slogan “It Cleans Your Breath While It Cleans Your Teeth”, written by copywriter Alicia Tobin. According to a 2015 report by market research looper Kantar Worldpanel, Colgate is the only brand in the world purchased by more than half of all households. The brand has a global market penetration of 67.7% and a global market share of 45%. The Ford Motor Company, commonly known as Ford, is an American multinational automaker that has its main headquarters in Dearborn, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. It was founded by Henry Ford and incorporated on June 16, 1903. The company sells automobiles and commercial vehicles under the Ford brand, and most luxury cars under the Lincoln brand. Ford is the second-largest U.S.-based automaker (behind General Motors) and the fifth-largest in the world (behind Toyota, Volkswagen, Hyundai-Kia and General Motors) based on 2015 vehicle production.