• Minister to inaugurate board today 
• Gusau organises another congress in Kebbi The Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) Congress yesterday elected Tonobok Okowa as the new president of the federation in Abuja. At the elective congress held at the Moshood Abiola National Stadium and attended by 35 chairmen of state associations, Okowa who is the Chairman of the Delta State Sports Commission was elected unopposed as the president. Tafida Gadzama, a member of the Sydney 2000 Olympics gold-winning 4x400m relay team was elected the first vice president, while former African record holder in the triple jump and 1995 African Games champion Rosa Collins was elected the second vice president of the board which will serve for the next four years (2021-2025). Sources from Abuja confirmed that the Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare will today inaugurate the Okowa-led AFN board at the Media Centre of Moshood Abiola Stadium in Abuja while the President of Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC), Engr Habu Gumel will also be at the inauguration. However, the former President of AFN Ibrahim Gusau was returned as president in another elective congress organized in Kebbi. Gusau polled 20 votes while Uche Muoma got just two votes from the 22 delegates present at the venue as he emerged the favoured candidate to lead the federation for another four years. For the 1st Vice President, North West Zonal Representative, Sunday Omotayo Adeleye got 15 votes, to emerge winner ahead of Solomon Abari had four votes and Patrick Estate with three votes.   For the 2nd Vice President role, Nneka Ikem Anibeze polled 13 points ahead of Esther Hindi Mallim who came close with eight votes while Janet Wilson managed one vote. Patrick Estate (South East), Dr. Paul Wakama (South South), Solomon Abari (North East), and Vitalis Lashimi North Central all emerged from their zones as representatives. Other members of the board include Olu Sule who is a representative of the Technical Officials and Coaches alongside Moses Suleiman as Athletes’ Representative. Gusau thanked the delegates for their support in making his first-term success while counting on their continued support for the next four years.