 Worried about the high rate cancers  ravage humanity, especially women,  survivors  are celebrated globally in June every year. The celebration is called National Cancer Survivors’ Month. In the circumstances, My BodyMyAssetCancer Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), has concluded arrangements  on how to sensitise the public, especially the female folk, to the dangers of cancer, what to do to avoid it and what to do if infected in order to survive it. The foundation is kicking off this year’s cancer survivor month with a football match on June 5. The event is tagged: Our Cancer Awareness Football Match. It is also known as, One Team One Dream. In a chat with reporters on the essence of the celebration, the Chairman of the Board of Trustee of the Foundation Mr Onyemaonyilo Godfrey Aroh said: “We encourage everyone to embrace the awareness and campaign and get screened. We believe that prevention is better and cheaper and we hope to build a generation of strong women who will live above all forms of cancer. A lifestyle choice that enables them to live well and practice prevention is also recommended.” In the same manner, the Head of the foundation and a cancer survivor Mrs Franca Eze (aka Mama Toilet Infection) said: “It feels nice to be well and healthy… A woman whose reproductive organs are sick is not functional. Get the necessary information to stay healthy. Ignorance is not an excuse…” “The essence of the cancer awareness football match is to encourage women and adult girls to take advantage of every opportunity before them, to get tested or go for screening for cancer because early detection and treatment are crucial to the survival of the ailment. We must live well and also know that health is wealth”, according to Mrs Eze. Reeling off the programme for the event, Mrs Eze revealed that the football match will be played for 30 minutes at 9:00 a.m. while Red Carpet will begin at 8:00 a.m.” Mrs Eze urges every woman to, as part of the programme, Love your body, and prevent cancer. Other features of the programme will include team cancer awareness, how to live well, health is wealth, breast and cervical cancer awareness,   during which some participants will be screened for cervical and breast cancers. The venue of the event is Santos Field in Santos Layout in Akowonjo area of Lagos. Some of the participants at the programme include churches, market women. Wife of Lagos State Governor Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu and other dignitaries are expected to attend the programme