Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola has called on estate surveyors and valuers to explore digital technology innovation to promote professionalism and unlock infrastructure deficit to achieve growth and development in the country. The Minister made the call at the 44th induction for newly registered estate surveyors and valuers, organised by Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria in Abuja. Fashola urged the inductees to use their potential through technology revolution to unlock the infrastructure deficit confronting the nation. Represented by the Minister of State Works Housing,  Abubakar Aliyu, Fashola said the ministry was implementing the International Public Sector Accounting Standard (IPSAS) by carrying out valuation in federal secretariats to achieve internalisation and management of decision-making. He added that many estate surveyors and valuers had submitted expression of interest to execute the valuation, which is going through the procurement. According to the Minister, “Today, you have registered up to 4000 practitioners and about 35 accredited institutions of higher learning. “Challenges are extremely large, particularly in the area of legislation, little recognition by the public, invasion of the industry by unlicensed and non-professional, among others. ..’’ The ministry is doing all towards creating an enabling environment where estate surveyors and valuers can thrive and make an impact to support the economy. “Presently, as you are aware, the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing is desirous with the Implementation of International Public Sector Accounting Standard by carrying out valuation exercise in all federal Secretariat across the country to achieve internalization and management of decision making. “Many estate surveyors and valuers have submitted expression of interest to execute the valuation works and as I am speaking with you it is going through the procurement process “As newly inducted estate surveyors and valuers, I implore you to explore other technology innovations in enhancing professionalism and good service delivery in your day-to-day task. “Your responsibilities have now been increased as trust of the government is about infrastructures which requires professionals like you to help drive our interests and safeguard this institution. “I want to also use this opportunity to challenge you not to rest on your little achievements but to continue to thrive towards loftier goals by making Nigeria a better place for economic growth and development. “The board should ensure that the stock of estate surveyors and values increase to meet the needs of the nation”. Charging the newly licensed estate surveyor and valuers, Chairman Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria  (ESVARBON), ESV Gersh Henshaw urged them to be of good conduct and character in their dealings just as he admonished them to adhere to the professional standard in their day-to-day activities. He reminded them that the instruments of practice that were handed over to them including the seal and stamps and certificates remained the properties of the board which can be withdrawn anytime when they go against the rules and regulations. He said: “You have some solemn oath and allegiance to make today and it is apposite to remind you that the Investigating Panel and the Disciplinary Tribunal of the Board are in place to check excesses,  compliance with the declarations as well as ensuring overall professional discipline of all practitioners. “After all these certificates and encomiums, if you cannot build a good character, it will be difficult for you to go far. So, be guided”. He, however, advised Nigerians who have interest to deal with landed matters in any part of the country to go through registered and qualified estate surveyors and valuers. “I am using this time to inform Nigerians to seek redress with the Board should any estate surveyor and valuer does contrary to the tenets of our profession.   I am assuring that the Board will address your case without fear or favour. “Today, we have licenced over 200 new estate surveyors and valuers.  They now have our rules and regulations on what to do.  But, if they don’t practice according to what we expect, we have sanctions that will be meted out to them.  That is why we say all we have given them are our properties and they don’t use it the way we want, these properties can be withdrawn from them,” Henshaw warned. 