 The remains  of late Lt-Gen. Joshua Dogonyaro was, on Friday, laid  to rest in his home town, Pajat, in Langtang. Dogonyaro, who died on Thursday, May 13, in Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) after a brief illness, was buried in his family compound in Pajat, Langtang town after a funeral service at COCIN Central, Langtang North. President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen Bashir Magashi (rtd), said the government received the news of Dogonyaro’s death with great shock and pain. Buhari described Dogonyaro as a “fearless and gallant soldier,” who contributed immensely to the unity and peace of Nigeria. “He was a patriotic and thorough soldier, who sacrificed for this nation and his many attributes will remain for many years to come. “Lt-Gen. Dogonyaro’s contributions to the stability of ECOWAS region will not easily be forgotten nor his  God fearing life lived after retirement from the military. “These alone are enough reasons his people,  the nation and international community will greatly miss such a gallant and great man, who had given his all for us in spite of all odds. “As a nation, we must do all we can to honour him even in his death as he will forever be missed, ” Buhari said. The president, who presented a letter of condolence to the family of the fallen general, prayed to God to grant him eternal rest. Liberian President, George Weah, said Dogonyaro would forever remain a household name in Liberia for safeguarding Monrovia and saving lives during Liberia’s turbulent years.  “Because of his doggedness and sacrifice, he brought to an end the 1989 civil war in our nation, which endeared us to honour him with Grand Commander award,” Weah stated through Francis James, an aide of Liberia’s Ambassador to Nigeria, Al-Hassan Conteh. Also, Plateau governor, Simon Lalong, described Dogonyaro as a down to earth disciplinarian, leader and mentor, who helped in building Nigeria and other nations in West Africa. Lalong extolled the late general’s impact on Nigeria and Plateau, adding that the state government will miss his wise counsel on security matters. He said, “We, as a government, are resolved to deal with criminality on the Plateau with all seriousness for the peace that would bring about the desired growth and development of the state and the nation. “His discipline and determination in handling assignments, his patriotism and courage are lessons on entrenching peace and unity,” Lalong declared. Responding, the late general’s wife, Esther, gave glory to God for the later life he lived as a child of God even to his last breath, adding that the family was not crying but mourning his departure. She thanked the federal and state governments, the military, the Church and well wishers for their show of love to the family in celebrating her late husband’s glorious exit to beyond. In his message during the funeral service, at COCIN Central, Langtang, the officiating Clergy, Rev Sylvester Dachomo, the Reverend in charge of COCIN Headquarters Church,  Jos, warned against careless living noting that death is inevitable. Dachomo, who took his texts from Rev:11-24, 21:7-8 and Jn 5:3 reminded Nigerians about the expected end of the World, which all must prepare for, especially “where we shall spend our eternity.” 