The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) on Tuesday said the death of Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua is not only a loss to the family and the church, but to Nigeria and the world at large. CAN said Joshua was renowned for his philosophical simplicity and humility. According to a letter of condolence on the demise of the founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) signed by CAN President, Rev. Samson Ayokunle to his wife, Pastor Evelyn Joshua said: “The news of the demise of your darling husband, Prophet Temitope Balogun Joshua, who was until his transition at the age of Fifty-Seven (57) was the leader and founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) came to us amidst great shock and sorrow. We are particularly sad because the deceased showed no trace of illness prior to his demise after an Evening Church Service on Saturday 5th June 2021. We commiserate with you, the children and entire members of the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) on this irreparable loss. “Prophet T.B Joshua was one of the foremost Nigerian charismatic pastors, televangelists, and philanthropists who devoted his entire life to the propagation of the gospel and ministering to the needs of the downtrodden. He was renowned for his philosophical simplicity and humility. His death is not only a loss to the family and the church, but to Nigeria and the world at large.” The condolence letter added; “There are indeed no exact words of comfort at a moment like this, but we humbly enjoin you to take solace in the Will of the Almighty God, who works in us both to do and work according to his good purpose (Philippians 2:13). We know that Our Lord Jesus Christ in whom there is all-sufficiency, and whom you have been serving wholeheartedly will make all grace abound unto you at this trying moment (2 Corinthians 9:8). “On behalf of all members of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), we commiserate with you, and the entire family on this loss. It is our prayer that the Almighty God grant Prophet T.B Joshua an eternal rest in his creator, and may God’s perpetual light continue to shine on his path (Amen).”