  The Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) yesterday announced that its founder Prophet Temitope Balogun (JB) Joshua, died after conducting a service at its headquarter in Lagos on Saturday night. Church members and sympathisers conveyed on the church premises in Ikotun area in Lagos State when news of the pastor’s death filtered into town through social media platforms. His home town Arigidi Akoko in Akoko North West Local Government Area of Ondo State was thrown into grief. No church service was held in the town yesterday. All church branches were shut. People stayed indoors, a source in the town told our correspondent. The pastor was a great philanthropist, who sponsored many indigent children in school and was paying monthly stipends to retirees and traditional rulers in the town and in Akoko area of Ondo State, it was learnt. A statement on the church website gave an insight into Prophet Joshua’s last moment. The statement, which commenced with a quote from the Holy Bible said: “Surely the Sovereign LORD does nothing without revealing his plan to his servants the prophets.” – Amos 3:7 “On Saturday 5th June 2021, Prophet TB Joshua spoke during the Emmanuel TV Partners Meeting: “Time for everything – time to come here for prayer and time to return home after the service.” “God has taken His servant Prophet TB Joshua home – as it should be by divine will. His last moments on earth were spent in the service of God. “This is what he was born for, lived for and died for. “As Prophet TB Joshua says, “The greatest way to use life is to spend it on something that will outlive it”. “Prophet TB Joshua leaves a legacy of service and sacrifice to God’s Kingdom that is living for generations yet unborn. “The Synagogue, Church Of All Nations and Emmanuel TV Family appreciate your love, prayers and concern at this time and request a time of privacy for the family. “Here are Prophet TB Joshua’s last words: “Watch and pray.” “One life for Christ is all we have; one life for Christ is so dear.” Lagos State Police Commissioner (CP) Hakeem Odumosu said Joshua was officially pronounced dead by a hospital around 3am. Odumoso said: “It is true he is dead. I do not know the cause of his death yet. But the information we have is that he was conducting service, along the line, he felt uncomfortable, walked to his apartment himself and never came back. “His people thought he probably wanted to rest or refresh but when they didn’t see him after a long while, they went in search of him and found him in an unusual position. “The service started in the evening. But it was around 3am that he was pronounced dead by a hospital.” Joshua died at 57, just one week to what would have being his 58th birthday. In a video he released ahead of his 50th birthday, the pastor said he would not organize any elaborate event to mark it because of “the circumstances we are in.” He urged his admirers “not to forget the needy”, saying “there are many more birthdays” to celebrate. Residents  and members of the SCOAN expressed shock  over the sudden demise of the prophet. Some of the worshippers had come to church enthusiastically looking forward to the prophet’s ministrations and counselling, only to hear the untimely sad news.  It was an atmosphere of despair and uncertainty for the members, many of who were seen in tears at the gate of the church. Most of the members and residents felt their hope of miracles were shattered. All the flags adorning the church premises were lowered at half mast. New Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that sympathizers and followers of the prophet were seen crying around the church premises. The usual church service did not hold in the church. Security men at the premises prevented worshippers from entering the premises. An eye witness also told NAN that some foreigners who had been in the church for prayers started leaving. He missed for both his spiritual and philanthropic contributions, President Muhammadu Buhari said. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity Mr Femi Adesina, President Buhari admonished the international followers of the late man of God to take solace in the fact that life’s value is not measured by mere longevity, but by the legacies left to the memory of the deceased. “President Muhammadu Buhari commiserates with the family and members of SCOAN on the passing of their father and founder. “The President notes that the renowned televangelist will be missed by his followers all over the world not only for his spiritual contributions, but for touching many lives through philanthropic gestures. “He also condoles with the government and people of Ondo State and prays that God Almighty will accept the soul of the departed pastor”. Former President Goodluck Jonathan expressed sadness over Joshua’s death. In a message of condolence to the family and the SCOAN congregation, he described the late Joshua as a devout man of God, who served God and humanity with relentless passion during his lifetime. The former president in the message signed by his Media Adviser Ikechukwu Eze, said the late Joshua impacted millions of lives across Nigeria and the globe. “TB Joshua was a devout man of God who served God and humanity with relentless passion. “He was a man of sound doctrine, meek and faithful to his call and passion of reconciling men to God and offering hope to humanity. “As a Christian leader, TB Joshua and his ministry exemplified Christ in faith, love and charity; positively impacting the lives of many Nigerians, Africans and millions of people across the world. “I condole with his family, his church and millions of his followers across the world. May God grant them peace and strength to cope with this loss,” Jonathan said. Joshua’s kinsmen in Arigidi Akoko and Obas in Akokoland expressed shock. News of his death was broken to his kinsmen at about 1am on Sunday. Traditional ruler of Arigidi, Oba Yisa Olanipekun, who spoke on telephone said the community was still in disbelief. Oba Olanipekun said people were coming to his palace to confirm the news and to make arrangement to travel to Lagos where he died. He said Obas across Akokoland had been calling him because of the goodwill the late T.B Joshua extended to sons and daughters of Akokoland. He said: “We are going to Lagos to know what really happened. It was a shocking news. I have not slept since 1am when I was informed about his death. “We are very sad here in Arigidi and the entire Akokoland. Joshua was a good man to everybody. He was helping everybody.” “We will bring his body for burial. They must bring the body here.” Chief Imam of Arigidi Akoko, Alhaji Salisu Musa who is an uncle to the late Joshua said the news of his demise was was received from Lagos on Saturday night.