First it was the Delta State Government that said the money was not missing, and it was supposed to give leverage to the legal tussle mounted by former Delta State Governor James Ibori. The idea was that if the money was disowned by the state, there would be no basis to prosecute the helmsman of the state’s politics. But how naïve! It became clear it was not missing. Saying it was missing did not mean it was missing. At one point, it was not the money that was missing. It was the accused that had supplanted the money on the wanted list. After a while, thanks to international crime busting, Ibori could not hide. Even though he escaped justice in Nigeria, not so in the United Kingdom. He appeared on mug shots in the international press, and all the missing puzzles to the Ibori tale, including his relationships and his money transfers and boyhood misadventures became part of his seedy grist. If Ibori was lost and found, so did the millions of pounds thought to have been disowned by the state. But the money was actually not missing. Its amplitude, both in cash and corruption, was only undermined by the colourful hide-and-seek manoeuvres of the man in the middle of the drama. The millions of pounds were alive and well, if the morality tale was too alive to be well in the ears of a stunned world. It was at the expense of James Ibori that the tale of his malfeasance fed a world already aware of the corruption of the Nigerian political class, having heard of the tales of the past, including that of former Bayelsa State governor, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, with the myth of aeronautical disguise. Ibori also became a fall guy, cleansing all the other bad guys and rogues in politics of innocence. Others became missing in crime sagas. Hence his ethnic cover by his “people” who thought he was not the only criminal in the system. So, the gloating was hypocritical. They found their son who was missing in a tendentious tale of scapegoating in Nigeria. Eventually, Ibori was sentenced, and he spent years behind bars. With no story from his end, he seemed, again, “missing” from the headlines. Nigerians went back to their normal businesses until the man, just as when he was found in the UK and brought to justice, reappeared a free man. He enjoyed a hero’s welcome, and he regained the dignity missing in all the intrusive UK press coverage and mug shots of the humble face of an accused. Everyone thought, he and the money had been found. No more tales of escape. Until recently. The UK and the Nigerian government reached a deal for the missing money, for too long out of the Nigerian vaults, to reappear at home. There was jubilation and cries for justice. Jubilation that the money was coming home. But what home? Delta State indigenes said the money’s home was where it was first declared missing. But others quipped, was it not the same government that said it was not missing. The Attorney-General of the Federation hinted at a deal that the money would be in Federal Government’s hands for projects. Eventually, the same Federal Government through the lips of the Accountant-General of the Federation said the money had been wired to Delta State. Delta State said it had received no such money.  Was the money missing again? Then the same accountant-general’s office said, “For now, no money has been returned to Delta State.” The money, from the pronouncement, means the Federal Government has agreed to the right thing: return the money from where it was first reported missing. It is a matter of time to get the money to Delta State. After it is found, we shall then talk about the justice of its spending, just like after saving the errant hen from the fox in the Igbo proverb.