The Department of Mass Communication of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) has produced a movie  to challenge abuse of child rights. The movie, entitled “The Scar”, was directed by 400-Level Mass Communication students. It takes a strong stance against child labour, child trafficking, sexual abuse and home-based violence. The movie was premiered at the Olusegun Obasanjo Multipurpose Hall of the school. The course lecturer, Mr. Lamidi Ishola Kamorudeen, noted that the department partnered UNICEF, which was well known for child right advocacy,  to produce the movie, adding that the idea was conceived during last year’s UNICEF conference in Owerri. “I have been nursing the idea that the department should be able to do something apart from class work and embark on more robust advocacy as far as child right is concerned.The idea was to enlighten people on the need to refrain from child abuse. “Thus, when I got back to school, I told my students that our next movie would centre  on advocacy, especially  highlighting the untoward attitude of people towards children in our society. I told them we should do something that would be in form of advocacy  and bring to the fore what some  children were facing in terms of child abuse,” he said. Lamidi said the movie was the fifth to be produced by the department. He appealed to the Ondo State Government and AAUA leadership to support the department financially. “What I want the school and the government to do is to encourage students, young talents in showcasing their talents and, of course, encourage them to use their talents positively in the development of our society, which we are already doing in AAUA. The kind of support we are talking about here is financial support. “Proper funding of the department will not only help it to reach its full potential, but  also put the department in a vantage position to assist the university in the handling of some of her audiovisual production.We have capable lecturers that can handle this and what we need is modern equipment and additional technical staff. If we have all these things, I can assure you that it will go a long way in assisting the university,” he noted. The movie Director, Olubodun Akintunde, a 400-Level  student of the department, admitted that directing the movie was tedious. He, however, noted thatit was a worthwhile experience. “I had a lot of sleepless nights thinking about how to carve the script to a more interesting story that will catch peoples’ attention and tell a story to the society. I had a lot of experience on how to deal with people, man, relationship especially leadership role. It was during this directing that I knew that leading people is a very tedious job. But to God be the glory, most of the experience I had during the shooting, scripting and directing of  the movie are nice experience; they will help me to build myself for more important goals.” 