The controversial death of Chief Executive Officer of Super TV, and a director in Super Network Limited, a telecoms firm, Michael Usifo Ataga has continued to generate mixed reactions. The Nation reports a 300-Level Mass Communication student of the University of Lagos, UNILAG, Chidinma Ojukwu, has been arrested over the case. Ojukwu said she had been in a romantic relationship with 50-year-old Ataga for about four months before the ugly incident occurred on June 15, 2021, at a Short Service Apartment, situated at No 19, Adewale Oshin Street, Lekki, Phase 1, Lagos. The undergraduate said she and Ataga were “having fun” when an argument broke out and she stabbed him twice. Meanwhile, the internet is abuzz with trends on Sugar daddies and side chicks. Checks by The Nation revealed that a sugar daddy is a generous older man who spends lavishly on his mistress, girlfriend while a side chick is an attractive younger female who enjoys sort of luxurious lifestyle. For many sugar daddies, the younger a lady is, the better for them. Many Nigerians are of the view that married men should stay focused on their families. Some others advised that it would be best for men to just become polygamist rather than have “side chicks” who will later hurt them. Popular celebrity barman, Cubana Chiefpriest in the now trending image which shows his hand on his chin and his face raised to the camera said “All Sugar Daddies Fall Back To Base, I Repeat All Sugar Daddies Fall Back To Base (Home) Right Now, 1 Man Down !!!! I Repeat 1 Man Down !!!” Actress Etinosa Idemudia also slammed cheating married men. She advised men to stop getting married to “society spec” in order to please their families. The controversial actress said men avoid cheating by getting married to the type of women they actually desire rather than the society standard. She added that most men don’t marry their spec due to society validation which leads to broken homes and death. A former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan said, Reno Omokri “The drug Chidinma Ojukwu was allegedly given is Rohypnol. Research it. It is a mind-altering, date rape drug. I sincerely doubt that she is a premeditated hardened killer. If she took that drug, she could not have been in her right mind that day.” Stanco said “Chidinma Ojukwu, her late billionaire Usifo Ataga and the many challenges of having side chicks. What exactly are the benefits of having side chicks? Are they worth the trouble?” Former Avaition Minister, Femi Fani-Kayode in his own reaction said, “Mr. Usifo Ataga was butchered in cold blood. The fact that he went to a hotel to sleep with a 21-year-old woman does not mean he deserves to be butchered. “He was slaughtered and gutted like a barbecue pig in an abbatoir and his blood was drained simply because he has a high libido and a weakness for women. Some people are now trying to rationalise his murder and justify it and they are claiming that he “deserved what he got!” This is utterly shameful. “This man was BUTCHERED in cold-blood by a cowardly, worthless, dangerous, conflicted, psychotic, drug-crazed, sociopathic, psychopathic, predatory, wicked, heartless prostitute & monstrous sex maniac who stole his money after cutting his throat and slicing open his stomach. “She watched him die slowly and probably enjoyed every minute of it as the demons in her rejoiced and screamed “hail satan!”. This was a triumph for the devil and no-one else and the man was the victim whilst this heartless Dalilah and Jezebel that gutted him was the predator.”