The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Surajudeen Ajibola Basiru, has assured Nigerians that the National Assembly will not tamper with freedom of the media in the country. The senator was reacting to the controversy trailing the proposed amendment to the Nigeria Press Council (NPC) Act. Basiru spoke after declaring open a two-day capacity building workshop for media aides to Principal Officers and Information Personnel of the National Assembly in Abuja. The workshop was organised by the National Institute for Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS). Responding to a question on the fear that the media might fall under government harmer in view of two media Bills currently being considered by the House of Representatives, Basiru said: “The media cannot be gagged in Nigeria. The fact that you regulate certain untoward activities does not mean you are gagging the media. “We have one of the most liberalised media industry in Nigeria: private radio stations, private television stations and news online. But at the same time, there has always been the tension between right to freedom of expression and, of course, the untoward activity that extreme use, particularly false information, can render on society. “So, regulating (the media) in order to take away unsavoury attitude would not mean the media is being gagged. Media cannot be gagged anywhere in the world.” Before declaring the event open, Basiru urged political office holders in the country not to turn their media aides into attack dogs in view of their critical role of “mitigating tension in the society”. He said: “The role of media aides is rooted in journalism and a fact that cannot be denied is that the country needs viable and well-informed media personnel as intermediaries between the government and the governed.” The senator reiterated that media aides are, by the nature of their work schedule, the repository of the “secrets” of their principals and that their job schedule cuts across policy making and projection of their principals’ images. “Their roles are more sensitive than those of other aides because they are the mirror through which their principals are assessed by the public,” he said.