Lagos State is driving a plan for multiple manufacturing hubs and generation of opportunities for the youth. Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Lagos State, Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke said multiple manufacturing hubs would give the small manufacturing sector a stronger role in domestic job creation. She spoke during the flag up ceremony for up-skilling of 2000 practicing tradesmen and artisans in Lagos. She said there were artisans with skills to encourage both the global as well as the domestic companies to set up manufacturing units. “This up-skilling programme was developed to equip you towards becoming the 21st century artisans and tradesmen,” Arobieke said. She maintained that the up skilling was to raise the contribution of the sector to the gross domestic product (GDP). According to her, Lagos has started a transformational journey towards becoming an attractive global business destination. She added that an online portal, which will link artisans to clients to boost business in the sector, is on the way. She said it would facilitate access to clients who require their services and boost commerce within the value chain. The online portal will be a marketplace for artisans and consumers. Mrs. Arobieke said the Governor approved the creation of a robust online platform that would support business transactions between individuals as well as Small and Medium Business Enterprises. The virtual market will expose the artisans to global markets and scale up their potential in Lagos State. The Permanent Secretary, Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs. Kafayat Adetokunbo Ajenifuja- said a brighter economic future will be secured for the country, through greater wealth creation and better employment opportunities. She emphasized that in order to achieve economic growth, the state government was working ensure that there is a modern and supportive infrastructure in place to support businesses, and that artisans have right skills for future opportunities. She pointed to the Micro and Small Enterprise (MSE) sector as the key strategy in building the economy, generating employment, and addressing poverty. She said that the government was committed to providing a supportive environment for entrepreneurship and pointed to the plan to establish several industrial hubs to facilitate the nurturing of and development of micro enterprises to become high value-added and to increase their viability nationally.