Youngest son of famous Afrobeat pioneer, Fela, Seun Kuti. has continued to undermine the Grammy recognition of Wizkidayo even after taking receipt of his Grammy plaque on Wednesday. The Nation had reported current leader of ‘Egypt 80’ band claimed only four Nigerians have ever been nominated for the Grammy Awards in its history. Seun Kuti stated this via one of his usual Instagram live sessions with his fans where revealed those four artistes include; Femi Kuti, himself, Burna Boy and King Sunny Ade. He added: “Forget all these people you are attaching or featuring. When you are featured, you’re not nominated; it’s not your song.” His comment had led Wizkid FC, that is the teeming fans of “Ojuelegba” singer to troll Seun Kuti as they noted the singer’s comment was directed at Big Wiz. They stated that Bigbird was just bitter as he has only been nominated for Grammy but has never won. They added that their fav, Wizzy was way better than he could ever be while noting that he should quit being jealous and just celebrate the Grammy award winner. However, in a much recent post shared on his Instagram page and stories, Seun Kuti reiterated his words that there are only four musicians in Nigerian whose music has been nominated for Grammy. According to Seun, an album is way different from a music video while noting Big Wiz will someday make worthy music that will attract real Grammy recognition. The singer shared a post that read; “There are only 4 musicians in Nigeria whose music has been nominated for the Grammys. If that annoys you its not my fault. Album no be music video. Your favourite will also one day by the ancestor’s grace makes music that will be recognized. I am dedicating today to you children.” The 38-year-old also went further to inform his trolls and haters to brace up as he was all set to strike them hard while he captioned the post; “Today is the day for the ignorant. I told you. I am the chairman of haters. You don’t want to believe I will prove it today. I am even more petty than you jobless people all over my page. I am a Nigerian. I grew up in KALAKUTA and also an ARSENAL FAN. “Una never plenty reach. This one na dragging? You can’t drag me because I no dey una hand like una fav yeyebrities. Una go hear word today. E be like say una wan cry. #getthesax #letsgetignorant #nosensethursday. Also I want to see all of una teacher, you can buy data but u don’t know the difference between album and video?”