The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has asked states yet to implement the new minimum wage or have unilaterally cut wages and owing workers’ salary arrears to prepare for its protests. Its President, Ayuba Wabba said  some states have refused to pay the new national minimum wage. He said the Congress regretted that some states, which had signed collective bargaining agreements with state councils of the labour movement on the payment of consequential salary adjustment and pension benefits owing to the new national minimum wage have reneged on their commitment. Ayuba said it was incorrect to say labour imposed minimum wage on states. He said the N30,000 was the national benchmark agreed upon by all stakeholders, including the 36 state governors. He restated that minimum wage could not be removed from the exclusive list as such runs contrary to  many International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions which Nigeria has ratified. Besides, he said the minimum wage does not apply only to workers in government establishments as it covers those in the organised private sector. In a related event, the Congress has written President Muhammadu Buhari, alleging a breach of  its agreement with the Kaduna State Government to end its warning strike last month. It said the state, as against the outcome of the meeting brokered by the Federal Government, has started to sack its workers. “Mr. President may recall that the first conciliatory meeting between the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Kaduna State Government took place on May 20, 2021. “A major outcome of that meeting was a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the Nigeria Labour Congress and the Kaduna State Government. “The MoU specifically provided that there should be no further victimisation and harassment of workers and trade union leaders in the state, especially workers who participated in the warning strike. “The Nigeria Labour Congress was also expected to maintain the suspension of the strike while negotiations continued,” Wabba stated. Wabba said the Kaduna State Government had gone ahead to violate the clauses of its agreement  with the NLC. Wabba told the president that the Labour Union might reactivate the suspended strike.