Do you eat breakfast regularly? Breakfast being the first meal of the day is the most important meal. One should not skip breakfast as it helps in breaking your overnight fast. If you forgo your breakfast you extend this fast which might impact your metabolism. Those who skip breakfast tend to eat more portions of food in the next meal. Consuming a healthy breakfast restores the glucose levels in the body and lowers stress levels. Multiple studies have shown the importance of eating breakfast, whether it’s to improve your energy levels or keep you from overeating later in the day. When you wake up in the morning, your blood sugar level drops, so you need a nutrient-dense breakfast that can provide you energy to get through the day and kick-start your metabolism. To boost your metabolism, try to eat breakfast at least within 2 hours of waking up. Starting your day with the right kinds of foods in the morning can help keep you feeling energised throughout the day. Foods rich in whole grains, protein, fiber, and good fats can help provide your body with energy that helps keep your body and brain energy levels sustained for the rest of the day. Eating a breakfast high in complex carbohydrates can help improve your alertness and focus for the rest of the day. This can be especially helpful if you’re one to fall into the afternoon slump, as complex carbohydrates keep you satiated and energised. Eating breakfast daily can help improve your cognitive functions, including memory. Studies have shown that children who eat breakfast everyday show better memory, increase concentration, improved test scores and less absences. Everyone knows that food makes people happy. Eating a well-rounded breakfast especially puts people in better moods. Studies have shown that eating food early in the day leads people to be calmer and more level-headed. Getting to work on an empty stomach will leave you fatigued and you might end up being grumpy all day. If you find yourself struggling with your mood throughout the day, consider making the small addition of breakfast. The impact may just surprise you. According to various studies, missing breakfast regularly can lead to the development of type 2 diabetes as it may cause chronic insulin resistance. Without having breakfast, the insulin level can drop and then spike after lunch, which might increase the risk of type “2” diabetes. Skipping a meal in the morning after sleeping all night puts stress on the body. Doing this every day can lead to chronic stress and inflammation in the body. Inflammation is a normal reaction when your body is fighting an illness, but chronic inflammation can lead to unwanted symptoms. These can include swollen joints, stiffness, and even flu-like things like fever and chills. If you are looking to lose weight, don’t skip breakfast. Eating heavy breakfast can help you curb hunger throughout the day and ultimately reduce the risk of overeating and consuming more calories than needed. Starting the day with a nutritious breakfast can stimulate and motivate healthy choices throughout the entire day. Note: Skipping breakfast should be strictly avoided if you’re trying to lose weight. People who skip their morning meal are more likely to have clogged arteries. Skipping breakfast is linked to other harmful habits which can leads to hypertension, obesity, high blood pressure and high cholesterol which in turn increase the risk of heart attacks, strokes by 27%. Since skipping breakfast leaves you hungry and fatigued; overeating during the day is often the case. Eating quick and unhealthy meals might lead to metabolism impairment and hormonal imbalance which commonly lead to obesity. Being obese and overweight exposes you to increased risk of developing certain cancers.