Leadway Assurance Company Limited has partnered  the Association of Parents of Private School Students (APPSS) to launch an education insurance policy plan tagged the Group Education Protection Plan (GEPP). Head, Life Retail, Leadway Assurance, Bolorunduro Saliu, in a statement, said the plan was launched at an event hosted at Eliud International School in Port Harcourt, the Rivers state capital. It is designed to help parents protect their children’s future from   disruptions due to unplanned or unforeseen events, such as the death of a parent or guardian, life-threatening critical illness, total and permanent disability resulting from personal accidents. With this partnership, he said the parents were guaranteed the fulfilment of bequeathing their children quality and life-defining education. According to him, the unique alliance mandates Leadway to assume the payment of the children’s fees for the agreed remaining school terms from the point the sponsoring parent or guardian dies or contracts a critical illness or disability. He said: “This policy reflects the organisation’s proactive steps towards mitigating the risk parents face from failing to achieve their dream of bequeathing quality education to their children due to circumstances that are beyond their control, especially death or permanent disability. “We are pleased to work with a forward-looking association that is keen to proactively take smart financial decisions for their children’s assured future.  Our partnership with APPSS provides every parent under the association the assurance that should the most unnerving life situation occur, there is guaranteed peace of mind regarding the completion of your child’s education. “The intention of this policy is to have a solution that protects the parents which in turn protects the education of their children in case of any eventuality. This product is designed to provide an actionable and affordable solution to ensuring that our children, being the future of the society, have proactive measures put in place to ensure that their journey to greatness is not halted abruptly.”  National President, APPSS, Dr Ovy Chukwuma on his part said, “Leadway has magnanimously created this programme at a very affordable premium and high sum assured to cater for the payment of fees for children in private schools nationwide from Nursery to Secondary Levels.  “The programme is designed to be driven by our Children Education Promotion and Protection Ambassadors (CEPPA), a project to provide parents, schools, and society at large an opportunity to be involved in the process of quality children education delivery in the country. The GEPP partnership was officially inaugurated on Thursday, May 27, 2021, in Port Harcourt, Nigeria, commemorating this year’s Children’s Day”, he noted.