 Football superstars like JayJay Okocha, Kanu Nwankwo; Daniel Amokachi and others from African countries like El-Hadji Diouf are all billed to participate in the second edition of the African Children Talent Discovery Foundation’s (ACTDF) talent hunt and mentoring programme, scheduled to hold between 24th and 27th in Bauchi, Bauchi State. Tagged: Engr. Noah Dallaji Legacy Project, the talent hunt according to the chairman of the Foundation, Engineer Noah Dallaji, is opened to all young talented players across the country to come and showcase their talents and be identified by the invited football icons across Africa. The identified players will be supported with moral and financial assistance on their roads to the zenith of their careers. “We believe that the best footballers Nigeria would ever have are in the rural communities and we need to dig them out. The aim of the Talent Hunts is to produce 11 players that will represent Nigeria’s Super Eagles. This can be achieved by consolidating on the talents we have in this one country and we started with football because I have passion for the game and other sports like basketball. Once we discovered the line that any talent is, we will help in building the personal career. Dallaji reiterated that the program will reduce the crime rates Nigeria is currently faced with. “Because a lot is going on in the country – insecurity, banditry, Boko-haram all these here and there. So we want to use this opportunity to channel our energy into the positive things and we starting by Football talent hunts in Bauchi State bringing in a lot of football superstars like JayJay Okocha, Kanu Nwankwo Daniel Amokachi and others from African countries like El-Hadji Diouf and other from African countries will be on ground to mentor these young talents. This will go a long way in boosting the Morales of these young talents because most of these guys are frustrated despite their hidden talents. The six-day programme starts 24 and ends 27 June, 2021. The foundation, The African Children Talents Discovery Foundation (ACTDF) is an organization that was created in 1996 with vision and mission to discover talents. The foundation believes that talent is a natural thing and all human beings have the natural talent. Following their contributions to human development, they have been attending the United Nations General Assembly since 2010 and have a scholarship programme that helped about 300 Nigerians schooling abroad and have over a thousand students schooling in Nigeria particularly in Bauchi State.