Aggrieved students of the Rivers State College of Health, Science and Management Technology (RSCHSMT) have barricaded the popular Ikwerre Road in Port Harcourt to protest the lack of basic amenities and decayed infrastructure in the school. The students, who blocked the Agip Bridge end of the road yesterday said they lacked electricity, water, classrooms and other basic facilities to aid their studies in the school. Besides, the students cried that most of the courses in the school were not accredited, and begged the state Governor, Nyesom Wike, to rescue the dying institution. A former President, SUG, Goodness Uranta, said a structure, which was started by the school while he was still a student had remained under construction. Uranta said: “I graduated from this school last year. They began a structure while I was in the school; two years after, the structure is still as it has been. From what we gathered, money for the structure has been given. “School fee has been increased but that isn’t the issue. The reason for the increment is not visible. The school handles practical courses but throughout my two years in the school, I entered the lab only once because there is no equipment to carry out practicals. “The school is called a college of health but we the students are dying because the level of filth we live in is unimaginable. The government has totally abandoned the school. “The Provost has been in office for more than four years yet some schools in the college do not have accreditation. “There are so many things the government needs to look into. The Provost is yet to address the students. He isn’t doing well.” One of the students, Deblessed Nnamdi said the school was bedevilled with numerous unsolved problems. A member of the Student Union Government (SUG), Ntogo Dinebari, said they were in dire need of help and appealed to the government to come to their aid. “We don’t have light at all. The school is not accredited. We are cramped in one classroom. We need the governor to erect structures. Most departments don’t have practical equipment. We need help and we will not leave until the government sends representatives or come to our aid.” Reacting to the demands of the students, the Provost, Prof. Franklin Nlerum, said the students did not inform him about the lack of water on campus. He said: “I was not informed that there was no water in the school. Ideally, it was a long weekend so they would have approached me so we could present the issue to the management to handle the issue.