Nigeria international striker Paul Onuachu said  he was proud to win the Ebony Shoe, which is awarded to Belgium’s best African player or player of African descent. It completes a hat-trick of awards for the 26-Year-old, who had already won the Belgian Professional Footballer of the Year and top scorer’s awards for 2020-21 season. The Genk striker becomes the first Nigerian to win the award in 25 years and comes after he scored 33 goals to emerge as the top African goal scorer in Europe this season. “It doesn’t happen to every footballer and I feel proud, honoured and delighted to win this special award as a Nigerian and significantly as a professional from Africa,” Onuachu told BBC Sport Africa. “To pick up three awards in a season is unbelievable and I thank God, my teammates and all the fans of Genk and Nigeria for the incredible support. “I thank the organisers of the Ebony shoe award for their consistent and relentless support to African players in Belgium because this prize will continue to motivate us to do more.” Onuachu won the prize ahead of Angola’s Clinton Mata (Club Brugge) and Belgian Théo Bongonda (Genk), who is of DR Congo descent. Yet Onuachu is reportedly  unsure about seeing out his deal with KRC Genk after winning the 2021 Ebony Shoe Prize. The towering centre forward, whose current contract with Genk will expire in June 2024, has been linked with French giants Olympique Lyonnais and Italian club SS Lazio. “For me, you never know what the future holds but I think scoring a lot of goals this season for KRC Genk and of course my career is going to be one of the most important periods for me,” Onuachu told the club’s YouTube channel. “It is going to be difficult to say I’m going to repeat it where I am going but I think the players we have in this team really make all this possible for me, but like I said earlier you don’t know what the future holds. “As it is now I think I’m really happy for the figure I have in the league and of course for KRC Genk.” Onuachu has been on the books of Genk since August 2019 having joined the club from Danish side FC Midtjylland.