Social media have reacted to a short viral video made by singer Bella Schmurda in the examination hall. The “Vision 2020” singer has got the streets of social media beeping with several questions and comments regarding the viral video he posted of himself while in an examination hall. The video showed the ‘Dagbana” crooner in an examination hall holding a pen over his examination papers. Same video also showed that Bella recently shared the video on his instagram story with an inscription that read; “Lasu Exam gats me” accompanied with a sick emoji. Meanwhile, the video has caused a flurry of reactions from social media as they have expressed several opinions about it. Some have expressed wonder as to why the singer is in an examination hall considering he had made a song in which he noted “Four years in Lasu is really nothing.” Others have said as long as you have money you can get away with anything since the singer was somehow able to use a phone in the hall while examination was ongoing. Few others have simply commended him on taking education seriously while wishing him all the best. ph_accommodations stated: “4 years in Lasu is really nothing… I think say him don finish o.” mercurial995 wrote: “After e say “4 years in LASU is really nothing”. These artist been confusing people.” charles_kojoo said: “4 years in LASU, wetin you still dey do since?” marygift01stated: “What’s he doing with phone in the exam hall ……Una school free ooo…Wish you success.” _davidnjoku wrote: “Exam candidate Dey Do Instagram for hall even get time Dey update story. Omo ds life get money.” photographybyhonesty said: “This life get money ooo,, anything is possible.” mosesenwerem stated: “E carry phone dey write exam sef. Omo make money ooo.” calebikechi wrote: “So them Dey allow phone for exam hall…..if you no get money for this life Na you do yourself.” woli_bughatti_official said: “Normal you need am bro ….. I pray you are coming out with flying colours Excellent …. I wish you Good luck bella_shmurda.” youfoundtunez stated: “That’s so nice never taught he would love finishing school like this.”