 When he heard about the tragedy that happened as a result of the inferno that engulfed OPIC Plaza along Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way, Ikeja on June 12, he was agitated. The reason for this was not far-fetched. His wife, a nurse who works with a private hospital in Ebute Metta area, had gone to work and would naturally drive through that route home. Zacchaeus Ogunleye, an engineer, said when he heard the sad news, he placed a call to his wife’s mobile phone number but the call failed to connect. When it finally connected, neither could he nor his wife hear each other. He tried again and got the same result. “My blood pressure surged when I tried calling her but to no avail. The mobile phone is the only means for people to reach out to loved ones in case of emergency but it is usually worrisome that when you place calls as I did that terrible night, you are most likely not going to get response. Even the so-called emergency toll free lines hardly work and when they manage to do, there’ is no one at the other end to respond to your calls. Quite frankly, my feeling is that we ought to have overcome some of these challenges,” Ogunleye said. Ogunleye is just one out of several others that have had cause to complain about service quality degradation. There have been occasions where subscribers have had to cope with call diversion, cross-talking, drop calls and other difficulties in using mobile phones, including loading airtime. In telecoms parlance, challenges such as these are known as quality of service (QoS) issues. One of the operators had controversially put its customers on notice about a possible outage over its inability to access the base transceiver (BTS) for routine fuelling and maintenance ostensibly owing to insecurity. QoS is as old as the telecoms industry in the country. The CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Garba Danbatta, admits there are issues with QoS in the industry but said the Commission is working hard to address it.  Insecurity He dismissed insecurity as reasons for the poor sercice quality. The Chairman, Association of Licesned telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), Gbenga Adebayo, agrees with him. He said neither the rainy season nor insecurity could be blamed for the problem. He said the problem reflects that the industry remained work in progress. Danbatta  said: “I don’t know whether there’s a correlation between degradation of service quality and insecurity. If there’s such a correlation, it has not been scientifically proven. So, I would rather talk about quality of service because it is a key performance parameter of the Commission and for which it is vested with the power to regulate. “QoS, yes as you are aware, we have key performance indicators (KPIs) characterising QoS, about seven of them. The commonest parameter that characterises QoS is drop call. That is the phenomenon that most citizens of this country are familiar with. We insist that out of 100 calls, only one is allowed to be dropped. That is the irreducible minimum or for drop calls. There are other parameters for call setup success rate which states that only two calls out of 100 attempts is acceptable not to be successful. When these KPIs are produced and given to MNOs, their attention was drawn to it at the point of assignment of licences. They were told in very clear terms that we intend to enforce these KPIs and we have a way to monitor them and ensure that they are adhered with, meaning we have the capacity to measure these KPIs including the five that I did not state. And this we are able to do across the entire length and breadth of this country in every state of the federation and even in local government areas. So, in the event that we discover any MNO not meeting these important stipulations, we draw their attention to it.  If we notice failure to address this regulatory directive, then we take action by writing, at times, we even go the whole length of taking that important regulatory action of last resort which is sanction. “QoS of course varies from one location to another. Where you have clusters of access gaps, where telecoms services aren’t available to citizens, especially in areas that are underserved and unserved, the QoS is bound to be below the acceptable standard. But in areas where they are served with telecoms infrastructure, you find the QoS is equal or even above the acceptable minimum. ‘’ 