Disturbed by incessant complaints about Nigerian Army personnel getting involved in land-related disputes, the 81 Division on Wednesday inaugurated a standing committee to look into such issues. General Officer Commanding (GOC), Maj.-Gen. Lawrence Fejokwu who inaugurated the committee at the 81 Division’s headquarters in Victoria Island, said it was expected to establish a mechanism for the amicable resolution of reported land disputes involving serving and retired personnel. The GOC said with its establishment, soldiers would no longer have to individually go to communities where they purchased land if there are disputes as their cases would be handled by the committee when and where necessary. He said allegations of soldiers invading communities over land issues would also be addressed by the committee should affected communities bring forward their complaints. Fejokwu said: “We are taking another step towards solving the problem of land disputes in 81 Division’s Area of Responsibility (AOR) involving our personnel both serving and retired. We have been inundated with various complaints from both our personnel and communities. “It is either the communities run to us to complain that soldiers are invading their lands or our soldiers are complaining that they bought lands overtime that has appreciated and the communities revoked such lands and want to reallocate them to other lands. “The idea behind this committee is that personnel within the division’s AOR with land issues do not have to go there individually but should approach the committee, tender documents which will be looked into. If it is valid, the committee will go as 81 Division representatives to resolve the issue. “We hope this approach will solve the problem of communities trying to revoke lands already sold to our personnel on the one hand, and stop the idea of soldiers taking laws into their hands out of frustration.” Continuing the GOC said the committee was inaugurated at the instance of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt.-Gen Farouk Yahaya, who told them to continuously tackle identified problems in their command until such issues are resolved. Fejokwu lamented that most times those who get involved in land disputes were impersonators and not military personnel, hoping that such issues would also be contained with the establishment of the standing committee. He said it would also aggregate data and look into issues involving the revocation of land following a buyer’s non-compliance to the deadline for physical possession within stipulated timelines. “That is what we are trying to do, hoping that this will solve this problem once and for all. If a soldier runs foul of a land purchase agreement, the committee will tell him the same. It is also a forum where issues will be aggregated and data generated. If our data tilts to the fact that the problem lies with soldiers not taking physical possession within stated timeframes, it is left for us to begin to educate our soldiers on areas they run foul of the law. “If on the other hand, we find out that the communities are trying to take advantage because the land has appreciated, we will also move as a division to tell them they cannot do that to our personnel. These agreements sometimes should be made flexible. For instance, when will a soldier who may be in theatre of operation for two or more years have time to come and develop a property he bought within a year?” Fejokwu said. The Nation reports that the committee headed by 81 Division Garrison Commander, Brig.-Gen. NMS Najidada also has the division’s Provost, Colonel AC Chukwuma, Major AA Jimoh, Capt N Maigari and Lt. YO Mathew as members.