Libido, or sex drive, naturally varies between individuals. Having a low sex drive is not necessarily a problem but if a person wishes to boost their libido, they can try a range of effective natural methods. Anxiety, relationship difficulties, health concerns, and age can all affect libido. While low libido is not usually problematic, it can affect a person’s relationships and self-esteem. In this piece, we will be sharing 20 handy foods that aid the improvement of the male and female libido. So you don’t have to go seeking out kayanmata vendors as these are cheaper and readily available.  Avocados are rich in vitamin B6 and folic acid, which help increase overall energy, a major factor against that mood-killing evening energy crash. B6 also helps regulate prolactin, a libido enhancer. Avocados are also rich in heart-healthy monounsaturated fat, though the mechanism is not entirely clear, current research suggests that monounsaturated fats help to increase testosterone production.  This sweet and smooth fruit is well worth slipping into your diet for a lift to your sex drive: “Bananas are a great source of potassium, a critical nutrient for muscle contraction which is very important for good quality sex. Bananas naturally contain bromelain, which helps produce testosterone. Also, studies show that women with higher sex drives have higher testosterone.  One large bell pepper contains nearly 600 percent of your needs for vitamin C. Vitamin C aids in blood circulation to organs and has also been associated with improved female libido. Note: All bell peppers are a great source of vitamin C but red peppers rank higher than green, so opt for them if you can.  Celery has an aroma which contains two steroids called androsterone and adrostenol. When we ingest celery, the subtle pheromone of these two natural chemicals travels through our sweat glands and works to attract the opposite sex. Celery also contains arginine, which is an amino acid that expands blood vessels the way Viagra is supposed to do.  This childhood staple has some very grown-up effects. Chocolate contains theobromine and phenylethylamine. Theobromine has a mood-improving effect, while phenylethylamine is the same chemical produced in the brain when a person is in love; the perfect ingredient to get you in the mood.  “The Aztec ruler Montezuma (the final ruler of the Aztec Empire prior to the Spanish conquest) used to drink up to 50 cups of a chocolate drink before heading to his harem. But to get the antioxidants from chocolate you don’t need as much as Montezuma. Choose chocolate made from 60-70 percent cocoa and eat 1-ounce servings. Dark chocolate helps release the same chemicals as those released during sex. Those feel-good chemicals will help build desire with your partner.  Dates are rich in amino acids, which are known to increase sexual stamina, and they’re a popular aphrodisiac in North African countries like Nigeria. The act of eating dates can be very sexual, they melt in your mouth. Dates are known to improve sexual stamina, libido and your performance.  Yes, seriously. Garlic is chockfull of allicin, an active compound that increases blood flow, making everything extra sensitive to touch. It also stimulates blood circulation for stronger erections and greater endurance in the bedroom. Pro tip: Keep breath mints handy after ingesting an extra rich garlic meal.  Ginseng might not look appealing but it could do wonders for your sex life. Researchers in a 2010 study found Korean red ginseng in particular improved sexual arousal in menopausal women. But you can give some to your hubby too as it has also been shown to improve sexual function in men.  “Kidney beans are also very rich in L-arginine. A study has also shown that a supplement high in arginine improved female desire, satisfaction, and frequency of sex.  For years, oysters have been rumored to help boost libido. You may ask why is that? Well, they contain two amino acids, D-aspartic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate, that have been found to increase sex hormones in men and women.  The pine nut is an ancient aphrodisiac. Pine nuts are rich in zinc, which is needed for testosterone production. And women with the most testosterone have the highest sex drive.  Studies have shown that a daily intake of pomegranate juice led to increased testosterone levels in women and men, reduced stress levels, and increased mood. The antioxidants present in this delicious fruit are triple-threat. They help increase testosterone production, improve blood circulation, and improve overall mood.  Pumpkin seeds are a great source of zinc, which boosts testosterone. Not only is this great for men, but studies have shown women with high levels of testosterone have a greater sex drive. Zinc works to block the enzyme that converts testosterone to estrogen. Bonus: Pumpkin seeds are loaded with antioxidants, iron, zinc, magnesium, and much more nutrients that are good for you.  Red grapes are a good source of boron, which is a mineral that helps stimulate the production of both estrogen and testosterone. A boost in estrogen and testosterone can send fresh energy to your sex organs and put you in the mood quicker than Ryan Gosling in a Blade Runner trailer.  Salmon is one of the best sources of omega-3 fats, which help to lower blood pressure, triglycerides, and improve circulation. Efficient circulation means that blood will easily deliver nutrients and oxygen throughout the body, including to your sexual organs, so that they can function at their peak. Omega-3s also boost the production of dopamine, one of your brain’s pleasure chemicals.  There’s never been a better time to add spinach to your diet. It’s a rich source of magnesium and the mineral is known for helping dilate blood vessels. What does that mean for your libido? It increases blood flow to all parts of your body which in turn increases arousal.  Walnuts pack a great punch for the libido. They’re a good source of L-arginine, which gets converted into nitric oxide, and this keeps arteries flexible, dilates blood vessels, and improves blood flow, which is important for getting oxygen to the sex organs. As a woman, slip your man a handful too, as L-arginine can help strengthen his erection.  There’s no reason to ditch this summer staple after temperatures drop. Watermelon relaxes the blood vessels to improve blood flow to the sex organs, which has the ability to enhance arousal. The phytonutrient citrulline in watermelon is responsible for the effect. Since citrulline is most concentrated near the rind(the hard tough outer layer) you should consider eating more pickled watermelon rind.  Moderation is the key here, but by all means, indulge to amplify your sexual desire. Alcohol is a relaxant and is known to decrease inhibitions. But one to two glasses is all you need. If you drink too much, it actually impedes arousal. According to the National Institute of Health, excessive alcohol can result in impotence.