Joe Aribo took another route to the top and didn’t make his senior debut until he was 20 years old… now he’s flourishing under Steven Gerrard at Rangers and is on the cusp of becoming an ‘Invincible’ in Scotland . Nigeria and Rangers midfielder Joe Aribo will never forget the day he was handed Super Eagles iconic No. 10 shirt by handler Gernot Rohr. The No. 10 shirt is iconic in that it is worn by icons of the game in Pele, Maradona, Lionel Messi, Kaka, Ronaldinho, Zinedine Zidane, Wayne Rooney, Neymar Jr. Michel Platini and Jay Jay  Okocha to mention but few. ‘Getting called up was a surreal feeling and one I definitely didn’t expect, from where I’ve come from but it just showed me how far I’ve come,’ Aribo said. ‘I’ll never forget my first game with the No.10. They left the spot [in the changing room] for me and I didn’t sit there because I was thinking “this can’t be me.” ‘They said “no, this is you” and when I was warming up I was thinking “yo, this is crazy. The ten for Nigeria.” I didn’t know how to feel. A crazy feeling. In football, let alone Nigeria the No.10 shirt is iconic. If you’re wearing it you’ve got to be a good player so I feel like I have to be good.’ Aribo is Rangers and Nigeria’s central midfielder, a mainstay of Steven Gerrard’s Scottish title-winning side and figure central to his countries present and future. INSPIRATION And his story makes Aribo even more on top of that. An inspiration to scores of youngsters hoping to make their way in the game. Proof that the academy route is not the only one into football. Proof that if you believe you can achieve, no matter how unlikely it can at times seem. Londoner Aribo was approaching his teens and part of Fulham’s Kicks community project when he first dreamed of becoming a professional. ‘Seeing Fulham, the team, first-hand, going to the training ground, was just amazing,’ Aribo said, reminiscing. ‘It was like “yeah, this is where I want to be playing.” Being close to it, seeing it but not really being in it, you want it more. ‘I always had in the back of my mind that I wanted to get to a level where I can say I’m a professional footballer.’ Though it was not until Aribo was 19 that he joined his first professional club, Charlton, and 20 that he made his senior debut. And there were many points before that when Aribo feared such milestone moments would never be reached. Nowadays, though, he is rubbing shoulders with players he watched growing up like teammate Jermain Defoe, receiving priceless guidance from ‘father figure’ Gerrard and his No.2 Gary McAllister among others, and has helped Rangers end their long title wait and Celtic’s dominance of Scotland’s top division. ‘I honestly thank God,’ a grateful Aribo said. ‘Without God I don’t know where I would be. Sometimes I just literally think “wow, look at how far you’ve come” and there are still places you are going to go. This isn’t the end of it.’ Though when he was still playing under-16s Sunday League football, a few years after his informal association with Fulham, Aribo was concerned that it might be the end for his professional hopes. ‘This was the age where you’ve got to get into an academy otherwise the dream is fading,’ he said. ALMOST GAVE UP When that season did not really come to anything “I thought I might stop playing football because I didn’t know where to go next,” he said. Rather than an academy it was on to Kingston College, where one of his former Sunday League teammates suggested he go on trial at non-league Staines Town who had a tie up with the college. ‘I thought ‘I’ve got nothing to lose so I just went there,’ Aribo said. He was successful, impressed in Staines’ youth setup, crucially catching the eye of first-team manager and former Wimbledon forward Marcus Gayle. Following Gayle’s final game before he left in December 2014, he and Aribo were part of a dressing room conversation the youngster will never forget. ‘We lost the game 5-3 but I actually played so well and he said, in front of the whole team, “just make me a promise that you’re going to be a professional footballer.” I said “yeah, I definitely am.” ‘We joke about it nowadays but having that in my head made me think “I’ve made the promise and I have to back it up.” Though when things did not go to plan and he was struggling to get in Staines’ squad under Gayle’s successor, former Reading and Brentford striker Nicky Forster, it was again difficult for Aribo to see how he could. ‘At this point I was even going to [South Bank] uni and I thought “why am I even still playing football?” he said. ‘That season came to an end and I actually said to myself, “you need to start thinking about what you’re going to do next because football is not going to work for you.” ‘I stopped going to uni because I hated it as well so it was like ‘nothing is going for me.’ TURNING POINT Re-enter Gayle. A friend and former Wimbledon teammate of Charlton academy chief Jason Euell, Gayle pulled some strings to get Aribo a trial, knowing the talent he possessed deserved to be showcased at a higher level. ‘If I didn’t get into Charlton I would have stopped playing football,’ Aribo said. ‘I had something to work towards [the trial] that whole summer and I just gave it my all. ‘I remember getting the call that Charlton were going to offer me something. ‘It was surreal because this was my first ever pro contract. As I was coming in very late, it was a nice feeling. My family were so happy for me.’ Russell Slade gave Aribo his Charlton debut, Karl Robinson introduced him to league football but it was under his successor Lee Bowyer that Aribo really flourished, helping the Addicks gain promotion from League One in 2019 before joining Rangers. ‘He really helped me and I learnt so much under him because he was a central midfielder as well,’ Aribo said of Bowyer. ‘He taught me the nasty side of football especially. That it’s never going to just come to you, you have to work for it. Every single day you’ve got to graft and work.’ Aribo has adapted impressively to every step up he has had to make, both for club and country. At Rangers he has found greater demands from the fans but increased adulation too. ‘I would say probably the day I signed [was when he realised just how big Rangers are],’ Aribo said. ‘It was like a whole different ball game. I was staying in a hotel initially and went into town quickly just to get a few bits and people are asking me for pictures, stopping me and I’m thinking “wow this is my first day, I’ve just signed.” Culled from The Mail On Sunday