And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice … Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap ~ Revelation 14:15. Introduction: Supernatural harvest talks of an increase that surpasses human understanding, an increase that is inexplicable and clearly beyond the natural. It is an increase orchestrated by supernatural input. Harvest time comes when the “corn” is ripe, by the mercy of God. Hence, supernatural harvest is a definite work of God’s grace, whereby all the enemies of harvest are beaten out by the power of the Holy Spirit. Meanwhile, there is no meaningful way of talking about harvest without making mention of reapers. Reapers are significant entities at harvest times. Definitely, there is a human side to harvest. For instance, in our soul-winning assignment, angels will not “put in the sickle” for us. They don’t preach the gospel; we, the redeemed of the Lord, are the ones that must reach out with the gospel to the lost, while the atmosphere is charged and made conducive for saving grace by the heavenly agents of harvest (Psalm 107:2; Isaiah 48:20). In particular, when our major focus is on distinctive super-mega-harvest in all ramifications of life, the roles of supernatural reaper agents — the angels of harvest — cannot be downplayed. It is God’s angels that reap in favour of the righteous when all conditions are fully met. The Ministries of Angels Angels are God’s agents who execute His judgment, reveal His purpose and enforce His will on earth. Particularly, in the interest of our mega-harvest, angels are sometimes sent to give warnings or to provide instructions and directions to God’s people, leading to distinctive feats, as in the cases of Cornelius and Philip (Acts 10:3; 8:26). Where necessary, angels also do minister physical provisions to God’s people. This was the experience of Elijah when he was running away from the harassment of Jezebel. An angel ministered to him, encouraged and even provided a meal for him (1 Kings 19:1-8; Matthew 4:11). In general, whenever angels are sent to enforce God’s Will, they do so with an irresistible authority, doing whatever is required to deliver on their orders (Genesis 19:11; Matthew 28:2-4). Similarly, when they receive a command to bless you, they require no further permission from any quarters on earth to carry out that duty. They will literally go to any length to compel your harvest. Releasing the Angels for the Works of Harvest Please keep in mind that the spiritual reaper angels are required to give effects to our expected supernatural mega-harvest (Hebrews 1:13-14). However, in order to practically enjoy a mega-harvest, we must learn to command it in specific terms (Job 38:12-13). Happily, as children of God, we are authorized to issue commands in the spirit realm. We may boldly say: reaper angels, go now and bring my harvests of heavenly blessings and earthly treasures, in Jesus Name. Most importantly, when we live in due divine order, we become more effective in deploying reaper angels in line with our expected harvest. Having God and being in right standing with Him are essential ingredients for supernatural increase. Generally, what motivates angels in their ministry to humans is not their love for us, but rather their devotion to God and to His standards. It is your implicit obedience to God that provokes the reaper angels to work tirelessly in your favour (Exodus 23:20-23). And, this was what played out very favorably in the lives of many saints of old who had great records of mega-harvest. Even though Abraham was raised in an atmosphere of uncertainty and idolatry, nevertheless, he became very wealthy in silver and gold because God’s supernatural power favored him. This he attracted through diligent obedience to every instruction from God (Genesis 12:1-3; Hebrews 7:1-9). Solomon too didn’t have any attractive background, so to say. In fact, he was a product of an unholy dalliance between David and Bathsheba, but he changed that negative narrative by demonstrating an uncommon love for God. He sacrificed “a thousand burnt offerings” unto the Lord (1Kings 3:4). Afterwards, he attained heights of glory, pomp and pageantry that nobody before or after him attained. Meanwhile, the following specific attributes of obedience will always provoke angelic interventions on this side of eternity, to guarantee our supernatural harvest. 1. Involving God in All Details of Our Lives! Involving God through prayers stabilizes our harvest cycle (Luke 10:2). More so, we are commanded to put God first in our lives, with a promise that all good things of life will be added to us (Matthew 6:33). 2. lnclining Our Ears to Divine Instructions! It is a demand of righteous living that we lead a well ordered life (Psalms 37:23). Sometimes, God may require us to do things that look very ridiculous, but if we cannot yield to His instructions, we may as well forget about the interventions of reaper angels on our paths to mega-harvest. 3. Avoiding Procrastination! Procrastination is the greatest thief of any glorious destiny. ‘Tomorrow’ is the name of the ‘road’ that leads to the city called ‘never’. Hence, our Lord Jesus Christ clearly forbids it (John 4:35). 4. Working Hard on the Tasks at Hand! Those who are lazy cannot see greatness (Proverbs 20:4). The Bible doesn’t in any way support a mindset of laziness; hence, it says those who won’t work shouldn’t eat (2 Thessalonians 3:10). With God’s grace in the equation, anybody can prosper if he can work hard enough. 5. Exercise Living Faith in the God of Harvest! We cannot overlook the place of pure faith in God if we expect to enjoy a mega dimension of harvest. “Miracles come in ‘cans’, they don’t come in ‘can’ts’” (Joyce Meyer). Apostle Peter exercised himself in this, and he enjoyed a ‘net-breaking’ and ‘boat-sinking’ dimension of breakthrough at a time (Luke 5:5). Those who want to see God move on their behalf must develop an attitude of thanksgiving. Things always get worse for grumblers. On the other hand, praising God intensely always yields fearful blessings (Psalms 67:5-7). Men and brethren, this is the conclusion of this matter: soul-winning is the only acceptable yardstick for measuring durable supernatural increase, and it is wise for us to take cognizance of that fact. For any Christian to ignore his privileged responsibilities to the lost, or fail to seize the moment to win souls to Christ is a typical form of forced barrenness. We all must become servant-hearted, fruitful and harvesting souls to God’s kingdom. Being a child of God is not a title, it is an admission into a kingdom life of royal responsibilities. In any case, there is no entitlement in titles. Our holy entitlements are embedded in our tasks of releasing reaper angels, winning souls for Christ and working tirelessly to make our world a better place to live in. As you walk in this wisdom, may the grace of God stand you out. May the end-time harvesters — human and angelic — swing to work in your favour, bringing every blessing of heaven and all the good treasures of the earth needed to fulfill your destiny. And, may the Lord find you worthy of eternal joy, in Jesus Name. Amen. Happy Sunday! Bishop Taiwo Akinola is the Presiding Bishop of Rhema Christian Church and Towers, Sango Ota, Ogun State,
Nigeria.