 For Fatai Amoo, former Nigeria international midfielder, what indeed is in a name after being nicknamed Arsenal down the years without knowing how  the tag came about. Though legend has  it that Arsenal  as  a nickname for  the velvet-skilled Amao was after the storied English Premier League  side, and London giants Arsenal, the current national U-17 team coach said it remains a mystery to him  why  he was named. “It’s been a long story and  I have been asked severally but sincerely, I don’t know the origin of the name,” the easy-talking Amoo said matter-of-factly. I come from a humble background and I can’t say I watched more of television to have known  how Arsenal played  for me to be called Arsenal by fans and friends. “I can’t even tell when  exactly football fans started calling me Arsenal  but it has been that way for a long time. But in all honesty, I don’t know why I’m called Arsenal. “ But one thing is for sure,  I’m a great fan of Arsenal whether they win or lose; Arsenal is life for me but what  I don’t  know why I’m called Arsenal,” admitted Amoo. Yet a goldfish, in the shape of a skillful footballer that Amoo was in his heyday, has no hiding place hence one of the doyen of  journalism Pa  Segun Adenuga  was quick to volunteer  how  the name Arsenal  has stuck with Amoo like glue. “ Oh! Arsenal, yes that was the nickname that was given  to Fatai Amoo and there is another player that was also  called by the same  alias  and that was late Victor Sessi, a Togolese that  played for Nigeria,” the respected Adenuga  who was once the Team Manager of Stationery Stores  in their glorious years in the 1990s told  NationSport. “ It is true that Amoo may not be aware  of the reason behind the nickname but I recalled he was called Arsenal because he was a damn good dribbler; he  dribbled opponents  with remarkable ease. “ There was this particular game he played against Zimbabwe; he had a great game in that particular match but above all, his  slow and steady dribbles were pleasantly good. He was a master  dribbler  during his playing days. “ Though a great fan of Stationery Sores,  Amoo  was  our (Stationery Stores) tormentor-in-chief when he was playing for First Bank. He used to play with uncommon energy anytime he played against Stationery Stores;  and you know what, that was actually what made him so popular  during his playing days.  “ He had a repertoire of dribbling skills that  had the trappings of a great team of  Arsenal of yesteryears  and he  was so good at his  craft. Without any doubt, Amoo  was one of the best dribblers we had along with Victor Sessi ‘Arsenal’ who died about two years ago,” noted Adenuga. Meanwhile, Amoo has since  turned to coaching since his retirement from football  and the  former Shooting Stars Sports Club (3SC) of Ibadan  coach  is now saddled with the responsibility of  tinkering with the national U-17 team. The Golden  Eaglets are currently preparing for the  2021 Total U-17 Africa Cup of Nations(AFCON) to be held in Morocco between March 13 and  31 with Nigeria  drawn against Tanzania, Algeria and  Congo. Here, the 60-something-old Amoo speaks about the draw and other sundry issues. Excerpts. 2021 U-17 AFCON draw I saw the draw like any other stakeholder in African football; the AFCON U17 is  a fair draw in the sense that when we look at it, Algeria is a strong team north Africa, Tanzania are not minnow as well. Congo, being a team from Central Africa, cannot be underrated even when you look at the history of U-17 very well they may be outsiders. but every country is developing very fast and they are taking development program very serious that if we try to underrate them then we are trying to cause our own downfall so for me, it’s a fair group that we should not take any team for granted and we have a very bright opportunity to qualify if we can really put our acts together and make sure we go there and perform well. Preparations towards Morocco 2021  U-17 AFCON The match against Bayern Munich Academy which we beat 5-1 should not be a yardstick to measure our level because our level in terms of where we are going is higher. Of course, that game was very good for us in order to see our own errors so  that we can also make corrections but it’s never a game to be used as a yardstick. This week is a  major week for us to play more games because most likely we may be jetting out  next week because we are supposed to be on ground at least five days before our first match. We are playing Tanzania on the 14th  and  I agree with you that preparation is the key to a good performance in Morocco,’ Coaching philosophy Well, it’s very simple and it’s simple in the sense that I don’t believe in win-at-all cost. I  want to work systematically  and want to see some of my players in the U-7 graduate to the U-20 and play outside  with clubs in Europe. I want to do more of discovery in terms of talented players, players who have talents and are not known by giving them some coaching ideas of how the ball is played in terms of progressing and that I think would always be happy and I can say that player has work with me one time and is playing in this league, I think that’s my own philosophy of coaching. Being old as Golden Eaglets coach Well I am in my 60s and that’s all I can tell you.  I am serious about that, no missing words that  I am an old man now. I’m happy about this U-17 job because it would give me the opportunity  to make a meaningful impact in the lives of so many young ones. I do this job with all sincerity and I sleep so well because I treat everybody equally. I’m at that stage in my life where I think more about my last days  on earth  and  this is an opportunity to touch many lives. Chances in Morocco All the boys are young boys but they are not ordinary players; by the time they can understand what they are being taught, they would go places.  I am blessed with colleagues who are also passionate, very determined and professionals and this has really helped us so far. I cannot say that we have the  Kanus, Mikel Obis, Amokachies of this world  but we have an array of  young boys who we are working with and in the nearest , we want to see them blossom into stars especially if they can  keep to the rules of the game.