 A Former Minister of Science and Technology in the Second Republic, Dr. Bode Olowoporoku, is dead. The Ilawe-Ekiti indigene died on Wednesday night after a brief illness. He was 76. The deceased was also a Commissioner for Economic Development in the old Ondo State. The late Olowoporoku bagged his PhD in Development Economics from the University of Manchester in the United Kingdom (UK) in 1975. He was later elected the senator representing Ekiti South between 2003 and 2007. In a condolence message by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Yinka Oyebode, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi described the late minister as a brilliant economist and politician as well as a dogged fighter who contributed immensely to the creation of the state in 1996. The governor said the late Olowoporoku was a man of many parts: a colourful politician, philanthropist, philosopher, scholar, policy formulator and a big-time farmer. “Above all, he was a patriot who was passionate about the emancipation of his people as well as the socio-political and economic development of our dear state and country in general,” Fayemi said. He said the late minister would be missed for his wise counsel, constructive criticism and courageous stance on national issues. “On behalf of the government and good people of Ekiti State, I commiserate with the immediate family members of the late Dr. Olowoporoku and pray that the Lord will grant them the fortitude to bear this irreparable loss and grant Baba eternal rest,” the governor added. The Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti and Chairman of Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Adebanji Alabi, expressed sadness over Olowoporoku’s death. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Ajibade Olubunmi, the monarch said the deceased used financial and human endowments to champion the agitation for the creation of Ekiti State from the old Ondo State.  The Southern Senators’ Forum (SSF) also mourned the late minister.  In a condolence message on behalf of the forum’s 51 senators, its Chairman, Senator Opeyemi Bamidele, expressed grief over Olowoporoku’s death. Bamidele said: “On behalf of my colleague senators under the aegis of Southern Senators’ Forum, I express heartfelt condolences to the family, confidants and the entire people of the state on the death of Senator Bode Olowoporoku. “Going by his records, the ex-senator was perceived to be one of the most active and vibrant senators during the fourth National Assembly. The former minister’s brilliant contributions to topical issues of national interest were found to be superb, outstanding and beneficial to the progress of the country… “We join Governor Fayemi and the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, Oba Ajibade Alabi, in mourning this Colossus and great believer in the ethos and culture of democracy.” Ekiti State House of Assembly Speaker Funmiyi Afuye said the death of the Second Republic minister was heartbreaking. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Akogun Tai Oguntayo, the Speaker described the late Olowoporoku as an astute politician and a prominent leader of Ekiti and Nigeria. “Apart from being highly intelligent and cerebral, Dr. Olowoporoku was also an astute politician who contributed so much to the creation of Ekiti State. “I prayed to God to grant the family of Olowoporoku and indeed the entire Ekiti, the fortitude to bear the loss,” he added. Also, a prominent chieftain of the People Democratic Party (PDP), Kayode Adaramodu, expressed shock over Olowoporoku’s death. In a statement he personally signed yesterday, he said: “The news brought so much sadness and grief to me, but it immediately became a moment of reflection, seeing how much impact our Senator Olowoporoku had on his generation and many more. He was a man of many parts, with remarkable achievements.”  “To everyone, indeed, there is a time and a season, and the exit of a great man as Senator Olowoporoku should remind us that the world is indeed a stage. Let’s take stock of our time, utilising our opportunities to the benefit of humanity, making impacts and ultimately leaving an enviable and worthy legacy.”  