Data recapture of contributors under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS)  has been a major challenge of the National Pension Commission (PENCOM), The Nation has learnt. The commission has, therefore, okayed the Pension Operators Association of Nigeria’s (PenOp) proposal for an Industry Shared Services Initiative (SSI) for conducting the recapture. PenCom Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar said: “The Commission has approved the Pension Operators Association of Nigeria’s (PenOp) proposal for an Industry Shared Services Initiative (SSI), for conducting DRE. “The SSI entails engagement of two agents by PenOp to conduct the DRE on behalf of all Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs). “The DR exercise involves recapturing the personal data including biometrics of all existing registered RSA holders who must provide the National Identity Number (NIN), in line with the Federal Government Identification Policy. However, the non-issuance of the NIN to some RSA holders, among other challenges, had affected the speedy conduct of the DR exercise (DRE) by PFAs.”| She further stated that the agents would be deployed to some employers, to recapture RSA holders  who were yet to take part in the exercise. “In addition, the agents are also required to enroll RSA holders for the National Identity Number (NIN), where such is unavailable, prior to the recapture. Thereafter, the details of the RSA holder recaptured shall be transmitted to the relevant PFAs. “This initiative became imperative in order to ease the challenges being encountered by contributors in participating in the Data Recapturing Exercise. The exercise is also a pre-requisite for contributor for initiating RSA transfer. “The RSA Transfer System (RTS), was launched by the National Pension Commission on 16 November 2020. Following the deployment of the RTS, RSA holders commenced initiating RSA transfer requests through their chosen PFAs. A pre-requisite for initiating RSA transfer is to ensure that Data recapture (DR) is carried out by the RSA holder. This is applicable to all RSA holders who opened their RSA before 1st July 2019 and have not been re-captured”. The PenCom chief, however, requested the co-operation of  organisations for the smooth conduct of the exercise.