 Another hijab controversy last week erupted in Nigeria’s Kwara state. The state government had issued a directive approving the freedom for girls to wear hijab in all public schools. But the Christian leaders in the state had protested, claiming that most of the schools were established by the missionaries — Christian missionaries: thus suggesting the fact that they are now “public” schools does not cancel their “Christian” nativity and essence. In fact, one of the protesting lobbies called on their members to occupy such schools, ten of which had been shut down, following the controversy. The government, therefore, shut down the schools to enable it sort out the controversy. The Christians, on their part, insist that the government directive was unacceptable and vowed to resist such a directive — again, given that historically the schools in question were established by Christian missionaries. We are concerned that the education of the poor students is being halted because adults that ought to make education a priority have decided to make the children puns on the chessboard of religion. When two elephants of state and religious leaders fight, the helpless children become the metaphoric grass that suffer. This should not happen in a country that the Constitution is the grundnorm. The hijab controversy seems to have become a recurring decimal in Nigeria. Some years ago, the same controversy happened in Osun; and the protesting Christians decided that should hijab be allowed as part of the school uniform, they too would be obliged to send their children and wards to school, wearing their own religious attires.   That absurd drama then entered a bathetic phase, when Christian boys and girls wore choir robes to school, and the sensational press was there to snap and publish that oddity, in the news the next morning! About three years ago too, a Muslim woman about to be called to the Bar was turned back from the Bar graduation hall, because she insisted on donning her hijab, to complement the usual lawyer’s wig-and-gown.  A year later, she would win her campaign and got called to the Bar with her hijab.  But that was after losing one year in the Barristers’ roll — not a little setback, in such a hierarchical profession. This latest hijab controversy is, therefore, one too many; and it is an aberration. To think that the Nigerian Constitution is the supreme law of the land; and that it describes Nigeria as a secular state, makes us question the claims and counter-claims of both the Christians and Muslims in this instance. The Nigerian state does not recognize any one religion; and as such, there are other Nigerians that are neither Christians nor Muslims. The fact that Nigeria is a secular state ought to provide enough restraint for all Nigerians to play by the rules. However, the recurring controversies, over religious  dressing to schools, is an eloquent testimony of a dysfunctional system where even the states that ought to be the custodians of law and order, are in the vanguard of pushing for specific religious dressings and other faith-based practices, that contradict the Constitution. We believe that the essence of a Constitution is for the good of the people; and to be a guide to behavioural choices. The Constitution is superior to religious laws and the people must be made to understand that. The essence of school uniform is for a reason and luckily, the Constitution provides for the freedom of worship and association.  Each religion had accepted western education and as such must be faithful to the rules guiding the school system, one of which is a uniform code of dressing. The two major religions incidentally have well-developed schools for students and that could solve the uniform issue, as Muslim schools would never have to argue over the use of hijab in their schools. In any case, Nigeria is a multi-ethnic and multi-religious nation that have other people with other means of worship.  In accordance with the Constitution, adults and parents ought to give children the freedom to learn and the incentive to obey laws in their youths and adulthood. Simply put, no individual faith or a judge or powerfully placed persons or groups can subvert the secular impulse of the constitution, which overrides even some states that have now adopted hijab. We need this matter to be adjudicated by the Supreme Court and we hope it will rule in favour of a secular state. We have enough rancour over religion with blood trails all over the country. The school is the last place for such malice.