Like the Senate in December 2020, the House of Representatives seems to have recognised the need to demand for better academically prepared candidates for some political offices. The lower house is on the verge of enacting a law that would make Bachelor of Arts/Bachelor of Science (BA/BSc) or Higher National Diploma (HND) the minimum qualification to contest election for the office of president or governor, to replace the existing requirement of secondary education or its equivalent. Secondly, the same legislative house is getting ready for a second reading of a bill to make the provisions of Chapter II of the 1999 Constitution: Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy justiciable, that is, make any failure of government to provide any of the constitutional provisions in the chapter actionable in courts. In its original form in the 1979 Constitution till 2021, none of the provisions in this chapter has been justiciable, thus rendering this chapter of the 1999 Constitution a mere decorative padding. It is, therefore, reassuring that within 90 days of each other, the two houses have made an overdue move. Since the creation of the 1979 Constitution which the 1999 Constitution has copied substantially, the Fundamental Objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy chapter has been made to function like a military decree, rather than a string of provisions to deliver the common good to citizens. The chapter was presented as a tantaliser locked up in a room with windows to dispense the aroma of the food itself to those who need it. In effect, this section of the constitution has, for 25 years of constitutional rule since its original version in 1979, made promises that may not be countenanced by the government and about which citizens could do nothing. Of course, nurturing such constitution has not been without problems.  Many of the problems that the chapter was designed to solve by successive administrations have been ignored. Many of them like provision of water, electricity, sanitation, poverty alleviation, and many other assistance, promised in this chapter, first in 1979 and later in 1999, became the core of a global initiative, United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in the year 2000. Even after the expiration of the MDGs and the transfer of many of its activities to the current Sustainable Development Goals, Nigeria is behind many peer countries in many areas. Even in 2021, Nigeria has 13 million out-of-school children; is a leader of the pack of countries that have become notorious for open defecation; it lacks safe water for citizens;  and has grossly inadequate access to good health care, to the extent that it still has one of the worst rates of infant and maternal mortality in the Third World. We, therefore, commend the House of Representatives for apprehending the absurdity of a constitutional provision that has constitutionally been put in abeyance for half a century. Replacing the provision in the constitution that requires completion of secondary school as the minimum educational requirement for the post of president and governor with attainment of B.A. or BSc. or HND or its equivalent is also long overdue, 60 years after the country became independent. Given the number of universities and polytechnics in the country since 1960, there should have been no cause to legislate such requirement, which in the advanced countries has been treated as a convention. For example, in three centuries of democracy in the United Kingdom and over two centuries in the United States of America, there has not been such legislation. Yet, of the 55 prime ministers that the UK has had since Robert Walpole in 1721, there have been only eight without a university degree. Similarly, out of the 46 presidents in the United States, there have been only nine without college degree. Such decisions have been left to the discretion of political parties for high office in countries that have for centuries put the right emphasis on formal education by political leaders, who also have seen the readiness on the part of political leaders to lead by the power of example in countries that extol the importance of academic or professional training. There is no incontrovertible evidence though, that the cowl can automatically make the monk, or that individuals with academic degrees routinely have the wisdom or depth of character to make good presidents, governors, ministers, or lawmakers. For example, one of the most cited United States presidents, Abraham Lincoln, had no university education, let alone a degree. But the circumstances of growing up in knowledge societies that the UK and the U.S. had been for centuries made it possible for government leaders and statesmen like Winston Churchill and Lincoln to acquire, through reading and experience, the knowledge needed to distinguish themselves as national leaders. However, the circumstances of younger polities like Nigeria that remain arguably more oral than literate in a century of phenomenal growth in knowledge and increased globalisation make it is a wise and patriotic option for the lower house to see the need for academic training or other comparable training by politically ambitious individuals interested in holding public office at the executive level. Incontrovertibly in 2021, the ingredients of success in all spheres of life require exposure to the rigours and discipline of academic training in all parts of the world. And if Nigeria is to be able to cope with the challenges of development in a global space, and especially in a space of modern democratic governance, candidates for political office, like average citizens aspiring to leadership positions, should be required to possess the minimum academic achievement required of the beginning civil servant. We commend members of the lower house for introducing this bill. It could not have come at a better time. Undoubtedly, the positions of president and governor are pivotal in a presidential system of government. Yet, there are so many other political functions that require solid intellectual preparation to respond to the growing challenges of managing and assisting in managing modern democracies. We urge the National Assembly to consider extending the requirements of first degree to lawmakers, ministers, commissioners, members of state legislative assemblies, and chairpersons of local governments. The separation of power principle requires as much intellectual preparation for managing modern democracies for each of the three branches of government. We plead with both houses to reconcile their recommendations on providing new prerequisites for political office holders in good time. We also urge the National Assembly to ensure that the bill gets to the stage of presidential endorsement soon enough to become law ahead of the 2023 elections.