Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi has said President Muhammadu Buhari’s major aim of investing in rail projects across the country is to create employment. In a statement by his media, Mrs. Taiye Elebiyo-Edeni, the minister said all ongoing projects would contribute to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) because they have economic benefits. According to him, when the Eastern rail line begins, it will generate between 20,000 and 50,000 jobs, aside the businesses that will open up along the rail corridor. “Let us look at the economic benefits. In the course of doing the visibility of this project, that is when I discovered that there are so many natural resources on that track. They include iron ore. They are all over the Northeast. There is coal between Benue and Enugu states. “What the train does is that it provides logistics for the movement of natural resources for value addition. You have access to the sea through a cheap means of transportation. In the cause of the construction of the rail line, from here to Maiduguri is about 1,000 kilometres. “The minimum I expect they can employ is between 20,000 and 50,000 workers. If we must achieve it and at the conclusion of construction, imagine how many workers will be employed at the industrial park at the seaport. “The essence of the President’s investment in the project is to create employment. He hopes that we are able to grow the economy of Nigeria through transportation, create employment in the cause of creating the infrastructure. “At the end of the construction, we expect those who do businesses in Nigeria to be able to acquire land and site industries along the rail corridor,” Amaechi said. The minister stressed that the most significant rail projects was the Lagos-Kano because it moves 30 million tonnes of cargo per year. The Port Harcourt-Maiduguri rail line, he said, is expected to move about 11 million tonnes of cargo when completed. Commenting on some complaints about the fare for the Lagos-Ibadan rail corridor, Amaechi said rail services are not meant for passengers alone as cargoes are also important. The minister said the ministry was working on getting funding for the Lagos-Calabar rail project, which he said would begin once there is fund. Also, Amaechi has explained why the Federal Government decided to use the narrow gauge for the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri railway. The minister was reacting to complaints that the narrow gauge lines are inferior, sub-standard and outdated. He said inadequate funding informed the government’s decision to use the narrow gauge, adding that the only difference with the two lines is speed. Amaechi gave the explanation in a statement yesterday in Abuja by his Media Assistant, Taiye Elebiyo-Edeni. He said: “The standard gauge line is between $11 billion and $14 billion to construct on the Eastern line. The standard gauge, as designed in Nigeria, is of 150-kilometre speed; operational speed is 120 kilometres. What is the difference between 120 kilometres and 100 kilometres? The narrow gauge is about $3.2 billion at 100 kilometred per hour. “The standard gauge, which is between $11 billion and $14 billion, is 120 kilometres per hour. So, if you take off with the standard gauge, let’s say to Damaturu (Yobe State), you will arrive 20 minutes before me that used the narrow gauge. “The narrow gauge is cheaper: $3 billion as against $11 billion to $14 billion to construct the standard gauge. Why we did not get the approval for the narrow gauge on time was because the President insisted on the standard gauge from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri. My argument was if I can achieve the same length of rail with $3 billion, why not take that first until when we get money. We can now go for the standard gauge.”