The Lawmaker representing Akoko North East/ North West Federal Constituency, Hon. Olubunmi Tunji Ojo had taken a massive step forward in delivering more on his electoral promises to the people of his constituency. The Federal Lawmaker who is also the Chairman House Committee on NDDC has always reiterated his commitment to ensuring that no member of his constituency is left out from enjoying the dividends of democracy and adequate representation. Most importantly the Lawmaker has in time past expressed his desire to ensure that members of his construction have access to qualitative health care delivery. This has prompted the Lawmaker to procure Office Equipment which he donated to his Constituency units today 8th of March 2021 Some of the items that were donated are, generating set, mattress, chairs, tables, motorcycles, cabinets, Ambulances amongst many other items According to the Lawmaker during the Presentation in Akoko,” The Covid-19 pandemic has opened our eyes to the need for us as Lawmakers to give our health care sector massive boost and encouragements in the discharge of their duties” “We will never relent, what we have done is the least of what we can do and we will continue to ensure that we give our utmost best to our people” He enjoined the staffs of the facility to ensure a good use of the donated items while also encouraging them to raise the bar higher in the discharge of their duties towards the people. Two Ambulances were also donated to the Health Care Centers in both Akoko North East and North West Federal Constituency Units to facilitate their service delivery. In another development, the Lawmaker has procured buses for traditional ruler council of both Akoko North East /North West; this move is done to ensure easy movement for the council members. The Hummer 18 sitter Passenger Bus was received by the Olukare of Ikare Kingdom,Oba Akadiri Momoh, on behalf of the Akoko North East Council of Obas. The Monarch during his speech thanked Hon. Olubunmi Tunji Ojo for living up to and beyond the expectations of the people. According to him, “Our people have never had it this good, he came to us seeking for our votes and we gave him our trust; we have no regrets doing this” “BTO is a true son of the soil, we are pleased with him and we will always support him. His actions are worthy of emulations and we will continue to wish him well in all his endeavors.”