Prominent political scientist and former Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academics) of the University of Ibadan, Professor Adigun Agbaje, is billed to deliver the keynote address at the 5th Idowu Sobowale Conference. The conference, with the theme ‘Media, Public Opinion and Governance in Africa,’ is scheduled to take place  at the School of Communication, Lagos State University, Ojo, on March 30 and 31 with participants drawn from the academia and professionals in media and communications. This year’s conference coincides with the 80th birthday of Professor Idowu Sobowale, a foremost journalism teacher. Highlight of the birthday celebration is the unveiling of Sobowale’s autobiography, Unexpected Turns, on March 30. Sobowale was at different times; head Department of Mass Communication, University of Lagos; pioneer Dean of the Lagos State University School of Communication (LASUSOC) and two-term Special Adviser (Education) in Lagos State. He also served as Commissioner for Education in the Bola Ahmed Tinubu administration in Lagos State. In a pre-event chart, Sobowale pledged to utilise the proceeds of his autobiography to institute a Professorial Chair in an aspect of Media and Communications Studies and to offer scholarships to budding communication scholars to attend local and international conferences. Already, in recognition of the phenomena contributions of Professor Sobowale to scholarship and media profession, Caleb University, Imota, Lagos State, has named its Faculty of Communication and Media Studies in his honour. The first Idowu Sobowale International Conference was organised in 2009 to create the forum for regular dialogue on different aspects of intellectual and professional interventions of Professor Idowu Sobowale in media, journalism and public communication. Notable themes addressed at past conferences include: “Media, Governance and Development,” hosted by the Department of Mass Communication, Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago Iwoye, Ogun State, 2009; “150 years of journalism: telling the Nigerian Story” (held at Caleb University, Imota, 2011); “Globalisation, Media Entertainment and National Development” (Covenant University, Ota, Nigeria, 2015); and  Media, Integration, Peace-building and Intercultural Dialogue in Africa (Fourah Bay College, University of Sierra Leon, October, 2017). The 2021 Conference provides unique opportunities for scholars, media professionals,  veterans,  contemporaries and academic disciples of Professor Idowu Sobowale to also  celebrate the legend as he marks his 80th Birthday anniversary (29th March 2021) and have his Autobiography (Unexpected Turns)  unveiled during the opening ceremony of the Conference on 30th March, 2021).  ZOOM ID for the Thanksgiving service for the 80th Birthday anniversary on 29/03/2021 is:  83939168852, with the Password (Pass Code): IDOWU. The choice of the venue is equally spectacular because Professor Idowu Sobowale served both as one of the founding fathers as well as the pioneer Dean of the Lagos State University School of Communication (LASUSOC). The opening ceremony of the Conference will be chaired by  Professor Abisogun Leigh, PhD, OFR., Fellow, Royal Statistical Society, former Vice-Chancellor, Lagos State University, with  Professor Umaru A. Pate, newly appointed Vice-Chancellor, Federal University, Kashere, Gombe State and President , Association of Communication scholars & Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN) serving as Special Guest of Honour; Professor Nosa Owens-Ibie, Vice-Chancellor, Caleb University, Imota, Lagos who is also the Secretary-General, ACSPN, serves as Guest of Honour. The Acting Vice-Chancellor, Lagos State University, Professor Oyedamola Oke, PhD, is the Chief Host of the event, while the new Dean of the LASU School of Communication, Professor Yinka Alawode, PhD, is the host.