Vice president Yemi Osinbajo has urged the church to stand as the light of the nation while also admonishing Christians to act as the purveyors of justice and voices of peace. Osinbajo gave the admonition at the 16th Biennial Delegate Conference of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) held at the Michael Okpara Square in Enugu, Enugu State. Speaking on the theme of the conference “the unquenchable light”, Prof. Osinbajo said “we must bear this gospel of Jesus Christ knowing that it is the beacon of hope and succour for our nation. As bearers of the gospel we are the reconcilers-in-chief.” According to the Vice President, “we are the salt to the wounds of a nation; we are the voice of peace and unity where division and strife have arisen. We are the purveyors of justice, for all of those who are disempowered. The good news is that this light is unquenchable.” Explaining the point, the Vice President said “what is this light? It is the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the son of God, who came to this world to pay the price for our sins so that we can attain eternal life in peace and joy. This gospel is the power of God for the healing and transformation of men and nations.” “For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first and also for the Greek. It is the Wisdom of God,” Prof. Osinbajo added quoting the Scriptures. The Vice President had earlier conveyed the felicitations of President Muhammadu Buhari to the outgoing PFN President, Revd Felix Omobude on the successful and glorious completion of his tenure in office and congratulated the incoming President, Bishop Francis Wale Oke. Prof. Osinbajo also thanked the out-going President, Rev. Omobude for his invaluable service to the PFN especially in the manner he handled the affairs of the body “with impeccable integrity, fatherly understanding, maturity and Godly insight.” On the stewardship of the outgoing PFN leadership, Prof. Osinbajo said “under your able leadership and in collaboration with the Christian Association of Nigeria led by our brother, Rev. Dr. Supo Ayokunle, I received several solidarity visits. I am eternally indebted to you for those visits which greatly strengthened and encouraged me.” Commending the smooth transition in the leadership of the PFN, Prof. Osinbajo said “I must commend the smooth electoral process leading to the emergence of the President and his deputy unopposed.” “This is as it should be. The PFN certainly has a lot to teach us the politicians. We pray that the Lord will give this executive good success in Jesus name,” he said. In acknowledgement of his stand and support for the Christian faith and exemplary service to humanity, the PFN conferred on the Vice President a special award of the Defender of Faith. Accepting the award, the Vice President thanked the PFN for the recognition, noting that “there can be no more coveted preferment than that conferred by one’s brethren,” and adding in prayer that “you all will receive not just honour from men here on earth but in the end also from the Lord God Almighty, in Jesus name.” Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State also received the PFN award of the Defender of Faith at the event. Aside Bishop Wole Oke who was elected as PFN President, Archbishop John Praise Daniel, the Presiding Archbishop of the Dominion Chapel International Churches was also elected Vice President. The Vice President who had attended the Federal Executive Council meeting before traveling to Enugu yesterday, returned to Abuja last night.