A Delta State High Court sitting in Warri has restrained the Inspector – General of Police, Mohammed Adamu and police officers from arresting a rights activist, Comrade Israel Joe. Counsel to the activist, Omemiroro Ogedegbe (Esq.) Confirmed the ruling in a statement. He noted that Comrade Joe had filed a fundamental right application before the Court. Joe had been invited by the Delta Police Command on Thursday, March 4 for interrogations on a Facebook post over an accident that killed a woman and a child, January 20, near PTI Junction in Effurun, Uvwie council area of the state. According to him, the Police had accused him of raising a false alarm that its men were involved in the accident, leading to the burning down of a police van. The Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 5, and the Delta State Commissioner of Police, CP Ari Muhammed Ali, were also restrained in the order. Ogedegbe said the Court gave an order restraining the respondents from inviting and arresting his client, pending the hearing of a fundamental right application filed before it. According to Ogedegbe: “The facts of the case as revealed in the application is to the effect the applicant’s post on Facebook was responsible for the burning down of the police vehicle on the 20th of January, 2021. “While the applicant contends the vehicle was already burnt down as at the time he made his post. These are the issues to be determined in the main application, but in the meantime, parties have been ordered to stay all actions.” Joe, who corroborated the claims of his lawyer, said: “the Court heard a motion restraining the Inspector General of Police, Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) Zone 5 Benin and the Delta State Commissioner of Police from inviting, arresting or harassing me over the alarm raised on social media alleging the Police to have been the cause of the accident which claimed the life of a woman and child at PTI on the 20th of January, 2021. “The judge granted the order restraining all the above mentioned to maintain the status quo and appear also in court for the determination of the motion filed to enforce my fundamental human rights slated for the 28th of March.”