 Nigerians exhaled patriotic pride when two of her sons rode a crest of world acclaim for their music offerings. Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu, Aka Burna Boy, and Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun, also known as Whizkid, won the Grammy Awards, the world’s top accolade for musicians. Burna Boy won the Best Global Music Album category for his Twice as Tall. He was nominated in 2020 for the Best World Music category for his African Giant. He had won a slew of awards in the past, including the Nigerian Entertainment Awards, Africa Muzik Awards, BET Awards and MTV Europe Music Awards. While Burna Boy’s was a solo win, Whizkid won for his collaboration with the popular Beyonce for Best Music Video as the lead artist. He has also twirled other trophies, including BET Awards and Soul Train. The two follow in the footsteps of other singers like Sade Adu and Seal, who stunned the world with their capacity for songs and sonority. What these two young men have achieved is to put again the Nigerian music on the world stage in what is now known as the age of globalisation. The impression is that Nigerian music has come of age. That is a mistaken view. Nigerian music has been alive and well for a long time. If Fela Anikulapo-Kuti did not lap up a Grammy, it does not make him less talented and influential than those now enshrined in their music hall of fame. After all, both Burna Boy and Whizkid appreciate Fela’s imprimatur in their music. We have had Sunny Ade, Rex Lawson, Ebenezer Obey, I.K. Dairo, Victor Uwaifo and quite a few others whose oeuvre match any in the world.  Even today, we must admit that the Nigerian musical sphere has, in the past decade, witnessed a renaissance and a rejigging that echoes nationalism never witnessed in the nation’s history. We have moved from a nation where a party or a music station is not rave until it plays the mainstays of American and British songs to now when we require earfuls of such musicians as Davido, TuFace, Asa, and a raft of bards who have rekindled pride in what is Nigerian. In the past, we waited for the Top 10 charts in the United States and England to determine what to chant at parties. That seems ages ago. What we have seen in the music industry with the west “endorsing” our talent is kudos to the democratisation of access owing to new technology and the internet. In spite of this, we cannot downplay a commercial zest among the endorsers who know the dollars that flow from such moves. Again, in the age of the Black Lives Matter, gatekeepers are de-freezing their attitudes towards non-white talent. The problem with awards like the Grammy is that they seem to affirm the West’s imperialist sway in the world’s culture. Sometimes, when people refer to globalisation, it is a euphemism for westernisation. They make themselves authorities on what and who is great and beautiful in other cultures. This is not restricted to music. It is the same story in movies, literature, dance and even physical beauty. It derives from the legacy of slavery and colonialism, and the very present hegemony in economic and military power. However, we must encourage our talents to engage the world. It does not make sense in an interconnected world to stay home alone. We are, after all, exporting the products, which is not only an economic benefit but also a cultural one. But we must remember that it is not foreign awards that validate our cultures but our own aesthetic  evaluation. We congratulate the musical ambassadors.