Twenty-two (22) communities in Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Lagos have written to Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IE) for disconnection. They were angered by what they called “monthly crazy bills.” In a letter signed by chairmen of the 22 Community Development Associations (CDAs) in Ward E4, Ikorodu North on February 18, entitled “Request for de-loading of transformers in our communities,” the communities stressed that they were tired of paying outrageous bills monthly. Their representative, Mr. Alaba Salako, said the decision followed their unsuccessful letters and interfaced with IE over pre-paid meters, crazy bills and poor services among others. Salako said their pleading fell on deaf ears of the IE as the problems persist till date, hence the decision for the de-loading of the thirteen transformers in their communities. The letter reads: “We wish to humbly request the immediate de-loading of the thirteen transformers in the twenty-one communities in our areas by your organisation. This is as a result of the blatant refusal of IE to look into several representations on issues connected with your services at various offices of your organisation – Adamo, Imota, Ikorodu and IKEDC headquarters without success. “For the records, our organisation is the body representing all Community Development Associations (CDAs) in Ward E4, Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area, Ikorodu. And it is an undisputable fact that we have written severally to your organisation on these matters which include estimated billing, poor services and pre-paid meters without any headway.” “Even when we had a meeting brokered by the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Imota, with your officials on these issues, following a protest last year, nothing concrete came out of the exercise, especially on estimated billing, as the problem remains the same. “As you read this, our people are being billed unjustifiably. Even those who are allotted just two weeks of unstable power cannot believe what they are been billed. “Meanwhile, all efforts to ensure that pre-paid meters are made available to our people have not yielded a positive result, due to the nonchalant attitude of your organisation. This is both wicked and callous, to say the least. “Against the backdrop of these developments and your brazen insistence on a master-servant relationship, we wish to request that your organisation de-loads the 13 transformers in our communities and subsequent stoppage of electricity bills. “We cannot afford to be slaves to any group or organisation of any kind any longer, hence the need to severe as a matter of urgency any relationship existing between IE and our communities fort with”. 