The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Wednesday approved over N809.7 billion for various projects, including roads. Addressing State House Correspondents at the end of the week’s virtual FEC meeting in Aso Rock Presidential Villa, Abuja, Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, said Council approved the change of scope for the construction of the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano highway. He said the road, hitherto undergoing renovation, would now be completely reconstructed, thus changing the existing cost of the project form N155 billion to N797.2 billion. He listed the roads rehabilitated, which would soon be handed over to include Benin-Asaba, Abuja-Lokoja, Kano-Katsina, Onitsha-Aba, Sagamu-Benin, Kano-Maiduguri, Enugu- Port Harcourt, Ilorin-Jebba and Lagos-Badagry. Asked the exact time the road will be delivered, Fashola said: “So, we are dealing with 375 kilometres of roads. So the completion is going to be phased. “So the first phase will be the Kaduna – Zaria section, which is 74 kilometres that will be in quarter four of 2022. The next phase B the Zaria-Kano section, which is 137 kilometres, should be quarter one of 2023. And the last phase will be the Abuja Kaduna section which should be in quarter two of 2023.” Council also approved N10.4 billion for the procurement of fire fighting vehicles and equipment for the Federal Fire Service. Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola said the approval covers the supply of 44 firefighting engines, the supply of 15 water tankers, 15 rapid intervention fire engines that can go into any nook and cranny to respond to distressed calls. The Minister also announced the ministry got the approval of N353.2 million for the deployment of integrated real-time data repository equipment for the Nigeria Immigration Service Headquarters, Abuja. He explained the aim is to have the immigration Service that boasts of all its data bases on one platform for effective management of such data. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Umar Farouk, said council approved the award of contract for the design, development, deployment, and management of the National Social Investment Management System for the National Social Investment Programme. “This system is going to be used to take care of the issues of N-Power Programme, N-SIP Programme, National Cash Transfer Programme, as well as National Home Grown School Feeding Programme. “We are starting with N-Power, which is the one before us. It is very immediate. Afterwards, we will key other clusters of the National Social Investment Programme into this platform. “The Council has graciously approved and we will go ahead. The contract is in the sum of N2,123,035,499.96 inclusive of 7.5 % VAT with a completion period of 24 months,” she said.