In many private and public discourses, it is widely believed that leaders are the real problem of Nigeria. Even though the country is blessed with abundant natural, mineral, and human resources, leadership, as a process, not as a body of people, is not Nigeria’s problem. Nigerians domiciled in other climes such as the United Kingdom (UK), United States of America (USA), Singapore, New Zealand, Australia, etc., are making and creating waves; few are even breaking records in the Academia, Media, Information Communication Technology (ICT), Medicine, Politics, Commerce, etc., while many, at home, with better brains, are wandering the streets of Lagos, Makurdi, Kano, Yola, Umuahia, and Port Harcourt. Why can’t these Nigerians in Nigeria shine as stars like their counterparts and contemporaries in these developed nations? Then, it is high time we, as followers, asked ourselves frank and familiar questions with seemingly easy and ready-made answers. Specifically, in a democratic setting, who elects the leaders? Who has the power of choice? How many use the power they have in a country of over 200 million people (projected figure by scholars and international organizations)? The questions could go on and on. There is always a line of argument that states that good leaders set the pace and make things happen or function. Good thinking. I am of that perspective as well only that it will trigger another question. Who, in a democratic setting, possesses the sole right, role, responsibility, and power to put the competent leader in the saddle? You and I – the followers. It is high time that we followers in Nigeria, especially the informed and intelligent followers who are mostly apathetic and lackadaisical in political matters, sat up and shift in our stand and stake towards a better society. There is a dire need for a mass of followers to arise, albeit peacefully but proactively to reject overtures and lures of inept and incompetent aspiring leaders into positions of power, be it in the executive or legislature. Even, in the judiciary, this set of followers, who will be referred to here as exemplary courageous followers, can vociferously, with facts and figures, reject and/or reverse the appointment of certain judicial officers. In essence, the leaders will begin to sit up knowing that followers are demanding what is right and fair. Are Nigeria’s followers presently making any demand for good governance? Have we not eaten our cake even before the election as many voters have succumbed to being serviced with “slices of bread” from the tables of politicians in order to be voted in. It is worrisome to see credible and cerebral candidates in election years receiving scanty votes mostly from their relatives and friends while incapable and incompetent ones are voted into power! Is this the way to move forward? Definitely, not! We, as followers, must halt this drift and change the seeming catastrophic precipice that could bedevil Nigeria if we fail and wane. There must be a paradigm shift even now before the 2023 election. Is this novel to the clime of Nigeria? Even in the USA, American author, journalist, and activist, Jonathan Rauch, was bewildered in succinctly and saliently stating: “we don’t have a crisis of leadership in Washington. We have a crisis of followership.” However, America is not as static politically as Nigeria. Followers in Nigeria need to reflect, rethink, review, reconsider, respond, and reposition their stand and stake in the Nigeria project as a stitch in time saves nine. Presently, INEC is the umpire conducting and supervising elections in Nigeria. Are followers demanding more transparency and accountability from INEC? It is high time exemplary courageous followers arose to begin to ask INEC to review their operations in this digital age. This is not happening as it is supposed to be. This columnist while visiting the INEC website discovered to his chagrin that both in the 2015 and 2019 elections, more than two million (2,000,000) accredited voters did not return after accreditation to vote. Henceforth, after accreditation, voting should commence immediately to forestall a situation where followers, already accredited as voters, refused to return to polling centres to cast their ballots. Moreover, appropriate digital technology should be deployed to enhance the process from accreditation to voting. It is possible to leverage ICT innovation to do this online that will be visible to INEC officials as well as the voter with a personalized identity number for each follower (voter). In addition, perusing the presidential election official result sheets in 2015 and 2019, it is equally worrisome and upsetting that in this day and age, some followers could not get the appropriate manner to simply thumbprint in casting their votes. INEC should do more enlightening seminars for representatives of political parties before the next election on this seemingly simple, but salient step in the electoral process as non-valid votes were recorded virtually in every ward in Nigeria irrespective of the educational background of followers. For instance, many among this category thumb printed rightly but folded the ballot immediately with the ink spreading elsewhere on the ballot rendering the exercise invalid. Possibly, INEC should get a dry-quick ink so that within 30 seconds of voting, the spot of thumb-printing is dry. In the same vein, the onus lies on the political parties and the Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) to enlighten followers on this crucial aspect so that their votes could count. All said and done, all hands must be on the deck, from political parties members, CSOs, and concerned courageous followers, acting in unison and unanimity in tandem with words of Helen Keller, author, political activist, and lecturer, who opined that “the world is moved not only by the mighty shoves of heroes, but also by the aggregate of the tiny pushes of each honest worker.” 