 The news of Emmanuel Uhiosanobua Okpeku’s death on March 7 in Benin, Edo State hit the Okerenkoko, Delta State-based Nigeria Maritime University (NMU) community hard. Okpeku, popularly called Uhi, was a 20-year-old 100 level student of the department of Civil Engineering. He was said to have taken ill on campus, received some medical care at the NMU Health Centre, was referred to and departed for Warri, and later Benin, where he died. But the school and Uhi’s family have disagreed on details of the events leading to his death, with the family questioning the quality of healthcare he was administered while in the school’s custody. A statement by NMU management has also raised fresh questions. Aggrieved students protested the death on March 7 and 8, accusing the NMU of negligence. According to them, the varsity failed in its duty of care to Okpeku, adding that the medical facilities on campus were below par. They also flooded social media, especially Instagram and Facebook, with their tearful tributes and claims. Videos of the protests showed some students alleging that Okpeku was administered expired drugs, but no proof was provided for the claim.  NMU management’s story  The statement by NMU Registrar Dr Alfred Mulade expressed concern over the unrest. It expressed reluctance to “join issues on account of reasonable emotions and trauma associated with the death of a loved one, to which the university shares personal pains and sadness”, but that it needed to set the records straight, in the light of the weighty “misconceptions and misrepresentations being peddled in some sections of the media, capable of misleading the unsuspecting public.” It said the school’s records showed that Okpeku visited the University Health Centre on March 4, 2021, and was diagnosed with COVID-19-like symptoms. Mulade said: “He was diagnosed with and had the suspicion of issues relating to COVID-19 symptoms, to which the University Health Centre deployed the necessary COVID-19 protocols, as set by Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) until proven by COVID-19 test. “When the University Health Centre discovered these symptoms, the Community Focal Person for infectious diseases was notified immediately, who in turn notified the Local Government Focal Person, where the State Epidemiologist was informed promptly; “i. The State Epidemiologist contacted the Ag. Director of the University Health Centre and directed that the student be referred to the Central Hospital, Warri COVID-19 Testing Centre, accordingly; “ii. The student was given COVID-19 drugs and Paracetamol injection that brought down the temperature to a manageable level and was made to proceed to Warri, into the waiting hands of the Local Government Focal Person; “iii. The University medical team monitored the situation and found that the student and his friend that accompanied him had their samples taken on Friday 5, 2021, and thereafter proceeded to Benin, where he was admitted at Stella Obasanjo Hospital, and transfusion was reportedly carried out, where he eventually passed on; and “iv. The result of the Covid-19 test was being monitored and awaited with the State Epidemiologist when news of his death filtered into the University.” Protest fuelled by ‘rumours’, says school Mulade said: “Since this incident broke, all efforts made by the University Management towards ensuring that the students and some others saw the reason why the deceased could not have been attended to, beyond the permissible limits allowed by extant regulations, seem to be lost within the vicissitudes of hazy misinformation. “The gullible students riding on the uneven tide of ignorance, inadequate information, have been rash, brash, irreverence, in their reluctance, and new-found anomie, capable of being hijacked by enemies of the system. “The University Management reasonably believes that certain persons, for reasons best known to such person(s), might be at work in the ignoble corridors of the rumour factory, not minding the peaceful disposition of our beloved departed student, whose memory would continue to be cherished.”  He denied the claim of expired drugs.  The Registrar added: “It must be succinctly put on record that, at no time was inadequate treatment or expired drugs ever administered on this student at the University Health Centre, contrary to reports in sections of the media. Neither was there any telephone conversation supposedly emanating from the University allegedly denigrating the character and person of the deceased student. “Alleged uncomplimentary remarks purportedly attributed to certain persons from the university community, are completely false and orchestrated to cause disaffection, arouse emotional trauma and chaos in the University, which have become subject of an investigation by a panel set up by Management. “However, University Management, as demonstrated in the dispatch of official Delegation in Commiseration with the family, and to attend the funeral ceremony, on Wednesday, 10th March 2021, and Friday 12th March 2021, respectively. “We bid the departed student peaceful repose. We shall continue to uphold the family in prayers and the LORD’s fortitude to bear this irreparable loss.”  Our story, by the Okpeku family  But the varsity’s explanation provoked a response from Okpeku’s family, which claimed that the university embellished the events to make itself look good and avoid responsibility. It pooh-poohed the NMU’s claims linking Okpeku’s death with the novel coronavirus without first obtaining a medical report. According to the family, a medical report had since shown that Okpeku never had COVID-19. A statement by Aigbe Okpeku on the family’s behalf accused the NMU management of playing games to avoid the consequences of their negligence and breach of duty of care. Referencing Mulade’s statement, it said it was designed to sway an unsuspecting reader that the NMU acted properly, but that the facts show otherwise. The family said: “Uhi fell ill on 28th February 2021 and visited the MNU health centre on the 1st of March. He returned on the 2nd of March as he was not feeling any better and was in very bad shape. He was therein admitted. “His family was not aware until 3rd of March 2021 when his uncle, Ose Okpeku who is resident in Lagos, made a random call to him during which he informed his uncle that he was at the health centre and in very bad shape as he has been unable to eat and with attendant pains and fever. “Questions posed by his uncle as to the symptoms he had and the treatment he had received and the answers by Uhi were alarming such as compelled Ose Okpeku to request to speak with the medical personnel on duty at the said time.”  Abandoned for a two-hour boat ride?  According to the family, the said medical hand was unable to provide “any sense of direction” as to what exactly was wrong with Okpeku and the treatment required. It added: “He however mentioned to Ose Okpeku that Uhi displayed some symptoms of Covid -19 and that they were sending him to Central Hospital Warri for Covid-19 test. “Realising that he was being sent unaccompanied on a two-hour boat ride his uncle insisted that he ought to be accompanied by medical personnel from the health centre. “When the health centre was not forthcoming, his friend volunteered to go with him. If his friend had not so volunteered, Uhi would have had to make that two-hour boat journey alone and in a very bad condition both physically and psychologically. This we dare say is against all known patient care protocol.” The family said contrary to the NMU’s claim that arrangement was made for Uhi to go to Warri and “land in the waiting hands of the Local Government Focal Person,” it was a family member who provided the funds required to transport Uhi and his friend from the university health centre to Warri. “Upon arriving Warri on 3rd March 2021, the same Uhi that was supposedly expected by the Local Government Focal Person could not be attended to at the Warri Central Hospital as he was told that the unit had closed for the day and so he and his friend had to stay at a hotel. “A family member funded the bill as well as we have the proof of transfer of funds. Uhi’s sample and that of his friend were taken on 4th March and they were asked to leave,” the family said. It explained that more worrying was that “the NMU asserted that Uhi and his friend abandoned the drugs that Uhi was given at the jetty. This is not only ridiculous but beggars’ common sense as NMU had none of its medical personnel in attendance. “The absence of medical personnel on this medical trip is even more disturbing considering the state Uhi was in physically and otherwise having been seriously unwell and unable to eat for three days. “When the family assessed the way things were looking, considering the little or no care he had received thus far, and his overall physical condition, an arrangement was made for Uhi to be taken to Stella Obasanjo Hospital, Benin where he was admitted and another Covid-19 test was conducted. The result had not come out as of 7th March 2021 when Uhi passed on. “Contrary to the assertion of MNU, the family arranged for Uhi to be transferred to Benin and paid all the medical bills at Stella Obasanjo Hospital.”  Dispute over COVID  The family said it requested for a post mortem examination to determine the cause of death “while the MNU made a press release on 12th March 2021, the same date Okpeku was buried, claiming that he died from COVID-19 complications. “As at the time the NMU released the aforementioned press statement, the COVID-19 test results were not out. The family is shocked and deeply saddened that such a conclusion can be reached and broadcasted in the absence of any medical support. “Thankfully, the COVID test result from Benin is now out and it shows that Uhi did not contact COVID-19 as alleged by the NMU. The family has since been requesting for the result of the test from Central Hospital Warri and against all known protocols was informed that the test result had been sent directly to a doctor at the NMU.” The family accused the NMU of playing games and “orchestrating a grand plot to cover-up the circumstances that led to the avoidable death of Uhi in a bid to avoid the legal consequences of their negligence and breach of duty of care in the way and manner Uhi’s illness was managed by the MNU. “From the foregoing, we are forced to ask the NMU the following questions: What is the purpose of the many untruths in their press release. Why is there an attempt to cover up sacred facts? How much of regard do they have for Uhi’s memory given the propensity with which they have lied and attempted to cover up their negligent handling of the young man’s medical complaint? Why were they in a hurry to conveniently blame the avoidable death of Uhi on Covid-19 in the absence of confirmed test result or medical report in that regard and lastly, why are they hoarding the medical report in their custody?”