4Point Property has sold out Rose Gardens Phase 2 Land Project at Orimerunmu community in Asese, Ogun State. The feat was accomplished only months after the Lagos-based firm announced the sellout of its premier housing project, Rose Gardens Bungalows within the same Asese town. Over 18 units of bungalows/terraces are being constructed with road network within the estate nearing completion in the premier project. The firm, in a statement, said it has fully sold out and closed sales for Rose Gardens Phase 2 Aseese. It stated it will be allocating/physical handover of all sold plots to subscribers and continue construction of the infrastructure within the estate to allow residents commence construction on their allotted land. Its head of business, Charles Esomojumi, said: “4point Property will continue to adopt best practices in delivering on her promises to subscribers. “We discovered most development companies go back on their promises to their clients, focusing on making sales than delivering results and we set a goal to be different by building and earning our clients trust through prioritizing result delivery over sales, and naturally more clients are drawn to us because of our sincerity and integrity. ‘‘We do not overprice our properties. Till date our property sells at roughly 20% below the average market value. We do not compromise on quality and that’s why we produce our own blocks to satisfy quality. “Greed is what causes development companies to sell at higher prices and build with inferior materials”. Charles further stated all properties sold by the firm undergo extensive and critical pre-purchase assessment with the Lands registry, Surveyor General’s office and all family stakeholders to ensure there are no encumbrances. He explained title documents are also appropriately signed for proper documentation so there is a near zero chance of clients experiencing issues on any property purchase from the company. The CEO, Wale Olayanju, explained that with the latest milestone, the company’s mission of providing affordable housing opportunities to families and giving back to the communities they serve is slowly gaining momentum. “We foresee a future where Nigerians fully trust their development partners to deliver as promised because they can be trusted to keep their words, we foresee a Nigeria where property buyer’s confidently subscribe to off plan projects that are built to exact specification and delivered within the pre-communicated time without failure or excuses. “4point real estate is driving the reality of this future and with every milestone achieved we move one step closer to making it a reality,” Olayanju asserted.