 Members of the Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria (STOAN) have  signed a new Collective Bargaining Agreement with the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria (MWUN) to enhance their welfare. The signing held at the weekend at the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) headquarters in Lagos. The agreement would be in force for three years. The Chairman, STOAN, Princess Vicky Haastrup, who led other members of the group to the ceremony, noted that terminal operators had ensured industrial harmony at the seaports since 2006 by prioritising dockworkers’ welfare. She said: “We are happy as employers of labour to give the dockworkers the wages they rightly deserve. It is always our happiness to bring succour and joy into the hearts of the our workers. “Before the 2006 port concession, the monthly income of an average dockworker was less than N5, 000, but today, we make bold to say that we pay our dockworkers very well. They are well- respected for the work they do. This is because we acknowledge them as the bedrock of port operation. “Dockworkers are vital to port operation.They are essential workers and we treat and remunerate them as such. “I am proud to say that the  crop of dockworkers at the various ports across the country are well-trained and they conduct themselves professionally.” Also, the President-General of MWUN, Comrade Adewale Adeyanju, praised the Federal Government for concessioning the ports. Adeyanju said the port concession programme has impacted positively on  port workers through the improved welfare package.  He said prior to the  concession, the wages of dockworkers were “nothing to write home about” but that had changed. He said: “The era of using dockworkers as slaves in their fatherland no longer exists. We want to thank the Federal Government for concessioning the ports because that reform has changed the lives of dockworkers all over the  seaports. “We have been enjoying the  arrangement. My happiness is to see the dockworkers retire with something reasonable,” he said. NIMASA’s Executive Director, Cabotage and Maritime Labour, Victor Ochei, commended STOAN and MWUN for the new agreement. He urged all concerned to ensure the full implementation of the agreement for the benefit of the dockworkers. In addition to terminal operators and the officials of MWUN, the Collective Bargaining Agreement signing ceremony was also witnessed by the representatives of NIMASA, the Federal Ministry of Transportation, and the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity.