 The Rector, Yaba College of Technology, Obafemi Omokungbe, has been inducted into the Fellowship Hall of Fame of the Chartered Institute of Public Resources Management and  Politics(Ghana). The investiture held at the Council Chamber of the Administrative Block of the school. Omokungbe, an engineer, was honoured with the prestigious lifetime award for his selfless services and enviable track records as a phenomenon and his contributions to national development. Omokungbe said he saw the recognition as a motivation to re-dedicate himself and continue with good services to humanity which he had always been known for. He said: “As I receive the symbol of my investiture today, I make a solemn pledge to continue to remain faithful, loyal and honest to my country and always uphold the Green and White flag as an ambassador and distinguished compatriot of this great nation, Nigeria. Presenting the award on behalf of the Advisory Board and Governing Council of the Chartered Institute was the Executive Director, West African Region of Chartered Institute of Public Resources Management and Politics (Ghana) CIPRMP, Mr. Richard Kpoku-Aquarte. Kpoku-Aquarte said Omokungbe was an accomplished service personality and a statesman who had made and still making tremendous contributions towards national development for the progress, peace and unity of one Nigeria. He said: “We can observe that  you are an embodiment of   selfless service and have proven professionalism and a shining example of Integrity,and has therefore been recognised by the chartered institute. The representative described the Rector as an exceptional academic trailblaser and management expert which has been replicated in the academic standard of the institution as he recognises the students of the institution to have been an emblem of prestige that demonstrate resounding qualities of academic excellence in every academic pursuit. He said the honour was awarded to appreciate his effort to be a mantra of change and make YABATECH an institution to be reckoned with right from beginning of his tenure in 2018. “You have furthered projected this institution into global excellence,” he said The representative of the institute urged the rector not to relent and see the achievement as more calls to service in delivering his best to any segments of humanity.