A High Court No. II sitting in Onitsha, Anambra state has ordered the remand of two women, Rejoice Raymond and her 80-year old mother, Felicia Nwafor in police custody at the State Criminal Investigations Department, CID, Awka, till Wednesday, April 28, 2021 when their motion for bail would be heard. The accused were arraigned on a 7-count charge of conspiracy, felony, causing grievous bodily harm on three children, unlawful imprisonment, subjecting three children to inhuman treatment, starving them and other forms of inhuman treatments. The court also fixed Tuesday, May 11 for proper hearing of the charges preferred against them by the police, while the motion for bail already filed by the defence counsel and the counter motion to be filed by the prosecution would be be heard on April 28. Issuing the order on Tuesday, Justice Theophine Oguji ordered the prosecutor to file their counter motion for bail before the April 28 adjourned date. The defence counsel, Azubuike Onyedikachi Okeke informed the court that he had already filed his motion for bail and served the Prosecuting Police Counsel. But the prosecuting police counsel, Peter Chuba Okonkwo told the court that he was yet to be served the motion for bail as at then, which prompted the court to order both parties to serve all necessary documents regarding the bail issue before April 28. In the Charge No. O/13C/2021, the accused persons, Rejoice Raymond (39) and her mother, Felicia Nwafor (80), both of No. 12 Akunwata Mbamalu Street, GRA, Onitsha and others now at large, according to the police prosecution, had on or about February 19, 2021, at Federal Housing Estate, Onitsha within the Onitsha Judicial Division, did unlawfully conspire to commit Felony to wit: unlawful imprisonment of the trio, Jeff Ugochukwu Raymond (6), Kimberley Gift Raymond (3) and Clifford Ifechukwu Raymond (6). The prosecution further told the court that the accused and others still at large had on the same date and venue, unlawfully attempted to kill the trio by causing them grievous bodily harm, depriving them of food and water and above all, locking them up in dark rooms without ventilation and leaving them to gasp for air before they were rescued. They were equally alleged to have subjected the trio to inhuman treatment and using actual personal violence to their persons which left them with different degrees of bodily harm, adding that accused equally had the intenion of maiming, disfiguring and disabling the children.