There is no doubt in my mind, that for most people the pandemic has been an experience we would never want to suffer again, and it has had a devastating effect on everyone. Most businesses around the globe have been completely devastated financially, and the things we once all took for granted have been snatched away from us too. However, there is now, thank God, some light at the end of the tunnel so to speak and slowly but surely things will get back to some form of normality. I do know and fully understand that being forced to stay at home has played with everyone’s mental health, and those of you out there that love sport will be very eager to getting back to normal by either taking part in the sports you love or watching all manner of different sporting events too. No industry has been left unaffected by the pandemic, Adrian Sterne from top10sportsbettingsites.net stated recently that even the once robust online sports betting sites and companies in the industry have been completely decimated too which could spell disaster for a lot of sports clubs as those once thriving businesses cut back on their advertising of sporting events and sports clubs. Sponsors Also Turning Their Back on Sports Clubs
Another thing that is going to have to be addressed sooner rather than later if many sports clubs across the globe are to survive moving forward is the massive reduction in sports sponsorship which has also been brought on due to the pandemic and global shutdown. It is however hoped that those business owners that have had no other choice but to cease and/or massively cut back on sports sponsorship will soon recover enough to restart their sponsorship of such events, however just how long that is likely to take does of course remain to be seen. As for whether sports clubs can and will be able to full the gaps in their finances caused by the reduction in both advertising and sponsorship deals remains to be seen, for the usual way clubs can increase there venues is by increasing ticket prices to attend their live sporting events but not many clubs are going to even dream of doing that anytime soon, as many fans will not be able to afford those ticket prices increase. Emergency Loans Have Helped Save Several Sports Clubs
With income levels being zero for many sports clubs over the last year, and with that likely to be the case for several months yet, there is a desperate need for more Government help if the sporting industry is going to survive or look anything like it used to look. There have been of course, plenty of Government backed loans schemes sports clubs can make use of launched over the last year, with many sports clubs having had no other option available to them that to take out such loans. More loans schemes are being planned too, however unlike furlough schemes which see employers not having to pay back the payments they receive to pay their employees. Government backed loans do need paying back, even at the low interest rates they had in place. Whether any sports clubs are going to want to increase their already high debt burden by taking advantage of any additional loan schemes that are launched moving forward remains to be seen, in fact most of them just want to get back to their normal income levels sooner rather than later, rather than just make on more debt. Consider Attending a Live Sport Event Soon I know that many of us have sadly got into the habit of watching sporting events live on television or simply listening to commentary on the radio, but if many sports clubs are to survive over the long term, we should all collectively make an effort to start attending a few live sporting events in person. Obviously, there will be costs involved in doing so, but make no mistake about it, the cash generated from ticket sales is seriously going to help your favourite sports club or sports team survive, so pencil in a few dates in your diary moving forward to attend as many live sporting events as you possibly can do.