Unidentified gunman has reportedly shot a Senior Secondary School 3 female student in Ekiti State. The student whose name was given as Ayomide Adaranijo was shot on her stomach, breast and arm. Adaranijo who is now receiving medical treatments at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH), Ado Ekiti was attacked on Wednesday evening at Basiri area of Ado Ekiti metropolis. The victim’s mother, Omolayo Adaranijo, said they were waylaid at Basiri junction around 7.56pm by a arm-wielding man who suddenly alighted from a bike and opened fire on her daughter. She added that her 15-yr-old daughter immediately fell and blood began to ooz out from her stomach, arms and breast where the pellets pierced her. She said: I have a small shop at NOVA junction at Basiri where I sell some wares. I had closed that day , it was around 7.56pm and we were looking for motorbike to take us to Ifesowapo, Better life, Basiri area where I live, when this man just alighted from Okada and shot my daughter. “The Doctors and Nurses on duty at the emergency section did a good job, if not, I had already presumed her death. They quickly worked on her and removed the pellets from her stomach, breast and arms. “The younger children had gone home that day maybe the issue could have been worse than that . I still couldn’t fathom why she should be the one to be shot In the midst of about eight people at the scene . “I came to Ado Ekiti from Ibadan less than two years ago after breaking up with her father. I don’t have crisis with anybody, so this still remains a mystery to me. “My daughter is a very gentle and studious person, she doesn’t engage in discussion with people let alone hurting them. I want this matter investigated thoroughly, so that the perpetrator can be brought to justice”. The mother of four said the family has spent over N150,000 borrowed from people to pay for the bills incurred on her operation while still indebted to the hospital . Adaranijo noted that the operation and post-surgery treatments would cost N500,000 to keep Ayomide on her feet, which she said couldn’t be afforded due to poor economic situation as she only caters for four children without support. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Ekiti Command, ASP Sunday Abutu, confirmed the incident, saying investigations would unveil the mystery behind the shooting. “Investigations have begun into the incident. We are looking at all possibilities and every angle to the case. The investigations will be thorough and expanded, because we need to get to the root of why the gunman targeted such a young girl. “We are assuring the public that the perpetrator won’t escape justice”, Abutu stated. Mrs Adaranijo can be reached via: 08034646410.