 In the face of emergencies, Nigerian leaders must learn to hold up in reticent but principled accountability and not go sprint-shopping for foils to take blames. Taking responsibility in the heat of crisis signposts leadership integrity, whereas blame shedding fosters duplicity that compromises the integrity of leadership. Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle betrayed such duplicity in the contest of narratives that trailed the recent abduction by bandits of nearly 300 pupils of Government Girls’ Secondary School (GGSS), Jangebe in Talata Mafara council area of the state. Those abductions should never have happened, and so were obviously embarrassing to both the Muhammadu Buhari presidency at the centre and the Zamfara government within whose territory they occurred; but thankfully the girls were let off by their captors early last week reportedly without ransom payment. Matawalle, who champions a policy of amnesty for bandits, must have felt doubly embarrassed by the Jangebe abductions, and that might be why he headed up a narrative about unnamed masterminds who he blamed for the incident. That narrative, however, has haunted him ever since, making him spin further conspiracy narratives that do not hold up to earlier ones. During a sympathy visit by 17 emirs from Zamfara State two days after the Jangebe attack, Matawalle hinted that some persons not happy with his ‘amnesty for bandits’ policy were behind the attack; he insisted he would not abandon that policy no matter what. “As we await the release of the kidnapped students of GSSS Jangebe at the Government House today, I want to inform you that there are many revelations in relation to the abduction of these students,” he told the emirs, adding: “Many people will be surprised to hear those people behind the abduction of these innocent children. They are not comfortable with the progress I am making as a result of my peace initiative and they want to do all they can to sabotage my efforts. I will Insha Allah succeed at the end of the day and they will bury their faces in shame.” An obvious implication here was that the governor already knew the identity of those alleged masterminds and had sufficient inkling of their motive. Considering the grave consequential effects of the Jangebe incident for Nigeria’s collective security, the logical question to ask was why he dallied on unmasking those masterminds and getting security operatives to pull them in for debriefing towards averting further bandits’ attacks. One stakeholder group that apparently took this question to heart was the pan-northern Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), which demanded that the Zamfara governor come clean with identities of the purported masterminds or be regarded as an accomplice in the act should he withhold such vital information. According to the group, it was not just distressing that the North was being ravaged by insecurity, it was worse and collectively embarrassing that Matawalle made such sensitive claim without substantiation. In a statement by its chairman and former Agriculture minister, Chief Audu Ogbeh, the group said it was stunned by the statement credited to the Zamfara governor that Nigerians would be shocked if he disclosed the identity of the alleged masterminds. “We ask the governor to reveal their identity and let Nigerians be shocked or even heavens fall. We also ask the security agencies to question (him) on the identity of the criminals he is trying to hide. If he refuses to disclose those identities, he must be treated as an accomplice to the criminal act of kidnapping,” it stated, adding: “The ACF has been embarrassed by the spate of kidnappings especially of school children spreading like wildfire all over the North. People in positions of authority that will help us out of this mess like Governor Matawalle must stop embarrassing the North and the country with careless statements on a serious issue like kidnappings of school children.” But the Zamfara governor, at about the same time ACF was throwing its challenge, doubled down on his conspiracy narrative, saying while the state was negotiating the abductees’ freedom without ransom payment with the kidnappers some unnamed persons went behind to offer the bandits money not to release the girls. Addressing the freed 279 schoolgirls in Gusau last Tuesday, Matawalle reaffirmed that he had information on people instigating criminals in his state. You would expect that being that much in the know of the alleged transactions meant he already possessed specifics of who the actors were and actionable proofs of their dealings, but the indications you got were to the contrary when Matawalle said he had spoken to security agencies to discreetly investigate the matter. Recommending discreet investigation of purported high felons leaves the allegation in the realm of gross incertitude and baseless finger pointing; only that the governor apparently harboured fecund visions of shadow wars with critics of his style. “We are using kinetic and non-kinetic approaches, and the non-kinetic is working for us, if not we wouldn’t have successfully negotiated the release of these girls,” he said in justifying his government’s record. He seems profoundly alone, though, because even the Buhari presidency poured cold water on the idea of negotiating with bandits and rather canvassed dealing them a strong-hand. Meanwhile, Matawalle’s narrative about saboteur-masterminds of the Jangebe incident hasn’t exactly been consistent. At the last count, he fingered the watchman at GGSS Jangebe for alleged complicity in the schoolgirls’ kidnap. Pressed to reveal identities of the masterminds he had alleged while featuring on a Channels Television programme last Wednesday, the governor restated his claim that some persons went behind and offered the abductors money not to release the schoolgirls. But he stopped short of disclosing those persons’ identities, rather he singled out another purported conspirator for mention:  “The children have mentioned the watchman of the school, that after releasing them, the bandits were telling them that they should greet the watchman for them, they even mentioned his name that he was the one who gave them the go-ahead to come, he was involved. They (the schoolgirls) have said this before the commissioner of police in Zamfara State. I assure Nigerians that investigation will be carried out and all the people involved will be known,” he said. You would be tempted to ask: besides that the school watchman’s alleged connection with the incident comes across as tenuously circumstantial, does he now solely answer for the cabal earlier purported to have instigated the bandits’ attack? Without prejudice to ongoing investigations by relevant security operatives, I argue that the conspiracy claims by Governor Matawalle appear outlandish and, short of conclusive findings yet, not as authoritative as he made it sound when he said Nigerians would be confounded to know the masterminds of the Jangebe abductions. And it didn’t really exemplify responsible leadership when blame was spuriously deflected in the thick of a crisis that called for forthright even if inconvenient accountability. In any event, scapegoat shopping won’t make up for fatal flaws in the ‘amnesty for bandits’ approach to dealing with insecurity scourge, which Matawalle is spearheading under guidance by ace Islamic cleric Sheikh Ahmad Gumi who recently forbade us from calling bandits criminals. Note that while the Jangebe abductees regained their freedom, the abductors as well walked free – if we believe, without hostage ransom – despite that they were identifiable enough to be negotiated with. In other words, there was no deterrence equation whatsoever involved. Little wonder that the schoolgirls were barely off the hook when reports surfaced about fresh bandits’ attack in Maru council area of Zamfara State where scores of women and children were kidnapped. It was no idle coincidence that a similar pattern played out earlier in Niger State about the time that 42 persons were abducted by bandits from Government Science College in Kagara. You do not negotiate abductees’ freedom with bandits and leave them roaming free thereafter, idly hoping they won’t return soon for another strike. 