 The Igbo speaking community in Lagos State has urged the former governor and National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to contest for the presidency in 2023. The leadership made the request during a visit to the immediate past Chairman of Amuwo Odofin Local Government, Comrade Ayodele Adewale, at his political office in Festac Town, Lagos. Describing Asiwaju Tinubu as a detribalized Nigerian and a great leader, the group added its voice to that of Adewale and other groups who have been demanding that the political leader contest for the number one position in the country in 2023. Leader of the delegation, Chief Sunday Udeh commended Tinubu’s leadership example, adding that Igbos in the state are ready to support the former governor’s aspiration and the APC in general. Udeh urged Adewale to introduce the leadership of the community to Lagos APC chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, and Asiwaju Tinubu. He also praised Adewale for carrying everyone along in his manner of leadership, irrespective of ethnic or religious affiliation. Responding, Adewale thanked members of the delegation for recognising the high standards set by the late Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, which was a template he replicated in Amuwo Odofin during his tenure as the council boss.  He revealed that the party chairman is currently focused on ensuring the success of the ongoing party membership registration and revalidation exercise, which has extended the exercise for a few days. Nevertheless, he assured the group that he would book an appointment with Alhaji Balogun and Asiwaju Tinubu and personally introduce the duo to them. Adewale encouraged them to mobilise people within their jurisdictions to register and re-validate their membership with the APC. He said the Igbo’s are well-positioned and recognized in the state and, therefore, would always be considered in the scheme of things. Adewale said during his tenure as chairman of Amuwo Odofin local council, for instance, qualified Igbos were offered the opportunity to serve in different capacities as Councillors, Special Advisers, Senior Special Assistants and Special Assistants. He added: “Asiwaju also appointed Igbo’s into his cabinet as governor of Lagos State. I thank you for adding your voice to the call that Asiwaju should contest as President of Nigeria in 2023. Asiwaju will make a good President as he will consolidate on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari.”