The authorities of University of Benin, on Wednesday, announced the suspension of members of the three arms of Students’ Union Government in the institution. The institution’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Dr Benedicta Ehanire, in a statement issued in Benin, said that a caretaker committee would be put in place to manage the affairs of the union. Ehanire said that the institution’s Senate took the decision to forestall breakdown of law and order, following the planned protest by the students’ union body against the shift in the school’s academic calendar. “The union had persistently engaged in subversive activities, including incitement of other students to disobey lawful instructions by the school authorities. “This is in spite of concerted efforts by management, led by the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Lilian Salami, to provide their basic needs, such as water and electricity as well as other facilities necessary for learning. “Consequently, the bank account of the union has been suspended and their secretariat sealed. “All members of the erstwhile executives are to hand over their students’ union identification cards to the Chief Security Officer of the university immediately. “They are also to vacate the privileged hostel accommodations accorded them with immediate effect,” she said. Ehanire noted that the senate, however, commended the students for resisting attempts by the students’ union executives to drag them into unwarranted agitations. “The Senate wishes the students the best in their ongoing examinations and a restful break from April 1until their return to campus for the second semester on April 18,” she said. Efforts to get the reaction of the president of the suspended union, Benjamin Egwu, however, proved abortive as he neither picked nor returned the calls put through to him. Meanwhile in another statement, the institution’s senate announced the review of the 2019/2020 academic calendar. Ehanire quoted the senate, presided over by the vice- chancellor as affirming that first semester examinations would end on Thursday, as earlier scheduled.