After months of inactivity due to COVID-19 pandemic which brought the world to its knees, sporting activities are getting back on track in Nigeria with Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare taking over the driver’s seat towards the postponed National Sports Festival and the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. Moved by the urgency of lost times and missed opportunities, Dare is revving up the country’s lost momentum and the quest for a podium performance at the biggest sporting event in the world. Prior to the lockdown, Dare had initiated and commenced the ‘adopt-an-athlete’ Initiative Program which had state governments, corporate bodies and individuals adopting athletes by giving them financial support to commence preparations for the Olympic Games. While five athletes were fully adopted, 10 were on the last lap of adoption but the Minister said he plans to get at least 45 athletes adopted to commence early preparations for the Olympics without being bogged down by financial encumbrances. The Minister used his clout to convince states like Lagos, Delta, Edo, Ondo, friends and some companies to key into the ‘adopt-an-athlete’ idea which is already yielding. Top-rated athletes and Nigeria’s best medal prospects like Blessing Okagbare, Ese Brume, Divine Oduduru, Egwero Ogho-Oghene, Ekevwo Raymond,  and Itsekiri Ushoritse are all doing extremely well in their build-up to the games, thanks to the heightened expectation that they may soon be adopted by their state Governors. Despite initial hiccups, there is hope for the adoption of Tobi Amusan, Elizabeth Anyanacho and the fast-rising Enoch Adegoke. Meanwhile, Ruth Usoro who is a student athlete in the United States is equally doing well, just as wrestler Odunayo Adekuroye who has already been adopted for the Olympic Games. Grace Nwokocha is burning the tracks and ready to give others a run for their money by winning the women’s 100m at the AFN Evaluation meet in Akure where others also set personal best times of the year. The fruit of the adoption campaign is already germinating, hopefully it would lead to bountiful harvest of medals; and just last week, some foreign-based athletes hit great forms, thereby setting the tone of what to expect in Tokyo. The adoption of high performers is an attestation of the minister’s vision and mission to up the ante at the fast approaching Olympic and Paralympic Games. Driven by the passion and mission to support the athletes dream, the minister visited the High Performance Centre at the University of Port Harcourt, Rivers State but lamented the long years of neglect and poor funding; promising to redress the anomalies through a supplementary budgetary presentation to the Federal Executive Council (FEC). Home-grown athletes are to be the first beneficiaries with plans underway to camp them at the facility. Under Dare’s directives, only sports with comparative advantage of excelling at the Olympics are participating at the games. To fulfil this mandate, the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) has commenced early camping in the US for both the male and female teams, friendly matches have been lined up in Spain, Australia and US to get the teams into shape. Dare has also approved funds for the Rowing, Canoeing Sailing Federation, Wrestling, Table Tennis, Weightlifting and Special Sports to take part in Olympics Qualifiers and pre Olympics events to shape up the teams. With five relay medals at stake, this looks like Nigeria’s trump card to ensure a podium finish at the Olympics hence the Minister has set up a relay camp in Florida, USA. Despite daunting challenges amid COVID-19 pandemic, Dare is determined to ensure that the National Sports Festival holds in Edo from April 2 to 14. “Since this is our local Olympics, we have solicited the support of every stakeholder to make it a success. The Festival will put our athletes in good shape before the games,” the Minister said in Akure during the AFN Evaluation programme. His resolve has convinced the Federal Government to lend support to the Ministry and the Edo State Government to make the Nigerian version of the Olympics a reality. Dare has made giant strides in rehabilitation of facilities, welfare of athletes, re- classification of sports from mere recreation to business, revived the Principal’s Cup, marathon races, restored confidence in corporate governance, while his legacy would be determined by how well Nigeria performs at the Tokyo Olympics.