A beneficiary of the Presidential Amnesty Programme Scholarship Scheme, Nicholas Goodnews, has earned a Master of Arts with Distinction in Mass Communications at the University of Bedfordshire, United Kingdom. Goodnews, who shared his experience in a statement, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for sustaining the programme and the Interim Administrator, PAP Col. Milland Dixon Dikio (retd) for upholding the original vision of the scheme. He said: “I am honoured to be a beneficiary and product of the Federal Government Scholarship Scheme through the Office of the Interim Administrator, Presidential Amnesty Programme. “Your goodwill and generous contribution have empowered me to pursue and successfully completed the degree of Master of Arts with Distinction in Mass Communications in 2021 at the University of Bedfordshire, United Kingdom. “I am delighted to inform you that I have performed excellently in my studies despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and graduated with another Distinction. “Recall that I have previously graduated with a First Class Honours in BA (Hons) Public Relations in 2016 from Bedfordshire University through the sponsorship of the programme. I am very happy that my hard work paid off again, I have kept the flag flying and making my sponsor, family, and country proud.” Nicholas said he consistently maintained incredible grades and actively participated in extracurricular activities served both as academic, departmental, and course representative. He said: “I was awarded academic Representative of the Year 2020 haven helped in championing the voices of students. I have also won The Gold Award for Volunteering for the academic Year 2019/2020 at University of Bedfordshire. “I was honoured as Best Graduating Student of Set 2021 media, culture and communications studies. Also, whilst doing my Master`s degree study, I have attained a Professional Diploma in Leadership & Management at Shaw Academy UK, among other accomplishments. “My research and volunteering experiences at Bedfordshire University had built me both in learning and in character. And I wish to use the knowledge, skills and expertise gained during my studies in contributing to organisational goals, society, and academia”. Nicholas urged beneficiaries of PAP to work hard and maximise their time and performance to encourage the Federal Government to sustain the programme. “Against all odds, I have learned to work hard and keep my focus because of my realisation and conviction that achieving the prosperous Niger Delta of our dream requires collective responsibility. “I believe that beneficiaries of the Presidential Amnesty Programme must endeavour to maximize their Time and Performance as much as the Federal Government and officials are committed to sponsoring and empowering the Niger Delta people. “The Office of the Interim Administrator, Presidential Amnesty Programme has made full payments for my tuition, living costs and sundry allowances, allowing me to focus on my academic pursuits. “Indeed, I wouldn’t have been able to attain these achievements to fulfil my professional aspirations of becoming a Media and Communications Expert without the support of your very dependable offices.”