The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) in Anambra state has challenged owners of impounded rickety vehicles to produce evidence of roadworthiness of such vehicles or be ready to forfeit same. The Sector Commander, Andrew Kumapayi who stated this on Thursday in a chat with newsmen said the move was part of the ongoing clampdown exercise to clear the nation’s highways off rickety vehicles. He said such vehicles would only be released to the owners who were able to provide tangible proof that the vehicles would undergo major repairs before plying the roads. He said, “We’re not releasing any of the impounded vehicles until we see a tangible proof with the mechanic that such vehicles will undergo major repairs before we allow them ply the roads. “It will also be subjected to certification by VIO to ensure the vehicle is roadworthy. If we impound the same vehicle again, the owner should be ready to forgo the vehicle if care is not taken.” The FRSC boss listed some features of rickety vehicles to include mechanical deficiency, absence of headlamps and rear lights, worn out tyres, broken windscreen and other dilapidated conditions of the vehicles. He added, “Most of these vehicles which are eye-saw to the motoring public, unfortunately are used to convey persons and goods especially in rural areas. Market women use them a lot, exposing them to all kinds of road mishap and other dangers. “Another major area we’re beaming our search light on is the number plate violation; numbers that are not visible to other road users or stainless plates. These are common among the Yahoo boys with flashy vehicles. “These violations are against the law requirements and such vehicles will not only be impounded, but the owners made to pay the fines and ensure the number plates are properly fixed. “It’s also an offence for motorcycle and tricycle operators to put a trailer type of horn on their motorcycles and tricycles. Defaulters would have their cycles impounded and made to pay fine, while the horn would be removed.”  While noting that the exercise was part of the corps’ public education campaign being carried out within the metropolis, Kumapayi revealed that FRSC was collaborating with the State Traffic Management Agency and Transport Ministry to ensure total compliance. “We’re also checking the alcohol level of some of the drivers. We’re using the disposable alcolizers and the electronic ones. Maximum alcohol level permitted is 0.05 capacity. Anything above is not allowed and the penalty is N10, 000 fines.”