Ahead of the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State, former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, Prof Charles Soludo, says his vision for the State is to make it another Taiwan -Dubai. Soludo, who spoke at the weekend in Awka, Anambra State, said the vision he had when he contested the 2010 election still remained. The former CBN boss, said his ambition for the governorship of Anambra State was to enable him create an avenue of prosperity in this part of the country. Over a week ago, he made his intentions known to his Party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in a grand style at the party’s secretariat in Awka He said the move was not personal and he had received a lot of blessings from God since he turned the age of 34, adding that it was to bring his experience back to his State to help develop it the more. He said having finished with the world and done his bit in Nigeria, which according to him, rewarded him with the national honour of Commander of the Federal Republic, CFR, that he had decided to bring his wealth of knowledge to his State. According to the renowned Economist, “We have a whole lot of things we are doing in the private sector, but public service remains the greatest philanthropy because with one public policy, you can change the fortunes of millions of people. “Comparatively, Anambra State is doing well, but there are still gaps to fill. And I ask myself that in gratitude to bountiful blessings from God, I want him to use me as a vehicle to change society. “My desire is to create an axis of prosperity around here to serve as a fall back for our people. “We should develop our place so that children born in the next 30 years will have a viable place to live in. “That is what is driving me to govern Anambra State. It is not about Soludo. As it is happening in Anambra, it should be happening simultaneously in other parts of the South East states. “I had to convince my family that yes, we have worked for Nigeria, but God did not make any mistake by making me an Igbo man and particularly, making me an Anambra person,” Soludo said