An international trade and investment promotion firm, Compass Global Business Services, will hold a virtual global Female Leaders, and Entrepreneurs Conference (FLEC) from tomorrow to March 25. Its Chief Executive Officer, Compass Global Business Services, Mrs Tokunbo Chiedu, said: “FLEC is designed to be a convergence to initiate powerful conversations with female leaders, around gender development and the pivotal role gender balance. “And diversity has to play in navigating the new normal, and particularly toward achieving a safe, and sustainable world for all. “The overarching theme of the conference focusses broadly on gender development and innovation with emphasis on toolkits to innovate, survive and sustain in the post – pandemic recovery phase.” He said the three-day event would explore the impact of women on the global scene by drawing on case studies of sustainable solutions, and best practices led, developed or owned by women.   She said this would include compelling success stories from around the globe, with regards to progress being made by women across the spheres of government and policy, business, technology and within corporate organisations. “A key driver of the FLEC platform is the need to foster new business opportunities, and to engage and strengthen networks in the process for the mutual benefits of the African continent, and the rest of the world,” Chiedu said. She said the event would have 30 female leaders, across multiple sectors representing six countries, and four continents to brainstorm and chart a positive course for the audience. Presentations will be delivered by  notable female achievers such as   Sub-Regional Director & Chief Gender Development Expert, United Nation Economic Commission for Africa, Ngone Diop; Senior Coordinator, African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and LDCs Focal Point International Trade Centre (ITC), Aissatou Diallo. Other speakers are  President, Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Toki Mabogunje and  Country Head, Google Nigeria, Juliet Ehimuan. 