Amidst controversies generated by the report submitted by the Governor Bala Mohammad led committee for the Peoples Democratic Party ahead of the 2023 election, the Bauchi State governor was hosted by the Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade at the weekend where they both sent warnings to the PDP. Bala may have come to meet Ayade to further dissuade him from the rumoured plans to defect to the ruling APC but after hearing Ayade’s alleged catalogue of injustice against him by the party hierarchy, he also warned, “An injustice to Ayade is an injustice to Bala. If you Cross, I will Cross”. Speaking at the Executive Chambers of the Cross River State Governor’s office, Ayade welcomed his Bauchi State counterpart, saying, “I am happy that you have created the opportunity for a melodrama, so today I am seated and dancing on the fence. Indeed that is true. I speak with righteous anger for the continuous annoyance and nuisance orchestrated on our innocent state by external factors but I just hope that this ends today.” So let me say here, as a very clear warning, that I am a very smart person but I carry humility. He added: “as I leave you with some holy whispers which will be very strong, firm and clear, it’s a harbinger of trouble; while I believe in the Ecclesiastes of peace; I believe in a Chartism of good faith and I also believe in the respect for the supremacy of an office. So if you take a catalytic combination of all I have said, it tells you that there is a need for a guided caution pushing forward as a people and as a party, I think time has come for all of us to gather to say enough is enough.” The Bauchi State Governor, who was earlier taken around the state capital by his host to tour projects executed under his administration, commended Ayade for his achievements in the state and his vision as depicted by his various projects. He noted that he is an advocate of justice and internal democracy in the party and assured Ayade that he should count on his support in his advocacy for internal democracy in the PDP. His words, “An injustice to Ayade is an injustice to Bala. If you Cross, I will Cross”. Some of the grudges Ayade has against the PDP hierarchy are connected to the control of the party structure in the state wherein the PDP hierarchy purportedly supported a group in the state which is at variance with the interest of the governor.