  The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 Control yesterday gave an update on the ongoing vaccination across the country. It said 122,410 Nigerians have been administered with doses of AstraZeneca since the national launch of the March 5 launch of the exercise in Abuja. The PTF stated none of those who got their first jabs of have been down with severe adverse reactions to the vaccination. According to the PTF, there have only been isolated cases of mild pain and fever at the scene of vaccination. Though it listed Zamfara, Kebbi, Oyo and Kogi as the four states where vaccination has not be rolled out, Zamfara and Kebbi states latter kicked off the exercise yesterday. The states were listed in Abuja during the PTF briefing by the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib,. He said: “At this stage it is important to address Nigerians that so far 122,410 people have been vaccinated with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine in Nigeria.  “Available records from the vaccination site do not indicate any serious adverse events following immunisation from the ongoing covid-19 vaccination exercise since its national launch on the 5th of March 2021. “No Nigerian so far has developed any known severe side effects following vaccination with the AstraZeneca vaccine. “While we have observed among some vaccinees the mild symptoms such as pain and swelling at the site of the vaccination, body pains, and mild fever, it is important to note that it is possible for you to take the vaccine and have other diseases that are completely unrelated to the vaccination process. “We shall continue to collaborate with the NAFDAC pharmacovigilance team to monitor the administration of the vaccine and document any adverse reactions following the vaccination with covid-19 vaccines. “As of today, full implementation of the COVID-19 vaccination of eligible population has commenced in 33 states and the FCT, while four states – Kogi, Kebbi, Zamfara and Oyo states are yet to commence implementation.”   “I am aware that Kebbi state will be flagging off the vaccination program today by 3pm yesterday. We are yet to get confirmation of that though.”