United Kingdom celebrity presenter Piers Morgan has left ITV’s Good Morning Britain, following a row over comments he made about the Duchess of Sussex. It brings the controversial host’s time on the breakfast show to an end after six years. ITV announced the decision after The Office of Communications (Ofcom) said it was investigating his comments after receiving 41,000 complaints, the BBC reports. On Monday’s show, Morgan said he “didn’t believe a word” the duchess had told Oprah Winfrey in an interview. An ITV spokesperson said: “Following discussions with ITV, Piers Morgan has decided now is the time to leave Good Morning Britain. ITV has accepted this decision and has nothing further to add.” His departure followed an on-air clash with weather presenter Alex Beresford, who criticised Morgan yesterday for “continuing to trash” the duchess, prompting Morgan to walk offset. He returned within 10 minutes. Also Tuesday, ITV chief executive Carolyn McCall said she “completely believed what [the duchess] says”, adding that ITV is “totally committed to” mental health”. On Monday’s programme, Morgan picked up on the duchess’s claim that her request to senior Buckingham Palace officials for help was rejected after she told Winfrey she had had suicidal thoughts. A total of 41,015 complaints were made to media watchdog Ofcom by 14:00 GMT on Tuesday. That is the second-highest number of complaints in Ofcom’s 17-year history, behind the 44,500 submitted over several days about the racism row involving Jade Goody and Shilpa Shetty on Celebrity Big Brother in 2007. “We have launched an investigation into Monday’s episode of Good Morning Britain under our harm and offence rules,” a spokesperson for the regulator said. Earlier Tuesday, Queen Elizabeth and her family said they were saddened to learn of the experiences of Prince Harry and his wife, Meghan, saying they would address issues around race that were raised by the couple in an interview with Oprah Winfrey. “The whole family is saddened to learn the full extent of how challenging the last few years have been for Harry and Meghan,” Buckingham Palace said in a statement. “The issues raised, particularly that of race, are concerning. Whilst some recollections may vary, they are taken very seriously and will be addressed by the family privately. “Harry, Meghan and Archie will always be much-loved family members.”