A regional security outfit for the Southeast is still in the works, Ebonyi State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Orji Uchenna Orji, has said. However, the outfit will not have central authority as there is no regional government, said. According to him, there were no contradictions in comments by Southeast Governors Forum Chairman and Ebonyi Governor Dave Umahi regarding such an outfit. After earlier saying that the governours were working towards setting up an outfit, the governor was later quoted as saying that such a joint regional security institution may not be feasible. But Orji, in an interview with reporters in Lagos, said Umahi’s comments may have been misconstrued, as his position had always been the same. The commissioner said: “Though I don’t have the mandate to speak for the Southeast governors, I can say that the governor never contradicted himself. He is consistent in what he said. “He said there was nothing like a regional security outfit’ We operate a federal system of government. There is no head of any zone. “In the Southwest, the Amotekun is not a regional outfit. It’s a state outfit with a commonality or similarity of structure arising from collaboration among the Southwest states, which is what the states of Southeast are doing. “They have a central committee set up to review the structures and advise the governors, and to provide technical support and intelligence. The operational architecture will still belong to individual states. Anything outside that will not be in line with the grundnorm. “Through the Southeast Governors Forum under Governor Umahi, each state has been encouraged to make laws to strengthen internal security. What is important is the result and not the form.” Orji said it would be equitable and just for the Southeast to produce the next President. “Governor Umahi’s view is that the party at the centre (APC) and the PDP should consider zoning the presidency to the Southeast. “We feel that, if possible, let the Nigerian nation find it equitable and justifiable to allow somebody from the Southeast to become the President. “That way, the agitations will go down. The allegation that we are being marginalised will reduce. That way, the sense of confidence, brotherliness and love will be enhanced. “He (Umahi) didn’t hide that. Zikism and Umahism are the same: not to offend those in the establishment. Zik did not do it.” The commissioner said Umahi did not join APC for personal reasons, but to help make the Southeast a part of mainstream politics. “The speculation that his defection was informed by his ambition in 2023 is unbelievably ridiculous. He did not hide his objective. “In 2015, he contested under the party at the centre. As he was contesting, the bridge of the party collapsed. “Despite disconnecting from the party at the centre, he won massively in 2019 to demonstrate that he could win elections even as an independent candidate. “He decided to join the ruling party because he wanted to lead the relaunching of the Southeast into the mainstream of politics by joining the party at the centre. The late Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe never joined any party that was in the opposition. He believed in political mainstreaming. “In the Second Republic, we got the Vice Presidential slot through the party at the centre via a merger. Southeast has held other important positions, such as Senate President and Secretary to the Government of the Federation. What did the PDP do to develop the Southeast? Nothing. “The Enugu airport was in shambles. The second Niger Bridge was all about promises. The Enugu-Port-Harcourt road was impassable before the current APC administration. So, the governor relaunching the Southeast into the mainstream is to help us enjoy the gains of democracy. “We lose a lot by being in the opposition, and the governor is saying: ‘my people, be wise’. There is no ambition before him. His position is that when we get to the bridge, we shall cross it. “He’s committed to delivering on the mandate given to him by the people of Ebonyi. Today Ebonyi is now a reference for the Southeast.” Orji also reacted to allegations of diversion of state funds against Umahi, saying they were the fabrications of “frustrated politicians”. He said: “Those allegations are libellous, frivolous, fictitious, irresponsible, most mendacious, and deliberately and mischievously concocted to paint us black. Very soon, they will see themselves in court, where they will surrender to justice. “The other allegation (based on a petition) is by a group of politically-frustrated persons who were coordinators, who were induced by those I call the ‘expiring ex-’ in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) who petitioned frivolously. “The EFCC (Economic and Financial Crimes Commission) has told them to come and substantiate their claim. “The new EFCC chairman has warned that it is now an offence to tell lies or give false information. So, they are candidates for the handcuff of the EFCC because they told lies.”