Honourable Bolanle Agunbiade, the lawmaker representing Ikorodu Constituency 1 in the Lagos State House of Assembly (LAHA), has urged his constituents and other Nigerians to always give thanks to God for being alive and well in spite of the biting effects of the COVID 19 pandemic and other socio-economic difficulties rocking the country and the world as a whole. Agunbiade, who is also the Majority Leader of the Assembly, said this during a thanksgiving programme he held last weekend to fete residents of Ikorodu. At the event in Ikorodu, the lawmaker said that as part of his campaign promises, he was determined to care for the constituents, empower them, and ensure that women and youths, in particular, were engaged. He appreciated the people for standing by him all through his travails during the #EndSARS crisis and the current COVID 19 pandemic. He urged them to continue to observe the protocols even as they pray to God for protection. “We must continue to watch and pray. God has been protecting us. That is why we are here to thank him. On our own, we must always observe the protocols as stipulated by the government,’ he added. The event saw political leaders, stakeholders, associates and supporters of the lawmaker coming together to appreciate God and encourage the Majority Leader to continue his good works. The event was also used by the people of Ikorodu to announce their support for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu should he contest the presidency in 2023. ‘It is not just SOB Agunbiade that will support Tinubu. The whole of Ikorodu is ready to join him in the project,” Asipa Kaoli Olusanya, Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, (APC) in the state, said. The event witnessed wining and dining as well as the announcement of a new leadership structure for Onward Movement, a social political group founded by Agunbiade. It also witnessed the decamping of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) spokesperson in Ikorodu LGA, Femi Adinlewa, into the APC. Traditional rulers, community leaders, political leaders, market women and men, artisans, and representatives of various women and youth groups graced the occasion.