Chairman Senate Committee on Army, Ali Ndume, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to sign an executive order on unexplained wealth. Ndume told reporters the order would make the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) more proactive and boost the fight against corruption. He said: “President Muhammadu Buhari should sign an executive order to activate the unexplained wealth Act and make the work of the EFCC more efficient. “The President has the right to sign an executive order. Nobody can challenge it in court. “The President should also send a bill on the unexplained wealth to the National Assembly to domesticate the unexplained wealth Act. Most advanced countries of the world are practising it “Anybody that steals government money must be dealt with. It is unfair to steal N100million from government coffers and return N80million in the guise of plea bargain. “If the newly appointed Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission is to work efficiently, a law on the unexplained wealth should be enacted. “It is embedded in the EFCC Act but it is not enough. The law on unexplained wealth should stand alone and domesticated in our country laws. I don’t support plea bargain. “I really think that the President should sign an executive order to make Bawa work effectively. “Once the EFCC operatives see anyone flaunting a property or automobile that is beyond his income should ask him how and where he made his money. “If such a person could not give sufficient and convincing explanation, the government should confiscate such property. “Amnesty International had spelt out how the unexplained wealth law works maybe we should adopt it as a nation. “If we are serious about fighting corruption in Nigeria, the unexplained wealth law should be enacted. “There are so many luxury houses in choice areas all over the nation’s urban centres owned by people who ordinarily cannot afford to build such mansions based on their income. If such owners cannot explain it, they should forfeit it to government.” An unexplained wealth order is a type of court order issued by a British court to compel the target to reveal the sources of their unexplained wealth. UWOs were introduced by sections 1–2 of the Criminal Finances Act 2017 and are governed by sections 362A–362T of Part 8 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.