An energy firm, Merciport Energy, has urged women to seek safer and cleaner sources of energy. The group, in a statement, said this was its way of marking Women History Month. It shone the spotlight on women in the informal. The statement said: “These are women can be considered as are the backbone of their families and the economy at large. “In a country where more than 70% of the population live on a subsistence income, Merciport felt it was necessary to include this large demographic in the celebrations of the month.” The company hosted over 120 rural women, traders, housewives, and farmers at its new LPG Plant in Olulade in Ilorin, Kwara State. The theme of the event where the women were given gas cylinders was “Challenging tradition: Promoting a safer, cleaner environment by embracing LPG as a cleaner cooking fuel”. According to its founder and CEO, Mrs. Rita Adachukwu James, Merciport desired to bring to light the issues of health and safety and environmental degradation by enlightening rural women about the benefits of gas as a cleaner energy source for cooking. The chairman of the occasion and Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) Comptroller in Ilorin, Kwara State who was represented by Mr. Charles Okobowade, advised the women to embrace clean energy and safer cooking practices. Mrs. James said: “Merciport’s incursion into gas was because of our desire to pursue cleaner energy alternatives for millions of Nigerians. “The corporate vision is to become a globally rated brand known for delivering dependable, cutting edge and sustainable energy services that powers economic production for businesses and everyday life has helped it to map out strategies in building inclusion in the energy industry within the country. “Our Corporate Social Responsibility also aligns with the 2030 Sustainable Developmental Goals, specifically addressing Goals 3,7,11 and 13 on good health and wellbeing, affordable and clean energy, sustainable cities and communities and climate action. ‘’As a company, we believe that the future is green, and that energy should be safe for both the users and the environment and sustainable for future generations for development to be meaningful.”