 Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and African Development Bank (AfDB) Group at the weekend signed an agreement on the Nigeria risk based supervision framework implementation and capacity building project. The agreement involves the improvement of the Nigerian capital market regulators’ capacities in risk based supervision framework and the implementation of identified initiatives for the growth of the market, including the development of the green bond market. The signing ceremony at the weekend also included the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), which will collaborate with SEC and other industry experts to implement initiatives aimed at promoting green bond market development. The AfDB will provide technical assistance as well as a grant from the Capital Market Development Trust Fund – a multi-donor trust fund – administered by the AfDB dedicated to the development of African capital markets. Senior Director, African Development Bank (AfDB) Group, Mr. Lamin Barrow said the agreement enables parties to accelerate implementation of key initiatives. According to him, the AfDB grant will enhance the capacity of the SEC in risk based supervision framework for the financial and securities market, strengthen operational readiness in the areas of risk-based publishing, derivatives and green bonds trading market. He said the agreement will provide capacity building and training programmes for the NSE, issuers and institutional investors on green bonds, as well as market operators and regulators from the wider Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) region. “Experience has shown that countries with developed domestic capital markets have posted stronger economic growth and structural transformation and that is why AfDB Group is supporting the emergence of a well-functioning and resilient financial and capital market in African countries through various mechanisms,” Barrow said. Director-General,SEC,Mr. Lamido Yuguda, said the apex regulator was focused on capacity development as a catalyst to drive the actualisation of its 10-Year Capital Market Masterplan 2015 – 2025. He said the SEC has designed a targeted training programme to address gaps in regulation and market development to enhance the commission’s readiness to effectively regulate new products and promote the growth of the capital market. “Some of these initiatives include the procurement of surveillance solutions, capacity building in the areas of risk based supervision, green finance and derivatives. Realising these focus areas align with AfDB’s high five priority sectors for the economic transformation of Africa, we leveraged our strong partnership with AfDB to drive some of these key initiatives to strengthen internal and issuers’ capacity. “We are pleased and thankful to AfDB for providing the grant and supporting in the execution of this project. We believe your support and our collaboration underscore the commission’s and the banks mutual goal to grow the capital market and create viable avenues for sustainable economic growth for Nigeria and the region,” Yuguda said. Chief Executive Officer, NSE, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said SEC in collaboration with the NSE will work with industry experts to develop a tailored green bond issuance framework template for the market, enhance the capacity of market operators and build the in-house regulatory capacity of the Commission and the Exchange in the sustainable finance space. He noted that the NSE has continued to champion the development of a sustainable capital market, expressing confidence that agreement will further catalyse the growth of supply and demand side of Nigeria’s sustainable finance market. “I would like to appreciate the AfDB for recognising and prioritising the role of capital market in helping Africa achieve its climate commitment. I also acknowledge the strategic leadership of the SEC in setting the standards for a sustainable and well regulated capital market in Nigeria,” Onyema said. NSE lists TSL’s N12b infrastructure bond Transport Services Limited (TSL) has listed its N12 billion infrastructure bond on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The bond is the first 10-year bond issuance by any company in the transportation and logistics sector.  The TSL 10 per cent 10-Year Series 1 Senior Guaranteed Fixed Rate Infrastructure Bond Due 2030 was issued the company’s N50 billion debt issuance programme.  A total of 12 million units of N1,000 were admitted to the main board of the NSE at par value. The bond was issued in October 2020 with maturity in October 2030.  While semi-annual interest rate shall accrue from the issuance date of October 6, 2020, the bonds shall be amortized semi-annually each year commencing 24 months after the issue date until the maturity date.  The net proceeds of the bond will be used to refinance its short-term loans to matching long term fixed rate debt that will sustainably support TSL’s consistent business growth and expansion plans.  TSL, co-founded by Ayodeji Wright and Wale Fatoki is a leading fully integrated transport and logistics company that delivers value added logistics and distribution services to a wide range of corporate and retail clientele in industries.  These include agro-processing, fast moving consumer goods (FMCG), oil and gas and cement operators among others, under fixed term contracts. TSL operates a fleet of over 840 vehicles covering 40 approved inter-state routes across multiple locations in Nigeria.