 Her business philosophy is simple and can’t be faulted. To Glory Imabong Oniyokor, one of Nigeria’s burgeoning entrepreneurs, business is all about solving problems. “It’s always about identifying a problem and looking for a better, innovative way to solve it. Try to solve that problem for somebody and, in doing that, it is a business already. “You just look at the cost of solving that problem and then add a little money to it and you are raking in more money,” Glory, who runs a chain of fast-growing enterprises with interests in education, investment and food industry, said. Hers isn’t an abstract or vacuous business philosophy; rather, it is one that is time-tasted and rooted in reality. And this, perhaps, is underscored by the fact that a common thread that runs through all the businesses set up and managed by the 2010 graduate of Business Administration from Lagos State University (LASU) and Master of Business Administration (MBA) is her ability to identify a problem and to provide top-notch, tailored solution. “The truth is that there is always a problem to solve; it’s just that people have not really opened their eyes to see it,” Glory emphasised. The entrepreneur, who sees opportunity where others see challenge, has been able to open her eyes to see problems that needed solutions hence, each of the business under her belt, The Nation learnt, sprang up and flourished from a problem solving mindset. For instance, the Akwa Ibom State-born budding entrepreneur and human resources manager is the founder/Director, Wizzy Pride Educational Services Limited, Wizzy Pride Investment, Wizzy Pride Foundation and Mobile Food Market, among others. And each of these businesses, she said, started from her quest to solve a particular problem. Take Wizzy Pride Nursery and Primary School, for instance, which is one of the enterprises under the Wizzy Pride Group of Companies, the school, nestled in Shagari Estate, Ipaja, Lagos, was established to solve the problem of women looking for a serene and secured environment for their children’s education. “I went into the business because I wanted to solve the problem of women who were actually in my shoes, looking for a good place to drop their children while they go to work and still have rest of mind,” Glory told The Nation. As she explained, it was when she started having her children and got into the shoes of other women who were also looking for where to drop their children that she saw that it was a very difficult problem to solve. However, what she and indeed, other women saw as a problem, requiring a solution was, for her, an opportunity to provide that solution by setting up a school. “I decided to resign from where I was working to solve their problem,” Glory stated, noting that the school business started about eight years ago, precisely 2012. Today, Wizzy Pride Nursery and Primary School is one of the most sought-after in and around Iyana-Ipaja, Abesan and Gowon Estate areas of Lagos. The array of qualified teachers under the school’s employ as well as its management’s emphasis on care for pupils has continued to push enrolment figures up. “It’s been interesting and rewarding, but it’s something that doesn’t just come easy; you have to prove to people that you can actually take care of their children. Now, we get referrals even from people that have relocated, sending people to us in the school,” Glory said. The same knack for problem solving, which, in the case of the school, manifests in taking proper care of the children, is also evident in Glory’s Mobile Food Market. This arm of her expanding business empire is all about shopping for women and corporate organisations. And like her other businesses that sprang up to solve identified problems and in the process make money, she said she set up Mobile Food Market after discovering that a lot of women want their houses to be stocked with food, but don’t have the time to go to the market. Her words: “People have the money, but don’t have the time to go shopping. So, when you reduce time and let people concentrate on their work, you are meeting some of their needs. I shop for them (women and corporates) and they pay for my services. “We shop at market price; they just pay us service charge. We buy exactly how it is sold in the market and the truth is that if an individual goes to market to shop, he can never shop the way we do because we buy directly from wholesalers, in bulk.” According to Glory, people are even surprised the way Mobile Food Market shops and they are ready to pay the service charge. “And even when you add the service charge, you will also still get the value of our services because your cost of transportation has to be added, and you are buying little quantity while we are buying volume,” she added. To drive home her point that Mobile Food Market is filling a niche in the food industry, Glory said an operational manager in GTbank, a woman, who was recently transferred to the bank’s Ipaja branch, confessed that the biggest thing she would miss is Mobile Food Market, because it was solving a lot of problems for her and reducing her stress. The entrepreneur has also been able to demonstrate her immense propensity to spot problems and provide innovative solutions to solve them when she launched Wizzy Pride Foundation. The Foundation trains women entrepreneurs on how to start and run successful businesses. The training, which is done yearly, brings together women from various works of life and vocations and trains them by using relevant resource persons and facilitators who understand the dynamics of today’s business. The training have been running except last year when the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic put the empowerment programme on hold. Although Glory said the Foundation could not hold the training last year because of COVID -19, it has moved from physical to online space  to continue empowering women. She said even during the COVID-19 lockdown, she had to run an online training for a woman who owns a school but needed to do other businesses to augment. “I decided to train her online and, as I speak, she has started and she is happy that, at least, she has an additional source of income outside school because a lot of proprietors were affected during the pandemic. So, it has been helpful,” she said, pointing out that the Foundation has so far trained over 100 women. Savvy, proactive and not one to miss a business opportunity with promises of a bountiful return on investment, Glory did not stop at empowering women; she moved a notch higher   by setting up a co-operative, under her Wizzy Pride Investment, to encourage women to save and also have access to loan to start and run their businesses almost at a zero interest rate. Again, the co-operative, which she started two years after establishing the school, was borne out of the need to provide solution to an identified problem, which is women’s access to capital to start and run small scale businesses. “A lot of people were coming to me, thinking that I had money to give especially women. But there was no money; we are all struggling. So, I decided to create an account,” the entrepreneur explained. Explaining further, Glory said: “I invited friends, about 16 of them, both secondary school friends, university and church friends and gave them the idea that what if we have an account where everybody will contribute little money into it and then when you need money, you just come and take and pay little interest. They all said it was a good thing. “The following year, five of them decided to start; they were saving N3, 000 each, some N5, 000. After six months, some of them needed money and we had an agreement that once you a member of this co-operative at no point will you withdraw all your money. You can only request and take loan not that you are closing your account. There are benefits for you saving and getting a loan because the interest is more or less zero per cent.” Like a seed planted on the riverside, the co-operative blossomed. From five members, it has over 600 members, according to Glory, who single-handedly did the registration and other documentations. Describing the initiative as “very useful for women,” she said the co-operative has two platforms. One is for members who save and take loan at almost no interest. The other is for business people who take loan and pay with interest. Irrespective of the platform, the co-operative has been a safe haven of sort for women, as its management sometimes goes to various markets to let women know that there is a platform to assist them with start-up capital particularly after the COVID-19 pandemic when a lot of them could not start their businesses. “We needed to assist them with little funds to start again especially market women,” Glory said. Expectedly, the co-operative has been hugely successful, with Glory noting that in a year, she makes close to 100 per cent of what she has invested. However, this has not stopped her from having her fingers in other juicy entrepreneurial pies. She also runs a flourishing printing business. She does printing jobs for individuals and corporates, schools, hotels, among others. Glory has also tried her hands on cleaning services, even though it wasn’t as successful as her other businesses. And how did she venture into cleaning? Her response: “At a point, I got so busy that even attending to my house was a problem. I mean cleaning the house. So, I thought of it that this is also a problem to several busy women. I was looking for a way to solve that problem for myself and also extend it to other people.” Accordingly, Glory wasted no time in partnering a parent in her school who was idle and who also loved cleaning. The duo registered a company. They started from cleaning homes, and then moved to companies, and the money started rolling in. She, however, said the business could not really fly because “We had little issues that were not welcoming to me, so I decided to back out.” But, how does the mother of three children balance her busy work schedule with family? “What I do is that I train people like me and I empower them to work. Training people helps reduce your job a lot,” she told The Nation. She noted, for instance: “In the school, I have somebody who has spent eight years with me and I have been able to train her to be like me. So, I might not be around throughout the week and the school will still open and close because I have trained her to also do what I do.” Encouraged by her strew of successes, Glory said access to finance is not and shouldn’t be a problem for aspiring women entrepreneurs. “Even the school business, I didn’t start it with my money. What I actually think should be women’s problem is getting the idea and also having integrity. In anything, even in words that you say, have integrity. That has helped me a lot,” she said. The astute entrepreneur said on the strength of her consistency and the integrity she has built into her chains of businesses, an aggressive expansion programme that will take her businesses, particularly her empowerment training for women to other states across the country is on course. 