Recognition for his performance in a movie on Nigeria showed his status in the country’s film industry, Nollywood, as well as in Africa’s motion picture industry.  In 2015, he won the prestigious Africa Movie Academy Award (AMAA) for Best Actor in a Leading Role for his role as “Inspector Waziri” in October 1, a film by prominent Nigerian director and producer, Kunle Afolayan. ”Look, everybody in that hall, not one person was sitting down. They all recognised the fact that I deserved the award and stood up for me,” he said, describing an emotional moment at the event in South Africa. The award-winning actor had described his role in the movie as “Very, very challenging.”   The movie’s title refers to Nigeria’s Independence Day in 1960. Interestingly, he said, “It is a story about a problem in Yorubaland, caused by an Igbo man; to be solved by a Hausa man. It was incredible. The story of October 1 is the story of Nigeria right from before independence and during independence. It’s about what the white man did and all the rubbish inherited from the white man. They caused confusion without solving it and they later ran away. All these are the little, little problems that make up Nigeria.” Sadiq Daba, who died on March 3, also played the role of “Prof. Yahaya” in Citation, another movie by Afolayan, released in October 2020. The film, said to be “broadly based on true events,” focuses on the topical issue of sexual harassment of female students by academics in tertiary educational institutions in the country. A university student exposes a professor who attempts to rape her, and the institution reacts to her claims. Daba’s last movie premiered in Lagos four days after his death. He played the role of the president of Nigeria in Eagle Wings, described as the country’s “first ever military movie.” The Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) and the Nigerian Air Force collaborated in the production of the film which tells the story of how the military fights insecurity in the country and the risks involved.  Significantly, Daba was facing grave health challenges when he took part in the filming from February to April 2020. These films reflect his versatility and acting talent. He was respected for his professionalism. His distinguished acting career  defined by a consistent pursuit of excellence.  Through self-improvement, he grew beyond his work as a broadcaster, and became better known as a high-profile actor. He was of Hausa origin. He attended St. Edwards College, Sierra Leone; and studied at NTA Television College, Jos, and Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, where he earned a degree in Mass Communication. He started his broadcasting career at Radio and Television Kaduna (RKTV), moved to the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) Sokoto, and then to NTA Lagos, where he spent the greater part of his more than three decades career as a broadcaster. He had impressive presentation skills, and co-hosted NTA’s popular daily morning magazine show A.M. Express. He was an important player in NTA’s golden era, the 1970s and 80s, when the broadcast station offered gripping locally produced content. Daba played the role of ”Bitrus” in the popular country-wide NTA network television drama series Cockcrow at Dawn.  He also acted inMoment of Truth, a television drama produced by NTA, which won a prize at the Union of Radio and Television Network of Africa (URTNA) festival held in Algiers in 1982. He had TV acting credits in Behind the Clouds, A Place like Home and Soweto. His performances in some of NTA’s early soap operas earned him a reputation for distinction. Daba was associated with quality productions. He left a legacy of competence and commitment. His exit ended a colourful performance.