  Parents of the 39 pupils kidnapped from the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State have accused the Federal Government of inaction. They gave the government a 48-hour ultimatum to rescue their children who were kidnapped 12 days ago. They spoke at a news conference shortly before they staged a peaceful protest at the premises of the College yesterday. Their spokesman Friday Sanni said they believed government was not doing enough to rescue their children. They said: ”It is now 12 dark dreary days since the unfortunate incident happened and we as parents have not received any positive message from either the school management, the Minister of Environment under whose ministry the school is or the Kaduna State government under whose territorial jurisdiction the school is located. This silence is unacceptable as it only feeds our hopelessness with each passing day. “We have therefore called for this press conference to call the attention of Government at State and Federal levels and all stakeholders involved, and indeed the world, to act with dispatch to ensure the immediate and safe release of our children.  “We have seen this kind of ugly event happen in Katsina, Zamfara and Niger states and swiftly the governments acted and ensured the safe and timely rescue of the victims, so why is the case of the Afaka 39 different? Why should our innocent children pay for the failure of government to provide security of life and property? Or is it now a crime to seek education in schools? Let us not forget that the students were taken in bad shape – some were barely covering themselves, especially the ladies. This is a dangerous thing and should have made the government to act faster,” Sani said. He added: “We do not think enough is being done. Indeed, the failure, negligence or refusal of the government to keep us in the loop as regards the measures they are taking as well as subsequent kidnap of students in Kaduna state has heightened our anxiety on the safety of our children. “We are by this press conference demanding that the Government rescues our children by all means and within 48 hours so that the process of their rehabilitation can commence because the longer they stay in captivity the worse off. “We also call on the Human Rights Organizations, NGOs, NBA, ASUU, the United Nations, and all well-meaning Nigerians and citizens of the world, to rise together with us and prevail on the authorities to ensure the speedy rescue of the Afaka 39. Unless that is done, we will continue to hold the feet of the authorities to the fire until our children return safely.” The protesting parents temporarily blocked the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari highway, carrying banners and placards with inscriptions like; “Bring Back our Children”, “Bring Back Our Students” and so on.