 Lagos state Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has pledged to support the newly built world-class production facility, Ogidi Studios. Sanwo-Olu made this known during the launch of the production facility situated inside Lekki phase I. “I am here to endorse this project in tandem with our own economic agenda which is project THEMES. The E stands for Entertainment and Tourism. The future is for our young talents and it is how much they want to take. With facilities like this, it is how much they can grab without holding back. “It is an industry with huge potentials such as job creation and capacity development. As a Government, we have consistently shown and demonstrated our support to the creative industry. We have partnered with Ebonylife Productions to train youths in their academy. We are also in collaboration with Del York to train between 500 to 1000 youths in their online programme. We have recently redeveloped the historic Glover Memorial Hall as space and hub for youth empowerment. There’s also the J.K Randle space that we are currently refurbishing. We have a N1 billion fund for the creative sector. We will continue to support businesses like this to make sure they are sustainable,” Governor Sanwo-Olu, said.  In the same vein, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, promised to support the studios in the area of capacity development for the youths. Speaking on the launch of the facility, Dare lauded the founder of the facility, Idris Olorunnimbe for his foresight and intervention to put Nigerian creative on the same pedestal as global players. The minister also announced a pledge to sponsor the training of 1000 youths at Ogidi Studios saying that the launch of the studios resonates with the youth. “I see that the future of some of our youth would be built here. The most important task for me is to announce a partnership between the federal government through the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. We would support and train 1000 Nigerian youth in 2 to 4 weeks of courses. “We want to make sure that every month a hundred of them come here, we will pay full expenses, they can get certified and they can become entrepreneurs, creators of wealth, employees of labour and also contribute to national economic development. We are committed to that on the part of the Federal Government,” he said.