 SIR: It is no longer news that banditry especially in the Northwest states has become rampant with no end in sight. Every day, the trending and horrific news is abduction of defenceless villagers or passengers in transit. In recent time, the bandits have shifted ground; they have become more audacious, attacking our schools and abducting students in their hundreds. Banditry is not a one day problem. It has been with the affected areas for long, before it transformed to the monster now defying any solution. There are many theories about the ravaging banditry in northern Nigeria. For instance, in Zamfara State, it is linked to the activities of illegal miners. The state is blessed with gold deposits. The illegal mining activities are believed to have brought criminals into the rural communities. Another version of the theory suggests that banditry started with cattle rustling. The rampant and disturbing cases of cattle rustling led to the establishment of “yan sa Kai” or vigilantes who went after the rustlers, maimed and sometimes killed them. The rustlers would then re-group and retaliate. Similar tales have been told in Katsina, Kaduna and Niger state where violent confrontations between cattle rustlers and vigilantes have taken place. The rustlers are killed by vigilantes who in turn exact revenge on the people. That has been the order of the day between and among the conflicted or warring groups. The revered Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmed Gumi, recently in the news for visiting and preaching to bandits to lay down their arms, end killing and embrace reconciliation, has added another dimension: Fulani bandits are waging a war of ethnic survival”.  In his recent interview granted to Channels Television, Gumi further said that the bandits have grievance against the state and are victims of injustice meted on them by government law enforcement agencies such as the police and other security outfits. Whatever may have been their reasons for making lives difficult for the helpless communities, those bandits from the mode of their operation must have fallen into the hand of dangerous politicians. Only recently, Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara accused some highly placed and influential personalities of being behind the spate of kidnapping. The failure of governor Matawalle to mention the name of those politicians has elicited mixed reactions across the country. Many Nigerians have demanded that the governor mention their names unless he is complicit. It is on record that many traditional rulers have lost their thrones or positions for aiding or abetting kidnapping in Zamfara State. That was why the statement credited to the governor did not come to many of us as a surprise. It is true that some politicians are actually cashing out from the banditry to feather their political nests. It is the reason banditry remains intractable and continue to linger unabated. This self-inflicted problem is reminiscent the deadly Boko Haram which was widely suspected to have a tacit support of some selfish politicians during its formative stages. Until it was later hijacked by external forces, Boko Haram was purely the mismanagement of political thugs by political players. The political thugs codenamed “ECOMOG” were recruited, armed but later abandoned by desperate politicians in Borno State after they ascended to power. These armed and abandoned thugs later turned on hapless citizens, by unleashing terror on them. Now, Borno State is reaping the fruits of the reckless ambitions of its selfish politicians. Northern Nigeria has suffered enough. The region is battling with poverty, illiteracy and inequality among the haves and have-nots. These multi-faceted problems have fueled the current banditry. It is high time our politicians stopped playing politics with human lives. The bloodshed across the region is way too much. 