Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege and the founding leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor, have called for an end to division in the party in the state. They urged party leaders to close rank and work for unity ahead of the 2023 general election. Both leaders spoke at the weekend at Evwreni in Ughelli North Local Government when Senator Omo-Agege visited Olorogun Emerhor at his country home with other leaders of the party, including Rev. Francis Waive, who represents Ughelli North, Ughelli South and Udu in the House of Representatives. The Deputy Senate President described the visit as a brotherly one and part of efforts towards ending the rift among leaders of the party across the state. He attributed the poor performance of the party in the 2019 general election to the division among leaders of the APC. “This is a brotherly visit. This is not the first time we are meeting. We have met several times at his home in Abuja. Before the beginning of our revalidation, I had planned to visit him to say hello. It was not just to say hello, but to reiterate to him, based on the discussions we have had that we should bring everybody together. “We have said Delta State is ripe for the taking. We have also said this can only happen if all of us are on the same page. Come to think of it, what are we fighting for? We were brothers first before we became members of the APC. Party will come and go, but Urhobo people will remain Urhobo. Delta State will remain Delta State. “As from today, we should all know that we are one. The party is not just about Olorogun Emerhor and myself, we still have other leaders. In politics, we drag who gets what, but while doing that we must do it with civility. We must do it with humanity. We must not play it in a way that it becomes almost impossible to reconcile yourselves at the end of the exercise. “That was what we went through in 2019. That’s why you see the poor result. We’ll reach out others. We’ll try and bring everyone on board. We respect everyone. We respect every leader of the party in the state. All we want is that Delta State is delivered to the APC. Let’s reach out to other leaders of the party and those who align and support them and their aspirations,” Omo-Agege said. Emerhor, the governorship candidate of the party in the 2015 general election, described the visit by Omo-Agege as historic, saying it was time for leaders and members of the party from across the state to embrace peace and unite in the interest of the party. He said APC had not been able to wrest power from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) because of disunity among its leaders. Emerhor said being the founding leader and having contested a number of elections in the state, this is why he has continued to send out messages of unity in recent time.