It is a story we did not anticipate for the southwest. But reports that Ogun State indigenes and residents have fled not only their states but the country should concern the state government and the federal government. As many as about 1,000 Nigerians of the Ogun stock are now refugees across the border in Benin Republic. They are residents in places like Eegelu, Iganna, Owode and Ipobe. These villages are in Yewa North Local government area of the state. That part of the state has cried for a while over the predations of killer herdsmen. They have complained over the invasions of their farmlands, rape of their women, wives and daughters, and the killing of their men and women. This trend has keeled over the routine serenity of their existence. It was in the same local government where soldiers reportedly accompanied herdsmen and foreswore residents to keep mum over the impunity. The story of refugees can only be seen in that context of foreign interlopers. According to reports, the Beninois government has taken notice of the Nigerian presence and appointed a Nigerian refugee, Clement Oyebanji, to undertake a headcount to enable the government register them as refugees. “I acted as census officer in Benin Republic for the government,” he announced, “so that we could get food and drinks. I was given a form to register them and we were about 1,000.” He, however, said the some Nigerians were not happy with their status and some of them have returned. Even at that, they are not sure of remaining at home. “We are back now, but some people will return to Benin; some left yesterday as they were afraid of attack.” Oyebanji is an Agbon-Ojodu resident in Ogun State. One resident named Odu said his wife, Sarah, delivered a baby in a Beninois hospital but he returned to the country in order to muster money to pay off her hospital bill of N200,000. The State Government has denied the report but the YEWA North Patriotic Front, has hit back. Its president, Omobolaji Sanni, said “Even the Eselu of Iseluland confirmed that the residents were not available to take the Greek gifts of the government when it was brought.” He was referring to Government palliatives. The statement added that the “people prefer to be slaves in another land than to die in their land due to high level of insecurity.” This is no time for recrimination. The state government should focus on bringing the people back and working with the security forces to keep the bandits out of the lives of the indigenes and residents. We have had heart-wrenching stories of internally displaced persons in the northern and middle belt in the country. They have exacted a toll not only on the quality of lives of our people, but they have become daily challenges to our resources. Children are born there without a guarantee of school or normal lives. Ogun State village farmers and hunters are also of great value to themselves when they do what they have done all their lives. To be uprooted so radically by never-do-wells also shows how the war against the bandits is yielding more horrors than successes. The story also brings to sharp focus that a government fails if it cannot protect its citizens. The Ogun State example unveils the consequences of fear and insecurity as it has not only sent them out of their native land but has disrupted the economy and cultural stability of the people.