The Bola Ahmed Tinubu (BAT) Foundation has donated an 18-seater Hummer bus to the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos Council. It said this is part of its contribution to strengthen journalism. The bus was facilitated by the Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa. He had promised the union the bus when its executive members visited him in his office on January 5. Speaking while handing the bus over to the union in Lagos yesterday, the Director General of the foundation, Mr. Ahmed Omisore, said the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is concerned about the well-being of Nigerians. “The foundation seeks to project Asiwaju Tinubu for what he is and has been over the years,” Omisore said. He said BAT Foundation remained the greatest friend of the media in Nigeria, adding: “Asiwaju Tinubu is a media owner and a lover of the press, which accounts for why the media is Tinubu’s immediate constituency.” The director general noted that the greatest men in the world were made by the media; hence, nobody could toy with the media, as it is a veritable tool. “This bus is given to NUJ Lagos Council to continue to take its rightful position as the most vibrant Council in Nigeria and to help it in discharging its day-to-day activities,” he said. Omisore urged NUJ Lagos Council members to always support their Chairman, Mr. Adeleye Ajayi, to attain greater heights. Receiving the bus, the NUJ chairman hailed Asiwaju Tinubu and BAT Foundation for the gesture. He described the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a man with the largest political followership in the last two decades in Nigeria. Said he “Bola Ahmed Tinubu is a philanthropist, a father, who is always willing to help people within a short time frame. “Asiwaju Tinubu, who led the party to victory twice in the last seven years, is a force to be reckoned with in Nigeria’s political space.” Ajayi vowed to deal with individuals who engage in fake news, saying his administration would set up an Ethics & Disciplinary Committee to sanction erring members. He sought the support of BAT Foundation towards the completion of the Council’s two-storey secretariat at Iyalla Street, Alausa, Ikeja, among other things. The NUJ boss enjoined Nigerians to follow the footsteps of Asiwaju Tinubu by supporting the needy at all times. Speaking to our correspondent after the event about the gesture, the Director of Media and Publicity of BAT Foundation, Mr. Mobolaji Sanusi, said the bus was donated to ease the activities of the union, adding that the foundation was trying to support journalists in its little way. 