The European Union has reported Nigeria to the World Trade Organisation (WTO) for banning the importation of milk and its derivatives. WTO  Director-General Ngozi Okojo-Iweala, who gave the hint when she visited the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in Abuja yesterday, also said the global body would reduce  export restrictions on medical supplies and equipment, especially in this era of COVID-19 pandemic.. Okonjo-Iweala told the CBN management, led by Godwin Emefiele, that the EU sent a letter to the WTO  expressing displeasure with  Nigeria’s policy on dairy products. She said:  “We have a complaint against Nigeria  from the EU about the violation of the Balance of Payment (BOP) agreement with respect to trying to protect the dairy industry and they feel that this is not the right instrument. “As DG WTO, I have to make this known. This is an issue which you said you will like to engage in a little more detail so we can discuss that later about it.” Okojo-Iweala explained  that the WTO  has some “remedies” that could help Nigeria protect its industries  and prevent dumping without “banning things.” Expressing  support  for Nigeria’s plan to establish a trade remedies authority,  the WTO boss said it would help the country  “use those remedies as a tool to help our industries to grow.” The CBN and some companies in the milk and dairy industry had at their  February 2020 meeting   agreed that  “ the importation of milk and its derivatives shall only be allowed for FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria; Chi Ltd; TG Arla Dairy products Limited; Promasidor Nigeria Limited; Nestle Nigeria PLC  (MSK only) and Integrated Dairies Limited.” Emefiele said the process to bring milk and its derivatives had been on for six years, with many producers treating the matter with levity. He told the WTO team about a company in the dairy business  for over 60 years in Nigeria   that has  not deemed it necessary to engage in backward integration. Emefiele said: “At that meeting(February 2020),  we took a decision that those who are not embracing our  backward integration programme with the dairy industry should be restricted. It was not my decision, it was a decision taken by all at the meeting.”. The CBN governor also  told  Okonjo-Iweala that  Nigeria    needed  help   from the WTO  because  “ other people might have seen or said a few things about the way we’ve conducted our trade.” “We need to give a chance to our own local industry to grow; we need to give  chance to  our local industries to create jobs and employment,” he added. At another meeting in Abuja  with members of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Okonjo-Iweala said the WTO  was     working to make the fight against  the pandemic  easier for its member  countries by reducing export restrictions on health-related products and equipment. Her words: “The main reason we are here is really to see how the WTO can support Nigeria, in improving its economy. And part of doing that is the health. We are in a pandemic and of course, you cannot advance the economy until you take care of the health aspects. “What is happening  is the arrival of  COVID vaccines, the  distribution and the challenges, the opportunities on the way of that and what the WTO can do. “One of the things that WTO can do is to work with members to reduce export restrictions. In the supply chain, so many products and equipment are global. When a country puts export restrictions on one, it means that you slow the production everywhere, that’s where the WTO comes in because we have certain rules that members should abide by. “We  are here to see what we can do to support Nigeria. I have to personally say, I was chair of GAVI, the vaccine alliance, for five years.  We  will continue to push that and we want to see what the challenges and opportunities are and how it’s going.” Secretary the Government of the Federation (SGF)  and PTF  Chairman   Boss Mustapha noted that the pandemic came with a lot of effects and impacts on the nation’s economy. He quickly added that it provided an opportunity for Nigeria  to have a second look at its systems. Mustapha said: “The good thing about COVID-19 is that it has exposed the weaknesses of all systems. Even the most established democracies and economies have been brought to their knees by the adverse effects of COVID-19. “I think the developing economies stand to benefit if they learn from the lessons of this adverse impacts and look at their systems, their governance system, their economic foundations, and the need to heighten inclusion in the way we develop our agendas and our programmes.”