Peace has returned to Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta campus, following the mobilisation of the 2019 set of graduates for the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). Trouble had started on Friday, march 5, 2021, when the 2019 graduates gathered very early, carrying placards with various messages such as “Mobilise us now, MAPOLY we are tired of staying at home since 2019, MAPOLY let us go,” among others, to protest their delayed mobilisation for youth service. .They had prevented vehicles, students and visitors from gaining entry into the school premises.They expressed their displeasure to the polytechnic management for failing to mobilise them on time. Protest on Twitter Before embarking on the protest, the ex-students took their agitations to Twitter for three days, calling on the institution to mobilise them for the next batch of prospective corp members. With various hashtags such as “Free us MAPOLY, Send the available ones,” they wrote on Twitter, urging the management to urgently address the issue. @wunmzy04 wrote: “We are tired of sitting at home, stop wasting our precious time#freeUsMapoly, #sendtheavailableones.” @officialyhemyte wrote:  “Mapoly free us o,please upload our names and let’s move on with our respective lives.” Another ex-student tweeted: “#Mapolyfreeus ooooo, my parents think I didn’t go to school since those whom we entered school together same year don go service…#MAPOLYFreeUs.” After getting no response to their agitations on Twitter,  the graduates told CAMPUSLIFE they had to embark on a physical protest to press home their demands.  MAPOLY delaying our future, say ex- students Some of the ex-students, who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE during the protest, lamented that the delay in mobilisation had caused them serious problems. One of the 2019 graduates, Theresa Shogbaike, said she had been waiting to be mobilised since 2019. “Since I graduated in 2019, I have not been posted to serve. Now you’re telling me to wait again before I serve. They should send the list to NYSC and mobilise us today,” she said. Also, Olaitan Ogunnaike, another ex- student, blamed the management  for failing  to upload the list of the students to NYSC portal. ” We are MAPOLY graduates set for 2019 and, over a year now, we are yet to be mobilised for the NYSC. After pasting the Senate list, they failed to upload it to the NYSC portal for us. “They are saying not everyone has registered and they want to upload everything together. We want them to send the ones that are available on ground,” he said. The incumbent Assistant-General Secretary of the National Association of Ogun State Student, NAOSS, MAPOLY chapter, Showole Abiodun, accused the management of delaying their future. ” Since 2019, we are yet to be mobilised. All our colleagues in other schools,  with whom we finished together, are done with their NYSC. How would we be able to plan our lives? How do they expect us to work when we don’t have NYSC certificate, yet they are telling us not to protest? It is our right,” he noted. Ridwan Adeyemi, another graduate, charged the management to keep to its promise of mobilising them. He said: “We want validation that our name will be posted today. I had to stop working, I came from Lagos. They should help us out. What we want is let us register today, we only have till Sunday to register. If we don’t register before Sunday that means we are not going.” Olusayo Adeniran pleaded with the management to upload their names to the NYSC portal. “Upload our names to NYSC portal; give us the opportunity to serve our fatherland, it’s our fatherland we shouldn’t beg to serve our fatherland,” he said. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE after the protest, Marcus Adeniyi, a Microbiology graduate who was a key player in the protest,  stated that they had missed the 2019 batch of NYSC hoping that they we’ll get mobilised with the 2021 batch. “We graduated in 2019, and after graduating as expected, we’re supposed to embark on one year mandatory service, before the pandemic started. It delayed many  things, but after sometime, some schools actually mobilised their students for service. “We concluded that MAPOLY’s calendar was clumsy at times, we graduated in 2019, we missed service that same year; we were waiting for 2020.  We realised later that we couldn’t go with 2020 set again,” he said. Adeniyi said though the NYSC started its registration very late, they were expecting that once the NYSC portal opened, MAPOLY would have uploaded their names, but they were unable to register. He said: “To our greatest surprise on March 3 when NYSC opened their portal for registration, we were unable to register. We’ve seen our results since last year. We’ve done our part on submission of documents.” He also stated that the group of concerned students sent delegates to the management, asking that they mobilise them but there was no positive  response hence, they decided to embark on a physical protest. “We were expecting that after March 3, we were going to get it but we didn’t see anything and we sent the past SUG executives to meet the management  and we didn’t hear anything. “At my end, I tried communicating with the school on Twitter, giving them reasons we were supposed to be mobilised on time. At least if something is wrong, we have a Public Relations Officer (PRO) in the school, that can communicate with us and let us know what is going on. “It  has really affected everybody that made people ask every time if we truly  graduated. I tweeted out of anger and I just noticed that it started having alot of engagements from my colleagues who were also affected.” He said he made efforts with other concerned students to visit the mobilisation centre in the school,  where they were told not all of them will be going for service in 2021, stating that if MAPOLY is to send names to NYSC it will only be once per year as directed by NYSC. He stated they were also told that some students have not submitted the necessary documents and the school wanted them all to go together. “They now want everyone to go together, but some students through their own negligence have not been able to meet up with the registration process by not submitting their JAMB regularisation details. It means we’ll now have to wait for them so that they’ll collate everything together and submit at once,” he said. At first, I bought into the explanation, but when we got home we put the summary of our discussion on our group and people started bringing up different suggestions, opinions and ideas. He continued: ” It was there that someone contacted NYSC on Twitter. It was through the question NYSC answered that we got to know that it’s not possible for a school to send only one list. It was there we also gathered that over 40, 000 students of other schools have registered and it is not possible for NYSC to mobilise them all on the first stream,  that means some set of students will go with a different stream that has registered.Again, it  means a larger percentage of MAPOLY students will have to wait till next year for service; thus we decided to protest.”  Protest brings desired result Reacting as to whether or not the protest yielded positive results,  Adeniyi told CAMPUSLIFE that  the protest was fruitful, adding that some of his colleagues were already on their way to camp. Others who are yet to go  have seen their names on the NYSC portal to go with the next batch. “To the glory of God, the protest was very fruitful as some of our colleagues are already on their way to  camp. The Rector came out trying to calm us down, assuring us that they will mobilise us on that day and that  they were considering other students. “He said we should give him some time .From there, we waited  an hour, two hours,then we visited the mobilisation centre. “We waited till they finished uploading the list. We were with them till night at the mobilisation centre in school, when people started calling us that they had  seen their names on the list. ” I don’t have the total number of our colleagues going with batch A stream 1, but I’ll say a little number out of those that have registered. And our protest was successful. I  believe when it is time for the others going by May 18, it will be hitch-free,” he noted.  ‘Unfortunate our students had to protest to get mobilised’ Reacting to the protest, the Head Public Relations and Protocol Officer of the polytechnic, Mr. Yemi Ajibola, said it was quite unfortunate that the ex-students  had to embark on a protest to press home their demands to be mobilised  for the NYSC. Ajibola said  the delay in the mobilisation was due to the crises the polytechnic faced in 2017, problems from NYSC and the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020. When asked if there was no form of communication to the ex- students regarding their mobilisation, Ajibola said: “They’ve been coming, though I have not seen them. I have seen their comments online which we have been attending to. “The mobilisation officer was at a workshop in Abuja and I had to be wary of what  to tell them. I was aware that the Director of Students Affairs was at one or two meetings with them. ” We didn’t want to say anything contradictory, we had to wait for the  Mobilisation Officer to give us valid information to disseminate to them. The Mobilisation  Officer  came and ,met them at the gate where they were protesting. The woman told them not to worry but they weren’t ready to listen.” He said the ex-students weren’t given any particular information on the mobilisation  because they( School Officials)  were NYSC staff. The PRO also faulted the NYSC for suddenly changing the closing date for mobilisation, adding that the ex-students did not exercise patience. “Yes, we can not give them any particular information, students will react if they want you  tell them tomorrow or today. But that will not be possible when we’re not the NYSC,” he said. Ajibola also said the former students weren’t patient enough, though some of them hadn’t submitted the necessary documents before the protest. However, they were assured those who were  ready will get mobilised. 