The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) caucus in the House of Representatives has expressed concern over the arrest of former Special Adviser to the Kano State governor, Salihu Tanko-Yakasai, for his criticism of President Muhammadu Buhari. It said the government should pay attention to the message rather than chasing shadows. While asking for the immediate release of Yakassai, who was arrested by the operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) after his sack by Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, the lawmakers’ caucus said the arrest was part of the continuous breach of freedom of expression by the current administration. Caucus Leader Kingsley Chinda said in a statement on Sunday in Abuja that “the continuous breach and denigration of democratic ethos and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), by President Muhammadu Buhari” was worrisome. He added: “Particularly in view of constitutionally guaranteed safeguards in Chapters IV thereof on freedom of speech, and also the provision of Section 14(1) of the said Constitution, which provides that the Federal Republic of Nigeria shall be a state based on the principles of democracy and social justice. “Recall that only recently, some armed bandits abducted secondary schoolgirls from a Zamfara State government-owned secondary school in Jangebe, following which Mr. Tanko-Yakassai criticised persons in authority, including President Buhari, and reiterated our call for the resignation of the President over his failure to curb or effectively deal with the general state of insecurity across the country. “Mr. Yakassai had also lamented that the current administration has failed Nigerians at all levels which led to his removal as the Special Adviser on Media to the Kano State governor.” Also, the DSS has said the arrest of Tanko-Yakassai followed what it called issues beyond the expression of opinion in the social media. The security agency’s Public Relations Officer (PRO), Dr. Peter Afunanya, announced this in a statement yesterday in Abuja. “This is to confirm that Salihu Tanko-Yakasai is with the DSS and he is being investigated over issues beyond the expression of opinions in the social media, as wrongly alleged by sections of the public,” the statement said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Governor Ganduje, on Saturday, sacked the media adviser over alleged unguarded comments and utterances. He said Tanko-Yakassai failed to differentiate between personal opinion and official stand on matters of public concern. The governor said the aide could not be allowed to continue to serve in a government he did not believe in.