The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, will tomorrow lead eggheads and other stakeholders in the country’s oil and gas industry to brainstorm on critical industry issues at the 2021 Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum (OLEF). The lecture series, which holds in Abuja, has as its theme: “Operational Excellence and Portfolio Optimisation: Way forward for the Oil and Gas Industry Post COVID-19”, will also have in attendance the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, who is expected to deliver the keynote address on industry operations. Oloibiri Lecture Series and Energy Forum, according to the Chairman of SPE, Nigeria Council, Mr. Olatunji Akinwunmi, is an annual lecture series focused on contributing to oil and gas policies development for Nigeria in commemoration of the first oil-well drilled in Nigeria by Shell Darcy at Oloibiri, in Ogbia, Bayelsa State, in 1956. The annual lecture series attracts participation from the government, regulatory agencies, and heads of industry practitioners at all levels, as well as other key stakeholders from around Africa. The inaugural edition of SPE Nigeria Council’s Annual Oloibiri Lecture Series & Energy Forum was held in June 1991. Speaking ahead of the event, Akinwunmi, said the event will hold both physically and virtually, with the greater percentage of the participants billed to join online in adherence to the COVID-19 guidelines. He added that the programme has been structured in two major sections comprising the Energy Forum and the Lecture Series, adding the council had invited 10 speakers to delivered highly illuminating papers on the various sub-topics. “OLEF 2021 is an open hybrid event that requires no paid registration. A few invited individuals and SPE committee members are expected to make up the in-person participants. All stakeholders in the energy industry; operators of JV, regulatory and government, production sharing contractors, independent operators, finance and insurance industry players, the academia and many more are free to attend online or in-person as their invitation indicates,” Akinwunmi said. The theme will be discussed along the following perspectives: Industry – Government – Academia partnership: articulating the individual roles each stakeholder is required to play as well as establishing a strategic collaboration and partnership that enables industry-wide operational excellence and portfolio optimisation.” Other areas to be discussed at the event included developing competencies in regulation; assuring safety and sustainability and reducing the overall costs of doing business through competence in regulation; adjusting operational models to reduce cost and capture value by reevaluating operational strategies such that short term cost improvements are balanced with long term change and value realisation, among others.