Pictures of a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode receiving COVID-19 vaccine have elicited a flurry of reactions. Fani-Kayode, alongside some other COVID-19 conspiracy theorists, including Dino Melaye, Yahaya Bello, Chris Oyakhilome have told Nigerians not to take the vaccine. Fani-Kayode had, in an article published on April 1, 2020 titled ‘COVID-19 and mark of the beast,’ alleged the virus was a demonic spirit cultivated and manufactured through the introduction and usage of 5G, saying it was “invoked from the pit of hell.” He had also on March 29 tweeted coronavirus outbreak was an agenda against former United States President, Donald Trump. Taking to his Twitter page, FFK shared pictures and videos as he received his COVID-19 vaccine. He also thanked Senator Grace Bent for convincing him to get vaccinated. He tweeted: “Despite my initially strong reservations I bowed to sound logic and superior reasoning and took my Covid 19 vaccine today. “This is thanks to my sister the distinguished Senator Grace Bent who convinced me to take it and who emphasised that we must set an example to others. “I also give thanks to my sister the Hon. Patricia Etteh, the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, who is the Chairman of the National Hospital and who not only let me eat all HER lunch in her office before the exercise took place but who also gave us a warm reception and guided us through the whole exercise. “Her whole team and staff at the hospital were simply wonderful and very efficient and supportive and consequently the whole exercise was very pleasant. “Finally let me add this: if my hero President Donald J. Trump can take the vaccine even after criticising and questioning it then so can I. “Blessings! Peace! Shalom!” Many Nigerians reacted to his post on social media. While many berated him for misleading the people with so many controversial claims, some others carpeted him for his hypocrisy. Ola Olaoosega said, “I knew all along you will take the vaccine or have you thrown away your international passport and visa?” @JeffPhillps said: “It this those surprised and making fuss over FFK and his Covid19 vaccine flipflop that are the real MVPs…are we not talking about Fani-Kayode?” Dipo Awojide said: “Some of the people who vigorously campaigned against vaccines for a whole year and told you not to take it have started taking it. “I know people are allowed to change their mind, but open your eyes; don’t let conspiracy theorists deceive you.” Onye Nkuzi said,: “What value does FFK add to anyone or anything? This is one thing that perplexes me about Nigeria.”