Three schools in Anambra state have benefitted from the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities of the Lt. Col. Theophilus Danjuma’s Victims Support Fund (VSF), under the COVID-19 Emergency Intervention Programme. The schools were Community Secondary School, Mbaukwu, Boys High school, Nteje and Community Secondary School, Igbakwu, Anyamelum drawn from the three Senatorial zones of Anambra Central, North and South. Among the facilities donated were a solar-powered borehole, 4 handwash stations, 2000 pieces of reusable facemasks, 5 pieces of 4 litre hand sanitizers, 120 bottles of 500ml liquid hand wash and 5 cartons of bleach. Speaking during the commissioning of the facilities, Chairperson, Victims Support Fund Taskforce on COVID-19, Mrs. Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, said the organisation decided to move from providing food and medicals to more enduring interventions that would outlive the pandemic. She said the organisation liazed with the state government to select the schools where the facilities were needed most. She said: “Victims Support Fund continues to work to provide relief to victims of insurgency and armed conflicts in Nigeria especially in the core areas of livelihood and recovery, education and protection, infrastructural developments, research and peace building. “The project is part of the 3rd phase to 54 schools in 18 states across the six geopolitical zones of Nigeria.
“In southeast, we’ve handed over facilities to Enugu, Abia and Anambra. We’ve also donated to South West and other geopolitical zones of the country. “We’re here for the commissioning of the project and we make bold to say that our intervention project is the first and most impactful because you cite our projects in core rural communities where people could hardly go to. Akerele-Ogunsiji called on the school management and students to ensure proper usage and maintenance of the facilities. “We’re not going to benefit from these facilities. So how much you demonstrate commitment to the maintenance of the facilities would determine what you’ll get in the future.” Responding on behalf of the benefiting schools, the Principal of Community Secondary School, Mbaukwu, Mrs Anizoba Catherine expressed appreciation to the benefactor, promising proper maintenance of the facilities.