The Petroleum Equalisation Fund (PEF) is contributing 11 structures for the upgrade of the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) Yola to a teaching hospital. The FMC Yola has been identified for an upgrade as the teaching hospital for the Moddibo Adama University of Technology (MAUTECH) Yola, which has gone far in processes for conversion to a conventional university complete with a medical degree programme. The board and management staff of PEF, in Yola at the weekend to inspect structures it is building at the FMC which are at various stages of completion, said it is determined to help the centre achieve its determination for an upgrade to a teaching hospital. Among the structures, the chairman and other members of the board of PEF inspected at the FMC complex, included a block of Intensive Care units, a Theatre and CSSD Complex, a Neonatal Unit, a block of Histophatology Laboratory Units, an e-Library, a CMD Block, and a Fistula Centre.  Others of the PEF projects at the FMC Yola which the PEF board and management officials inspected were a block of Doctor’s One-Bedroom Apartments, a block of Doctor’s Studio Apartments, an Overhead Tank water facility, and a huge solar energy complex for alternative power supply. The Executive Secretary of PEF, Ahmed Bobboi, explained to FMC management and newsmen who covered the event, “We are here to inspect projects sponsored by PEF. We’ve been getting progress reports but we want to see things directly and to arrange for possible improvements. “We are providing other kinds of projects elsewhere in the state but the major ones are here at the FMC Yola. Having seen the excellence you are noted for, we want to assist in your task to become a teaching hospital.” In his response to the remark of the PEF Executive Secretary, the FMC Yola Medical Director, Prof Auwal Abubakar, thanked PEF for undertaking to establish so many vital infrastructural facilities to help the Centre in its move towards being a teaching hospital. Chairman of the board of PEF, Musa Talle, who later spoke to newsmen after the board members inspected the projects, expressed satisfaction with the quality and pace of work. Engr Usman Arabi, Managing Director of ReliaBuild, the firm overseeing the PEF projects at the FMC Yola, said the projects, most of which are 80 to 90 percent completed, would be handed over in a couple of months’ time. Outside the FMC Yola, PEF also inspected projects which it is funding in the nearby Adamawa State School of Nursing and Midwifery, as well as rehabilitation projects in three primary schools and a health centre elsewhere in Yola.