 Security experts yesterday commended the order by President Muhammadu Buhari to service chiefs to take down terrorists, bandits and their sponsors. Buhari in a meeting with security chiefs before departing for the United Kingdom had ordered an all-out battle against terrorism, banditry and all forms of violent extremism that have threatened the stability of the country. The Nation reports that although it was not the first time the president would be given such an order, security experts who hailed the latest directive said they were positive the current service chiefs would act on it. According to them, this crop of service chiefs have shown within the short time they have held office that they were focused and ready to rescue the country from menaced that threatened her unity. Commenting on the directives, a former Director, State Security Service, Dennis Amachree said all Nigerians should support the service chiefs to achieve it. He said: “This is the third time, I believe, that the president has given the same kind of order to the service chiefs to deal with the bandits and their sponsors. I dont want to believe that the president is micro-managing the service chiefs, who have recently taken over their new jobs. “I have full confidence in the new team of service chiefs, that they will do their best to prove their mettle. This last order represent the license for them to go all out and deal with the problem. “Of major importance is identifying and exposing the faceless financiers of these terrorists. Nigerians should support the service chiefs to achieve this.”  Similarly, security guru, Dr. Ona Ekhomu the order was a welcome development. He said: “We know the security situation in the country is frustrating and disgraceful. I belief the pressure is finally getting to the President and he has realised that we cannot handle this issue with kid gloves anymore because it is the general insecurity in the land that is leading to calls for secession. “The President’s tough talk is a welcome development, though not new. He has given such directive in November 2018 during the Metele attack. He ordered security chiefs to wipe out the terrorists. We hope that this time around, the order will be bagged by action. “I am optimistic this time around because there are new service chiefs and these ones do not have excess baggage like the old chiefs and have shown from few actions they are willing to deal with the situation. “The president’s directive to take them out is figurative and could either mean to kill or evict them from the country. The truth is that most of these terrorists are jihadists from Libya who have occupied territories  on our soil and are committing all kinds of heinous crimes. “So, if they are caught in these acts and are not willing to give up, they should be shot. They should be taken out either by eviction or by death, afterall, they are also trampling on the rights of Nigerians through their actions. “I do not think the directive is overarching and I also do not think the International community will blame Nigeria for taking steps to end terrorism in its territory. In fact, this is an opportunity for Nigeria to get the whole world to join her in this fight. We must put forward the right message, play our best eleven to get the right sympathies. “To me, the president’s order is a right message directed to the right people. I have faith the current security chiefs are focused. We need that force and we also need to stabilise the polity.”