Rector Kano  State Polytechnic  Dr  Kabir Bello Dungurawa has said the institution is  collaborating with the Bayero University, Kano (BUK) to introduce six new Bachelor of Technology, (B. Tech) courses. Dungurawa, at the weekend on campus, said it had approached the university to seek affiliation to run the courses, namely Automobile Tech, Building Tech, Electrical and Electronics, Metalwork Tech, Woodwork Tech and Drafting Technology. The Rector also said the institution is awaiting accreditation of 49 of its courses by the National Board for Technical Education, NBTE. He said:  “Based on the handing over note or report I received, it is worth noting that, of the 64 courses that we run in the institution, 49 are due for accreditation this year, 2021. While we have another nine that requires resource verification. “After receiving the report, we took it up and visited National Board for Technical Education, NBTE to intimate them about the accreditation process of the courses and find out their level of readiness and cost implication for the courses to be accredited. “Once we have new courses, it will pave way for more citizens to get admission into Kano polytechnic,” he said. He  noted that he was committed to his administration’s seven-point agenda,which he said,were his guiding principles in  running the institution. “Upon assumption of office on November 2, 2020 as the Rector, I unveiled a seven-point agenda to guide the administration and smooth running of the institution and all efforts are geared towards actualising these agenda. “The seven-point agenda include, transparency and open-door policy, equal opportunity for staff development, enhancing the quality of the academic programmes by getting them prepared for accreditation, reaccreditation and introducing new programmes. “Similarly, ensuring a conducive atmosphere for teaching and learning with particular emphasis on modern technology, harmonious working relationship with all members of  staff and their unions, sustaining the existing collaboration and linkages with sister institutions and protection of students welfare with emphasis to speedy marking, compilation, processing and release of results. “To ensure a conducive atmosphere for learning especially in this era of technological advancement, talk about the issue of ICT. We have to ensure that we align our teaching and learning into this dimension. The era we are now in is like a global village whereby people from different part of the world can easily get connected. We have to enhance network connectivity across the unit schools. “For the student welfare, the era of delay in the result of the students is also a thing of the past under this administration,” he said. The rector, however, noted that shortage of academic staff, construction of enough students’ hostels, among others,were some of the challenges faced by the institution.  