The wife of the President, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, has challenged authorities at all levels to exert their influence in bringing the horror of women and school girls’ abduction to a stop. This was part of the First Lady’s International Women’s Day message to Nigerian women, in a statement she personally penned. She lamented the unsavoury experiences of women and young school girls who had been victims of abduction by terrorists and bandits in different parts of the country. Mrs. Buhari also observed that the abduction phenomenon would take a terrible toll on the successes so far made in promoting girl child education and the fight to curtail early marriage. “Today marks the 2021 edition of International Women’s Day. The day offers yet another opportunity for humanity to review and reflect progress made on issues of women and girls. “Women and girls in Nigeria have continued to suffer abductions both in the hands of insurgents and bandits. “As a mother, I share the sorrow and agony of the victims and their families. I am also not unaware of the impact that these abductions could have in reverting many successes we have hitherto achieved, especially in terms of girl-child education and early marriages. “I call on all stakeholders to continue to exert their different levels of influence and bring these abductions to an end and to assure us that girls are safe anywhere they may find themselves,” she said. Meanwhile, the First Lady also spoke up on the crippling effects of the COVID-19 Pandemic on the women in the country, advocating that more steps are taken to alleviate the impacts of the pandemic on women, especially those who had suffered loss of livelihood to the pandemic. “This year’s theme: Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a COVID-19 World is a strong call to appreciate the efforts of women and girls in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. “COVID-19 has had a huge impact on women; disrupted education and careers, lost jobs, the descent into poverty, and proliferation of domestic violence. “Many have also died or suffered due to lack of access to basic information on the pandemic, it is therefore important, not just to continue spreading the message of the COVID-19 protocol, but to remember and support those who have been affected negatively by the pandemic in one way or another. “My best wishes to women all over the world for their resilience, hard work, and commitment to the progress of humanity. Happy International Women’s Day,” she said.