It all started in Hausari area of Maiduguri where with increased pressure from security operatives and merciless attacks by Boko Haram, the youths mobilized themselves and decided to thenceforth apprehend any insurgent who crossed the area en route the Monday Market or Babban Layi for robberies or the usual bombing or shooting runs. Baba Lawan Jafar, who later became the pioneer chairman of Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) in Borno State, was the first youth to chase a gunman with a stick successfully capturing him and handing him over to soldiers. Afterwards, his friend, one Modu Milo, impressed by the heroic act of his friend, decided to join in the hunt. The new group was seen as heroes by some and pejoratively perceived as “alarm blowers” by others, thus many distanced themselves to avoid the wrath of Boko Haram. Weeks later, dozens of youths joined them and the population continued to swell. The youths, who later metamorphosed into Volunteer Youths Group (VYG) resolved to dare the lion in its den as insurgency was taking so many toll on the social, economic and political life of the people and things were going haywire and unbearable. According to the chairman of the Volunteer Youths Group, Abubakar Malum, despite apparent danger inherent in their action, there was no going back as the die was now cast for the reign of terror to go. “We were moved to take the decision because the youths in Maiduguri are facing extinction. Parents, sisters and brothers have died either in the hands of the insurgents or angry soldiers – enough is enough. It is now fight to finish and the offenders must be bought to book. The coming of the VYG was indeed a watershed. Its entry broke the myth that the Boko Haram insurgents were not assailable as the youths demystified the terrorists. They later changed the name of the Volunteer Youths Group to Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) and proved themselves capable of giving Boko Haram a good fight. Cashing on the public acceptance of the Vanguard Group and its impacts in the fight against the insurgency, the Kashim Shettima’s administration moved with the speed of a meteor to streamline the functions of the body while giving incentives to its members. The government initiated through the military, some basic training for the boys, designating the group Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) as Vigilante Group while assisting the security agencies. While in training members were each paid N10,000 and after the training, were given a monthly stipend of N20,000. The youth revolution against the onslaught of the insurgency in Maiduguri was a watershed. It is observed that since the revolt of the youths against the injustice of Boko Haram the members of the sect had since abandoned the towns and cities into the bush and had made the bush their habitat from where they come out launch attacks and escape back to the same. CJTF has come to stay as one of the effective ways to check crime and rebellion. It has become partner in the war against the insurgency. I am compelled to go all the length to show the immense contribution of Borno youths in the war against insurgency and relate the same to the contribution of the elite and politicians in the on-going terror war especially in this part of country. This has become imperative following the recent change of the service chiefs and the great expectation of magic to happen. Such magic might be an illusion if other stakeholders in the project of eliminating the insurgency and other security challenges refuse to be part of the project. In particular, as far as the insurgency is concerned, its epicentre is Borno State and the state has experienced deaths, sorrow and blood in unprecedented magnitude and the lion’s share still undergoing the torture and man-in-humanity to man. It’s the most traumatized and bearer of the burden, consequently Borno must be seen in the leadership position in the elimination of this scourge. The youths of Borno have played their part and are still doing so. Some have paid supremely in this wise. The inevitable questions that provoke, prick and prod the minds of many are how far have the elders, elite and politicians in this part of the country responded to the elimination war of terror more so with the belief erroneously or otherwise, that the concerned group has not lived up to expectation? Can the war against terrorism or insurgency succeed without the contribution or support of this group especially, when the allegation of sabotage, true or false, is hanging on their necks of its members? It would be recalled that the military had on some occasions indicted the civil populace especially, the elite and politicians in the part of the country of collaboration with the insurgents and terrorists to frustrate the war on insurgency. One-time Chief of Army Staff Lt. General Kenneth Minimah during his pulling out of the army parade in Abuja said it was regrettable that instead of cooperating with the military to fight the insurgency, some notable Nigerians were introducing politics and religion into the whole show. Besides, there have been statements by the Nigerian Army of deliberate moves by some individuals and political groups to ensure the failure of war on terror for selfish reasons. One of such press statements issued in September 2015, in Abuja by the Acting Director of Army Public Relation, Colonel Sani Kukasheka reads in parts: “The Nigerian Army wishes to inform the public and send a very strong and serious final warning to some prominent individuals and political groups who hailed from Borno State in particular and Northeast generally, that there is information of plans by some highly placed individuals and political groups to undermine and scuttle the fight against terrorism and insurgency in this country. “It has come to our knowledge that they were employing every means to see that our operation does not succeed in order for them to continue to enjoy certain benefits. It has been revealed that they are employing the services of marabous and other unethical means in order to frustrate our efforts and the operations in addition to campaign of calumny. “People should place the interest of the nation above any personal gain or ambition. The continued loss of lives and properties in this country through terrorists’ activities does no one any good”. Also, the erstwhile Army Chief of Staff, Lt General Tukur Buratai stated that terrorism banditry, insurgency, kidnapping and other security challenges bedeviling the nation would end when the citizens wanted them to end. Buratai who spoke in Abuja to State House reporters after briefing President Muhammadu Buhari on the security situation in the country pointed out that Nigerians could end the spate of insecurity in the country by exposing the criminals living among them. Buratai stated that Nigerians were not helping matters by only complaining about insecurity and laying the blame at the door steps of the security agencies. Similarly, while speaking at the Shehu of Borno palace in Maiduguri recently while on condolence visit to the state government and people of Borno following the mass killing of passengers and destruction of property at Auno village by the insurgents, President Buhari wondered how the terrorists could travel all the way from the Lake Chad region of the state to Maiduguri and environs to commit havoc without the possible knowledge of the people. Even Kashim Shettima as the Governor of Borno State indicted some Borno prominent citizens of paying lip service to ending the insurgency. While indicting some of deliberately inciting disaffection against his administration through intrigues, he never spared others who shut their eyes against the reconstruction, rehabilitation and resettlement programme of his administration. At a point he threatened he would exposure the saboteurs. The youths of Borno have contributed their quota to the elimination of the ongoing terror war. The elders, politicians and elite must not only support on make their own contribution one way or the other, but must be seen to do so.