The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has said there is no reason for consumers to engage in desperate buying of petroleum products. The Zonal Controller, DPR, Port Harcourt Zonal Office, Bassey Nkanga, said the zone had more than the required daily supply of Petroleum Motor Spirit (PMS) insisting that there was no need for members of the public to engage in panic buying of the product. He said: “As we speak, we are discharging 32 metric tones of PMS at Okrika Jetty. Tuesday we had about 147 trucks of petroleum products from this axis to various locations especially, in the South-South region. “Out of these, what came to Rivers State were 54 trucks, meeting our sufficiency level .The previous day, we also had sufficient products. So, there is no reason for panic. What we give out is also being monitored, we have three teams going out daily.” He said apart from the 32 metric tons of PMS being discharged, there were 180 million litres of fuel in Rivers depots adding that other states from the zone were also buying products from Rivers. He said: “I will advise residents not to panic. Today, so many filling stations are selling, those that are not selling maybe waiting at the depot to collect fuel and take to their stations. “I have about 180 million litres of PMS in various depots in Rivers. Other states in the region also take from here but we must ensure that priority is always given to the state. “Most of the problems we are having is speculatory rumours, but base on statistics, as at close of work yesterday, Tuesday, we had 180 million litres and 32 tons are currently being discharged.” Nkanga said the DPR was majorly concerned with the Quality, Quantity, Integrity and Safety (QQIS) of petroleum products sold to consumers by marketers. He said the zone was adequately prepared to stop the circulation of adulterated products noting that the zone had a sophisticated laboratory that constantly ran checks on quality of products. He said: “Our labs is very sophisticated to run quality checks on a given product. There are some stations we shut down and asked them to do one or two things but have opened them. “We don’t play with quality checks because we know that anything wrong that goes to anyone’s vehicle can lead to destruction, our core function is to check the quality of the petroleum products. “I have not heard of any price increase though in DPR ,we are not really involved in pricing of petroleum products, we are majorly concerned about the quality of products.” Nkanga said with the Downstream Remote Monitoring System (DRMS), a recently launched application, the DPR was better equipped to identify filling stations hoarding petroleum products. He said: “We have the capacity to check those hoarding products. Hoarding is something we can detect immediately because we have sophisticated equipment. I can use my phone and check. If the volume of the petrol you have yesterday is still the same today, we will ask questions. “The DRMS was launched not long ago, the response here in PortHarcourt is massive.
I don’t like my stations here sealed, if they are sealed, it means, we are not working, we have made the marketers appreciate that people will come back to buy from you if you dispense correctly and quality. We are really making things look different here. We are enjoying enormous cooperation in the down stream sector.”