Thirty-one years old Fatimoh Bolanle Muritala is critically ill and in need of urgent help. As a matter of fact, the food vendor from Ifelodun Local Government Area of Kwara State needs a whopping N10million to treat her chronic leg ulcer that has bedevilled her for upward of six years. Chronic leg ulcer is defined as a defect in the skin below the level of knee persisting for more than six weeks and showing no tendency to heal after three or more months. Chronic ulceration of the lower legs is a relatively common condition amongst adults, one that causes pain and social distress. The pain, according to Fatimoh, usually starts from morning and runs through the night; and could last for weeks or even months, depending on its response to the administered drugs. “There is no kind of pain reliever that I don’t have,” she said. She is therefore appealing to kind-hearted Nigerians to come to her rescue before the disease claims her life. Specifically, she is calling on the government of her native Kwara State, the leadership of her local government, as well as churches and philanthropic organisations to come to her aid. Recalling that she has gone through hell trying to save her daughter’s life, Mrs. Adamo Muritala, Fatimoh’s mother, told The Nation that her daughter had a motorcycle accident on her way home in 2015 and was rushed to Ota General Hospital. There, she was treated for some time until the doctors discontinued her treatment due to their inability to pay the bills. “A consultant at Ota General Hospital, Onipanu, Ota, Ogun State, who doesn’t want his name in print, confirmed the chronic leg ulcer and recommended a surgery as final solution. On inquiry, they told us we would need N10 million for a successfully surgery.” Mrs Muritala also said the weekly drugs have rendered her family bankrupt and is appealing to government, corporate bodies, non- government organisations, religious groups and individuals to assist her in raising the money for a successful surgery in Abeokuta General Hospital. As a successful businesswoman, the widow explained that she never depended on anybody to cater for her family since her husband’s death in 2013. But now, the ailment has reduced her to almost a pauper, living on people’s financial assistance. At this critical moment however, she is begging Nigerians to come to her aid, as the ailment has grown bigger than what she and her children alone could handle. “Everybody, except God, has abandoned me – even my brothers, sisters, friends, and in-laws. They said my daughter will die. I am only living by the grace of God. Please, come and save me,” she pleaded. A friend to the family, Mr Funmilayo Oluwaseun David, publisher of Bold Oracle Media Foundation, also lent his voice. He called on philanthropists and good spirited Nigerians to come to Fatimoh’s aid. Those willing to help her financially should send their donations to the Zenith Bank account of Fatimoh: 2392086617. Fatimoh  can be reached on 08039644799 and 09075327148. 