 From an unknown quantity , John Noble  has transformed to a household  name  following a rollercoaster six months of playing  in the Nigeria Professional Football League  and CAF Champions League  for  Enyimba  International FC of Aba. The  subsequent  first  national  team call up for the Rivers State-born goalkeeper has exceeded all expectations  and a reward for his scintillating performances in recent times. It all looked like yesterday when Enyimba announced the signing of Noble on a three-year deal from Cameroon outfit Panthère of Nde  last August. Prior to this, he had featured for, ASCK Kara where he was also part of the team in last season’s CAF champions League for the Togolese champions  before switching to Panthère. Besides, Noble has played for Toro Sports Academy, Kilsi United FC, Gurden City Panthers, Gokana United FC, Cynosure FC and Kotoko FC in the Togo Premier Division. At ASCK de Kara, he won the Togolese championship and the Cup in 2018, while Enyimba is his first real shot at a big club in the Nigerian Premier League. It was the CAF Confederation Cup tie between Enyimba and Rivers United that announced the emergence of Noble when the tie went into penalty-shootout and Noble saved two penalties before he scored in sudden death for the Aba club to edge past fellow Nigerian club 5-4 on penalties after aggregate score tied at 1-1 in the two-leg encounter. Also in the NPFL, his clean sheet on goal for Enyimba became the talk-of-the-town in NPFL and the Super Eagles technical crew did not hesitate to call him up for the AFCON ties. “My father was a footballer so I think it is from the blood because right from childhood according to my dad he says I loved going to the field back then,” Noble narrated his romance with football to NationSport. Having started his professional career in Togo, Noble said the difference between NPFL and other African leagues is organisation, adding Enyimba can compete with the best teams on the continent. He said:  “What I see differently between the leagues is all about the organization because NPFL is well organised compared to Togo and Cameroon. Although Nigeria league is not up to the European Standard, t it is well organized compared to others I had played.”  Getting an invitation to the national team after six months of playing in the NPFL, Noble described it as awesome:“ I feel very happy because I joined the league for just a period of six months and I got the invitation. It is a thing of joy but I know it is a result of hard work and I will keep working hard. “Goal keeping job is something I love and everybody has his own passion and for me I am going to go in there and put in my effort for the country because this is a rare opportunity for me to be part of this great team. “Being my first time and the experience in camp with the team has been wonderful. I’m so happy since I arrived at the camp on Monday while the fun between the players coupled with the cooperation has made the atmosphere very inspiring. The relationship between the foreign-based and local players have been very cordial as everybody in camp plays together as one family and that gives me a lot of joy. I’m so happy and I know it is going to be a difficult time but then I will put in all my whole effort and best by keep working hard and leave the rest for God,” Noble said. Noble cannot hide his admiration for former Super Eagles captain Vincent Enyeama whom he described as his role model. “My role model then was Vincent Enyeama when I was coming up with goalkeeping. I kept clips of him on my phone though I never had that physical contact with him but then I always said to myself and pray to God that what happened to Enyeama becoming the number one goalie for the national team should happen to me and here I am today in the team getting closer to that dream,” he said. He however expressed optimism that the Eagles is primed for victory against Benin Republic tomorrow, while urging NPFL players to work harder to be certain of making the national team. “We expect victory on Saturday (tomorrow) because the team spirit coupled with the atmosphere in camp has been impressive. Also I would like to advise my fellow players in the league that they should keep working hard and believe in themselves that someday this kind of opportunity will come their way,” he added.