Former  Nigeria junior international  Opeh Samuel is  profuse with appreciation to former Nigeria international Osaze Odemwingie  for taking  him to Uzbekistan First League side FC Oqtepa. Samuel  missed  the cut to the 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup  in Chile and was also part of the  Flying Eagles that missed the  U-20 Africa Cup of Nations in 2017  but the 22-year-old  Kaduna-born stocky defender won’t   rue over past disappointments. “ I’m always grateful  for my past experiences  in the national junior teams  because it  allowed me to learn  many things about the game, “  Samuel said from his base in Tashkent. “ The most important thing in life is to be grateful to God and  also take positives from all experiences and  this has always been my style; I’m grateful to God always.” Samuel is one lad you can’t  blame for lacking of trying  and he enthused that his  move to the Uzbekistani Pro-Liga  side  came  after his adventure  to  Turkey  suffered a huge set back. “ Of course, there is blessing in some disappointments, “ he explained.“  I was in Turkey with a fourth division club  until foreign players were banned from playing in the lower leagues in Turkey.  “ But luckily for me, I met  a brother of  former Super Eagles striker Osaze Odemwingie  who later introduced  me to him and that  was a turnaround for me. “Odemwingie has been a great blessing to my career and I will forever be grateful to him; even before he brought me from Turkey to Tashkent, he was the one taking care of my welfare. He has remained supportive since I  joined Oqtepa.” This is Samuel’s second season  with Oqtepa and it is the measure of his progress  that he was recently named the captain of the side. He said: “ FC Oqtepa might not be  a big club like all the ones we  dreamed  of playing in Europe but I’m enjoying myself here; it’s like a family  and I’m doing my best too. “  This is my first full season with the club because I joined in the middle of  the 2019/2020 season  and that was in September last year.  But  I was recently named the club’s captain  in January and I know this is the beginning of other great things  that will happen to my career  by the grace of God,” noted Samuel who was born on Christmas Day  in 1998.