Operatives of the Lagos Police Command have arrested a man, Adeyemi Abayomi for unleashing his dogs on a policewoman. Abayomi, the police said, ordered his two dogs to attack operatives who were on lawful duty at his 115, Itire Road, Surulere residence on Tuesday morning to invite him over an allegation of threat to life and illegal possession of property reported by one Nneka Regina. The dogs, police said, inflicted bodily injuries on Inspector Atim Umoh, who was beaten on the knees. According to a statement by the police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, both the suspects and his dogs have been arrested and would face necessary legal actions. He said the Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu frowned at the action of the suspects, restating his commitment to defend security operatives on lawful duty against attacks from groups and individuals. “The incident occurred on Tuesday, March 2, at about 11:30am. One madam Nneka Regina, of 103, Lagos Street, Ebutte Meta, went to Surulere Division to complain against the criminal attitude of the suspect for illegally occupying her property at 115, Itire Road, Surulere, and threats to life. “The police operatives attached to Surulere Division were sent to invite the suspect before he ordered his dogs to attack them. “The CP Hakeem Odumosu has ordered that the man be arrested to the State CID for investigation, and prosecution, while his dogs be picked up by the police Dog Section (K-9) for further action. “He further ordered the police medical team of the command to monitor the treatment and health condition of the woman inspector who is recuperating,” said Adejobi. Similarly, the police arrested two men, Louis Nwodi and Ismaila Salisu for alleged assault on officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). The suspects were said to have attacked a LASTMA woman, Ganiya Ajose and Adeyemi Lanre on Wednesday at Ogunlana Street, Surulere. According to the police, the suspects disobeyed hand signals from the officials and sped off but were forced to stop when their vehicle with registration number AAA450DD had a punctured tyre. “They were then accosted by the officials but the duo beat up the LASTMA officials. “The Commissioner of Police has directed that the duo be charged to court and they have been arraigned at Magistrate Court 2, Surulere, for conspiracy, assault on Public Servant and malicious damage today Thursday, March 4. “He warned the public to desist from attacking security and law enforcement agents while on duty as such is tantamount to a criminal offense and the command will not overlook such ignominious act,” Adejobi said.