SIR: Benue State with the population of about five million people and a land size of 34,059 km2, are mainly agrarian. The state is inhabited mainly by the Tiv, Idoma, Igede and Etulo peoples and rich in abundant human and mineral resources. The state has produced personalities of proven track records in various human endeavors. When the story of ethnic minorities agitations are being told in Nigeria, personalities like Senator J.S Tarka remains one of the most celebrated nationalists in Northcentral Nigeria. The leadership burden in Benue State has lingered and remains unresolved for 45 years. This is as a result of two major factors: the dominance of the political space by the majority Tiv because of their population and the perception of exclusive right to leadership by the majority. These factors have not only heightened political tensions in Benue State but also brought out the centrifugal interests at play in the State. The leadership agitations in Nigeria revolve around the emergence of every ethnic group into position of governance either at the national, state or even the local government levels. The situation that gives rise to these clamours is linked to the exclusive dominance of governance position by hegemonic tendencies of some interests. Benue State, like other states in Nigeria, is equally embroiled in this quagmire. As the 2023 general elections draws close, there is need for the Benue South agitators to draw out a master plan for the development of the state. Perhaps this will further encourage their Tiv brothers who have been in control at the helm of affairs in the state for over four decades of their preparedness to take over the mantle of leadership. They must avoid acrimony amongst themselves as ascendancy to power must not be a do or die affair. Such plans of action should include in a broader perspective, producing a leader that listens and cares about the people and committed to the development of the state; a leader that has a firm grasp of the internal politics of the state; a proactive leader that should be ready to think out of the box by harnessing the abundant resources of the state to create employment for the growing youths; a leader that must give agriculture its pride of place in the development of the state to truly reflect “the Food basket of Nigeria” tag given to it among the comity of other states in Nigeria. Lagos.