 It’s a game-changing innovation. The eTradeHubs portal, a digital trade solutions platform, among other deliverables, provides a 24/7 interface for women traders and entrepreneurs in Africa (along with their male peers) to connect and access timely and up to date information, skills and operational tools, offered by the various service providers within the supply chain. eTradeHubs portal, which was developed by two indigenous African technology providers – Global Trade Solution (GTS) and West Blue Consulting – was also designed to leverage the benefits arising from the operationalisation of the African Continental Free Trade (AfCFTA) Agreement. So, it was aimed at reducing the time and cost of doing business by supporting enterprises at all levels – from micro to multinational. Some of the features of the portal include a multi-country tariff and trade information tool as well as a Duty Calculator. This means that a first-time trader or existing trader wishing to import raw materials or export finished goods can search on the portal for the specific HS Code, related tariff lines, preferential rates of duties, and regulatory procedures and documents required for that specific item. The Duty Calculator further provides an estimate of the customs duty, tax and levies of the destination region or country, to aid in financial and logistics planning. Using the eTradeHubs portal, the trader is able to process trade documentation, manage compliance, workflow and costs – all on the same platform, without the need to visit multiple regulatory agencies, entities, websites and physical offices. The platform also enables enterprises to scale-up and digitise their operations by providing access to online training, webinars and workshops. The portal currently provides country data of Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Zambia and the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) sub region, with more countries and sub regions soon to be added, in line with the ‘Digitise five million African SMEs’ initiative. The ICC, West Blue Consulting, UPS and TRALAC, through a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), announced a partnership in February that will provide capacity building programmes and tools, including co-developed trade and information portal called eTradeHubs, to help women-led Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) expand their operations to new markets in Africa and around the world. Through the auspices of the Women Traders in AfCFTA working group, the partnership will collaborate with advocacy groups, trade associations, and other stakeholders on the continent to support women-owned businesses. Trading under the AfCFTA Agreement began on January 1, 2021, after months of delays caused by COVID-19. The AfCFTA aims to bring together 1.3 billion people in a $3.4 trillion economic bloc, making it the largest free trade area since the establishment of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). According to the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA), the AfCFTA could become the largest regional free trade zone in the world, with a combined business and consumer spending of $6.7 trillion by 2030. The commission also estimates that intra-African trade would increase by 15 to 25 per cent, or $50 billion to $70 billion, by 2040. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development has estimated an increase of up to 33 per cent. However, to deliver on its transformative potential, the AfCFTA needs to support the creation of decent jobs, reduce inequalities and promote sustainable, inclusive development. Advancing gender equality is key to achieving these objectives. Women play a significant role in trade in Africa and will be essential to the continent’s success in leveraging the full potential of the AfCFTA. Most entrepreneurs in Africa are women, but women continue to face challenges and obstacles that limit their competitiveness and make their businesses less productive than those owned by men. Women also comprise the majority of informal cross-border traders in Africa, though these female traders are disproportionately affected by non-tariff barriers (NTBs), including corruption, harassment, misinformation about customs procedures and regulations and confiscation of goods. At the virtual launch of the partnership, ICC Secretary-General John W.H. Denton AO, said: “The economic, social, and health consequences associated with the COVID-19 pandemic have unequally impacted the lives and livelihoods of women business owners everywhere. “We are extremely proud to partner with UPS, TRALAC, and West Blue Consulting to level the playing field in Africa and provide women entrepreneurs with the required resources to digitise their businesses. Women-led businesses are the backbone of their local economies – we can’t afford to leave them behind.” For West Blue Consulting CEO and founder Valentina Mintah, “the adoption of smart solutions by women in business and trade will ensure increased flexibility for women to work from home whilst raising children, improved access to global markets, networking opportunities and a significant shift of women from the informal to the formal sector.” Mintah expressed optimism that the eTradeHubs portal, by lowering the entry barriers to cross border trade, will allow entrepreneurs grow their business rapidly. She said the informal sector will not be left out as info-graphics and videos in local African languages will be introduced to deepen inclusion and diversity. President of UPS International Public Affairs & Sustainability, Penny Naas, said: “Research shows that only one out of five businesses that exports is led by a woman. At UPS, we’re moving forward by helping women-run businesses, maximise their participation in trade through public-private partnerships that provide policy recommendations and support with knowledge sharing and building skills. “Our partnership with the ICC, TRALAC, and West Blue Consulting will offer exporting workshops for women entrepreneurs and to advocate for enabling environments that pave the way for African women’s success.” T he Executive Director, TRALAC, Trudi Hartzenberg, said the adoption of digital trade solutions for the AfCFTA would address border management challenges that disproportionately impact women traders. She said TRALAC was pleased to collaborate with ICC, UPS and West Blue Consulting to support digitisation of women’s businesses, to enhance their competitiveness in the AfCFTA and global markets. The partnership forged by ICC, West Blue, UPS and TRALAC will be supported by the ICC’s Centre of Entrepreneurship, an initiative to prepare and mobilise the next generation of entrepreneurs around the world. With regional hubs in Istanbul and Beirut, ICC will announce future hubs in Africa and South America this year. The hubs in Africa, according to ICC’s Global Communication Officer, Timothy Conley, will be used to implement the partnership’s programmes and reach out to SMEs across the continent.   