 No recorded incident in Nigeria’s infrastructural challenges has had more physical, psychological and even socio-economic impacts, on both the people and the economy, like the infamous Apapa gridlock, that has spanned years.  For Lagos, one of the world’s most populated and metropolitan cities, the effects will take time to fix. For a state that houses the nation’s largest and busiest ports, Lagos has felt the impact of a gridlock of trailers and trucks, waiting to enter the Apapa and Tin Can port complexes, leading to complete paralysis on the road, and cresting in irreparable losses in manpower and time. So the news that the Lagos State government and the Port management have jointly come up with a seemingly permanent solution — the electronic-Call-Up system for tankers and containerized vehicles, that hitherto clogged the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway — comes as an elixir, if allowed to work. It would actually be somewhat of a return to paradise. The unimaginable toll has been huge; and our hope is that those charged with manning the system, and the security and ancillary agencies that would make things work, would play by the rules; and maintain the highest degree of discipline and due process. As the saying goes, if it is a human problem, then humans are in the best position to solve it. If some of the busiest ports globally can conduct seamless operations, it cannot be an impossibility in Nigeria. While we commend this new initiative, which plays by modern digital processes, we as a country must have a deep introspection to unravel why ordinary tasks take extraordinary routes, in what many have unabashedly christened ‘the Nigerian way’. There are globally accepted standards of operations in all sectors that always tend to go south in Nigeria; and the impact is always an ill-wind that blows no one any good. The huge cost of impunity cascades and touches our lives in very profound ways, if we dare to think about globalization. One of the root causes of the gridlocks is dysfunctional refineries, which have made local refining a pipe-dream so far.  That has forced importers of petroleum products to rely on tank farms, clustered all over the place. Again, a cluster choking a seaport, without well-planned entry-and-exit points, for a hugely import-dependent economy, can only breed chaos. The impact of huge trailers and tankers on roads not constantly maintained, meant for regular vehicles, has made the roads disaster points. The fact that over the years the country had ignored the rail networks, that ought to provide an effective alternative to roads in and out of the port, is clearly a huge oversight.  Luckily, that error is being corrected, with the linkage of the new, modern medium-gauge rail, deep into the Apapa Ports. But beyond rail penetration, a good many of the port business folks obey the law, and the ports rules and regulations, only in the breach.  Such penchant to flout rules with impunity has festered over the years, and the result is mass anguish for all. It is time, therefore, to tackle these operational outlaws, for the relief of the lawful and orderly majority. We suggest that beyond the new e-call system, the government should consider setting strict guidelines, for employing drivers of heavy duty vehicles.  Illiterate, ill-mannered, untrained drivers and ancillary staff must give way to better trained and educated staff, that can flow with the new port traffic management technology. It is disappointing that few days after the launch of the e-call-up system, Governor Babjide Sanwo-Olu is not satisfied with the level of compliance.  He has therefore threatened to publicly mention the names of prominent Nigerians behind the perennial gridlock in Apapa and environs. While we encourage the governor to make good his threat — to name-and-shame, as it were — the governor should not hesitate to apply the full weight of the law, against any breach.   Maintaining law and order in Lagos should not be subject to negotiations.  Whoever commits breaches must face the music. Any other way is an invitation to anarchy, which Lagos, as Nigeria’s booming economic and commercial capital, can ill-afford. The e-call initiative should be sustained to banish Apapa’s gridlock once and for all.