Still looking trim and fit  even in retirement,  Samuel Eto’o, has recalled  with glee  his first Africa Cup of Nations glory in 2000  when the indomitable Lions of Cameroon trumped  the Super Eagles in a nail-biting finale  at the National Stadium in Surulere,  in Lagos The joint- four time record  winner (along with Ivorian  Yaya Toure)  of the prestigious African footballer of the Year prize in his playing days, scored  the opening goal of  the exciting final match  while  his compatriots Patrick Mboma added  the second in a first half blitz. But Nigeria soon clawed back with Raphael Chukwu ‘s goal  in the dying moments of the   first half while Austin Jay Jay Okocha’s struck a superb  free kick  in the second half  to tie the game 2-2 even at extra time. The  Indomitable  Lions   eventually took home the prize  in a 5-3 win in  the ensuing penalty shoot-out. “ I will say the 2000 Africa Cup of nations  win  in Nigeria  is one of my best experiences as a player, “ the 40-year-old  Eto’o  said as much during a virtual media roundtable organised by the Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy for the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022.“ We won the AFCON  and that was my first time  and it’s one of my best experiences as  player.” Now an Ambassador for the Qatar 2022  FIFA World Cup, the former Barcelona striker said  he wished he is ten years younger  and  would have been a magical  moment for him to feature at the forthcoming  22nd Mundial  and the first to be hosted next  year  in the Middle  East. Qatar 2022 would be held   in eight venues across in  five host cities  and Eto’o reckoned that the infrastructures  already on ground for the quadrennial event  would be second to none. “ I have been privileged to visit all the stadiums that are going to be used  for the Qatar 2022  and  I can say for sure that all the  facilities will be ready at the end of this year,” assured Eto’o. “ Frankly, I wished I’m ten years younger  to have been able to play  at the next World Cup because all the Qatari stadiums are some special; spectacle that  the World will be marvelled to see come 2022.” But speaking about the on-going   qualifiers for the delayed  2021  AFCON to be hosted by Cameroon in 2022, Eto’o is miffed with the manner some of the European clubs especially  in France  nearly messed up  the preparations  of many African sides  in this current international window. “ What the French Federation did  by issuing a travel ban to African players in Ligue 1 and 2  was  quite bad  but I must salute the steadfastness and great spirit  of the  African teams for pressing for the release of the their players,”  noted Eto’o who  won  the AFCON twice in 2000 and 2002 from six appearances  with the Indomitable Lions.“ I hope FIFA  can intervene in such things in the future because we need the best players  to represent our teams.” As per the chances of an African teams reaching  the podium at Qatar 2022, Eto’o quipped:“  That African players are good  and can compete with the rest of the world  has never being in doubt  but I think we have to collectively believe that we can conquer  the world. “ If you look at some of the best clubs in the world today, you see a lot of African players  being among their most important players and I think Nigeria and Cameroon  have shown what Africa is capable of doing by winning the soccer Gold medals at the Olympics respectively in 1996 and 2000 ;   we have to believe an African team can do it  at Qatar 2022.”