The Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association of Nigeria (FEPPPAN) has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to fast-track the implementation of pension increase and arrears under the new Minimum Wage. They said the president’s intervention would prevent them from embarking on protests to press their demand. The pensioners in a letter tagged: “Undue Delay in Implementing Minimum Wage/Salary as It Relates to Pension Increase of Pensioners Under the Defined Benefit Scheme” called on the president to save their soul. FEPPPAN President-General, Chief Temple Ubani said: “We pensioners under the DBS and members of FEPPPAN acknowledge, with thanks, your administration’s care and love for pensioners nationwide through regular payment of our monthly pensions since 2015 when you took over the reins of power. This development is a departure from the inglorious order preceding your Presidency when pensioners were paid between 5th and 8th of the following month. “However, we have looked forward to the implementation of the Minimum Wage/Salary as it relates to pension increase of pensioners under the Defined Benefit Scheme, with bated breadth, to no avail. Needless to remind you that you graciously signed the Minimum Wage/Salary into law on  April 16, 2019 and this was implemented at the federal level in December 2019. “A majority of pensioners of federal parastatals have persistently clamoured for a showdown through public protests/demonstrations but the leadership of our Association has so far been able to stem the tide of a nationwide protest lest, detractors whose stock in trade is always to run down your government, will latch on this to unjustifiably criticise your government notwithstanding the fact that pensioners nationwide never had it so good before the advent of your administration.” Ubani stated that they learnt that the National Salaries, Incomes & Wages Commission (NSIWC) had  submitted its Report/Recommendations to the Presidency for approval and implementation of the recommendations on the Minimum Wage/Salary as it relates to federal pensioners. He pleaded with the president to intervene and cause the appropriate organ or agency to do the needful on the matter, noting that they have unflinching faith in his continued love and compassion for the welfare of pensioners nationwide.