President Muhammadu Buhari has restated his commitment to diversifying the economy away from oil & gas to mining and agriculture, among others. He stated this at the 56th Annual International Conference and Exhibition of the Nigerian Mining and Geosciences Society (NMGS), which held at the University of Ibadan in the Oyo State capital. He said those sectors would become huge revenue spinners, create good jobs and wealth, he added. Noting the theme of the conference Responsible exploration and exploitation of mineral resources in a secured environment, Buhari described it as very apt and timely and in line with my administration’s vision and policy focus for the development and growth of the minerals sector. He said the centrality of the development of the mineral and energy sectors in rejigging of the economy had necessitated the roll-out of policy initiatives aimed at not only revamping the economy, but also ensuring that the growth arising therefrom were inclusive and sustainable. “This means that we are not only interested in the macro-economic growth alone, but also in getting the growth to be felt by the most vulnerable groups of our citizens, who are usually left behind by the conventional economic models,’’ he added. The President noted the role of professional bodies as partners in nation building, and that that informed his closeness to NMGS. He said the development of the roadmap for the mineral sector would not have been possible without thgetting critical details of the roadmap developed and sustained its implementation. “The roadmap provided a clear pathway for the development of a robust, resilient and sustainable mineral sector of the economy that contributes meaningfully to the nation’s GDP and most importantly provides jobs for the teeming army of the unemployed in the country,’’ he added. It said it was the commitment to minerals exploitation that made him to tackle the insecurity in the sector, by specifically banning minerals activities in Zamfara State and charging the Service Chiefs to end banditry. He promised to implement the communiqué of the conference. NMGS President Simon Obadiah Nkom praised the government for its commitment to the mineral and agricultural sectors, which he described as huge job creators. He said the development of the mineral sector was on track and that the implementation of the Road Map for the industry was commendable as its fruits were manifesting. He pledged the continued partnership of its members with the government to deepen the sector, saying some them were involved in major national projects such as the National Integration Mining Project (NIMEP) being supervised by the Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA), the Presidential Artisanal Gold Mining Development Initiative (PAGMI), the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI) and the Bitumen Utilisation Project. The NMGS president, however, decried the attacks on some of their members and colleagues who were at work by insurgents in the Northeast, urging the government to protect and save them.    