An English friend  of mine phoned me a couple of weeks ago asking if it was true the governor of Bauchi State, Bala Muhammad said herders should carry AK-47 guns to defend themselves. I said I am not sure if he said so and that I would find out more about it and call him back. Of course I knew he said so; I was just trying to protect my country’s honour and integrity abroad. But the guy phoned back the following day and I had to own up to the fact that one of our governors actually said so. My friend said he was sorry to see that our situation was getting very serious and asked me if I knew that this type of weapon was for combat operations. Of course I knew being an expert in warfare myself. I asked myself why the governor took that position. He himself said Fulani herders were being killed and their cattle rustled. I don’t know how true this allegation is and if it is true it is a serious allegation and it should be investigated by the police. There is a general information that cattle are being rustled in the north by thieves and brigands and Fulani owners of cattle are losing their means of livelihood and many of the herders are consequently taking to armed robbery and kidnapping to make a living. Commentators have also said kidnapping for ransom which yields tens and even hundreds of millions are now more profitable than cow herding. We must first say the herders are not the owners of the cows. They are mostly cow hands hired by the big cow owners so this loss of cattle cannot justify robbery and kidnapping by cow hands unless we are to believe the rich cow owners are also involved in kidnapping and collection of ransoms to make up for stolen cows. So how does carrying Kalashnikov battle guns solve the problems? Secondly which security authority licensed the carrying of these lethal weapons which the governor was defending or the herders are law unto themselves and just carried these weapons without license? Some of us licensed to carry hunting rifles have even been asked to give them up because of the general proliferation of small arms which is a serious problem globally. The Nigerian public needs to know if the gun laws have changed and all those who can afford to buy any kind of weapons can now purchase them. This is a policy which we call “grave yard policy” when discussing the unbridled spread of nuclear weapons instead of disarmament. The same logic also applies to a situation where everyone can own battle-grade guns.  Even in America, the gun crazed country, people cannot carry these types of guns our governor is recommending! Imagine if the much abused farmers whose crops are wantonly damaged and eaten by cows took a queue from the governor and embrace this new gun culture. The Bauchi governor has been making all kinds of unguarded statements these days such as saying Fulani people have universal nationality and are not bound by borders and that Fulani in any country will find home in Nigeria and that he has relations himself in the Cameroons. Perhaps this governor should be told that division of nations and ethnic groups by national borders is not unique to Fulani alone, so are the Hausa, Yoruba, the  Mandinka  are actually divided among  Guinea -Bissau, Guinea, The Gambia, Mali, Senegal and Liberia. Other divided nations are Arabs, French, Germans, Punjabi, Bengali, Koreans, Dutch and even Chinese. If all these people refuse to obey international frontiers, international order will collapse and world order would have to be reconfigured. So why did the governor take this extremist view of wanting our people to see him as Fulani champion? If other ethnic groups adopt his bellicose position, this will harm Fulani rather than help them. Suppose people take seriously the advice of the minister of defence that we should all fight back the kidnappers and brigands tormenting us instead of crying and pleading with security forces to save us. This call on us to defend ourselves will lead to acquisition of the same AK-47 guns by everyone and since the villagers are more than their invaders, what chance would the Fulani herders have against armed peasantry all over the country. It is obvious to reasonable people that the solution to our security problem is not general arming of our people or a section of it.  What we need is general disarmament and increase in security forces in numbers and improved mobility and disposition. This will include establishment of local and state police as we used to have in colonial times and ensuring that offenders are swiftly punished. One of the causes of insecurity is the fact that swift punishment that should serve as deterrence has not been seriously employed in the past. The order given recently by the president to forcefully disarm or to shoot at sight any gun carrying criminals who resist security forces order is a policy in the right direction. One hopes it is not coming too late like shutting the door of the stable while the horse has bolted away! I asked myself why the governor of Bauchi took the extreme position as if he was not part of the executive that should be helping Nigeria to find a solution to its security problem not by suggesting a shoot-out solution to an extremely complex problem which if not handled properly could unravel the delicate cement that glues us together. I read a brilliant analysis of the governor’s motive by one of the editors of the Vanguard newspapers who said the governor is trying to position himself as Fulani defender because of the serious cases of graft and corruption the EFCC has against him. He built houses worth billions of Naira for himself and another for his young son in the exclusive Maitama areas of Abuja which he allocated to himself and family when he was Minister of the Federal Capital Territory. He also acquired hectares of land near the airport worth billions of Naira and to insure himself against presidential question, he allocated same to President Jonathan supposedly for agriculture. When Buhari came in 2015, Bala Muhammad was temporarily locked up for his malfeasance but later released. Needless to remind my readers he got his ministerial appointment from Jonathan for supporting the removal from power of poor sick Umar Yar’Adua. In any serious country, he should not have been allowed to contest election for the post of governor which he had resources to buy and which he promptly bought in the Nigerian fashion despite the fact that Bauchi State is an APC state as reflected by the party’s overwhelming majority in the House of Assembly. We must be very careful about who we elect into political positions in this country. Arming a group of supporters as was done in Borno during the governorship of Ali Modu Sheriff which eventually led to Boko Haram is not the best way to go. Arming Fulani herders may lead to another incendiary movement which we may not be able to control because action and reaction are equal and oppositely directed. Opponents of the Fulani herders will also arm themselves in a war of all against all, some kind of Hobbesian state of nature in which life is short  nasty and brutish . We must refuse to be led by time servers and people feathering their own nests while they claim to be fighting for their ethnic groups and if everybody does this in an insane manner, we will have no country to rule and we will all suffer when anarchy breaks out. The governor of Kano State, Abdullahi Ganduje has suggested to all those asking herders to be armed and to follow cows from Bauchi to Lagos to donate their children who are comfortably living in London or New York to come home and join the trek across Nigeria they are so much in love with. I need to remind the Bauchi governor that the cow herders do not represent the essence of being Fulani, an essence demonstrated by Shaikh Uthman bin Fodio which is piety, holiness, forbearance, order and peace and in my life I know millions of this kind of Fulani, not the killer monsters being encouraged by Bala Muhammad. This country has been too good to many people in my generation that I sometimes feel guilty for how low we have descended. Somebody asked me about the national slight of President Joe Biden not calling our president while he has called the presidents of Ghana and Kenya; I told the fellow to go and ask governor of Bauchi Bala Muhammed. With this kind of situation, who wants to die for Nigeria. In my youth and adult life while I had opportunity to serve Nigeria I would have gladly died for this country. 