  COVID-19 deaths approaching 2,660,000, 119,625,000 diagnosed cases. Nigerian cases approaching 162,000 with 2,020 deaths. Sadly, Nigeria is not considered one of five African countries capable of Covid vaccine manufacture. Why no air and ground saturation surveillance and monitoring of cell phones 50km around the 37 kidnapped, brutalised students of a federal government forestry institution? Bandits must not be repelled but encircled and neutralised. Fifteen soldiers killed by ISISWA. God rest our gallant men.  Murderers do not deserve two weeks ultimatum but ‘Immediate Effect’. This is WAR! Where are our commando units using local intelligence and infiltrating our forests locating hideouts? Where are our snipers and drones? Foreign affairs minister, what is the position of our National Space Research and Development Agency, NSRDA’s satellites including NigComSat -1R,  and Nigeria’s international relationships and cooperation agreements signed to get real time heat signal information on movement and motorcycle heat trails, from partner governments and companies in AU, SA, UK, EU, US, China, Russia and India, Google, Airbus etc which own or sell data or have thousands of overlapping satellites over Nigeria? Google the history of Nigeria’s three surviving satellites and the cost including partnerships from Akure to China! Every second someone somewhere worldwide has satellite photographic access to all Nigerian space. Government must use or purchase such international goodwill to locate and eliminate bandits every second, every day. These are 2021 murderers among us with bazookas, cell phones and motorcycles. Every armed force today has drone units embedded in every troop using thousands of drones etc with heat-seeking and human form confirming capabilities. In terms of quick build-up of military capacity, we can use international forces as partners, not mercenaries before it is too late.  There are millions of Nigerians who are children of those driven away under Babangida economic disaster regime and Abacha terror regimes. Perhaps that is where our ‘Modern Nigerian Security Solutions’ miracle lies? Those forced to leave may help us with their knowledge? Many contribute send $20billion+ annually. Already well trained in high technology end of security application, those Nigerians in foreign lands who are serving or have retired, in armed forces and security and telecom hostage tracing, rescue, stun techniques, and Wizz kids, etc in the diaspora with experience of 2021 warfare and security monitoring and spying can be lent or lend themselves to Nigeria, not as mercenaries but as patriotic Nigerians with Nigerian ancestry offering service to their grand-mother country. Their relations are being kidnapped and killed. Nigerian refugees in tens of millions will not be welcome in any country worldwide! Our armed forces are very, very capable and need high tech empowerment. Everybody should welcome immediate specialist help. Learning from them and training others can be at the same time. The repeated kidnapping and public whipping of the children of innocent girls and boys merely seeking an education is an insult to the entire nation. The authority’s security over the nation’s roads is lost.  Negligence or inadequacy of numbers has placed travellers at the mercy of the murderous bandits who have just this past week attempted and successfully kidnapped on many roads nationwide and attacked at least three schools. It is a pity that in the five years of this regime, it did not take recruitment into the armed forces and police as a serious security strategy. It can no longer blame past regimes for manpower and equipment shortages. The problem is beyond politics and choosing the name which best to call murderers- kidnappers, bandits, terrorists, armed herders. It is difficult asking soldiers and police to lay down their lives for a country which repeatedly demonstrates it loves nobody but politicians in power.  Nigeria is at a serious security crossroads. Apart from the military and police, only the terrorists are armed.  The authorities are very quick to publicly disarm and sometimes disgrace villagers trying to defend themselves. This sometimes suggests collusion with attackers. Currently if you put a flag of remembrance for everyone kidnapped, killed, deprived of their farms and livelihoods the map of Nigeria would be flooded. The bestiality of attacks confirms the need to quickly curtail the murderous nature of the perpetrators. ‘Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Lives DON’T Matter’.  Government makes an insulting pronouncement and moves on. ‘Lagos-Ibadan ‘Expressway’’ postponed to 2022!’. Really?? So what??? It is massive neglect of government responsibility to act in a timely manner to save us from these robber-herder-pothole-kidnapper-on every-road days. The road is only 120km, 240km adding both sides together. Why did government place an expensive massive concrete median and postponed the simple tarring to 2022 from 2015?? For suffering travellers, our travel problem is magnified for another unquantifiable year. Our suffering, our mumu neva dooo????!! Other governments are working on Mars and 90-storey skyscrapers in less time frame.  We are earning more oil dollars now and must complete of contracts before new ones! Suffer on, Nigerians!! Who cares?? Ask yourself why ‘Lagos-Ibadan Expressway Lives DON’T Matter’ and have not mattered for 15 years? And now they want to use the UK recovered money from former Delta State Governor, Ibori. Was it given him personally by the federal government or taken undetected from the state? Massive stolen money for 50 years is why the naira is rubbish and our youth are ore jobless today, but if UK did ‘give’ us Ibori’s money, no road, no bridge by 2023??