There is a growing need to assist those displaced by the crises in the Northeast, Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Minister Sadiya Farouq, said yesterday. She identified the 2021 Humanitarian Response Plan as such intervention by the Federal Government. The minister spoke at a virtual appeal launch of $1 billion targeted at 6.5 million most vulnerable people in Borno, Adamawa and Yobe states. Hajiya Farouq said the need to seek more support for the affected persons, especially women and children, has become imperative, following the conflict in the Northeast. In a statement, Special Adviser on Media to the minister quoted her as saying: “The Federal Government of Nigeria remains committed to addressing the plight of the affected people and in leading the response to ensure the safety, security and provision of lifesaving assistance to those in need, in collaboration with international humanitarian community. “We are facing additional challenges in terms of security and access for humanitarian partners,  which is why we have developed the National Humanitarian Development Peace Framework (NHDPF). “I am encouraged that the NHDPF emphasizes promoting longer-term durable solutions. We must always look forward, beyond the immediate crisis, to ensure that we help people, re-establish their lives and strengthen communities, so that we can reduce dependence on aid and promote resilience and self-reliance.” The United Nations (UN) Resident and Humanitarian Coordinator, Edward Kallon, noted that the only solution to the crises in the area was to prevent humanitarian crises by embracing peace. Confirming that 8.7 million people need humanitarian aid, Kallon said: “We will continue to search for a durable solution to the crises through advocacy, dialogue and peace building. This is the time for stakeholders to use this opportunity to solve the problems in the crises areas. “In 2020, over three million people were provided with basic humanitarian needs. Today, 8.7 million people are in need of humanitarian aid. “The year 2021 marks the 12th year into the conflict and our 6th year of collective response to dire humanitarian needs of an immense extent. Millions of people are affected by insecurity and violence”. The UN and its partner Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs) are appealing for $1 billion to provide critical humanitarian assistance to 6.4 million people in the norther states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe.