 The Chief Executive Officer of SAF Petroleum, Aaare  Safiriyu   Kazeem  has urged the Federal Government to deploy resources towards building new refineries in the country. Kazeem spoke against recent hike in pump price of fuel by some marketers. He contended that Nigerians will continue to pay more for fuel consumed locally because of the growing additional cost of importation of the product. Addressing journalists in Ijebu Ode, Aare Safiriyu said building of new refineries would not only help to create thousands of jobs but also stabilise pump price. He said building more refineries at home  would bring down the pump price of petrol when produced locally. The oil and gas marketer said that rather than continue wasting fund on repairing the country’s old refineries which has yielded little or no result, the federal government should concentrate efforts on constructing new refineries.  He said this would not only help in providing employment but also guarantee steady supply of petroleum products across the country and eased the suffering of  Nigerians. He said: “the time is now for the federal government to build new refineries so that we can stop importation of what ordinarily we have in abundance here. “It is against all logic that we are still importing fuel. Does that mean we don’t have the wherewithal to build at least two new refineries under two years? “With, new refineries, we will be solving the major problem of frequent increment in pump price, ensure steady supply of fuel as well as provision of jobs for our teeming youths. “The issue of controversial oil subsidy which usually pitch the government against the oil marketers  will also become history. “The implication of this is that the country will have more fund to attend to its developmental needs among others”, he argued. Kazeem explained that one other major constraint confronting the business of oil and gas in the country is the problem of infrastructural deficit and largely, the challenges of bad roads. He said more often than not, bad roads are responsible for petrol tankers’ accidents even as he appealed to both federal and state governments to help in addressing this problem