Ondo State Government has said it would not give land to herders. It however said it would key into the National Livestock Transformation Plan of the Federal Government to ensure that incessant clashes between farmers and herders are permanently eradicated. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who spoke while playing host to a delegation of Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), said the National Livestock agenda does not include conceding land to herders. He noted the programme has a lot of public misconceptions even as he urged FAO to make inputs into the programme Akeredolu charged FAO to bring its expertise and technical know-how to bear on livestock farming by introducing modern techniques of herding cattle so that the livestock value chains would be greatly enhanced. According to him: “The National Livestock Transformation Programme (NLTP), a number of our people don’t even know what it is all about. “And people see it as an attempt to give land to herders. Long before now, I have said we are ready in terms of having areas where the animals can graze. “In the South West, we are going through a lot, especially in terms of insecurity. We do not expect FAO to handle insecurity for us but if there is a Programme or anything you can do to help us in solving these farmers-herders conflicts. “It is becoming too destructive especially when it comes to your major area which is agricultural. In Ondo State, we are into animal husbandry and fish farming because we have the longest coastline in the country. “And we do a lot of fishing. We are also into cash crops which we have been known for long before now. Our farmers are now afraid to go to farm because they can be kidnapped. “We will ensure that there is grass and other ways of feeding these livestock. What we need to do is to encourage haulage, not by bringing the cows by road. “You will bring your cows and other livestock to the livestock grazing area and you pay to feed them. FAO can offer advice. Our people give different interpretations to whatever we say or do.”