Can you share with us your background? I was born, raised in Lagos and had all my education in Lagos. I attended the Federal School of Art and Science, Victoria Island, Lagos for West African School Certificate (WASC) Advanced level. I proceeded to the University of Lagos (UNILAG) where I studied Pharmacy and graduated in 1984. I served in 1984/1985. I started working at the Lagos State Hospital, Ijaiye, Abeokuta as a pharmacist before quitting in 1986. Why did you quit? I did because I had a strong burden in my heart that I could not ignore the burden that God wanted me to go into full time ministry. The fellowship started while I was still working in the state hospital. I worked for about four years as a grade one pharmacist. When the call came, I knew it was God because I did not feel that I belong to that place anymore. I lost interest in the job. When I put in my resignation letter, the then Permanent Secretary of the State Health Care Board called me and asked why I was leaving the lucrative job. ‘Is it because of the salary?’ I said, ‘If am going to tell this man that I am going into full time ministry as a pastor, he would say I have lost my mind.’ I told him that my elder wants me to come and work with him. So, he asked if it is a family matter. I said yes (Sigh)! After all, the Bible said Jesus is our brother and he wants me to come and work with him. He then left me alone to my decision. When I was in Lagos, I attended Christ Chapel Church. I knew am not going to work in Lagos. Though I was born in Lagos, the first time I stepped out of Lagos was when I went to do my internship at the State Hospital in Abeokuta, Shokemi, ljaiye. Immediately, I got to the hospital, I knew that this was the place that God wanted me to work. I joined a fellowship while I was doing my internship and I became its President. I later left for Osun State for my National Youth Service. When I got to the hospital in Osun, I led a fellowship and it was growing, but then, I had to leave because God wanted me back in Abeokuta. When I returned, I couldn’t go back to the hospital as the calling was strong on my mind to start the ministry. We started a fellowship and five years later, it metamorphosed into Jubilee Christian Church International. Did you have any struggle when you had the call of God? In those days, like Jesus said that my meat is to do the work of him that sent me and to finish his work. The hunger that we had then was to serve God not tithe and offering. To get a job then was not a problem. I would have equally started a pharmacist shop and got a lot of money. That was not want excite me then and till today, what excite me is to serve God and serve him whole heatedly. I don’t regret the steps I took because when I look back from where God has taken me to, I don’t have any other choice but to say thank you Jesus for helping me to get it right. Where God has taken me today, in terms of reaching out to different nations and cities and been a blessing to them amazes me. Just because I obeyed God, God has open doors for me in several places. How is Christianity today compared to when you were on campus? We started in January 1987 as a fellowship. We were only teaching the word of God. Five years later, when we started the church, there were changes because there is a difference between a church and a fellowship. Like wedding and other things, there have to be some changes. The doctrinal teachings were the same. The doctrinal teaching we had when we started the fellowship was the foundation we built upon. The word of God does not change and that is what we believe in and hold on to. There have not been changes except that the church has more assignments taking the gospel to various parts of the world. What were the priorities of the church then? I think what has changed is the focus and emphasis. In those days, the emphasis was more on evangelism, crusades, prayer conference, teaching and disciplining the people. I remember one of the songs we sing in those days: when is raining or fire is burning, I will follow Jesus:  You take the whole world but give me Jesus … It was more of the discipline focus that was what was going on and it made people to ignore mundane things of the world. As time went on, several changes came, and they were changes in emphasis. Emphasis is now on teachings on faith, and prosperity. It was not that those things were not there when we started, there was not much emphasis. It is not like it is today where people talk more of how to make money. It was not like that before. There have been changes and that has drastically affected the body of Christ, especially in this part of the world as people see material things as priority. If a minister of God does not have wealth, he is not succeeding. People have forgotten that there are ministers that their ministry is in the rural area and do not have food to eat, yet they have to do the work that God has sent them to do. How are we going to say that they are not successful. Many people misconstrue prosperity as success before God and is not true. There are at times when people use how a minister of God dresses to assess whether they are succeeding or not. Has that affected the church? It has affected the quality of believers. As somebody said, the revival in Nigeria is widespread but not deep. That shows the depth that people can go anything to make money. There are lots of testimonies people cannot give about how they got their wealth; not that they are afraid of robbers but they are not proud of what led to it. They cannot testify that this was what God did, not much testimony to it because of the consequences of over emphasis on material things. It is important to note that God wants us to prosper and be in good health.  But the emphasis should be more on the kingdom of God. Jesus said, ‘Seek ye first the kingdom of God and every other thing shall be added unto you.’ Let us shift our focus to the kingdom. What is the vision of the Jubilee church Our vision is to release men to fulfil destiny. People are held captive by satanic bondage and to prepare them for the coming of Christ. Upcoming 29th convention of your church Every November and December, the church undergoes prayer and fasting-50 days for workers and 30 days for lay members. As we waited on God for direction in the New Year, God told us 2021 is a year of total victory in every area of our life. That informs the theme of the convention – From Victory to victory. The convention holds between March 14 and 21. We have 12 seasoned men of God and they have been a great blessing to the church for many years. Usually, we invite 12 ministers – eight regulars and four new ones. They include: The President and founding Pastor-General, Rhema Christian Church & Tower International, Bishop Taiwo Akinola; General Overseer, Sanctuary of God Christian Assembly, Apostle Ken Nwankama; Senior Pastor, Victory Life Bible, Apostle Lawrence Achudume, and General Overseer, Word Redemption Foundation, Apostle Ayo Akingbade. What is the consequence of walking in victory for individuals and the nation at large? There will be growth of the church. Nigeria will experience superlative victory. The Bible has given us a lot of God’s promises that we can hold on.  Epidemic and pandemic are not strange in the word of God. Like David said, ‘Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.’ One of the things we teach our people is that they remain steadfast in their walk with God and do not do things that will make God leave them, especially as they adhere to the simple rules of hygiene prescribed by the government. I recall that the General Overseer, The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye inaugurated your church several decades ago. What is your relationship with him? He is my spiritual father. He was ordained by my wife and I. The church oversight is submitted to him. He counsels, prays and mentors us. Are you concerned about training pastors for the gospel? We have different workshops both virtual and physical and some of the areas we will be looking at include: how ministers can adjust their ministry to reality, and how to survive in the COVID-19 era. Besides the minister’s conference, there will be workshops on how to survive in business in this era. Also, there will be empowerment sessions, like understanding the challenges of the new normal in the COVID-19 era, career options in the virtual world, COVID-19: taking responsibility, developing entrepreneurial mindset, praise evening (March 19), among others.