 They are all women.  They are young, serious, enterprising and committed.  These nine young female artists are all Nigerians.  Yesterday they all gathered at the Alexis Art Galleries, Victoria Island, Lagos for a group exhibition.  It is to mark the International Women’s Day with the theme destiny.  The destinies of women are in their own hands and almost all the art pieces on display situate what place destiny has in the lives of women as they continually play important roles to keep the society on the wheel of progress. Last week they had an encounter with reporters where each stated what her works stand for and the reason for destiny.  In the first place, the management of Alexis, led by the CEO Patty Chidiac-Mastrogiannis has adopted the theme for business convenience.  Destiny II therefore is to further extend the frontiers of what contributions female artists make daily to grow the art in Nigeria. Chidiac-Mastrogiannis said, “this year, we have less number of women.  We deliberately did this to accommodate less artists.  It is a week exhibition starting on Saturday March 13 to end on March 20 between 10.00am to 6.00pm.  The exhibition opens to the public live.  The exhibition’s virtual tour will also be published on the opening day on the gallery’s social media handles which include instagram – alexisgalleries and others.  Even then, the show promises to be one of the most intriguing shows of all time for both virtual and live viewing”. These artists include: Ayoola Omovo, Aisha Idirisu, Bimpe Owoyemi, Naomi Oyeniyi, Clara Aden.  Others are Jenny Ojeh, Kareen Ogidi, Esther Obiwuru and Ronke Ladipo. Ayoola has been in the business of art for 12 years.  She is a painter, an instructor and her core functional expertise hovers on black and white rendition technique, mainly in abstract paintings.  For her, abstract impressions give the sort of soul-searching mien that appeals to the senses. Idirisu concentrates her professional attention on children with special needs.  A graduate of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) Zaria, Kaduna State, she said “I was admitted for Industrial Engineering but later I ended up in Fine Arts.  It was not easy to do the switch over.  However, I do not have any regrets today.  I worked three times harder to fit into the Arts department but came out better”. When she was done with her Art studies, she was undecided on what next to do.  In the end the lure by Fine Arts finally won her over.  Today she loves abstract works.  Multiple layers of colours always greet her works because she is in love with colours.  She loves to experiment in different mediums.  “I do not want to be tied down to one medium only.  For me, it does not make for diversity, varieties, in the art”.  For this show she has hero, a work on doctors who have been risking their lives to save people from Covid-19.  Melody, is another work of pinky colour of a landscape.  These are emotional works because Idirisu is an emotional artist. Owoyemi comes from the great University of Benin art school.  A prolific artist she dwells on the usage of oil most often.  Light, bright, illuminating spaces appeal to her.  Owoyemi glorifies light within black background.  This gives unalloyed uniqueness to her pieces. She said, “I have two works – paintings titled evergreen and reflection.  Yes I paint human features.  My works naturally focus on light and dark, one illuminates the other.  So, most of my works show both – light, dark.  Even when there is dark, you can see light hover over the dark. Owoyemi went on; “When there is a confluence of light and dark on my work, it brings out the realities of humanity, his existence.  For the International Women’s Day celebrations, this is the right moment to show emotion, passion.  This gives us ample room to do our best, to display expressions inspired by the depth of art.  Women in destiny therefore use the canvases to say a lot; amazing works of diverse feelings, themes and colours”. Oyeniyi is a contemporary artist.  She has shown severally at home, globally and well-celebrated.  She is mostly at home with oil and often tilts towards mural or mosaic paintings.  She dwells also on pastel and knives palette.  Realistically her works appeal greatly to true lovers of pastel and so on. Aden is an ever gregarious artist.  She set out as an instructor and then gradually zoomed into the mainstream of art.  Today she has created a niche for herself within the core art.  She is a passionate painter known for her irrepressible pencil drawings.  For this and more she has been duly recognized and celebrated at home and abroad. Hear her: “I am a multidisciplinary artist.  I had been in love with art from childhood.  It therefore means that my works are always peculiar, unique to me.  This also shows that I have strong passion for my pieces.  I set out as am artist in 1999.  Then I began as an instructor.  This lasted for 3 years before I moved on.  Arts make you become a celebrity.  It shows how the society accepts us and we have to work to keep at it”. As for the works for the show, one is on charcoal on canvas, the other a drawing.  The one on charcoal is titled dignity in labour.  The second one which is on a doll was inspired by her baby girl.  The man in dignity of labour is one of those artisans who does his work with unbridled carriage and devotion.  “While he was at work patching a bad window, I took series of pictures of him.  Then most of my inspirations come from children” she said. Ogidi has been profoundly in love with and passionate about the art.  She loves paintings, with peculiar focus on palette knives and oil paint.  She draws inspiration from colours of nature and people in moments of hustle and solitude.  She said: “I have always wished to advance my training as an artist and even go on to do more.  One of my works for this outing is titled lost at sea.  It was done during the lock down due to Covid 19 pandemic.  Those were moments of solitude for me.  For me, water therefore, symbolizes freedom, free flow of life; nature”. Obiwuru graduated from Lagos State Polytechnic and has been on the beat for years.  She is a prolific painter, imbued with an elaborate knowledge she gathered while she had a stint at the Universal Studios of Art, Iganmu, Lagos.  Basically, she draws her inspiration from her environment.  In her works she loves to display the beauties of life.  She said, “I love realism.  One of my works here is titled Alabaru.  I got the inspiration as a Youths Corper in Ibadan, Oyo State.  Then, I love landscapes, figures, market scenes and more.  I learnt more of drawing while in school”. Ladipo does what she described as locked hand bags.  The works have padlocks to guard them against intruders.  Made of iron, the bags quickly draw your attention as they glitter in different sizes.  Ladipo who looks more like a model is gregarious about her art form.  She polarizes her materials with delicate strokes of a brush to uphold her concept of the divine feminine mien. She said, “oh, yes, this is called padlock bag for ladies” she demonstrated as she displayed one of the bags.  “The lock is to safe-guard it against some hooligans, thieves.  All my bags are inspired by something, showing the realities of life.  I give them style, uniqueness.  There are different paintings for each bag and for different big or small occasions.  Some for special beauties.  For the past ten years, I have been on this”. Ojeh comes from the Delta State University, Abraka.  She loves working with sands and charcoal as her major medium.  The works are imbued with different profound interpretations.  For her graphics and sands, can come together to form the greatest beauties of art.  “Yes”, she said, her face full of life, “the medium sand comes to me naturally.  However the works most times elogise women and what they stand for.  Women are naturally beautiful.  There’s great beauty in every woman.  So, women need to walk with confidence”. She has works that came to her while in the lock down period.  It is rejuvenation.  Hyper realism, for her, comes out in graphics and “I work more in quiet moments with my music strapped to my ears”. The show is in partnership with Women Art Risk International Foundation, an NGO that champions the cause of violence against women all over the world.  Sponsoring the show are; Pepsi, Tiger, Indomie, Mikano, The Guardian, Wazobia Fm Radio, Cool Fm, UPS, Haier Thermocool, Cobranet, Delta Airlines, Aina Blankson, The Homestores, Art Café, And Lost In Lagos, Arzeh Integrated Ltd, AMG.