Parliamentary Workers in the country under the auspices of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria has threatened to shut down the National Assembly as well as all state Houses of Assembly in the country if the financial autonomy legislatures is not implemented with immediate effect. The Union is also demanding the total independence for state legislatures in accordance with the provision of the constitution which advocate separation of power for the three arms of government as well as Executive order 10 signed by the President. The Parliamentary workers led by the National leadership staged a protest at the gate of the National Assembly on Tuesday to push home their demand and submitted a letter to the leadership of the House of Representatives and the Senate on their demand. In the letter signed by the National President, Comrade Mohammed Usman and acting General Secretary, Comrade Ikechukwu, the workers said will be forced to shut down the National Assembly, the 36 state Houses of Assembly, the National Assembly Service Commission, State House of Assembly Service Commission and all agencies under them. The letter of demand reads “recall that His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari assented to the Constitution Fourth Alteration Bill in June 2018 which among other things granted financial autonomy to all State Houses of Assembly in Nigeria and subsequently issued Executive Order 10 to ensure implementation. “The Union considers these actions as great strides toward embedding democratic principle of separation of powers which in turn guarantees positive progressive, effective and efficient checks and balances especially at the state level where Executives have continually arm-twisted the Legislature into total submission thereby negating the essence of separation of powers in a democracy. “It is therefore needful to see that for there to be a robust legislature at the state level, the implementation of the legislative financial autonomy is pertinent. “It is in consideration of the foregoing that PASAN wishes to express her unreserved disgust and dismayed with the actions of some Nigerians and institutions particularly the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF) for aiming to not only discredit, but to exterminate this democratic prerequisite through frustrating its implementation. “The Union has been magnanimous with the virtue of patience by allowing for ample time so that the Federal Government through His Excellency’s implementation committee on financial autonomy for state judiciary and legislature would ensure the implementation of the letters of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria for over two years now. “Our members have run out of patience and have resolved to forthwith put an end to condoning further delays to the implementation of the financial autonomy for states Houses of Assembly which in itself is a glaring breach of the Nigerian Constitution. “As the Union’s motto reads, “Service for Democracy”, the union shall remain committed to serving the nation’s democracy. But the continuous non-implementation of Financial Autonomy at the state level is a huge obstacle before the wheel of democracy and the principle of separation of powers which in turn frustrates our devoted service. “Consequent upon the foregoing, the union hereby demand for full implementation of the letters of our constitution as provided in section 121 (3) of the 1999 constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria (as amended). “Failure to meet the above demand, the union will have no other option than to direct all its members nationwide to embark on an indefinite strike action. By implication, the nationwide strike action shall see the following institutions shut down.”