Kidnapped Ikorodu businessman, Alhaji Lookman Onabanjo alias Bugon, has regained freedom, The Nation has learnt. Onabanjo, who was kidnapped on Monday at Agbowa in Ikosi-Ejirin Local Council Development Area (LCDA), was freed on Wednesday night after his family and associates allegedly paid ransom. The Nation learnt gunmen on Tuesday kidnapped another farmer at Emure, a border community between Lagos and Ogun. It was gathered that eight gunmen swooped on Onabanjo, his driver and two others while on their way to his farm in Ota, Ogun State. While the others were said to have been released hours after their kidnap, the criminals, said to be herdsmen, demanded N100million in order to free Onabanjo. According to one of the victims, they trekked for about two hours until they got to a thick bush, where they were held. The Nation reports that Onabanjo’s kidnapping occurred less than a week after another farm owner abducted his brother in Shalabo, Imota regained their freedom following the payment of N15, 005,000 to the kidnappers. Sources close to the victims claimed their kidnappers were eight herders bearing seven AK47 rifles and a sub-machine gun, the same narration those kidnapped with Onabanjo shared. “The victim also confirmed that the sum of N15m and extra N5, 000 was paid. The N5, 000 was added when they threatened that if the N15m is counted and it is less with one naira, 1, the two victims would be killed. “The ransom was collected at Emuren pipeline area. The victims were released and they eventually came out of a bush near Adama. “We also proceeded immediately to Imota Police Station to see the DPO, who also reaffirmed the whole story and how the CP hosted the victims. We also saw the level of additional security personnel posted to the Imota axis by the CP. “In summary, the bandits are in Ikorodu and its environs. All hands must be on deck. Security is everybody’s business,” said a source. Confirming Onabanjo’s release, spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the police were not aware if a ransom was paid. “He has been rescued but we are not aware of any ransom paid. The Commissioner of Police has ordered the command strike team to intensify efforts in apprehending the kidnappers. “The police boss has met with some stakeholders and experts on the plans to beef up security and restructure the security architecture of the area. So we are hopeful to get them soon,” said Adejobi. On the farmer kidnapped on Tuesday, Adejobi said it happened in Ogun but the command’s strike force has also been deployed by the CP to assist in rescuing the captive unhurt. “We are on it and we are optimistic of his release,” he said.