It has been one year since residents and landlords of the Estate Pipeline Community Development Association in Abule-Egba, a Lagos suburb, lost their properties and businesses estimated to be more than five hundred million naira to a fire outbreak. Many victims of the incident, which occurred on January 19, 2020, are still counting their losses. Although some have picked up the bits and pieces of their lives by rebuilding their burnt buildings, many others are still homeless, with some taking refuge with family members. Yet some others have completely abandoned their properties without thinking about homes and are not even thinking of returning to the community. The fire incident has also rewritten the stories of some other erstwhile residents who have had to return to their villages and home towns with no hope of returning to the community. One of the pathetic cases is that of an elderly man, Pa Araokanmi, whose house, close to the scene of the explosion has since been abandoned as he was said to have inhaled excess smoke during the explosion and died. A resident of the community said Pa Araokanmi lost his life a few days after the fire incident. “The old man inhaled so much smoke that he fell sick and had to be taken to one of the government hospitals where he eventually died. Getting the hospital to return his corpse was a big task,” the resident said, pleading anonymity. Many who lost their means of livelihood as a result of the incident are also still counting their losses. Many of the victims have a remote chance of rebuilding their homes because they are retirees. “The situation has made it very difficult for some of them to rebuild their homes without any help. That is why the issue of compensation is germane,” a resident told The Nation. When The Nation visited the community on Thursday, dilapidated houses dotted everywhere. Unfortunately, some of the factors that led to the unfortunate incident are gradually creeping back into the community. The trucks which provided a sort of cover for the vandals whose activities were responsible for the fire outbreak are gradually returning to the area. Most of the trucks that were indiscriminately parked on the road where the pipelines are laid had disappeared after the fire outbreak. A resident of the community told The Nation that the presence of trucks on the road and the dark nature of the area made it easy for the pipeline vandals to operate unhindered. He disclosed that some of the truck owners lost millions of naira to the fire incident. While commending the House of Representatives for intervening in the matter, the residents are not happy that there has not been any form of compensation from either the NNPC or any agency of government. A senior member of the community told The Nation that the NNPC was yet to revisit the community since their last meeting with a delegation from the House of Representatives. Down the memory lane Reliving the fire outbreak incident of January 19, 2020, Mr. John Okuneme Taiwo, the then chairman of the community development association (CDA), said: “Although I was not indoors, the information I got was that the incident started at about 7 pm. I was somewhere when they called to inform me about what was going on. They said there was a burst and the petrol started flowing. “We live very far away from the scene of the blast but through the drainage, the petrol made its way to our area. “When I came back, nobody could come to this area. Everybody had run away. “We didn’t know where the fire came from, but we heard a sound like a bomb. “It was a serious damage the fire disaster caused my community. About 22 or more buildings were razed. “The Lagos State Government and others came, and they saw the extent of the damage. He told The Nation that pipeline vandalisation had been on in the area since 2005. According to him, the attention of the stakeholders was drawn to the plight of the community, but it was only Governor Babatunde Fashola that responded. “I am still sleeping in a church. My building was razed and I lost everything. It is only the Lagos State Government we can say has tried to do something in its own capacity. ” He expressed joy that the federal lawmakers received their petition, wondering why NNPC, the owner of the pipelines, had not deemed it fit to do something for the community. As at the time the community submitted  a report to the House of Representatives, the properties lost to the fire incident was valued at about N260 million. Taiwo told The Nation that things would have been a bit better for them but with the current inflation, the monetary value of what they lost had risen exponentially. He said: “The House told the NNPC to go and pay us, but up until this moment, the NNPC has not made a move. If they said N10 million could do something at the time they told them to pay us, N30 million cannot do it right now. “If they had compensated us then we would have been happy. But we are now in 2021. A bag of cement is N3,500. Can it go back? “We want the Nigerian government, especially the Presidency, to use their good offices to help us. Whenever they hear an issue they should take a step. “The National Assembly has given a verdict; why the delay?” According to the current Chairman of the CDA Engineer Tajudeen Balaogun, nobody has built a right of way. Corroborating the former chairman, he said it was not as if the community was not aware of the activities of the vandals, but there was little they could do to stop them. Balogun, who sat with the reporter a stone’s throw from where the explosion occurred last year, explained that most of the landlords who lost their properties to the fire were yet to come out of the shock. According to Balogun, vandalisation has been going on in the community since 2005, but the 2020 pipeline explosion was the worst. In trying to discourage the vandals, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were drafted to the community When The Nation visited the community, some of the civil defence corps were seen in their office near the scene of the 2020 pipeline explosion. If the community was aware of the activities of the vandals why then was it difficult for them to confront the vandals? “There is a limit to what the community can do. The purpose of CDA is for the development of the community. We live in this community. Some of us have properties in this community, and wherever you have property is your base. “Nobody wished for anything bad to happen but we were not just looking. “This place is fair now after the fire incident. The whole place used to be jam-packed with trailers and tankers. If you look behind me, you will still see some. If not for the fire, you would have seen many of them. “On the CDA level, we have called, we have fought them. We called them as a community. We explained to them that they could not be doing this here, but they did not listen until it happened. Immediately it happened, Lagos State officials came and they packed the wreckage of the trucks.” Balogun, who took our correspondent to some of the affected buildings which had not been renovated or reconstructed, described the incident as one that was bound to happen. But he said the CDA was on top of it with the help of the CDC. He said: “Our case has reached the National Assembly through the Community Development Committee (CDC). It has been attended to at the National Assembly in Abuja. Their decision is what we are waiting for.” Aged victims relive frustrations Some of the victims, including a past chairman of the community, who are in their 60s and 70s or late 70s, expressed their frustrations in different interviews with our correspondent. While it is believed that some of the victims have died of frustration, the CDA chairman told The Nation that it was difficult to put a figure to those that had passed on. “That one is not recorded. The ones I know about are those who died during the incident,” he said. “Some might have gone because it is not easy for someone to lose their life investments, houses or properties. And most of those who lost these are above 70.” Reminded that the compensation could take a while to come, Balogun said it is the hope that they would be compensated by the government that has kept many of the victims alive, especially those that are in their 70s. But he reckoned that the compensation they are waiting for might not be enough to solve their problems. “It is just a succour; something to soften the loss,” he said. “How they are going to cope depends on them. We are only praying that they will have the hope and spirit to survive. “Where do you expect people of over 70 years to start from? “Some of them left after the incident and could not stay in their properties again. How they are going to survive, I don’t know. But I pray that they have the strength to survive.” While it may be difficult to assign a figure to how much was lost to the fire incident, Balogun said the record made available was based on the number of houses that were burnt and the lives lost to the fire incident. He said: “Right now, we have 23 claimants, including the three lives lost in the incident. The valuation is difficult. “The community has engaged competent valuers. Can you value the slippers or the spoons that hot burnt in the house? We are giving rough estimations. What we are hoping for is to see the good face of the NNPC. “Fortunately for the community, the properties are not on the right of way, as the NNPC created a barricade indicating where not to encroach.” The Nation saw some of the barricades on a stretch of road that demarcate houses from where the petrol pipelines passed through. Also speaking, Mr. Olabowala Kasumu, the Community Development Committee (CDC) chairman of Agbado Okeodo Local Government, said the members of the CDA had made frantic efforts to draw the attention of the security agencies to the activities of the pipeline vandals in that axis of Lagos without any headway made in stopping them. While thanking the Lagos State Government for accommodating the victims for six months and giving them the logistics to take off, he is worried that the attitude of the NNPC, who are the owners of the pipes, leaves much to be desired. According to him, it was not until the matter was taken to the National Assembly that the NNPC reacted. He said: “Although these pipes have been there for close to 30 years, when this incident happened, the NNPC should have at least contacted the victims to see their conditions and give succour to the affected families. “We are appealing to the government to implore the NNPC to look into the plight of the victims; those who have lost their lives and properties. All of them are not in the right of way of the NNPC.” According to Kasumu, the victims were going through hell as many of them were being sheltered by family members. “We have people of 70 and 80 years who can no longer work, who lost properties with no means of livelihood. The properties that got burnt were what they were living on. They are retirees. We want the government to look into their plight,” Kasumu said. He insisted that the pipeline has to be cleared to forestall a reoccurrence. The CDC chair said that the local government would write to the state government on the matter. Community petitions Reps In a letter to the Chairman, Committee on Public Petitions, House of Representatives, seeking compensation for the victims of pipeline explosion of January 19, 2020, the community had alleged that the fire incident was caused by hoodlums who broke the pipeline of NNPC/PPMC to scoop fuel. “This led to the discharge into the drainage. There was an explosion and the fire gutted most houses that were not anywhere near the vicinity of the pipelines. “The resultant explosion and inferno destroyed the invaluable lives of three persons and several millions naira worth of property.” The 21 landlords who lost their property to the explosion are asking for N280 million compensation both in material and compensation for loss of life. According to the breakdown, estimated cost of property loss is about N250 million, while N15 million was demanded for the three lives lost in the incident. “Mrs Atairu Hishat  and Master Atairu Aliu, wife and son of Mr Abubakar Atairu of No 12 Mohammed Sadiq Street, Pipeline, Oke-odo, were burnt to death in the inferno. “Indeed, Master Atairu Aliu was strapped to the back of his mother when the raging fire gutted them “The fire outbreak also resulted in the death of Master Ogunjobi Israel, a five-year-old son of Mr. Taiwo Ogunjobi of No7, Kikiowotola Street, Abule Egba. “The families left behind are suffering from emotional and psychological trauma that can neither be quantified nor compensated in material terms. “We however on compassionate grounds plead that Mr. Abubakar Atairu (who lost a five-year-old son to the inferno) be compensated with N10,000,000.00 (ten million naira) and Mr Taiwo Ogunbanjo (who lost his five-year-old son to the fire outbreak) be compensated with N5,000,000.00 (five million naira) to assuage their feelings.” In a letter to the House of Representatives signed by the Chairman Earnest .O. Kasumu and the Secretary of the CDA Sakiru Oguntola, they appealed to the lawmakers to intervene in the matter as it would facilitate the early settlement of their claims because “the cruel fate they suffered did not come from their own negligence but rather from the vandals who punctured fuel pipes to scoop fuel for their personal gains. “More importantly, the claimants have advanced in age and cannot cope with the rigours of work that will fetch them enough resources to reinstate them to where they were before the unfortunate incident. “Your kind intervention will replace their tears with joy and write your names in Gold in the book of history.” Community seeks stakeholders’ attention As if the residents of the community had premonition of what could happen, they said they had made representations to the stakeholders, including agencies, parastatals, and law enforcement agencies, urging them to do something about the impending fire incident. On June 8, 2015, the community had sent a letter titled ‘Averting an imminent danger on the NNPC pipeline’ to the Area Manager, NNPC/PPMC, Mosimi, Sagamu, Ogun State. Also, on September 22, 2015, the community sent another letter to the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Environment, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos, titled’ Decongestation of the NNPC pipeline road. Again, the community expressed concern when on May 18, 2016 it wrote another letter to the Managing Director, PPMC, Abuja. In a bid to forestall any incident, another representation was made to the Lagos State Command of the NSCDC on May 24, 2016 which was titled ‘Official Rreport’. The attention of the Executive Secretary, Agbado/Oke-Odo was also drawn to the danger in a letter written to him on June 7, 2016 titled ‘Letter of Intimation.’ Estimating the cost of  the properties lost to the fire accident, a registered Estate, Property, Plant and Equipment Valuers, Biodun Olapade and Co, who carried out a valuation exercise on the property lost  in the incident disclosed in a report that the property lost to the fire incident was worth about N265 million.