National Security Adviser (NSA) Maj Gen Babagana Monguno (rtd) stirred up the hornet’s nest when he spoke on the $1billion taken from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) to buy arms to prosecute the insurgency war. Monguno was not saying anything new. It has always been in the news that, that amount is being spent on acquiring 12 Super Tucano fighter jets. The issue has been on for over three years and in an environment where things work, it is only appropriate for the public to get an update from time to time It was that update, unpleasant as it may seem, that the NSA provided on the Hausa Service of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) last week. It is not a secret that the money is being expended on arms acquisition to enable the military, as we are told, finally ‘finish off’ Boko Haram. What is secretive about the deal is what has become of the huge sum and the weapons ordered from the United States (US)-based Sierra Nevada Corporation (SNC). Before now, it was fashionable for many of those in government to bore Nigerians with how the non-acquisition of these weapons is affecting the military’s performance whenever Boko Haram made a hit in the Northeast or elsewhere. “If only we had the right weapons, we would have finished off Boko Haram, which has been technically degraded, and is only going after soft targets,  such as women and children. Once, we get these weapons which we are expecting,  it will be game over for Boko Haram and bla, bla, bla…,” these officials will rattle on and on. In February 2019, shortly before that year’s general elections during which President Muhammadu Buhari secured a second term, the nation was told that six of the 12 Super Tucano jets would be delivered in 2021, which is the year we are now in. Not too long after, the story changed when 43 rice farmers were killed in Zabarmari, Borno State, last year. Information Minister Lai Mohammed alleged that global powers were blocking the sale of the fighter jets to Nigeria. He stopped short of telling Nigerians why the manufacturers would dance to the tune of a third party, not involved in the deal and, breach the contract. Then, there were talks about the Leahy Law, which forbids the US from assisting militarily any country involved in human rights abuses. If the US wanted to use that law in stopping the sale of those jets to Nigeria, it should have brought it up before the deal was signed, and not after. Be that as it may. It seems we have passed that stage. This is 2021 when the government should be talking of taking delivery of six of the 12 jets for which it paid $496million (about N152billion as at 2018). Defence Minister Brig Gen Mansur Dan-Ali (rtd) was so thrilled about the payment that he said back then: “Gone are the days when our soldiers dropped their rifles and started running from the war front. Our gallant troops have successfully degraded the Boko Haram insurgents…the conversation (on the weapons) began during the previous administration; but the planes have not been fully built. They are being assembled and will be delivered from Florida before the end of 2020”. 2020 ended over three months ago, and the jets are not here. If the people whose money is being expended on acquiring these planes really matter, the government should be updating them today on the state of things. Are the aircraft still coming? If they are not, what happened? Since there appears to be a breach of contract, will Nigeria get back its money? Will the refund be with interest considering that the value of the dollar then is not the same as today’s? These questions have arisen because of the fears Monguno expressed over the arms deal in his BBC interview. No matter his subsequent rebuttal, it is certain that something is wrong somewhere with the nation’s planned acquisition of the Super Tucano jets, which the government has been talking about with glee in the last three years. If there is a problem, should Nigerians not know since we are talking about money taking from the public till. If 2021 is no longer feasible for the delivery of the first set of aircraft, when are we to expect them now? Although, there is still nine months to go in 2021, the omens do not bode well at all for the delivery of the jets this year. Remember, Dan-Ali said they would be delivered in 2020, but they were not. If he, as Defence Minister, could get it wrong, whose word on the delivery date would be right then? Perhaps, this was why Monguno cried out. If as NSA to President Muhammadu Buhari, who approved the acquisition of the jets, Monguno does not know that they are expected to be delivered this year, then something is not right in the inner workings of government. Monguno raised genuine fears about these jets on which some of his colleagues have repeatedly said  our  winning the Boko Haram war depends. “It is not that we are not working to end the security challenge in the country. The President has done his own part and allocated huge amount of money to purchase weapons, but they are yet to be here. We don’t know where they are. I am not saying that the past Service chiefs have diverted the money, but presently, we don’t know where the money is…even, the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) has started questioning where the money is…I can’t say the money was stolen, but we didn’t see anything and even the new Service chiefs said they didn’t see the weapons”, he said, adding,  sarcastically: “It is possible the weapons are on their way coming. Maybe from America,  England and other places, but as at now, I didn’t see anything and the Service chiefs too didn’t see any weapons too”. It is sad that this is coming on the eve of when we were made to believe that the jets would be delivered. Monguno, as a general,  knows what he is saying. Even, in the so-called rebuttal issued by his office, he still maintained his position on the issue:  “…we would like to state that the NSA…did not categorically say that funds meant for arms procurement were missing under the former Service chiefs…” Of course,  he was not categorical, but he was not ambiguous either. What he said was: “…presently, we don’t know where the money is…” How should Nigerians interpret that? Nigerians are no fools. They can read between the lines. Denying the obvious will not help us in this matter as a nation. What happened to the arms funds? Were they utilised for the purpose meant? If they were, when will the arms be delivered? Over to Dan-Ali and the immediate past Service chiefs.