An expert in plant pathology has identified inadequate scientific capacity in most African countries as the reason for low adoption of modern biotechnology in Sub-Saharan Africa. Dr Issoufou Kollo, AATF Cowpea Project Manager, made the assertion in a keynote address to legal practitioners and officers during a two-day workshop on biotechnology and biosafety recently held in Karu, Abuja. AATF is an African-led not-for-profit organisation that is working towards agricultural transformation to address food and nutrition security and generate health and wealth for smallholder farmers through access and delivery of innovative and fitting agricultural technologies. “In many countries, even the capacities to conduct basic agricultural research had regressed,” said Dr. Kollo. According to him, the regression has exposed the unpreparedness of African scientists to address unnecessary propaganda against their work in modern biotechnology, as many do not know how to handle the situation. This is due to widespread low understanding and misinformation on molecular biology and biotechnology even among scientists. To change the situation, the renowned expert in plant pathology urged African scientists to educate themselves on molecular biology and biotechnology and learn the latest development in the field. “Engage yourselves in the debate to defend your profession; learn how to communicate effectively to the public with less scientific jargons. We need to understand that scientists will never be left alone in their lab and research center. “They must explain to the public and the decision makers what they are doing. They are accountable to the society,” he added. The plant pathologist faulted the Cartagena Protocol, saying it does not promote the adoption of biotechnology. The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity is an international agreement which aims to ensure the safe handling, transport and use of living modified organisms (LMOs) resulting from modern biotechnology that may have adverse effects on biological diversity, taking also into account risks to human health. “The protocol is based on fear and assumptions that genetically modified organisms (GMO) are dangerous products. It focuses on biodiversity conservation and transboundary movements without telling how GMOs can endanger the survival of species.” Dr Kollo said that this confusion results in the development of biosafety legislation and regulations that are more of a hindrance to biotechnological research, development and use, while contributing to spreading fear among the public. He added that that Africa has a lot to gain from genetically modified crops in addressing issues of food insecurity.