A major redeployment exercise involving about 53 out of the 77 judges of the Federal High Court has been effected by the Chief Judge, Justice John Tsoho. The affected judges are to resume in their new stations on April 12 when the exercise is to take effect, according to a circular on March 16, 2021 by Justice Tsoho. The circular directed that: “Judges newly posted to judicial divisions must assume duty in such places on April 12, 2021.” An official of the court said the redeployment was a routine administrative exercise effected every two to four years by the court’s Chief Judge, noting that more judges are affected this time than in previous exercises. Similar exercise was last carried out by the immediate past Chief Judge, the now late Justice Adamu Abdu Kafarati, on February 4, 2019 but took effect from February 11, 2019. About 22 out of the 84 judges serving in the court then were affected. This is the first under Justice Tsoho, who succeeded Justice Kafarati and assumed office July 2019 in acting capacity, before he was confirmed the substantive Chief Judge about five months later in December 2019. By the new arrangement, the court’s most busy divisions – Lagos and Abuja – will now have 10 judges each, including the Chief Judge who sits in both divisions. The third most busy division – Port-Harcourt – will now have six judges. By the new posting, three judges – Justices Okon Abang, Ijeoma Ojukwu and Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo – were moved out of Abuja. Justice Abang is to resume in Warri division (Delta State), Ojukwu is moved to Calabar (Cross-River State) while Giwa-Ogunbanjo is redeployed to Abakaliki (Ebonyi State). Justice Nnamdi Dimgba, who was moved from Abuja to Asaba (Delta State) in February 2019, will now operate from the court’s Awka (Anambra State) division. Justices Binta Nyako (the court’s second most senior judge), Anwuli Chikere (who is number three), Ahmed Mohammed, Inyang Ekwo, Taiwo Taiwo, and Nkeonye Maha are to remain in the Abuja division where they currently sit. Those moved to Abuja are Justices Z.B Abubakar (from Kaduna division), Obiora Egwuatu (from Kano), Mobolaji Olubukola ( from Makurdi) and D.U Okorowo (from Lokoja). Justices M.A Oyenetu, Chuka Obiozor and R. M. Aikawe were moved from Lagos to Owerri (Imo State), Benin (Edo State) and Akure (Ondo State). Justices Olayinka Faji, Chukwujekwu Aneke, Muslim Hassan and Iniekenimi Oweibo are to remain in Lagos where they currently serve. Those moved to Lagos are Justices Lewis Allagoa (from Kano), Tijjani Ringim (from Owerri), M.O Awogboro (from Yenagoa), Akintayo Aluko (from Abakaliki), Daniel Osiagor (from Umuahia) and Peter Lifu (from Osogbo). Justices E.A Obile, M.L Abubakar, and Adamu Muhammed are to remain in the Port-Harcourt division where they currently sit while Justices Patricia Ajoku (currently in Ibadan), Phoebe Ayua (in Abakaliki) and Jude Dagat (in Maiduguri) are to move to Port-Harcourt. Justice Hyeladzira Nganjiwa, who was prosecuted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) but had the charge struck out on account a Court of Appeal judgment, which held that he was not first subjected to the disciplined process of the National Judicial Council (NJC), has been moved to Gombe division from Yenagoa. Justice Tsoho, in the circular, directed that judges, who ordinarily have to be assisted by another judge, should take charge of the cases in their new divisions without waiting to be issued a fiat. “Any judge who is alone in a judicial division ought to have two judges, shall take charge of all casedin that division without the necessity of any formal issuance of fiat, until further notice,” he directed. The Chief Judge asked judges affected by the exercise to “carry along with them the household items already provided them” in line with a policy which he said had been in place since 2015. The items include double door fridge, washing machine, gas cooker, deep freezer, 55” television, grass cutting machine, electrical surge appliance, microwave, fan, and water dispenser. The Chief Judge equally asked them to “ensure that proper inventory is taken of the court’s property in their possession” besides the listed household. He said the inventory taken by the judges should be “handed over to the Deputy Registrar or the station registrar in charge of the divisions and a copy of same sent to the Chief Judge’s office.”