Gbenga Adekoya, a former personal assistant to a former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, has described a video where it was alleged he was being threatened by the former Minister as fake and mischievous. He said the former Minister has never threatened or assaulted him. Fani-Kayode was alleged to have attacked Adekoya with an hammer. But Adekoya said there was nothing like that. Adekoya, in a video obtained by THE NATION, said he left the employ of Fani-Kayode peacefully. He said there was never any rift or misunderstanding with his former boss to warrant any threat or molestation. He said Fani-Kayode remained a respected former boss with whom he shares mutual affection. Some ex-domestic staff of Fani-Kayode had accused him of assaut and sexual harassment. But the former Minister’s media aide, Jubril Olaiya, in a statement corroborated Adekoya’s position. He said allegation that Femi Fani-Kayode is a violent man who threatened any of his staff with a hammer is false. He said the video was doctored with a fake voiceover three years after to give a false narrative. According to Olaiya: “The allegation that Chief Femi Fani-Kayode is a violent man that threatened any of his staff with a hammer is false. “The video was doctored with a fake voiceover 3 years after the event took place to give a false narrative. “There was no threat or assault on the individual in the video and he has come out to say so publicly. “It is pertinent to note that the video was shot in 2018 and Chief Fani-Kayode had no idea that his estranged wife was filming him. “The voiceover was done in 2021 purposely to damage him and portray him in a bad light. “The reason he had a hammer in his hand was that he and his staff were hanging new pictures on the wall in his sitting room and the two individuals that were in the video with Chief Fani-Kayode have attested to this. “On the allegations made by other domestic staff, Chief Fani-Kayide categorically denies the allegations. “He has never sexually molested any of his staff and the young lady called Anthonia certainly does not meet up to his specification in terms of looks. To say the least he finds her patently unattractive. “Chief Fani-Kayode has instituted both criminal and civil proceedings against her for her falsehood so she will have every opportunity to prove her wild allegations in court just as the other individuals that swore to fake affidavits against Chief Fani-Kayode, commit perjury against him and that were paid to orchestrate these malicious falsehoods will. “If the individuals have nothing to hide why are they running from the police? Chief Fani-Kayode has over 55 staff in his house and many were approached with inducements to lie against him by the mastermind of this smear. “We have evidence of this and it will be presented. She has also threatened the lives of many of the staff. “The whole thing is a well-orchestrated, well-funded smear campaign to tarnish FFK’s image but he remains undeterred. Those behind it will be brought to justice and they will be exposed. We look forward to seeing them in court.”  