 SIR: Kwara State with harmony emblem has been thrown into needless crisis. A peaceful and serene atmosphere has metamorphosed to a state of phobia and restlessness. Although, crisis is inevitable in a secular setting particularly with people of different character and orientation, the need to quench the burning rages of crisis should remain paramount and non-negotiable. The recent drama in Kwara State capital is least expected. The intolerance and misconception have metamorphosed to a very silly and disgusting kerfuffle between the Christians and Muslims. The use of Hijab in schools with missionary nomenclature has been tagged aberrant because hijab is perceived as symbol of Islamic religion which should not be embraced in schools with Christians’ background. This posture by Christian leaders in the state has put our unity and togetherness into question. In as much as I fault the level of intolerance of the Christian leaders for rejecting Hijab in missionary schools, I will also not spare the Muslim parents who are fuelling the crisis. I see many of these Muslim parents as hypocrites and not true believers because many out of these parents don’t even compel their children to wear Hijab at home.  I’m a Muslim and I know that Muslim fanatics will never send their children to Baptist schools! Many of these parents that cannot afford Islamic private schools will prefer public schools with Muslim nomenclatures like An-Sarudeen, Nawa-Rudeen, Anwarul-l-Islam, or schools with neutral nomenclature like Government Day School, or community titled schools. Muslim parents that send their daughters to St Cyprian, Catholic, and Baptist are free Muslims that do not care about religious discrimination. They are much more aware that their daughters will put on cap/beret and reserve hijab for prayer time. Muslim parents that always enforce hijab on their daughters at home and school will hardly enrol them in any of the missionary schools. I attended St James Primary School and Baptist High School. When I was in primary school, during morning devotion, a Muslim teacher will pray and the same thing applicable to a Christian teacher. Our songs in those days were mixture of both Muslim and Christian stanzas; the lyrics still ring bell in my memory. During my days in Baptist High School, our female colleagues would always put on their cap/beret as part of school uniform which also cover their hair and they always put on their hijab whenever it is time for mosque. In Baptist High School, we had Malim who was also the Islamic Religion teacher. Malim looks into the affairs of Muslim students, we also had Amir/Imam for Muslim students and we do observe Jumat prayer without any hindrance. It has always been like that till date without crisis. Hijab is part of school uniform in An-Sarudeen schools and cap/beret is part of school uniform in Baptist schools. The students should dress according to the formation of their school uniforms. A Muslim student that cannot wear cap/beret in Baptist should go to An-Sarudeen and Christian student that cannot wear hijab in An-Sarudeen should go to Baptist.  It does not call for crisis. In Kwara case, I think the only thing that should lead to crisis is when students are banned from going to mosque or practice their religion or when they are enforced to embrace something that is not in the doctrine of their religion. Anything less is misplaced and needless. Religion is a sensitive matter than can tear a state apart and degenerate into a serious war. For the fact that different states had similar issue does not warrant same approach. An approach that worked for Osun, Ogun, and Lagos may not work for Kwara. The need for dissection and critical examination of issues is required before taking decision. At this juncture, good public relations is required for crisis management.  Kwara is in need of one. To the Muslims and Christians, we serve one God and the God we serve loves peace, tolerance, love and unity.  Let us embrace one another for peace to reign.