The Enugu State House of Assembly yesterday stepped down the controversial life pension bill for former governors, their deputies and spouses. The stepping down of the bill followed public outcry about the jumbo packages contained in it for the beneficiaries. The bill sought to appropriate, at least, 900 per cent of a governor’s annual salary as his monetary entitlements every year after leaving office. The wife of the governor would also have gotten N12 million as annual medical allowances, provided she was married to the governor while in office. Apart from the N12 million provided for a former governor’s wife as annual medical allowance, both ex-governor and ex-first lady will also receive free medical services until death. The bill covers major expenses an ex-governor could incur in his or her life, including financial responsibility for burial. Its Section Six states: “Where a former governor or former deputy dies, the state government shall make adequate arrangement and bear the financial responsibility for his burial. “It shall also pay a condolence allowance of a sum equivalent to the annual basic salary of the incumbent to the next of kin.’’ Section Four provides for “such other gratuity or allowances as may be provided by any other law” as may be entitled to a former governor other than what was stated in the bill. In addition to the lifetime annual basic salary (ABS) for an ex-governor, there is also a house maintenance allowance, an annual salary for five domestic staff and a vehicle allowance, each valued at 300 per cent of the ABS. It provides three vehicles for the ex-governor to be replaced every four years as well as a personal assistant on salary Grade level 14. There are also similar provisions for former deputy governor who get 200 per cent of their ABS each for house allowance, vehicle allowance and annual salary for three domestic staff. The former deputy governor will also get two vehicles to be replaced every four years, free medical services for him and his wife as well as N6 million medical allowance for the latter. At plenary session yesterday, Speaker Edward Ubosi said the bill was not the making of the seventh Assembly but had existed since 2007, adding that the 1999 Constitution as amended, gave backing for such legislation. Ubosi said the stepping down of the bill would help his colleagues to thoroughly go through it to enable them to delete as well as add necessary sections to it. According to the speaker, the public should have allowed the lawmakers to study the bill, which just passed through the first reading last Thursday. He noted that former governors serving as senators would not benefit from the pension scheme, while the spouse of the former governors would also not benefit from the scheme since the Constitution did not recognise the spouses. The Leader of the Assembly, Mr Ikechukwu Ezeugwu, expressed shock at the level of protest that followed the presentation of the Bill, which he said was not necessary. The leader said the public could not dictate nor teach the lawmakers how to do their job of enacting laws for the growth and development of the state and warned members of the public to mind their utterances. Ezeugwu noted, however, that the Assembly would be guided by the opinions of their constituents in the consideration of the Bill and added that it would hold a public hearing to allow members of the public to make their inputs. He maintained that the seventh Assembly was “not a rubber stamp’’.