 In the quest for a better political inclusiveness of women in Nigeria, there are mountains to climb and valleys to descend into. There are constructed myths in the Nigerian political field. There is a subtle socio-religious interpretation of leadership being a male thing. So the indoctrination starts from the cradle where there is virtually a different type of song in different languages at the birth of a boy or a girl. In most cases, at the naming ceremonies, the presiding elder uses leadership superlatives to pray for the boy child while for the female, the prayers are for her to grow into a woman, get married and have children. If the fatalism of Africans is anything to go by, the gods would grant as the requests are made and the affirmative chorusing of Amiin, Isee, Amen, etc. seem like a stamp of approval by the society for the gods to grant the prayers. So the sense of entitlement to leadership of the average male in a society like Nigeria is constantly re-enforced in all sectors; socio-cultural, religious, economic and political. In other words, the female child in Nigeria has a lot of odds against her in terms of getting gender parity especially in the political field. However, the underdevelopment indices in the country speak eloquently to the near-absence of women in politics especially as it concerns elective positions. The Roundtable conversation with Hon. Nnenna Ukeje shed more light on the challenges the average woman faces in relation to active partisan participation in politics. The moment a lady leaves school, she has the burden of trying to get married and have her kids because her biological clock is ticking. After that, she faces  the task of raising her  kids and has to decide whether to combine her career with raising her kids or doing one after the other. Men do not have these problems. She chose to combine politics with being a mother even though it came with great challenges but this is where the female capacity to multitask gets admirable. Women are able to bear and nurture children and wards, keep a career and still manage to be politically active contributing to development of communities and the nation. Her experience has been rewarding. Nocturnal meetings is one big feature in Nigerian politics and in a way, it is one of the scary aspects of partisan politics in the country and many willing and competent men and women get scared and discouraged from engaging in politics. Hon. Ukeje feels that women should not shy away from those meetings even though there are huge inconveniences. To her, any woman interested in political participation must be willing to meet men at the barricades literarily because monopolizing the political space means raising the bar all the time and woman must not back down as that strategy of exclusion would get an added push if women continue to shy away from nocturnal meetings where in most cases very crucial decisions are taken. In her view, visionary leadership must stem from a conviction by an individual to contribute to his or her society and in doing so, one must take certain decisions that can enhance political participation in ways that women for instance do not seek for men to willingly hand over power. Her sojourn in politics has taught her that determination and commitment are key to contributing to your society. While women continue to advocate for certain fundamental changes, they can use their mass appeal to galvanize from the grassroots. Women must start to engage in politics with a view to changing the system positively. You can only change a system from the inside and the centuries of socio-religious conditioning makes it a Herculean task for women to be easily allowed by men to lead even in instances where they are more qualified than most men. The RoundTable conversation sought the professional views of a Registered Psychotherapist, Chinna Okoroafor who explained the sense of entitlement to leadership is traceable to how we raise our children and that has hit to change. Sociologically, sons are groomed to lead at an early age and are given leadership roles for instance, it is not unusual for some parents to handover the leadership among  siblings to a younger male child even when there are older female children. In some cases, the house chores are left to the females who from cradle is prepared to ‘obey’ male authority and be ready to serve them. All the training most girl children get is how to make themselves likable and subservient to male figures in the society. According to her, power of any hue is painted as the mark of authority and masculine strength and as such, men see political power as the only means of asserting their masculinity whether they are mentally equipped or not. The different religions equally headed by men do not make it any easier as the clerics quote from their books to support the argument that women are the weaker gender in ways that often infer mental weakness. Because of the wrong social conditioning, men often perceive leadership as a proof of masculine strength and therefore tend to crave it through political participation which in any case defines socio-economic leadership too. Most men she said, feel very insecure to be led by a woman even when the woman has better leadership skills, education and knowledge. She insists that very often, the men who struggle for power even when they lack capacity often have inferiority complex and tend to use political power to fill the void they feel, reason most of them go to great lengths to access political or economic power. In the struggle to exclude women is the eternal struggle to assert masculinity do you often hear them saying, “ how can a woman lead men”, an argument she said is often not based on the key  leadership qualities that develop nations. As a professional in behavioural patterns, Chinna suggests that an awareness about these socio-religious and cultural nuances and the fact that women are often the enablers of these behavioural patterns must be addressed by women themselves. She insists that the essence of leadership is for a better welfare of the people and that women being the victims of bad political and economic decisions by the man must wake up with the power of education not because they are better but for a better collaborative effort at making the society much better. She believes that women now are better educated  than before and must make sure their education counts in making the society better through active participation in politics. To her, it’s important also for women to change the way they raise the children not that both genders are the same physiologically but the capacity to lead has not been scientifically proven to be gender sensitive. Any human with the right knowledge, education and capacity can provide leadership. She made reference to the outstanding work being done by women leaders across the globe at the pandemic period. Hon. Nnenna and Chinna are of the same opinion that Nigerian women must with experience and capacity must  be ready to match with the men ideas for ideas in the political space. They can break the wall built by a mentality that even fellow women helped to instill in boys who always grow to be men in power. Are Nigerian women ready to step up and ‘meet’ men at the metaphoric  ‘nocturnal’ meetings meant to be a bar too high for women to scale? Hon. Nnenna and a few other women have shown by example that women CAN. Our dialogue continues… 