  The vehicle manufacturers have compartments for fuel, water, engine oil, brake oil and the transmission fluid respectively. If you therefore want your vehicle to serve you effectively, you must put the right fluid in the correct compartment. It is the same with God, He expects you to live right, that is in accordance with His will, and if you fail to do that, there are consequences for every inconsequence action. From the passage used as our text, God told Prophet Amos that He would reject the heartless religious practices of the Israelites  because they refused to live right. The people of Israel were a socially unjust society carrying on with the rituals of religiosity that meant nothing to God. God’s angst was not with those practices but the worshippers and the ways they worshipped Him hence He said that their festivals and offerings were unacceptable and their music was noise in His ears, and not acceptable – divine consequences for carnal inconsequences! In our local parlance, when a child is born to a family, he/she is given the gradually elusive concept of ‘omoluabi’, which imposes certain moral values and behavioral code which the child is expected to carry around. It is the consequential behavioral pattern of the child if it is in tandem with the unwritten concept of ‘omoluabi’ that determines if the child is an ‘omo oko’, a good child or an ‘omo ale’ a child with a questionable paternity. Dear brothers and sisters, please be informed that if you fail to live right, your days of fasting and praying are wasted days and a mere religious practice which holds no spiritual water (Isaiah 1:15;1 John 5:14) because God honors only prayers that are said in line with His will. Beloved, kindly note that when you fail to live right, there is a gulf between you and God which makes your sacrifices and services unacceptable to Him (Isaiah 59:1-2; Deut. 25:16). More regrettably is the fact that when the end shall come, and it shall surely come one day, it shall be with “Had I known” (1 Corinthians 6:9; 10:7-10). I pray that you will not regret at your end in the name of Jesus. An example is the story of Luke 16:19-31 which had two main actors: a rich man who failed to live right and faced the consequences of everlasting regret, weeping and gnashing of teeth. He reverted at last while Lazarus who lived right and ended in everlasting bliss and peace in the bosom of Father Abraham. As children of God with divinely specified tenor, God has a high level of expectation from you viz how you that are in leadership positions are undertaking it, how the Judiciary is administering justice, how the Legislature is passing laws, how you are living your lives as head of homes and organizations, how you are relating with the less-fortunates than you like your maids, drivers, subordinates, clerks etc. Beloved, God knows your works, He knows your worth, He knows your pretenses, He sees how you have been converting public money to your personal use, He is aware of how you have been abusijg your official space, He is aware of your secret sins, He knows how indecently you are using your body which is His temple (1 Cor. 3:16-17), none of your schemes are hid from His eyes and He wants you to change today before it is too late so to do. Beloved, there are consequences for our inconsequences, and the consequences are unpredictable in dimension, grievous in practical terms and regrettable in experience (Matt. 25:30). To avoid a calamitous and regrettable end, you must place your hands on the plough of our Lord Jesus Christ and refuse to turn back (Luke 9:62). You must not allow the society to derail you from the standard of heaven, you must eschew conformity with the world (Romans 12:2). You must flee every appearance of sin and stop rationalizing abnormalities, and you must stop dangling between material affluence and moral influence. When you live right, everything shall be alright with you here and you shall gain eternity when your sojourn ends here in the name of Jesus  