Following the successes recorded by the Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) over the years, the Republic of Benin has indicated interest in the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) to boost its local rice production. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the Republic of Benin, Romuald Wadagni, made this known yesterday in Abuja when he led a delegation on a working visit to Nigeria. The visit was a follow up to the President of the Republic of Benin, Patrice Talon to President Muhammadu Buhari. Talon, who held talks with Buhari, requested for assistance from Nigeria to adopt its rice revolution policy. He also invited RIFAN officials to the Republic of Benin and sent a powerful delegation to attend rice fair in Kebbi on March 2nd, 20 21. Wadagni, whowas the leader of delegation, said the study would help the country boost her local rice production. Noting that the country’s commitment is to learn from Nigeria and how they have been able to overcome certain challenges faced to achieve success, he said they will allow rice that come through Benin Republic to Nigeria. He said: “To strengthen cooperation between Nigeria and Benin Republic, we will ban any product prohibited in Nigeria. Benin and Nigeria are the same, anything that disturbs Nigeria country also disturbs us. “Our commitment is to learn from Nigeria and we hope that in few years we will also celebrate the pyramid in Benin, under the leadership of RIFAN President.” RIFAN National President Alhaji Aminu Goronyo briefed the delegation about the association and how it transformed and revolutionized rice production in Nigeria. Goronyo said the Association developed a template that was adopted by the CBN and accepted by President Muhammadu Buhari which has resulted in the nation’s sufficiency in rice production. The RIFAN boss: “We developed a template that was adopted by the Central Bank of Nigeria and accepted by our President Muhammadu Buhari which as a result, Nigeria is today Rice self-sufficient nation. “We have more than 12 million farmers working with us producing most of the Rice Paddy the country needs. “The Republic of Benin can also leverage on that whereby your country can produce enough rice to feed herself and export excess to neighbouring countries including Nigeria. If you do this, it means you are creating wealth and job opportunities for your people and your country.”