 Spoken words are very powerful in the life and destiny of any person, family, organisation or nation. The words uttered, to the ordinary minds, are ordinary; but to the spiritually minded, words altered are altars – they are altars with capacity to make or mar lives and destinies. Spoken words gain entry into human lives and destinies in a very subtle manner and leave either a positive or negative impact. No wonder the writer of Proverbs in Proverbs 6:2 says that, “You have been trapped by what you said and ensnared by the words of your mouth”. There was a town I visited in the Western part of the country in 1976, where to my utter amazement everyone, young and old, male and female, very ignorantly joke with very heavy curses and abuses. I took a cursory look at their lives and noticed that the testimonies of majority of the people there were laden with struggles and curses – their words were their possessions! From our text, the people of Israel following the frightening words of the faithless spies raised their voices against Moses and Aaron, and they rebelled against God. They forgot all the miracles the Lord had done for them; the Israelites despised His mercies and spurned His might. In their ingratitude, they preferred death. Their murmur and vile words against God got Him angry hence He decreed that their confessions must be their possessions. God told Moses that as the Israelites have spoken vile words to Him so shall he do to them. He consequently told them in Numbers 14:29-37 that “the carcasses of all that murmured against Him from 20years old and upwards shall fall in the wilderness and their little children shall wander in the wilderness for forty years” – their confessions became their possessions. Can you please pray these prayer points now: Beloved in Christ, while studying the Word of God is a key to public manifestation, validity is given to the Word read through obedience to what He says. It is however important to note that the process is incomplete when the Word read and lived are not confessed. Your confession is your possession! 2 Corinthians 4:18 says that “While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal”. A man of God said that “Every closed mouth is surely a gateway to a closed destiny. He that has shut his mouth has shut the pathway to his destiny”, because your confession is your possession. In 2 Kings 4:8-end, the Shunamite woman carried a dead son on her back. When her husband saw her ran hurriedly out of the house and asked if all was well, she operated in faith and said that all shall be well. Eventually, the dead son came alive and her confession became her possession. I declare that as you confess well during this time of Lent, you shall possess a well of blessings in the name of Jesus. Beloved in Christ, it is pertinent for you to confess what you are seeing in the Word and not what you are seeing in the world. It is mighty words, the unseen, that provoke mighty works that are seen. To be mighty in results, you must be mighty in words. Everybody’s world is a product of his words. God gave Himself unto us as an example of speaking what He desired into creation. In Genesis 1:3, 6, 9, 11, 14, 20, 24, 26 & 29, God spoke and in verse 31, He saw all that He spoke. Beloved, what you say is what you will see. It is what you say that sets the pace for what you see. You are a product of your words. When you speak what God says, His report shall overrule the reports of the professionals. If God had not spoken at creation, disorder would have persisted and for you to change unfavourable conditions, you need to employ the creative power of words. Dear brothers and sisters, you are not supposed to wish or wait for a change, speak change into being. Don’t look at what is happening around you operate like the Shunamite woman, speak what the Word of God is saying. Don’t forget that things will follow a natural cause of action unless there is a declaration for it to be otherwise. The Doctors must have told the woman with the issue of blood in Mk 5:25-34 that it had ended with her having tried for 12years  but she refused their report. The day she saw Jesus Christ, she said I believe that if I can touch the hem of His garment, I shall be made whole. Her confession paid off. She struggled through the crowd, she endured the beatings, she enjoyed the caustic rebukes, she didn’t complain about the shoving around and the pushing front and backwards of the multitude until she got to Jesus Christ, touched Him and the challenges of 12 years ended, even without a single prayer from Jesus. Her confession became her possession! The word of God is the highest level of words. God is the most high God, His word is the most high word. When a man chooses to speak the word of God or the words that are in agreement with the word of God, that man is operating in the highest level of language and power available to man. He is speaking from a frequency that is far above the devil, his demons and the problems they cause on the earth because everything in the universe were created by the spoken word of God and they all respond to the spoken words. It shall continue to be well with you and all that are yours from this season of Lent in the name of Jesus  Prayer: Lord, please guide the words of my mouth and let my confessed words prospering the name of Jesus.