 Tell us how you got into producing African foods in the United kingdom? My life like that of many migrants in the UK started with friends and family, for their occasions and celebrations, back in the early 90’s when the African caterer was not a common phenomenon. This quickly evolved into providing catering services for local English folk who became my main clientele. With time and the rigors of catering, we modified our provision to provide more training and teaching of my African food speciality. I have carried a dream from time to package and provide African food products in a manner that would appeal to worldwide food markets. In 2007 our family transitioned to North Wales and here began the opportunity to fulfil a dream. In May 2016 we launched our first product which we called The Asake Original Hot sauce. What was the experience like at the beginning? My experience as a business person in England and presently in Wales. I have tended to describe as akin to that of a pioneer. You have to discover new markets and then convince those markets of the value of your products to their market. Like my son would say, I have been on this journey a long time and eventually we are being recognised for who we are and what we do. What were you doing before this? I have always been involved in food one way or the other. After a first degree in Microbiology and a post graduate degree in Hospitality management I worked in retail sales management for a while. I was never content putting all my energies into someone else’s business. I chose very early to run catering and training alongside raising my family. Tell us about your collaborations with the tbewish government? Collaborations with the Welsh Government have culminated for the time being in what we call The Melting Pot Cook Book. An exciting quality cook book that reflects recipes of the diverse migrant community in Wales. The Office of the Minister for Environment, Energy and rural Affairs got behind a proposal I put forward to them in early 2020; times of COVID, to reflect in a proactive way the diversity that is reflective of the culture of Wales. The culmination of the proposal was meant to include a celebration and opportunity to chat through a large gathering where we showcased our different food offerings. As a result of COVID restrictions, our celebration which is fully supported by Welsh Government comes in the form of this Cook Book with stories and in language that should be easy enough for us all to follow, replicate and enjoy. What does your appointment to the Board of Wales Food and drink industry mean to you? The Welsh Food and Drink Industry Board exist to grow, promote and enhance the reputation of the Welsh Food and drink industry on a global level. I am excited to be the first black woman invited to the board as well as being able to bring my experience in working with SME’s and diverse knowledge of African and world foods. What are the challenges encountered with the COVID-19 pandemic? The food and Drink Industry as we knew it in the UK shut down drastically. Hospitality, supply chains as well as several other related businesses were reduced to minimal or no operations. Consumer shows, face to face meetings and tastings and negotiations suddenly came to a grinding halt. Our industry faced major challenges and we had to find different ways of reaching new as well as existing customers in ways that were relevant to their changing realities. Our main challenge was to become a more digital based business through Ecommerce and social media and be able to meet and provide for our customers in a different way. What are some of the memorable moments in your life and career? Having children and watching them grow up into the grounded adults they are today must count high up there for me. Meeting and catering for Tony Blair when he was Prime Minister is another memorable time. Publishing my first book 100 Things I wish My Mother Had Told Me…2 years after losing my sister in the Dana Air crash was a reawakening moment for me. By far after my children the most memorable moment was seeing The Melting Pot Cook Book translated from an idea I had carried in my head for years into reality between June 2020 and January 2021 and in the difficult time that COVID has presented. What were the initial challenges? Juggling life and career. Coming from a background where there were others who helped fulfil some of the different roles in my life, to the place where I had to fulfil them all myself while trying to pursue my life dreams was eye opening. A lot of the time I worked my career part time around my children in a country where I did not fully understand the subtle cultural norms. Of course, I felt like giving up many times. The saying Onward Ever Backward Never was many times my mantra. I would work on a job for a while and then leave realising that long term I couldn’t work for someone else, nor was I happy to relegate my children’s formative years to someone else’s influence. What Inspired your proposal to support Black Lives Matters? My family experienced a racist attack at around the time of Black Lives Matter campaign and we found ourselves inadvertently drawn into the spotlight. It was my opportunity to talk to those in my industry about racism and its effects on local communities. So, I approached a number of members of the board that are fellow food producer and suggested we do something that truly reflected Wales stance on equality and diversity. The Melting Pot Cookbook is the culmination of the proposal that included interviews, fact finding and  referrals from the minority ethnic community across Wales. Tell us about your nomination for the Gourmand award in the migrant category? Before The Melting Pot Cook book I was unaware of the prestigious Gourmand awards that celebrate Cookery books globally. I was pleasantly surprised to receive notification that our cook book The Melting Pot have received a nomination in the Migrant category and this is an added achievement for what started out as a project that seemed limited to just Wales. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? My faith has always been my whole life personal and business, and in more recent days reading the Book Unleash The Giant within by Tony Robbins has added immense value to my life, choices and words. His words seemed to have explained my life in simple practical result producing language. What advice do you have for young people who want to go into the sector? Food is language and sustenance in globally and in every village and there is unending potential. So, my advice is go for it, but don’t limit your thinking to traditional approaches. The world food stage is now global…Go for it. How would you assess the food and drinks sector in Nigeria? Wonderful question, by interviewing, talking with the Nigerian media, showcasing what we are doing outside Nigeria for the food and drink industry we have started the journey of access. The journey of a thousand steps begins with one and we have started the journey into a sector I believe has even more potential than we have seen presently. What message do you have for Nigerians today? As far as Food and drink is concerned I would say to Nigerians, we have so much variety and diversity and such super rich foods at our disposal. Its time to show case them on the world stage and thereby become a renowned  player in the world food market.