 Abia State Governor Okezie Ikpeazu has reiterated his commitment to infrastructural development. He said his administration will complete the Abiriba Ring Road. He also promised to donate 150 units of Solar Powered Street lights for installation along the main road that leads into the Abiriba Community. The governor addressed the second Town Hall Meeting with the Abiriba Community in Aba held at the Abiriba Hall, Jubilee Road, Aba. Ikpeazu also stated that the State will soon take delivery of a tunneling machine to be deployed for the Aba flood management project. The machine will handle underground tunneling and storm water management around , Ngwa, Portharcourt, Ohanku roads and  environs. The governor disclosed that the underground work to be done in the area with the tunneling machine measures 17 metres beneath, hence, no building in the area would be pulled down as a result of the work. The governor, who informed that his decision to solve the flood water problem of the area permanently is to build solid roads, assured that his successor would no longer need to reclaim the area and maintained that he would do more roads in the days ahead. He revealed that his administration would build a health village at the Aba General hospital premises and informed that over  600 class room blocks have been built across the state while model schools have also been constructed to boost education in the State. The governor also directed the Commissioner for Works to visit the  Igbere – Abiriba erosion site and report to him for remediation work to be done. Governor Ikpeazu commended the Abiriba people for their sustained support to his administration and their contributions to the State economy describing them as true representatives of entrepreneurial spirit of the Igbo nation and a pride to Abia State. Ikpeazu used the opportunity to pay tribute to late Hon. Ossy Prestige, who he described as his ally and made a donation of 10 million naira in support of the education of his children. He urged the Aba community to support to the PDP candidate in the forthcoming by-election.  Deputy Governor Ude Oko Chukwu said the Governor has achieved a lot in many facets of the economy including security. He noted that Abiriba people are beneficiaries of the governor’s policy thrust, adding that the Governor is ensuring that businesses are thriving in the State based on the aggressive promotion of Made in Aba and SME development. The Minority Leader and member representing Aba Central at the State House of Assembly, Abraham Oba, thanked the Governor for reconstructing many roads in his constituency, including Ukaegbu, Ehere, Egege, Ebenma, Milverton roads among others and asked them to hearken to whatever request of the Governor for the Abiriba community in Aba North & South Federal Constituency. Also, the member representing Ohafia North at the State House of Assembly, Hon. Mandela Obasi saluted the Governor and enjoined his people at Aba to give support to Ngwa people, in whose land they have succeeded in various businesses The Chairman Ohafia Council Dr. Okoroafor Ukiwe and his Aba South counterpart, Clinton Ebere expressed joy that  the Governor is doing various roads in Aba which is assisting in the businesses and economic growth of the people. In their various speeches, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Women Mobilization, Chief (Mrs.) Nnenna Obewu-Onwuka and the leader of PDP in Abiriba clan, Chief Mba Ukariwo appreciated infrastructural development of Governor Ikpeazu said they appreciate the love the Governor has for Abiriba people and assured the Governor of their sustained support. The President, Abiriba Communal Improvement Union, Chief Nduka Agwu Onuoha commended the caterpillar revolution of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu in Aba, which has impacted positively on the businesses of Abiriba people living in Aba and appreciated him for identifying with the clan in the meeting and said the meeting was held in Aba as Aba is the entry and exit point of Abiriba people hence the choice of Aba for the meeting. He urged the governor to complete the ongoing construction of Abiriba ring road as well as drew his attention to the erosion manace along Igbere-Abiriba road. 