The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) has said leveraging technology and innovation will turn some of the challenges imposed by the COVID-19 global pandemic into opportunities. It has recommended that all mining and extractive companies embraced the global Extractive Industries Transparent Initiative (EITI) in their countries especially at this time of pandemic. Its Executive Secretary Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji said in NEITI like many other Federal Government  agencies, ICT has become an indispensable tool in arranging meetings, stakeholders’ engagements, revenues reconciliation and validation, information and data generation as well as in overall organisational management. Orji noted that NEITI is now a digital agency more than ever before. According to him, series of meetings are now held virtually with the extractive industries transparent initiative member countries around the world and with the agency’s national partners, adding that for instance, with technology, the NEITI–Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) joint committee on remediation concluded its assignment and the report released online. He said the agency’s independent industry reports are ongoing and on time. It has also reached appreciable stages in beneficial ownership, contract transparency, commodity trading, open data and other emerging issues in EITI. NEITI has equally carried out and launched quite a number of research publications during this pandemic, adding for the agency, no obstacle is a barrier and in every challenge, there is an opportunity. He stressed the need for big companies and multi-nationals in the mining industry to support the on-going national and global efforts to combat the pandemic. This, he said, could be through donations and grants to support production, distribution and acquisition of vaccines, medical equipment other forms of resource mobilisation towards cure, management and treatment of victims. “NEITI is aware that some companies are already supporting but more efforts are required at national, regional and global levels until COVID-19 is defeated,” he said. Orji agreed that the COVID-19 pandemic is a global public health crisis that has created devastating social, economic and political dislocations. According to him, the mining sector like other sectors is affected in several areas. While for some minerals it was a sweet tale, for others it was a nightmare. For example, the prices and demand for gold during this period soared, hitting about 28per cent increases in 2020. He observed that in contrast to gold, majority of other minerals like crude, coal and others, suffered sharp decline in demand due to the lockdown across the world which  slowed down economic activities resulting in crash in prices.