The Chairman of the Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Daniel Nwafor, has enjoined the various factions of the party to close ranks and work with the duly elected state executives. Nwafor, who was reacting to the recent adjournment of the appeal against the authenticity of the state Exco of the party by the Supreme Court, stated that he remains the Imo State APC Chairman pending the determination of the appeal by the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court Monday, March 1, adjourned the hearing in the appeal against the authenticity of the Daniel Nwafor-led Exco by the APC National Working Committee to October 2022. But Nwafor, who insisted that the National leadership of the party was deceived into filing the appeal against the judgement of the Bwari High Court which affirmed him and members of his Executives as the duly elected state Exco, said that it was time to put away all differences and come together to make the APC stronger in the state. The APC Chairman also sued for peace between the state governor, Hope Uzodinma and his predecessor and Senator representing Imo West, Rochas Okorocha “in the best interest of the party.” “I am using this opportunity to appeal to the leaders of our party, Governor Hope Uzodinma and Senator Rochas Okorocha to toe the part of peace in the interest of our great party. They should reconcile whatever differences they have and work to unite the different factions in the party,” Nwafor said. He explained further that, “with the recent adjournment of the appeal filed against the authenticity of the State Exco to October 2022 by the Supreme Court, it means that status quo will remain, that also means that we remain the authentic state Exco until the determination of the appeal by 2022. “Therefore I urge all those parading as State Exco to stop forthwith and join hands with the duly elected Executives to rebuild our party”. Nwafor also commended President Muhammadu Buhari for providing leadership at a very trying period, adding that, “the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari has continued to confront the multiple challenges facing the country with great commitment and should be encouraged. “From COVID-19 pandemic to insecurity and economic challenges, the President has risen to the occasion and we should support government’s efforts for a greater Nigeria. Of particular note is the pulling out of our economy from recession when people had thought that the country was headed for disaster.”