A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Femi Falana, one of those invited by a Federal High Court in Abuja to testify as a defence witness in the trial of former Chairman of the Pension Reform Task Team (PRTT), Abdulrasheed Maina, attended court on Thursday. Falana, who was not robed but accompanied by some individuals, including publisher of Sahara Reporters, Omoyele Sowore, said though he was not served any subpoena, he learnt about his invitation in the media and decided to attend court out of respect. The court had, on March 8, 2021, at the instance of Maina’s lawyer, issued subpoenas on a number of people, including Falana, Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami and former Chairman, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu to attend court between March 9 and 11 to testify as Maina’s witnesses. None of the subpoenaed witnesses attended court until Thursday when Falana came. On arriving in court, some minutes into proceedings on Thursday, Falana sat on a seat behind the courtroom. But, after sitting for about 30 minutes, he rose from his seat, walked to the front of the courtroom and announced his presence. He said: “My lord, I have been in court for about 30 minutes now. I read in the newspapers that I was summoned to testify in the ongoing case. “I have not been served with a copy of the subpoena but I came out of respect for the court.” The trial judge, Justice Okon Abang explained that although Maina’s lawyer applied for the issuance of the subpoenas at a very short notice, he had to sign them in view of the Court of Appeal’s decision in a case in which he had declined to sign such a subpoena. “I signed it based on the Court of Appeal’s decision that compels me to sign it in the matter of Olisa Metuh Vs. Federal Republic of Nigeria,” the judge said. Justice Abang subsequently directed a registrar of the court to accompany Falana to the court’s Registry where he could be handed the subpoena. Speaking with journalists after exiting the courtroom, Falana said the subpoena will afford him the opportunity for to “put an end to the needless controversy surrounding a property I never bought.” Maina’s first witness, Ngozika Ihuoma had, while testifying on March 4 this year, claimed that the funds and property recovered by Maina’s PRTT were mismanaged upon being handed to the EFCC. Ihuoma, a Management Consultant, whose firm, Crincad & Cari Nigeria Ltd, was contracted by Maina’s PRTT to offer consultancy services, claimed that Magu, who headed the EFCC when the property were handed to the agency, sold some of them to his friends and associates, including a “renowned lawyer.” Maina’s second witness, Charles Emoakemeh (a retired prison official) testified on Thursday after Falana left the court. Emoakemeh said Maina was appointed a director of the pension office, during which he facilitated the recovery of about N10billion for the Federal Government after eliminating ghost pensioners. The witness added that, as head of the PRTT, Maina had no control over the disbursement of funds, unless approval was sought from the then Head of Service. Justice Abang has adjourned further proceedings till March 17 for the subpoenaed witnesses to appear.