Unilever West Africa has said it will continue to provide opportunities for youths to develop ideas on real-life business scenarios.  This assurance was given at the 9th edition of Unilever Nigeria Ideatrophy challenge which ended in Lagos recently. The event, which saw University of Lagos (Team Itesiwaju) clinch the First place position had as its theme: “More Than You Expect.” Speaking at the virtual event, The Managing Director, Unilever West Africa, Carl Cruz, said that Unilever remains committed to creating a bright future for Nigerian youths and will continue to contribute to the improvement of knowledge in the younger generation through Ideatrophy. “The aim of the 9th edition Unilever Ideatrophy Challenge is to reinforce the role of Unilever in contributing to employment creation. The event is a skill building and learning opportunity, a way to challenge youths to come up with ideas while they are mentored by seasoned professionals. Therefore, the competition’s focus is on the development of personal, leadership and entrepreneurial business competence amongst university undergraduates,” he said. Also speaking at the event, Unilever Human Resources Director – West Africa, Ola Ehinmoro said, “At Unilever, we believe that education is a process and a lifelong experience, this is why we equip the youths through the competition with necessary knowledge, expertise and experience to become great business leaders.” This year’s competition was focused on the Sunlight brand where the finalists were tasked to “Light Up Africa with Your Ideas” by proposing product idea options for Sunlight. A representative of the winner, Bright Nwaneri, thanked Unilever Nigeria for an opportunity to showcase their ideas and talents on a global scale. “This event has indeed exposed Team Itesiwaju to a lot of potential and life changing experiences. We look forward to applying everything we have learnt in the business world. This competition is indeed one every student should plug into for knowledgeable and professional experience” he said.  The winners have also earned internship positions with Unilever alongside other fantastic prizes. As winners of this year’s edition, Team Itesiwaju will proceed to represent Nigeria at the 2021 Unilever Africa IdeaTrophy and if successful, will proceed as representative at the Global Future Leaders League.