 The Supreme Court judgement, which has brought finality to the protracted crisis rocking the Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC, has been described as a stimulant the state needs to liberate itself and unleash its true greatness. That was how a chieftain of the party, Dr. Chukwudi Dimkpa interpreted the landmark ruling of the apex court on the seemingly intractable crisis that threatened to tore the ruling party into smithereens in Rivers State. He disclosed this in a statement issued to inform both residents of the state and party stakeholders on how the party intends to take over the state in the upcoming elections. Dimkpa said the courage of the Supreme Court in doing justice to the various suits that sought to entangle the party in endless litigations and, by effect, thwart the aspiration of the Rivers people is most commendable. The ruling has provided an opportunity for the state to have a virile opposition and a political platform under to deliver good governance. “The age-long aphorism that every day may exist for the thief but one day would be for the owner played out eventually as the almost endless daily battles instigated by external forces for the APC have now been effectively and permanently neutralised. This has paved the way for the rejuvenation of our great party to meet the yearnings of Rivers people for a better, robust, more inclusive, empathetic and forward-looking governance beyond the grandstanding delusion of short-lived brick and mortar myopia.  He said: “To this end, may I commend the steadfastness of all members of our party, the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, who stayed true to their commitments to the party and its leader, Rotimi Chibuike Amaechi, Nigeria’s performing Minister of Transportation, throughout the trying moments of the party. To other stakeholders, especially the friends of the party across all political divides and nonpolitical quarters, who prayed and hoped that a day like this would come in which Rivers State would have an opportunity to have a credible alternative political platform, I tell you the truth: the coast is now clear and the party now stands ready to welcome you all into its enlarging fold.” The party chieftain added that the doors of the party are now wide open and the invitation is now extended to all and sundry desiring the best for Rivers State to come in and join hands with APC as its members “work on liberating the state from the stranglehold of its current captors and begin the journey of unleashing refreshing waves of opportunities and progress for the people without discrimination of whatever kind.”