Mr Tolulope Agbaje, a National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) member, serving in Niger State has emerged the grand-prize winner of Access Bank’s ‘Transact and Win a Car’ promo. Agbaje won a brand new Hyundai Accent, which was presented to him at a ceremony at the bank’s headquarters in Lagos. The visibly excited grand prize-winner expressed shock and admiration noting that he was shocked when informed of his win but it later turned out to be true. He encouraged customers and friends to open accounts with Access Bank pointing out that the bank has shown care for its customers. “I am still in shock as I was not expecting it. I cannot even remember the amount of transactions I did but I know it was too much. The car was not something I was looking at owning in a year or even three years but Access Bank has fast-tracked my dream of owning a car and so I would keep spreading the word to friends and family that this is indeed real,” Agbaje said. Executive Director, Retail Banking, Access Bank Plc, Mr. Victor Etuokwu, said the promotion was designed to play a big role in the lives of the bank customers. According to him, the bank is targeting the unbanked and the underbanked and looking at increasing the rate of transactions through its mobile and digital platforms. “We want to continue to play a big role in the lives of our customers and as for Tolulope, we have asked him what he graduated with, he said he is a first class holder and with this, we are looking at a possibility of him working with Access Bank,” Etuokwu said. In his remarks, Lead Manager, Mobile and Internet banking, Access Bank Plc, Osakwe Edwards, said the campaign will boost the bank’s digital products while adding that Agbaje had emerged winner after a draw was conducted. According to him, Agbaje performed 10 transactions which was the criteria to win the car via the USSD or the mobile app. A draw was done among millions of people that met the criteria and Agbaje came top. “For now, this is the third car that has been given. One person won in Abuja, the other won in January and so we are hoping to commence another prize presentation by the second quarter of 2021. When we start by second quarter, it will be on quarterly campaigns and draws and by the end of second quarter, we will have another winner by the end of third and fourth quarters. “Digital is the future and this mobile banking is what we want to get a lot of people into and you know that as a bank, we make revenue from our digital channels and we use it to boost our customer acquisition. These days, people do not need to get to the bank to open an account with us or perform transactions, they can do that through our mobile banking platforms or USSD,” Edwards said.