The nation’s 36 Governors have pledged to ensure smooth roll-out of the coronavirus vaccines across all states beginning from March 10. They however tasked the Federal Government to take necessary steps to support logistics and inoculation activities in states to avert any hitch. These formed part of the resolutions at the last virtual meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) on Thursday evening as captured in a communique released on Friday by the NGF’s secretariat. The Governors, as part of plans to ensure hitch free roll-out, agreed to initiate the launch of the vaccination programme in all states from March 10, 2021. According to the communique signed by NGF’s Chairman and Ekiti Governor, Kayode Fayemi, the governors promised to “actively monitor vaccine administration in their states through a vaccine implementation dashboard. They agreed to facilitate the timely release of counterpart funds from state governments to ensure the vaccine roll-out exercise runs smoothly The Governors resolved to upscale all vaccine communication and advocacy mechanisms already in place in states to reduce the level of vaccination hesitancy amongst Nigerians. They equally promised to provide adequate security to all state and local government-owned cold stores that will be used for storing the vaccines. They resolved to ensure strict compliance and prioritisation of the list of eligible persons to be vaccinated starting with all frontline workers, support staff, COVID-19 rapid response teams, workers in lab networks, isolation and treatment centres as well as tertiary and specialist hospitals. They agreed that “strategic leaders will also be vaccinated to give confidence to the public on the safety of the vaccine. “The second phase will prioritise older adults (50 and above) while the 3rd and 4th phases will focus on adults (18 – 49) with co-morbidities such as hypertension, diabetes, lung disease and other health conditions; and adults (18 – 49 years) without any underlying health condition and the rest of the population.”