Robert Lewandowski has scored 31 times across the first 24 Matchdays of 2020/21. With 10 games of the current campaign left to play, will the Bayern Munich striker break Gerd Müller’s 40-goal record? Müller’s 1971/72 feat appeared untouchable until Lewandowski came along, and the Poland captain has been edging closer and closer to his Bayern predecessor in recent years. A sensational run of scoring in each of the campaign’s first 11 matches set Lewandowski on his path last term, but he eventually fell six short of Müller’s now 49-year-old record. Lewandowski was nigh-on unstoppable as he helped sweep Bayern to a record-breaking treble, and were it not for injury and suspension depriving him of three Bundesliga appearances, the 32-year-old may well have hit the same heights as Müller last year. The Pole acknowledged that himself at the end of last season, saying: “I missed three games. Who knows what I could have achieved if I didn’t?” He also, however, called it “impossible” to top Müller’s efforts, such is the quality of opposition and workload of the modern game, but as coach Hansi Flick summarised: “If someone can do it, it’s him.” In all competitions, Lewandowski’s 55 goals from 47 appearances in 2019/20 actually outstripped Müller’s 50 from 48 games five decades ago, and in 2020/21 he’s once again motoring at a frightening pace when you hold his strikes up against that remarkable 40-goal effort of Der Bomber. It led him to pick up both the UEFA and FIFA Player of the Year awards and secure a fifth Torjägerkanone trophy, which was his third in succession – a treble of Bundesliga top-scorer cannons that only Müller had managed previously. His 31 goals after 24 Bundesliga Matchdays eclipses the 25 he managed at the same stage last time around, and he has actually missed a match this term. It also means Lewandowski already has five more than Müller’s haul after 24 league games in 1971/72. Lewandowski’s return leaves Bayern’s current marksman in need of just 9 goals from 10 games to match Müller. That equates to less than a goal a game (0.9) from now until the end of the season; Lewandowski’s current output is 1.29 goals a game.  “He has a fantastic team around him. The team is the key to breaking a record like this from Gerd Müller,” said Bayern legend Lothar Matthaus recently. “So, this is my prognosis for 2021, Robert Lewandowski will break the record from Gerd Müller and score more than 40 goals in the Bundesliga.” Müller’s 23-goal Rückrunde tipped the balance, as did his ability to score in bulk; an area Lewandowski is also measuring up in. The Pole has scored more than once on seven separate occasions so far in 2020/21, including four against Hertha Berlin on Matchday 3, a hat-trick against Eintracht Frankfurt on Matchday 5 and the 12th hat-trick of his Bundesliga career as he almost single-handedly earned Bayern Der Klassiker victory. Müller hit four more hat-tricks – including five in one game against Rot-Weiß Oberhausen – during the second half of 1971/72, but Lewandowski has also been on fire since the midway stage of the season. A home meeting with second-bottom Mainz offered a fine first opportunity after the winter break for Lewandowski to score in multiples – one he grabbed, bagging a brace. That Matchday 24 hat-trick against Borussia Dortmund, taking him to 20 goals in 14 league outings against his former club, has set Lewandowski up nicely, especially when you consider that Wolfsburg (Bayern’s Matchday 29 opponents) are his favourite opposition of the lot, with a total of 23 goals in 20 games against the Wolves, of which 19 have fallen in his last 11. A brace in the 2-1 victory earlier this season took Lewandowski past 250 Bundesliga goals and made it six doubles against the Wolves, while his five-goal haul of September 2015 blew Müller’s aforementioned salvo against Oberhausen out of the water. It took his predecessor 44 minutes. If Lewandowski can score a Guinness world record-breaking five goals in nine minutes, he can surely plunder at least nine in the remaining 900. That is one every 100 minutes, meaning he does not even need one per game to match Müller. To beat him, it’s one every 90 minutes of what’s left of the season, and if anyone can topple Müller, it’s LewanGOALski…