Finally: finally….a self-improvement on-farm training that moves, empowers and transforms you for life across the states! Are you sick in your finances? Ever wanted to be financially free? Do you know you can grow your income? Do you have the agribusiness skillsets to achieve your desired financial freedom? You cannot get these skillsets online and classroom alone as they are a result of one-on-one practical on-farm training. Get trained, stand a better chance of getting hired or getting people to invest in you “Too many people don’t know to money from agriculture”. This statement was made by the National co-coordinator of Nigeria Agribusiness Group (NAGB) and CEO Best Foods, Mr. Emmanuel Ijewere. Do you wish to learn how to make money from agriculture? Learn a farming and agribusiness skill with AgroCareNg  you will need tomorrow, today…. Benefits Register on time as we have limited slots for you Guarantee: your training fees is refundable if you feel you are not learning anything Click here to register https://agrocare.com.ng/training-services/ or call 08023758712 for more information. You can register for the AgroCareNg apprenticeship training on Farming skills to acquire Field crop Click here to register https://agrocare.com.ng/training-services/ or call 08023758712 for more information. Email: hello@agrocare.com.ng Website: www.agrocare.com.ng AgroCare Nigeria: what there is to know about the platform-solution that cares about aspiring agric-entrepreneurs, small scale farmers and frustrated Agric-Entrepreneurs founded by Azeta Itua. Itua Azeta is a graduate from the faculty of agriculture, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Nigeria. Who is an Agric-Entrepreneur? Agric-entrepreneur is an individual who sets up an agribusiness and taking on financial risk with the hope of making profits. Agribusiness is the application of business principles to agriculture. Agriculture is beyond farming. It is the most difficult sector especially if you don’t have a full grasp of it. Agriculture is a money spinning sector that can transform the lives of Nigerians. Two things you must possess to make money from agriculture which can’t be gotten from online and in the classroom alone. The two key components to becoming a great Agric-Entrepreneur are: These are inseparable. You need knowledge and experience to succeed in agribusiness. If you get educated (real knowledge) by someone with no experience, then you have been a victim of a fake teacher. Real teacher or mentors have actually done and continue to do the REAL thing. Get a real teacher to learn practical farming and agribusiness skills from. Use their knowledge and experience until it is your own knowledge and personal experience. To have understanding of how to make money from agriculture, two things you must do It is pitiable that very few people go the extra mile to get this knowledge and skills (experience) through practical training. They think that it is something that should come naturally, without training. Or they think it is easy and there really is not much to learn. Agribusiness is not like breathing and eating. It takes practice and training. AgroCareNg legal services present end-to-end online legal solutions for agribusinesses. AgroCareNg offers qualitative and affordable legal services for individual farmers, producers, processors, agricultural marketers, distributors and retailers, various lenders, suppliers and service business. We guarantee the needed support for business owners to start, grow and scale their agribusinesses. AgroCareNg legal services allow agribusiness owners the option to download specially prepared customized legal documents for their needs. This reduces the stress and high cost of getting professional lawyers for their immediate or continuous legal needs. AgroCare legal services can be accessed from the comfort of your phone and desktop. AgroCare legal services allow files shares and digital collaboration on documents. You can request AgroCare legal services at https://agrocare.com.ng/agricultural-legal-services/ Website: www.agrocare.com.ng Email: hello@agrocare.com.ng Tel: 08023758712