Angered by monthly crazy bills, 21 communities in Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area (LCDA) in Lagos State have asked Ikeja Electricity Distribution Company (IKEDC) for disconnection. In a letter dated 18 February 2021, titled “request for de-loading of transformers in our communities” and signed by chairmen of twenty two Community Development Associations (CDAs) in ward E4, Ikorodu North, the communities stressed that they were tired of paying outrageous bills monthly. According to the communities led by Mr. Alaba Salako, this was despite the fact that they had written and interfaced with IKEDC severally over pre-paid meters, crazy bills, poor services, etc. The letter reads: “We wish to humbly request the immediate de-loading of the thirteen transformers in the twenty one communities in our areas by your organization. ‘’This is as a result of the blatant refusal of IKEDC to look into several representations on issues connected with your services at various offices of your organization – Adamo, Imota, Ikorodu and IKEDC headquarters without success. “For the records, our organization is the body representing all Community Development Associations (CDAs) in Ward E4, Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area, Ikorodu. And It is an indisputable fact that we have written severally to your organization on these matters which include estimated billing, poor services and pre-paid meters without any headway.” “Even when we had a meeting brokered by the Divisional Police Officer of Imota, with your officials on these issues, following a protest last year, nothing concrete came out of the exercise, especially on estimated billing, as the problem remains the same. “As you read this, our people are being billed unjustifiably. Even those who are allotted just two weeks of unstable power cannot believe what they are been billed. “Meanwhile, all efforts to ensure that pre-paid meters are made available to our people have not yielded positive results, due to the nonchalant attitude of your organization. This is both wicked and callous, to say the least.’’