Troop have taken over the forest close to where Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom’s convoy was attacked on Saturday. Makeshift tents used as hideouts by armed men have already been ablaze by the troops have intensified surveillance of the forest. The troops were drawn from Operation Whirl Stroke, a military operation covering Benue, Taraba and Nassarawa states. Armed herders  had on Saturday opened fire on Ortom  who was on inspection of his farm at Tyo-mu along the Makurdi-Gboko Road. Operation Commander, Major – Gen. Adeyemi  Yekini, who made this known to reporters on Tuesday, also disclosed that some suspects had been arrested in connection with the attack. He was however quick to add that the arrest should not be highlighted for now since investigations were still ongoing. Yekini conducted reporters round the scene of the attack in company with Ortom’s Special Adviser on Security, Col. Paul Hemba (rtd). Yekini said: “When we got information on the attack, we immediately went into action and cleared the forest near where the governor came under attack. We also set some of their makeshift tents ablaze and as we speak our troops are still in the forest. “We have secured the area and it is safe as there are no more herdsmen or bandits. So don’t judge our operation in Benue with the attack on the governor. “ Attributing the continued   killings by bandits   in Sankera axis , especially Katsina Ala,  to lack of information available to security agencies, he called on the people to assist troops on the movements of criminals. Hemba said the armed herders opened fire on the governor and his convoy close to a riverbank.  He also said the arrested suspects were undergoing interrogation. The House of Representatives has said that despite the rising insecurity and banditry in the land, Nigerians should keep faith in the indivisibility, unity, and sovereignty of the nation. Adopting a motion of urgent public importance sponsored by Kpam Jimin Sokpo on the  attack on the Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom, the House ask security agents to carry out thorough investigations into the attack in line with Presidential directive. It warned that if left unchecked,   bandits might soon leave  Nigerians without food on their table. It therefore tasked the Department of State Services and Nigeria Police to investigate claims of responsibility on the attack of Governor Samuel Ortom, as well as other threats and statements allegedly attributed to one Umar Amir Shehu and the Fulani National Movement (FUNAM). The House however commended President Muhammadu Buhari for promptly ordering an investigation into the attack.