A policeman, Shedrack Aleke Igwe, working in the Armoury section of MOPOL base 28, Umuahia, Abia State, has been arrested with 5 AK-47 rifles he stole from the Armoury. Igwe, a constable, was reported to have carted away rifles in the Armoury section with the help of others unnoticed. He was arrested in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State where he hails from. He committed the act on the 2nd of this month after which he fled to Ebonyi State. But two days later, a combined team of policemen from Abia  and Ebonyi states arrested and moved him to Abia State Police Command  for investigation. The combined team from the two states had trailed him to his Ikwo community where he was hiding. He was immediately arrested with the help of the Divisional Police Officer, Ikwo and investigation commenced immediately. Five of the missing AK-47 rifles were recovered from him in his Enyibichiri Ikwo, Ebonyi State. It was further learnt that the suspect recently bought three brand new tricycles for commercial purposes and gave them to his brother Ifeanyi Igwe. It is believed that he might have sold some of the riffles, if not all of the AK-47 rifles he made away with to purchase the tricycles. A source in one of the security agencies in the state said “the development portrays lack of proper vetting and supervision on the side of the Nigeria Police Force because the subject was just a constable and as such is not supposed to be manning a sensitive section like Armoury in a security agency like the police. “And the position was given to him without a proper examination of his character and supervision, hence the reason for blaming the agency”. Spokesperson for the Police in Abia State, Geoffrey Ogbonna, refused to comment on the matter, claiming he was in a meeting “I’m in a meeting, I just pulled out to answer this call”, he said But the Commissioner of Police in Ebonyi State, Aliyu Garba, confirmed the report. He said the recovery of the stolen rifles was carried out by a combined effort of Abia and Ebonyi police commands. “This thing is for Abia State; it is good you ask Abia State Police Command; we only assisted them. So, you will get the whole story in Abia. “Yes, it is a combination of action and necessary things. Get Abia, Abia will give you the necessary things; we only assisted,” he said.