The introduction of reality shows in Nigeria has been one of the most entertaining and fast-rising pace for artists, media personalities, among others, who seek to showcase their talent and skills. Reality shows have proven to be a great platforms that give you fame but you must have mental intelligence to be successful Popular reality shows like Project Fame West Africa, Nigeria’s Got Talent, Gulder Ultimate Search, Big Brother Naija have served as platforms for Nigeria’s budding talents. Africa Magic has several reality shows that capture different aspects of Naija culture with the biggest of them all arguably being the blockbuster Big Brother Naija. Big Brother Naija season 5 winner, Lekan Agbeleshe a.k.a Laycon, has begun thrilling his fans with an exciting show titled: “I Am Laycon”. The show powered by Showmax was premiered in February and reveals his activities after emerging winner of the BBnaija show. ShowMax is an online video streaming service similar to Netflix offered across Africa by MultiChoice the owners of DSTV and GoTV. “I am Laycon,” which was shot in Nigeria, is Showmax’s first-ever Nigerian original series. Millions of Laycon’s fans and Showmax subscribers in the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Australia, and 23 other countries were thrilled to have access to different sides of the sensational artist on screen. Video vixen and actress, Mercy Eke was the winner of Big Brother Naija season 4. She started a TV show with her BBNaija lover boy, Ike Onyema, immediately she left the house. However, in late 2020, both parties came out to officially announce their breakup. You may not know this but the popular Tonto Dikeh is a product of a reality show. She was among the contestants in a show called “The Next Movie Star” dated 2005. Dikeh has her own show titled “King Tonto”. Meanwhile, her estranged husband, Olakunle Churchill who recently had a baby boy with his former PA, Rosy Meurer, kicked against the casting of their son in the project. Popular BBNaija Host, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu has unveiled his legal theme TV show ‘Judging Matters’. The trained lawyer, who turned an award-winning media personality, recently shared photos to unveil the show. The show showcases real courtroom cases with all the drama attached to the Nigerian real life experiences. Ebuka is known for his trendy style and fashion was a housemate in the first season of the Big Brother Naija reality show. Although he finished in the eighth position, he is one of the most successful products of the reality show. The media personality from Anambra State is popularly known for hosting the reality show Big Brother Naija, the long running Rubbin’ Minds talk show on Channels TV as well as co-hosting The Spot and Men’s Corner on Ebonylife Television. Former Big Brother Naija housemate, Mike Edwards and his wife, Perri are set to launch a reality TV series on MTV UK and BET Digital tagged “Celebrity Bumps”. The couple shared the big announcement on their joint YouTube channel. Fans can finally get to see how the couple was able to prepare for the arrival of their little bundle of joy and the challenges encountered along the line.