 The police are now on the trail of Anthonia Uchenna, a former domestic staff of Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, after she accused the ex-minister of assaults and sexual harassment. The police have also invited PUNCH reporter, Eniola Akinkuotu, who interviewed Fani-Kayode’s ex-workers. Besides, Fani-Kayode has threatened to sue Punch Newspapers. He is asking for a N6 billion compensation, failing which he intends to launch litigation. Uchenna’s allegations came against the background of the stand-off between Fani-Kayode and his estranged wife, Precious Chikwendu. Fani-Kayode’s lawyer, Adeola Adedipe, in a letter to Punch, said: “Our client is Chief Femi Fani-Kayode. He has instructed us to notify you of his intention to activate judicial machineries against your outfit for civil and criminal libel. Known to you in recent times, is the embroiled battle between our client and his estranged wife. You are also aware of the civil suit which she (Ms Precious Chikwendu) commenced against him at an Abuja High Court for custody of their children. “You are quite aware that the persons who feature in the videos are our clients’ erstwhile domestic staff who had left his employ since 2018 and 2019. It is our client’s belief that if you were operating within the realms of professionalism, your outfit would have cross checked these facts with him in order to ensure balanced reportage.  “However, for whatever it is worth, you may wish to enter negotiation with us for the sum of N6 billion as a token amount for penitence, apologise on the platform to our client which you made available to scandalise him and thereafter assist the police with investigation. You have seven days from the receipt of this letter to mitigate the highlighted wrongs in the above terms. Should you fail to do so, we shall proceed to seek the appropriate redress in court.” Anthonia Uchenna had alleged that the ex-minister once ordered his bodyguards to strip and flog her. According to PUNCH, Uchenna spoke when she visited its office to submit affidavits of her allegations against the former minister. “I witnessed Chief Fani-Kayode direct his bodyguards to completely strip his chef naked on the allegation that they stole from him. He sometimes drags his staff to the police station where they remain for days,” she said. “I was treated in a similar way too. Chief Fani-Kayode instructed one Bako to strip me naked and then beat me up. I was taken to the police station.” But Favour Anthony, a nurse attached to the residence of former Minister of Aviation, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, has denied allegations of assaults and sexual harassment against him.