 Two policemen and two prison officials have been killed in Ekwulobia, Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State by unknown gunmen But an attempt to burn a Police Station at Ekwulobia by the group was repelled by security operatives at 4am, yesterday. The Prisons vehicle conveying some prisoners to court was however attacked around 11am yesterday in the same Ekwulobia, and two officials were killed, while all the prisoners in the vehicle were set free by the attackers. An eye witness alleged that the unknown gunmen were members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), who according to him had metamorphosed into Eastern Security Network (ESN). According to the witness, “they came in a commando manner, brought out the prisoners and shot and killed the officials inside the vehicle. “The prison officials are a man and a lady. The ESN members were shooting sporadically which made everyone to run for safety. It was like a war, “the source said. Also, confirming the attack on prisons vehicle, the Public Relation’s Officer of the Nigeria Correctional Service in the state, Francis Ekezie, said the command was still trying to get the full report. He confirmed that their officials conveying crime suspects to court were attacked. “Yes, there was an attack on our men who were going to the court but the information is still sketchy now. I’ll get back to you”, he said.  The current situation came about 12 hours after three naval men were killed at Awkuzu, Oyi Local Government Area and three other policemen killed at Neni, Anaocha Local Government Area of the state on Thursday Also, one of the security vehicles of the policemen on duty at Neni, Anaocha Local Government Area, was burnt. The attack on Ekwulobia Police Station yesterday morning was confirmed to The Nation by the Police Public Relation’s officer in Anambra State, Ikenga Tochukwu. However, he said efforts to burn down the rebuilt police station by the hoodlums were repelled by the gallant men at the station On the number of his men killed by the assailants, he said nobody was sure if there was any killings, adding that “command was still expecting further reports.” Meanwhile, a source told The Nation that some policemen were gunned down, adding that the number of casualties had not been ascertained Another Senior Police Officer, who spoke with The Nation in confidence, said it was unfortunate that some people do not want the existence of police again in Anambra State. He said, “how do you want us to fold our arms and continue losing our men on daily basis? “We have lost about seven men within few hours and some equipment to hoodlums and when our men retaliate now, people will start shouting. We can’t bear this anymore,” the aggrieved officer said. However, the pro- Biafra group, IPOB or ECN, had denied being responsible for the attacks in Anambra State.  Rather, it’s Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said they were only interested in looking out for Fulani herdsmen in their bushes and not killing innocent citizens of the land. IPOB therefore, dismissed alleged involvement in the killings of Thursday and Friday in Anambra State. Emma Powerful described those linking the group or its security outfit as insane, insisting that its members were not murderers. According to him, “We don’t kill human beings. IPOB is a peaceful movement seeking for the restoration of Biafra freedom. “ESN is only looking for Fulani in our bushes and forests, so anybody linking IPOB or ESN to these activities of attacking security operatives is insane. “Our people must understand that IPOB cannot be part and parcel of those killing people on highways; we are a known organisation not an unknown organisations or gunmen,” the group said.