 Thanks to the Oando Foundation, Nigeria, Sumitomo Chemical, China, with the technical support of the Nigerian Conservation Foundation (NCF), over 100 primary school teachers drawn from different parts of Lagos state have gained mastery of recycling and environment sustainability as a whole. Tagged: “Upcycling and composting in schools and communities,” the three-day event which focused on capacity building on recycling and environmental sustainability for some public primary school teachers in the state. The workshop held in Mushin Lagos, had 100 participants drawn from Dele Ajomale Primary School, Ilasamaja; Metropolitan Primary School, Orile-Iganmu and Dada Olisa Primary School, Papa Ajao, Mushin in Lagos. Aside the teachers, other participants were parents and community members. In her remarks, Mrs. Abidemi Balogun, Project Lead, NCF said the overall objective of the project is to sustainably manage wastes that have become a menace across the world, with a particular focus on Lagos which generates 30,000 metric tons of waste daily. “The path that we have chosen this time is the path of waste management. It is a menace across the world. So we have to put every resource we have to achieve this. We want to change the mindset of people to stop pollution and know how to manage their wastes properly.” The Lead facilitator, Mrs. Temitope Okunnu, CEO of FABE International Foundation, an NGO that champions environmental sustainability issues, noted that if the ‘waste to wealth initiative’ is massively adopted by governments across the country, using school children as major target group, would help to effectively mitigate the impacts of climate change and tackle hunger and poverty among Nigerian citizenry. Another participant, Mrs. Rachael Olaide said “Waste, especially plastic bottles usually block drainage. But now that we have received training, we will teach our children, neighbors and sensitise the schools and parents.” In addition, Mr. Onyebuchi Onwunali, a participant said, “What we called waste material, we now learnt that it is not waste until it is wasted.” Echoing similar sentiments, Mr. Oladapo Soneye, Head Communications, NCF, said that NCF is open to partnership with corporate organisations and individuals to expand the training to many schools within and outside Lagos State.  