Having a good name means a lot to retired ambassador Dapo Fafowora who turns 80 today. Born in Ilesha, in present-day Osun State, on March 29, 1941, he can be described as a man of knowledge and integrity. “Early in life,” Fafowora says in his autobiography, Lest I Forget, published in 2013,  “ I set myself some objectives, of which the most important were my intellectual and moral development. I believe that I have achieved those two objectives. I have also achieved personal success in my public career with which I remain satisfied.” An old boy of CMS Grammar School, Lagos (1954 -58), he had joined the Nigerian Diplomatic Service in 1964 after graduating in History from the then University College, Ibadan.  He earned a master’s degree from University of London in 1966, and a doctorate from Trinity College, Oxford University, in 1972. He served as Second Secretary, Nigeria High Commission, London, from 1966 to 1968.  He was Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations from 1981 to 1984. “I was only 43 years old in March, 1984 when, without any justification whatsoever, I was suddenly and prematurely retired by the Buhari military regime from the Foreign Service, twenty years after I joined it, and some 17 years before I was due to retire statutorily,” Fafowora says in his memoirs. Understandably, this unexpected development hurt his sense of personal and professional integrity. Apart from writing about the matter in his memoirs, he further publicised it when he boldly criticised the appointment of Prof. Ibrahim Gambari as Chief of Staff to President Muhammadu Buhari in May 2020. In a widely published article, Fafowora had again accused Gambari of treacherously working with others to end his diplomatic career unjustly and prematurely. Gambari was foreign minister at the time.  According to him, “I had done absolutely nothing wrong in my entire career in the diplomatic service… There were many other Yoruba and Southern officers retired who like me had done nothing wrong. “Now, the result of these capricious and vengeful retirements that took place under the watch of Gambari is that the fine Foreign Service we had, of which we were all proud, was wantonly destroyed.” Fafowora’s insistence on his innocence, and his repeated accusations against Gambari, reflect his sense of personal and professional integrity. It is noteworthy that Gambari has not responded to the damaging allegations. With his diplomatic career cut short in unclear circumstances, the career diplomat was left wondering about ruined possibilities. He had a stint in the private sector as Director General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), which showed his versatility. His investiture as a Fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Letters (NAL) in August 2014 highlighted yet another dimension of his multidimensionality. “Nothing gives me greater pleasure than writing,” he says in his memoirs. For more than 25 years, starting from 1991, he was a respected newspaper columnist who focused on Nigerian Diplomacy, Politics and Economics. He retired from column writing when he left The Nation editorial board in January 2018, after 11 years of dedicated service. He is the author of  Lord Lugard’s Political Memoranda and the Development of Indirect Rule in Nigeria; A History of the CMS Grammar School, Lagos (1859 – 2009); A Venture of Faith (An Official History of the Cathedral Church of Christ, Lagos (1867 – 2007); and Lest I Forget: Memoirs of a Nigerian Career Diplomat (2013). As a public speaker, Fafowora has delivered lectures at University of Ibadan, the then University of Ife, University of Lagos, Lagos State University (convocation), University of Ilorin (convocation), University of Benin, Redeemer’s University, and the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, at Kuru, in Jos, Plateau State. In 1989, he was invited by the Confederation of British Industries (CBI) in London to speak on the Nigerian industrial sector. Also, he has presented papers on Nigeria’s foreign policy prompted by invitations from the foreign ministry. Our paths had first crossed on the editorial board of The Nation.  I got to know Fafowora better when he agreed to deliver the inaugural Herbert Macaulay Gold Lecture in 2017. I coordinated the event. He helped to turn an idea into an event. He chose the topic: “Herbert Macaulay and his relevance to the excellence of Lagos.”  While we prepared for the event, which took place at the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja, Lagos, on May 25, 2017, we shared life beyond the boardroom.  It was an unforgettable time. I benefitted immensely from his immense experience. He deepened my understanding of decency and integrity. He said in his lecture: “As a professional historian, one of my unfulfilled literary ambitions was to write a full-length biography of Herbert Macaulay. There is, regrettably, none at the moment. This is because I find his public life, career, and politics in Lagos very fascinating. Therefore, I welcome and relish this opportunity and privilege of delivering this inaugural lecture on the life and times of Herbert Macaulay, who is widely regarded and acknowledged as the ‘Father of Nigerian Nationalism.’” It is ironic that Fafowora headed a team that was set up to prepare a paper for President Buhari on foreign policy after he won the 2015 presidential election.  This was the same seasoned diplomat who had been prematurely retired under the Buhari military regime. Also ironic is the information that Alhaji Ahmed Joda, who headed Buhari’s presidential transition team at the time, involved Gambari in Fafowora’s foreign policy team.  This was the same character accused of playing a leading role in Fafowora’s retirement drama. It is a testimony to Fafowora’s diplomatic distinction that he was the first national president of the Association of Retired Career Ambassadors of Nigeria (ARCAN) from 2017 to 2019. Under him, the association did a review of the country’s foreign policy to aid the federal government.  He led members of the group when they visited President Buhari in November 2018. Interestingly, he has stayed out of partisan politics, although he was Special Adviser on Economic and Industrial Affairs in the Osun State government under Chief Bisi Akande from 2000 to 2003. He was Commissioner for Trade in the government for two years, and acting Commissioner for Finance and Secretary to the State Government at various times within the period. He describes his role as “going there to assist the government as a technocrat.” Fafowora’s story shows that there is a need for men of knowledge and integrity in the country’s corridors of power. He may well represent what is missing, at the leadership level, in the country’s pursuit of development.