The Federal Government stressed that it will be assessing the preparedness of States before they can be eligible to receive COVID-19 vaccines. Such States, it said, must have adequate maintenance of cold chain storage facilities, adequate operation for logistics transportation to the ward and health facilities, adequate security in place during transportation and at the vaccination site. Others are completion of training of health workers, efficient social mobilisation activities in place and adherence to protocol for vaccine deployment. The Executive Director/CEO of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, made these known in Abuja, during the briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on covid-19. He said: “Deployment of vaccines to the states will be based on the assessment of their level of preparedness. “States without a functional airport will have their vaccines transported by road using vans fitted with cold chain cabins from the nearest airport in their states. “The vaccines will be stored at the state cold store from where they will be transported by road to LGA cold stores. All of these cold stores will have security details to protect these valuable national assets. “Once activities are commenced in the states, there will be strict monitoring by the Presidential Task Force, the Federal Ministry of Health, NCDC, NPHCDA, independent bodies such as the EFCC, DSS, ICPC and Civil Society Organisations, along with all the relevant line ministries. “The states, health facility, and health workers that are identified as defaulting from the standard protocol and the guidelines for this phase one of this vaccination will be sanctioned.” Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, urged private organisations not to import vaccines because the Federal Government is expecting enough vaccines to cater for Nigerians, with the option to increase supply if need be. He therefore stated that vaccines without NAFDAC’s Emergency Use Authorisation will be termed illegal and therefore subject to be impounded by NAFDAC and Customs.