Stability seems to be coming to the country’s energy sector, after decades of near- inertia. The Federal Government and Organised Labour have adopted, for implementation, the report of the Technical Committee on Electricity Tariff (TCET). At a recent meeting to consider the TCET report in 2020, Labour and Employment Minister, Dr. Chris Ngige, announced substantial changes in relation to the power sector.  A key decision was to lower the price of gas, which generation companies — the majority in the generation mix — use to power their turbines. Dr. Ngige announced: “There is also a resolution as regards gas companies, reducing gas pricing for gas sold to power companies (GenCos) and the rest of them, so that the price of electricity per unit will go down; and the consumers will benefit from it. We have given the marching orders for them to do so…Some paperwork has to be done and once that is done, the price of electricity will go down; and once it goes down, the consumers will benefit.” Other agreements reached include allowing to have a representative of the Labour Union on Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC); transforming TCET into a standing body to implement the new resolutions; immediate review of privatization to be completed within one year; enforcement of mass metering; and stopping implementation of January tariff increase proposed last year. But out of this slew of agreements, the likely game changer is the decision to stop selling gas to GenCos in dollar, and drawing a line between responding to pressing needs of citizens at home, and participating effectively in the global gas market. With over 200 trillion cubic feet of gas in the country, the government should be able to fulfil the domestic component of Nigerian Gas Master Plan, and to sustain its commitment to international buyers, more so that currently the country is securely the 5th largest exporter of gas, with about 42% of its annual production. Given the rising challenge of climate change and increasing sensitivity to the dangers of environmental pollution, this is a good time to implement the Nigerian Gas Master Plan’s domestic obligation to the letter on infrastructure development, to avoid what happened to coal, which has become unusable for generating electricity, on account of the need reduce the level of carbon in the atmosphere. To finally agree to review the 2013 de-regulation of the electricity sector or reform the structures it has spawned, is also in order, before the lapses from the exercise become ingrained. If, for example after seven years, provision of meters for each consumer that needs it is unachievable, despite complaints by electricity distributing companies (DisCos) of outright energy theft or bypassing of meters, loss of revenue to the extent that DisCos are unable to pay for power purchased from GenCos, the DisCo challenges may be more than teething problems. So there is urgent need to examine why there are still more government-controlled agencies in the electricity sector, than in the years before privatization. Similarly, there may be no rationality for the government to continue to obsess over the national grid, at a time that mini-grid, off-grid and smart-grid options are replacing the aging national grid.  These alternative grids can combine to attain far better and cheaper results than guaranteed at present. There are already too many reasons to take another look at the last privatization — and quickly too. We commend TCET and the government for coming to a consensus on how to bring stability to the energy sector, which has failed to serve citizens and the business community right, for several decades. Further, we call on agencies charged with preparing papers needed to implement the decision, to reduce charges for gas to improve the country’s infrastructure from $2.50 to $1.50, to act with speed. One thing worth bearing in mind, by the Implementation Committee, is that the earlier there is stability in the electricity sector, the higher the country’s chances to reduce unemployment.