The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Tuesday, said it will soon be engaging the leadership of the National Assembly on the issue of the division, revision and alteration of electoral constituencies in Nigeria. It said the Commission’s discussion paper on the matter is being finalised. INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who made the disclosure in his remarks during a Consultative meeting with labour unions and professional associations on the proposed expansion of voter access to polling units in Nigeria, assured that the Commission will continue to work with the National Assembly to ensure speedy passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. According to him, “in addition to voter access to Polling Units, the Commission will continue to work with the National Assembly to ensure the speedy passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. “This is critical to our work because it is the legal framework that governs our activities. We have been reassured by the National Assembly that work on the Bill will be concluded in the next few months. Let me once again appeal to the National Assembly for expeditious consideration and passage of the Bill. “In addition, we are also preparing to engage with the leadership of the National Assembly on the issue of the division, revision and alteration of electoral constituencies in Nigeria. The Commission’s discussion paper on the matter is being finalised.” He added, “let me once again reassure Nigerians that while we are pursuing the expansion of voter access to Polling Units and reform of the electoral legal framework through the quick passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law, the Commission is also working hard on the resumption of voters’ registration. “This will enable citizens that have not registered before or those that may wish to transfer their registration to other areas where they wish to vote in future elections to do so. We are also working on new innovations to deepen the deployment of technology to improve electoral integrity in Nigeria. “The Commission shall remain focused on these and other important issues. For this reason, we appeal to Labour Unions and Professional Associations to continue to support the Commission. “As you may be aware, the purpose of the ongoing consultation is to build a broad national consensus towards addressing the crisis of voter access to Polling Units in Nigeria on which there will be a detailed presentation shortly. We have also prepared a Discussion Paper, the hard copies of which have been shared widely while the soft copy is available on the Commission’s website and social media platforms. We welcome your comments on the proposed policy which we believe will further enrich the conversation towards an enduring solution to a problem that lies at the heart of electoral democracy and popular representation. “We are encouraged by the outcome of the consultations held so far. These consultations are helping us in formulating the Guidelines on the option preferred by stakeholders as we proceed to the implementation stage which will also involve further consultations in the field. We are approaching this exercise systematically because it is central to democratic elections. Voter access to Polling Units gives meaning to the right to vote. Without access to convenient voting locations on election day, the right to vote is undermined and therefore meaningless.” The INEC boss, added further that, “over the next three weeks, the Commission will conduct bye-elections in three States of the federation starting with Ekiti East State Constituency 1 this weekend, followed by the Aba North/Aba South Federal Constituency bye-election in Abia State on 27th March 2021 and then the Isoko North State Constituency in Delta State on 10th April 2021. “We wish to assure the registered voters and all stakeholders in the affected constituencies that the Commission is ready for these bye-elections. Again, like all the elections held since August last year, results from the Polling Units will be uploaded to the INEC Result Viewing Portal (IReV) for public view in real-time on Election Day.”