 The race to occupy the coveted Oke Ayoba Government House in Ado-Ekiti next year is gathering momentum. The convener of the Capital Market Round-table in Nigeria and Ekitipanupo Forum, Okan Seye Adetunmbi, has declared his intention to run. He said there is a need to depart from the rat race governing system and entrench a new paradigm for more enduring purposeful governance for the benefit of the majority on a lasting note. He noted that how benevolent, productive, relevant, and resourceful a government and an administration will be, is a function of the purpose of the leadership. The mindset of a leader, he said, defines the kind of leadership that will be provided irrespective of the tier of government that is involved. “Good leadership in the governance of nations and states is the bedrock for development. Consequently, it is imperative to consciously groom good leadership for the future, a visionary leadership characterized by values and commitment to the custom of excellence, he added. Adetunmbi made the declaration in his essay titled: Purpose Driven Governance and Leadership: Paradigm Shift Becomes Imperative, made available to The Nation over the weekend. He said: “Calling for a paradigm shift in the way party flag bearers emerge and how we are governed would involve a lot of commitment. The vision is to make Ekiti an example of the model state in the manner Chief Obafemi Awolowo and his team made the old Western Region stand out in Nigeria. The targeted fresh perspective will associate with the successes of the remarkable past and present leaders and heroes. In essence, every good deed of the past and present administrations will be improved upon while those aspects that do not align with the new paradigm will be jettisoned. Past mistakes will be consciously avoided.” On his intention to run for the governorship race, he said: “Over the years, I have been called upon privately and publicly to run for the office of Governor in Ekiti-State by some well-meaning indigenes. On a number of occasions, a few non-Ekiti associates who have been following my modest socio-political progressive activities all these years on Ekiti also prompted me along this line. My response had always been that I have at various times supported the political aspirations of a number of people and stood by those who have governed Ekiti-State personally and through Ekitipanupo Forum. Let me see them through first.  “A good turn is expected to deserve another and wisdom demands that I should heed the call at the opportune time. In that, if it is not God’s time, you cannot force it; but when it is God’s time, you cannot stop it. To some of my people, it is long overdue. I cannot see a better time than now for me to make myself more available to the service of Ekiti-State. It is a response to a collective call to duty and with all humility, by the grace of God, I will be available in 2022 and leave the electorate to decide. In the words of Abraham Lincoln, “no man is good enough to govern another without the man’s consent.” Explaining how he will make the expected difference, if given the opportunity, Adetunmbi said he will unleash the potential, imponderable goodwill, wide network and huge intellectual capacity of 1000 tested professionals in all walks of life who constitute Ekitipanupo Forum. He stressed that no political party parades the calibre of brilliant technocrats in Ekitipanupo Forum, which is a microcosm of Ekiti-State and will be put into optimal use to complement the government of the day with vast and tested integrated intellectual inputs. For him, Ekitipanupo has the capacity to provide advisory and consultancy to Ekiti-State pro bono in virtually all sectors of the economy. On the Paradigm Shift Movement (PSM) Adetunmbi, said: “Part of the PSM is to challenge every political party to allow a level playing ground for party flag bearers to emerge by playing down too much influence of money which often throws up the highest bidder. The implication of a warped system relegates to the background, competence, antecedents, relevant experience, character audit and verifiable inclination to the best practices. It tends to deprive the state of good quality government because when the loyalty of the governor is first to the political godfather, then the larger interest of the masses is secondary. PSM is about the departure from a system that has become one huge waste.”