SIR: The spate of kidnapping in Nigeria is alarming. There is hardly a day without reports of attacks perpetrated by gunmen/bandits in the country especially in the northern part of the country. Kidnapping has become the most pervasive and intractable violent crime in the country. Kidnapping, the unlawful detention of a person through the use of force, threats, fraud or enticement, with purposes ranging from an illicit gain, economic or material, in exchange for liberation, or pressuring someone into doing something or not doing something, is shifting focus from targeting individuals to groups, of which school children, in various parts of Nigeria, have not been spared in the escapade. On Wednesday, February 17, in Niger State, the media was greeted with the news of abduction of dozens of school children, along with their teachers and relatives by gunmen after an attack on a boarding school- an all-boys Government Science College in Kagara town of the state, killing at least one student.  The attack is the latest in a rising wave of mass abductions and attacks that have overwhelmed the country. Less than three months ago, scores of students were abducted from the Government Secondary School, Kankara in Katsina State; they were released by their kidnappers after some days. Earlier this month, armed men attacked a bus belonging to the Niger State Transport Authority along Minna-Zungeru Road- a mere 50 kilometres drive from where the Kagara school boys were taken- and abducted at least 21 passengers. What are the effects of kidnapping on the education of our children? One of such is loss of interest in schooling. Many school children will prefer to stay at home with their parents where they know they will be safe rather than going to school where their security is not guaranteed. This will cause a low turnout of students in our schools. A high number of school children deserting their schools for the fear of being abducted by gunmen will create a bigger problem for the country, as there will be an increase in the number of illiterates in our society. This will limit the resourcefulness, productivity and contribution of young Nigerians, who are seen as future leaders, in the growth and development of the country. Likewise, lack of trust and faith in the Nigeria education system caused by the incessant abductions of school children is likely to produce ‘half-baked students’ or ‘half literates’, who would not be able to bring about positive social, economic and political growth. It is on record that it is the ‘half-baked students’ and ‘half literates’ that at a long run take to vices in the society. Also, that a common man does not have access to education, which is not absolutely free in the first place, in a conducive atmosphere in his country, will limit his possible contribution to societal, economic and political growths since he is denied the bankable legacy that could have helped him to favourably compete and handsomely contribute to the growth and development of his society. It is therefore pertinent that the last resort and only legacy for the common man is protected by all education stakeholders, as well as stakeholders in the formation of policies and protection of lives and property of all citizens in the country. More so, as a matter of salvaging our shaky foundational education system, and a way of combating the menace of kidnapping in the country, there is the need for all and sundry to report any strange person or strange activity around our locality to the appropriate quarters. If not only to the kidnapped school children or to everyone, we should affirm that we owe these duties and obligations to ourselves, our crumbling education system and to the victims of kidnappers, who have been injured, raped, assaulted, maltreated or lost their lives and their hard earned money in the hands of their abductors.