How to ensure effective dispensation of justice was the thrust of the maiden stakeholders meeting of the Lagos State Special Offences (Mobile) Court held on Monday at Oshodi. The meeting which was organised by the state’s Ministry of Justice, brought to the fore, the need for the respect of defendants’ human rights at all times, in order to instill confidence of the people in the system. It also highlighted the shortcomings of law enforcement agencies especially in the areas of arrest, detention and investigation, the challenges faced and how to better carry out their duties devoid of compromises and unprofessional conducts. Setting the tone for the gathering, the Solicitor General (SG) and Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Titilayo Shitta-Bay emphasised the need for justice to be dispensed speedily and effectively. She reminded the stakeholders that the Mobile Court was created to ensure easy access to and effective dispensation of justice, noting that where those are not achieved, victims were bound to feel frustrated, outrage or even further disrespect for law and order. Represented by a lawyer from the ministry, Akinkunmi Idowu, Shitta-Bay decried the lawlessness of commercial motorists who drive against traffic, refuse to obey traffic signs, drive with their doors open thereby endangering the lives of passengers and other road users, adding that if such trends were allowed to continue, the basis of an orderly society wears out gradually and steadily. She emphasised the need for stakeholders to adhere to the court’s statutory jurisdiction and procedure in the prosecution and adjudication of offences triable by the court. “Defendants must be given fair hearing and this include not convincing them to plead guilty as defendants have often alleged, arresting officers themselves are subject to several provisions of the law which protect alleged offenders and must be complied with in the course of the discharge of their duties. “Also, must be ready to provide evidence to support their allegations against the defendants and administrative fines must be avoided as they offend the principle of fair hearing. It therefore follows that collaborating government law enforcement agencies must also be aware of these traible offences as to go outside of these have both negative financial and moral implications to the state government…” she said. In his remark, Chief Magistrate Michael Olubi warned arresting officers against overzealousness, noting that they must also avoid use of force in the course of arrest. He advised against the parade of suspects, noting that arresting officers must wait for such suspects to be convicted before splashing their faces on the media.