 There was drama at the Council Chamber in Niger State Government House yesterday as Governor Abubakar Sani Bello said, before taking the COVID-19  vaccine, he and his Exco were concerned about the genuiness of the vaccine. Bello said they were taking the vaccine on the insistence of the commissioner for Health and executive director of Niger State Primary Healthcare Development Agency. “Although no one is scared of being vaccinated, everyone is concerned about the genuiness of the vaccine. We have no choice but to receive it if you insist …that we do the vaccination. We have no choice but to take it, not because we want to but because you are insisting. Because the commissioner for Health and the executive director NSPHDA insist.” The governor noted that they would queue behind the commissioner and executive director. “We will start with the commissioner for Health, then the ED NSPHDA, then the governor and the deputy and  other council members.” Bello told his Exco they should recieve to convince the people it was safe to take the COVID-19 vaccine. When the governor asked  members about their readiness to take the vaccine, many raised their hands, while some said they were not feeling fine, and others said they had not taken breakfast. The governor noted: “There is bound to be a day or two that you come down with fever when you take any vaccination. So, don’t be scared when this happens after this vaccination. It won’t happen to all but to few.” He earlier stated that he received text messages from his members before he came to the chamber, asking if it was ideal they took the vaccine. Commissioner for Health Dr Muhammad Makunsidi had said the state received the first batch of 74,110 doses, to be given to one per cent of the population. He said frontline health workers had been given jabs, adding that all eligible Nigerlites would receive vaccines. He assured the governor and the Exco the vaccine was safe and had gone through many clinical trials. “The issue of fake news surrounding COVID-19 and its vaccines have been a challenge but we are assuring the people that the vaccine is generally safe and efficacious. It has been verified safe”, he said. The first person to take the COVID-19 vaccine in Niger is Dr  Isa, who is the Incident Case Manager. Five doctors and one nurse were among the first frontline health workers who also took the vaccine.