 Young Nigerians need to imbibe the culture of saving money early in life to enable them secure their future. Acting Managing Director, Polaris Bank Limited, Mr Innocent Ike gave this advice in a virtual presentation while addressing pupils of Adeleke University High School, Ede, Osun State as part of activities  marking the Global Money Week hosted by the bank. The school was adopted by Polaris Bank to mark this year’s Global Money Week. The event was aimed at raising awareness on the importance of savings and need for young ones becoming financially aware at an early age. Ike expressed concern and warned on the consequences of poor savings culture on young people with no savings or financial investment, even as he assured that Polaris Bank would continue to sustain efforts aimed at promoting financial literacy among youths in particular and Nigerians in general.  “We need to learn, save and earn money. You do not save after spending but rather, you save first before spending. The idea is to “catch them young” by educating them on finance and financial investment so that in future, their personal and financial lives can be guaranteed. To achieve this, we need to imbibe the culture of saving, no matter how small,” Ike said. He further explained that the financial sensitisation was part of the Global Money Week, a yearly programme organised, in conjunction with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and a non-governmental organisation, Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN), to help raise awareness among students on the need to be financially independent. “Although it is an annual event, for us at Polaris Bank, we will continue to engage schools, parents and teachers, because we believe that by being financially literate, students and indeed, the young ones, will be able to build their capacity for future business endeavours, thereby securing their future from poverty and other financial challenges,” Ike said. He expressed confidence that Polaris Bank, the CBN and the entire players in the banking sector, were ready to carry out enlightenment continuously; educating and teaching students on how to manage money that comes into their hands. After the presentation, a brief question and answer session followed where an elated Principal of the School, Dr. Adetayo Timothy, responding after the over two hours, 30 minutes’ segment, said knowledge is power and applauded the presentation by Polaris Bank which he believes “has undoubtedly, empowered these young students on the fundamentals of saving, earning and investment.” “You would not realise the quantum of financial knowledge Polaris Bank has shared with these students this morning until they put to practice everything they have been exposed to and see the impact in their lives in the days ahead. We cannot thank Polaris Bank enough; your coming to our school today has created an image within this community and beyond that you are indeed, a bank that does not shy away from its Corporate Social Responsibilities,” Timothy said. 