The Executive Director, Rural Electrification Fund, Dr. Sanusi Ohiare has called on well-meaning Nigerians to support President Muhammadu Buhari in his fight to end insecurity in the country. Ohiare advised all to shun every tendency that would divide Nigerians and work towards what will unite everyone irrespective of religion and tribe. He gave the advice when he visited Mom Orphanage Home and Margaret Carba Ohiani Orphanage/less privilege home in Kogi State where he donated food and other items to mark his birthday courtesy of the Sanusi Ohiare Foundation. Ohiare pleaded with the privileged in the society to as much as possible share with the less privileged for a better society. His words: “My advice will be for us to shun any tendency that would divide us and work towards what will unite us and secure the country and put hands together with Kogi State governor, Yahaya Bello and President Muhammadu Buhari so that the efforts they have put in place to secure this country, create jobs and make the economy better can yield fruits. “It’s my birthday and considering what has been going on in the country. The insecurity, Coronavirus pandemic and a lot of people have died and some people are finding things difficult. So I decided to come and share with the less-privileged, spend my day with them, give them hope and advise them that it is not over. “It’s to also show people that there are better ways of celebrating and thanking God. For me it’s to thank God for his grace, mercy and faithfulness. And for keeping me till this time. It is our job and responsibility to see that the little that we have, we share with them, because at the end of the day, we do not know how long we are going to be in this world.” “That is what my foundation stands for. I advise the kids to stay in school, work hard. They have equal opportunity to become whatever they want to become. They are lucky that they have roof over their heads and they have people taking care of them”. He said, this is the best time for everyone to reflect and to realize that the problem of Nigeria does not discriminate in terms of tribe or religion, adding that It is a problem that everybody is going through. “Everyone wants good life, enabling environment, equal opportunity. Nigerians are hardworking people. This is the time for us to come together and unite and strive to fight those things that are truly our enemies. “Which is unemployment, poverty, we should also work together to surmount the insecurity problem that we have and make the country better for  investments and for people to come in and creat jobs”, Ohiare added.