Muhammed Buba Marwa had hardly taken over at the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) before he located the heart of the problem. He hit the ground running, touring the Commands of the Agency and promising to deal decisively with the drug abuse problems, threatening to sink the country. On a visit to Rivers State, he pointed out that unless the monster is tamed now, about 30 million Nigerians would be on illicit substance by 2050. The outlook is dire. Basing his submission on a survey conducted by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), supported by the United Nations Office for Drug Control (UNODC), the former Military Administrator of Borno and Lagos States said about 15 per cent of Nigerian adults are currently hooked on one illicit substance or the other , with most of them falling in the age bracket, 25-39. This is a time bomb ticking by the second, waiting to explode. Many would claim that insecurity has reached its peak in Nigeria and could only get better, but with the ingenuity of the youth who continue to “innovate” by the day, the future is getting bleaker daily. The youth are often referred to as leaders of tomorrow, but when the same youth are sinking to the point of sniffing human waste, mixing together all sorts of dirty and unhealthy products in the sewage, then the dream of having a better, developed society would remain sheer fantasy. General Marwa did not stop at that. He pointed out a nexus between drug abuse and criminality in Nigeria. A country battling with insecurity at the level of Nigeria has to be careful. Gunmen prowl everywhere, ruling the forests and cities. They kidnap, rape, rob and kill at will. The latest dimension is breaking into secondary schools and abducting innocent children, especially in the North, thus raising the nightmare of massive withdrawal of children from learning centres by parents and guardians who, in the first instance, only reluctantly released their children and wards to go to school. A society bedevilled by ignorance is doomed. We therefore call on the Federal Government to empower the NDLEA to tackle the problem now. All relevant ministries, departments and agencies should be mandated to work with and strengthen the Agency in order to reverse the ugly trend. We support the decision of General Marwa to take the campaign to different parts of the country. In Port-Harcourt, he met with stakeholders including religious leaders and officials of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). The transport workers are believed to be more exposed to drug abuse than other unions as the motor parks are usually converted to dens of sniffers and smokers. The government had, on many occasions, banned the sale and use of drugs and spirits in the parks, but all to no avail. Beyond appealing to the lords of the parks, General Marwa and his men have to come up with other means of changing the park community’s mindset and orientation, lest many members of the transport unions continue to imbibing the bad culture of drug and alcohol abuse and misuse. Nigeria is a highly religious country. The decision to involve religious leaders in the campaign is therefore spot on. In their vantage position, leaders of faiths have a lot to offer, to better the moral alignment of the youths, especially on the drug question. All hands must be on deck now before things get worse. Nigeria is already plagued by so many challenges that becoming one of the countries, counted among rogue nations as a result of drug addiction by a large majority of the young adults, is a prospect too scary to contemplate. The time to stem the tide is now.