The Medical Women Association of Nigeria (MWAN) has urged the National Assembly to go beyond announcing the budgetary allocation to health, especially the funding for family planning, to tracking the release of the funds to ensure that women across the country have access to family planning services. It explained that family planning, being a proven means of preventing maternal and child mortality, and reducing unwanted pregnancies, also contributes to economic empowerment by reducing the poverty rate in the country. It further stressed that for the government to keep pace with the current population growth in terms of health coverage, it must prioritise and fund family planning services. The current contraceptive prevalence rate (CPR) in Nigeria is 12 percent, which is far below the target of 27 percent by the year 2024. The President of the Medical Women’s Association of Nigeria (MWAN), Dr Minnie Oseji, made these known on Friday in Abuja at a panel in collaboration with PACFaH@Scale Project, during the Medical Women’s International Association Conference, with the theme, ‘Accelerating Universal Health Coverage: priorities, opportunities and challenges’. She said: “We want the National Assembly to ensure that they track the release of the family planning budget. If there is no release, they have to find out why and what the bottlenecks and obstacles are. That is the commitment we want from them. There is need to track the release, and not stop at announcing the gederal government’ allocation. “As a country we have not done very well with the release of funds. When we start to improve on the release of funds for family planning, then we can start asking for an increase in the appropriation. We must ensure that the money the Federal Government has approved in the budget is released. “Secondly, to ensure that the funds are released, service providers have to indicate what they need. Also, the program officers have to write the memos. Approvals and releases have a lot of processes and are different in different states. We have made a point for capacity building in this. “The program officers need some level of commitment to follow up on the approval and release of funds for family planning. ” She added: “Those at the policy level have to ensure that when they are asking for what they call ‘critical payments’, they must make sure that they put family planning as one of the critical payments because there is a tendency to look at critical payments only as infrastructure. People need to see how important family planning is in the need for promoting maternal and child health. “After funds are released, we need supervision to make sure that everyone in the pipeline does his or her own part to make sure that after the release of the money, we see that the contraceptive prevalence increases.” A family planning expert/advocate, Dr Ejike Orji, in his remarks, added: “Nigeria needs about $26m to $33m to buy family planning commodities every year. Unfortunately, it is only $4m that we are bringing to the table. The gap is still being taken up by donors and partners across the world. That is why we are looking at the National Health Insurance Scheme Act that is being revised, to make sure that family planning service is included. 