 In August 2001, the Professional Golfers Association (PGA) Nigeria held its most important Annual General Meeting with the appointment of Tony Uduimoh as the body’s Director. Uduimoh’s appointment was a mild colouration of the meeting’s atmosphere since it denied the late Matthew Jacobs (Ikoyi Club 1938 Golf Shop franchisor, in Lagos) a return into the exalted seat. For context, Jacobs had held the position since 1969 that the association was formed before the protest vote that knocked him off  as the administrator. Twenty years on and precisely March 9, the reign of Samson Lawal as the Director of the association will be ending for another successor to emerge at an event to be held at the Port Harcourt Golf Club in Rivers State. This time, the contest would not be about who takes over but what would be his capacity in order to turn around the steadily sliding fortune of the once-enviable sport association. Soon after the assumption of Uduimoh as the Director in 2001, he struggled to invent a clear path for the future of the game but he struck few wins that can be credited to being the fulcrum that propelled the association up to a decade even after he left. One of his achievements included ties with Africa’s biggest Tour, Sunshine Tour that offered associate membership for top players on Nigeria’s ranking to feature in their events. Part of the co-incidences worked well in favour of the association including sponsorship by some well-meaning Nigerians for topmost amateur talents to be honed abroad. By some stroke of luck, the PGA found itself with a group of talented teenagers who were devoted to the game. Those who have followed professional golf for over a decade in the Nigerian community would be familiar with some young talents that hugged headlines including Edet Umoh, who won TPC (Tour Partners’ Championship) at Ikoyi Club with an immaculate chip-in from hole-eighteen bunker. There was Ali Abdullahi who sliced through every par five fairways with monstrous drives, before it became a fad now, thanks to science and technology. Christian Godfrey, the standing course record holder on IBB Golf and Country Club, Gift Willy, Bashiru Bakare and Gboyega Oyebanji. All were in their twenties and played exceptional golf that earned the country some global attention at one time or the other. Soon in 2007, the PGA and some stakeholders established the PGA Nigeria Tour, which professionally marketed and ran pro events from the point of value addition and partnership with corporates. Since the collapse of the Tour project and gradual withering of the structured system around the association’s event, professional golf has been surviving at the mercy of ‘charity’ events. That is perhaps the best way to describe events that sponsors have no-specific return on its investment. Sola Lawson is still hopeful that the body can still get back on his feet. “The PGA can dust up the template it ran with years ago and still run with it. The Tour model has worked globally and Nigeria can’t be different. “If it activates the Tour model through an independent body, it can then focus on developing younger players. We have too few young members of the body today in a few years’ time a lot of them would turn seniors (over 50 years). We don’t have 18 to 22 years pros again in large numbers.” COVID-19 sports restrictions might be a convenient reason for the drop in golf events, the truth is the game was already on a ventilator of some sort before the lockdown. None of the model PGAs (America and of Europe) thrive on benevolence of friends alone but rides such influence to build a sustainable business model that can aid marketing and leveraging needs of different brands. Such are on rinse and repeat or tweaked for industry needs as well. Professional golfers, except for those that have specialized skills to build such systems may need to just engage consultants to optimize their operations for such possibilities. “More of what needs to happen at the AGM I believe is the election of key officers that would work with the Director. The head of the association can on its own not do much. It is that support that we are working and should ensure is occupied by the right set of people,” Dominic Andrew, a former Tournament Director of the body, noted.