Re-appointed Director-General (DG), Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE), Mr. Alex A. Okoh, has set up a six-point agenda for his administration in the next four years which include working towards encouraging more private sector operators to invest in critical sectors of the economy through Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs). Speaking for the first time since his re-appointment for another term of four years, Okoh said already, the government has simplified the PPP process, which allows private sector players to scout for projects to be financed through the PPP model. Head, Public Communications, Amina Othman in a statement yesterday,  explained that the DGl said other areas of interest would be:   completion of the ongoing reform and privatisation of the Bureau;   carrying  out other transactions that are  scheduled for reforms and privatisation in the Privatisation and Commercilaisation Act 1999 of the BPE and  ensuring the passage of  reform bills pending before the National Assembly. Others are  ensuring  robust engagement with  relevant stakeholders; and deepening of the core values of the BPE by ensuring, integrity& transparency, team-work, accountability and professionalism. He said he would immediately put in place, a template to further reinvigorate the Bureau’s activities and step up efforts towards revving up those enterprises that are due for either reforms or privatisation. “In all our transactions, transparency and accountability will continue to be our watch word. It is also an opportunity for the country to witness increased activities in our mandate which will lead to more job opportunities for our teeming youth and increased revenue for the Federal Government,” he stated. Okoh thanked President Muhammadu Buhari and the Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo who is also the Chairman of the National Council on Privatisation (NCP) for finding him worthy of re-appointment, noting that it was an evidence of the confidence both of them repose in him to lead the privatisation agency. He promised to re-double his efforts in the next four years to recreate and reinvent the Bureau to become the top most reform agency in the world.