The last governorship election in Ekiti State, which produced incumbent Governor Kayode Fayemi, was conducted on July 14, 2018. Fayemi, running on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) defeated the then deputy governor of the state, Olusola Eleka, who was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). All things being equal, the next governorship election in the state should hold sometime in October 2022. With the election just a little over a year away, politicians are already in trenches, plotting how the next governor will emerge. Expectedly, the frenzy is more felt within the two leading political parties, the APC and the PDP. This is not to say a few other less known parties are not making efforts towards being more visible as the election date draws closer. In spite of the pervading political uncertainties within the two leading parties, where internal wrangling have been threatening the very existences of both the ruling and opposition parties in the state, aspirants with interest to succeed the incumbent governor have been coming out to be identified. Fayemi had, not long ago, warned any of his political appointees interested in the governorship race to resign. According to him, he does not want his administration distracted. Within the PDP, party leaders within and outside the state have linked the protracted crisis troubling it to 2022 gubernatorial aspirations. Hence, party chieftains are daily being advised to work for the unity of the party now and leave the gubernatorial race for now. While no aspirant has openly displayed any ‘vote for me’ billboard or poster in any part of the state, signs that they are out to vie for the plum job, nonetheless, abounds across the state. Troubled parties The opposition PDP presently suffers unease as its chieftains battle for the soul of the party. The crisis revolves around the two parallel congresses conducted on March 7, 2020, by the camps of both ex-Governor Ayodele Fayose and his former deputy, Senator Biodun Olujimi. The two camps also inaugurated executives across the 177 wards. While Fayose enjoys the support of the national leadership of the party, the zonal leaders are more in support of Olujimi’s faction. Several efforts to resolve the crisis has failed. Instead, the crisis has escalated from Ekiti into other states in the Southwest with Fayose now at loggerheads with Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo, PDP’s only governor in the zone. It was the crisis that made the conduct of the zonal congress of the PDP impossible in the Southwest last weekend. As at the last count, various organs of the party have set up not less than five committees on the Ekiti crisis, all to no avail. Fayose’s supporters insist he is the leader of the party in the state and as such, Olujimi and her people must submit to his leadership. His associates, such as the immediate past National Vice Chairman of the PDP in the South-West zone, Eddy Olafeso, said the former remained the leader of the party not only in Ekiti, but in the entire Southwest zone. “Fayose is a critical voice in the party’s affair in the region. He towers above other leaders in the zone, judging from his antecedents and contributions to the PDP’s electoral fortunes,” he insisted. But supporters of Olujimi will have nothing of such. To them, the senator it is, who has been providing leadership for the party since it lost at the 2018 governorship election. Former House of Assembly member, Olubunmi Olugbade, said “In Ekiti State, whether you like Olujimi’s face or not; she is the symbol and emblem of the party. She is the highest political office holder for now. When they all left the party after we lost governorship, she stood and provided leadership.” The situation is not rosy within the ruling APC either. Chieftains are also at each other’s’ jugular over who controls the party. Allegations and counter allegations, suspensions and counter suspensions, have been the order of the day between supporters of the incumbent governor and those opposed to him for one reason or the other. Specifically, the camp of Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Special Adviser on Politics to President Muhammadu Buhari, has been slugging it out with Governor Fayemi and his supporters across the state. With the crisis gradually becoming a huge fire that may consume the party, if no trouble shooting effort is devised to rein in those stoking the embers of discord, analysts have said the fortunes of the ruling party at the next gubernatorial election in the state depend a great deal on how well the situation is managed. But the gladiators appear not to be thinking about a truce yet. However, many stakeholders are hopeful that fence mending efforts by some elders of the party within and outside the state will yield positive result before the election. PDP’s possible frontline contenders Last month, Fayose stirred a fresh crisis within the PDP when he openly endorsed incumbent chairman of his faction of the PDP in the state, Chief Bisi Kolawole, for next year’s governorship election. The former governor even went ahead to confirm that the endorsement will not affect Kolawole’s current position as party chairman. Findings by The Nation confirmed that the anointed candidate has since embarked on consultations with prominent leaders of the PDP to solicit support for his gubernatorial ambition as announced by Fayose. Fayose made the surprise announcement at the Efon-Alaaye residence of Kolawole, who has been his ally since when he was governor, in solidarity. He was received by the party chairman, his wife and Efon Local Government PDP chairman, Yemi Ajanaku. Kolawole, a former councillor and member of the House of Assembly, was Commissioner for Environment during Fayose’s second term. Rumours had been rife long before the announcement that Fayose will not be supporting his former deputy, Professor Eleka’s ambition in 2022. The endorsement of Kolawole confirmed the rumours and further balkanised the opposition party in the state. Aside from being a close ally of Fayose’s, not much can be said of Kolawole’s political strength. But with Fayose throwing his weight behind him, the PDP boss can no longer be regarded as a political push over in the coming race should he decide to go all the way. But amidst indications that Fayose may just be out to use him as a smokescreen for his real intention, how far he will go remains a matter of guesses for now. Same week, former governor of the state, Segun Oni, joined the governorship race. Oni said residents of the state were tired of the “unimpressive administration of Kayode Fayemi”. “Except the parameters change, I am interested in the governorship. Though only God knows tomorrow, as of now yes, I am contesting and we are projecting that God will sanction it.” “In the Ekiti governorship, I won’t advise anybody to do anything funny, that won’t be in the best interest of anyone,” he added. His coming into the race few days after Fayose openly told the world that he will not be endorsing him for the job, according to pundits, is another sign that the PDP is not about to return to the path of peace. “Oni and Fayose are old war-horse who had clashed severally before now. It is obvious the PDP primary will not be an easy one. And if you remember, when Oni returned to the party, Fayose made it clear that he will not support him to become governor. Now that Oni wants to be governor, we all know what to expect,” a party leader said. Another PDP chieftain suspected to be nursing a gubernatorial ambition is Senator Biodun Olujimi, Fayose’s archrival. INEC had earlier declared that she lost the 2019 Ekiti South Senatorial race to Dayo Adeyeye. But her 2019 December success at the Appeal Court, which necessitated her being sworn in as the only PDP senator representing Ekiti has greatly upped her significance in the politics of the state. Her supporters say she is the candidate to beat in the race. Last January, stakeholders of the PDP in Ekiti South Senatorial District called on Olujimi to contest the 2022 governorship poll. They spoke at Omuo-Ekiti in Ekiti East Local Government at the end of a meeting held by the party chieftains from the six local governments in the district. Stakeholders at the meeting convened by a PDP leader, Chief Nelson Shaba, said the appeal was imperative to ensure the district produced governor for the first time since the creation of the state in 1996. The PDP leaders said the zone must produce the next governor in the spirit of fairness and equity, adding that the agitation for the South agenda was long overdue. Although Olujimi’s immediate response to the call was that her immediate priority was to forge unity among members of the PDP in the state, not the 2022 governorship race, party sources claimed she is leaving no stone unturned in her move towards clinching the PDP ticket ahead of the next gubernatorial election. Her lingering face-off with Fayose is believed to be part of such moves. Also in the race officially is another former deputy governor, Sikiru Tae-Lawal who joined the race for the 2022 governorship contest during the week. Lawal, who was deputy to Segun Oni between 2007- 2010, said he remains one of the best materials to lead Ekiti at this crucial time. Lawal’s posters conveying clear message of his interest in the plum seat were unveiled on social media platforms by himself and his admirers. He will be confronting Oni, his former boss at the primaries if he goes all the way. Similarly, former Deputy Managing Director of the Guarantee Trust Bank, Kayode Adaramodu, has declared intention to contest the Ekiti governorship poll in 2022 on the platform of the PDP. Adaramodu said he joined the race following intermittent calls from the people of Ekiti to deliver them from the alleged bad leadership by the ruling All Progressive Congress-led government in the state. He declared his intention in Ilawe-Ekiti last Sunday while addressing his supporters across the 16 council area of the state. Also still expected to contest the gubernatorial poll on the PDP platform is immediate past deputy governor and the party’s candidate in 2018, Kolapo Olusola Eleka. According to some of his close allies, he is desirous of seeking the PDP ticket once again. However, the declaration of support for Kolawole by Fayose, the man who threw Eleka up politically in the state, may have put paid to his 2022 ambition. According to Seun Olowe, a chieftain of the party in Ado–Ekiti, “Eleka will not run without Fayose’s endorsement. Some likely gladiators in APC Governor Fayemi will not be eligible to seek re-election in 2022 as he is on his second and final term as governor. Nonetheless, the race for the APC ticket will not be less intriguing, going by the frenzy currently being generated within the party. It is strongly believed that he is very much interested in having inputs in how his successor will emerge come 2022. Recently, he spoke about the type of man he would like to succeed him. According to him, he desires a man who is softer than him but as competent as he is. He also gave an indication that he may be looking forward to have one of those working with him emerge as the next governor of the state. “Everyone who has worked with me is a potential successor because they have come up on this journey learning the ropes, seeing the good things that I have done, and looking at how to build on those things if given the opportunity to govern the state. I cannot tell you that a particular person is being groomed. I have an executive council where we debate issues. People see the way I conduct business and I am sure they would take the good and ignore the bad and the ugly from me,” he said. Already, Ojudu is seen as one of those who will seek the APC ticket with all seriousness. His face-off with the governor notwithstanding, he remains very popular within the party and across the state. His political machinery has also come alive in recent weeks in many parts of the state and his supporters are very confident he cannot be stopped this time around. Several support groups also sprang up across the state to canvass support for his ambition. Though Ojudu recently said it was too early for him to declare his ambition, he vowed that progressive politicians within the fold of the APC would ensure that a committed democrat emerges as a successor to Fayemi in 2022. He added that no one would be allowed to impose anyone that would be largely perceived as a ‘house boy’ as governor of the state. Ojudu said: “I can assure you that there will be no imposition. Anybody who is a member of our party would be free to contest the primary. We will allow a democratic process to take place.” Aside Ojudu, tongues are wagging that not less than three of Fayemi’s serving cabinet members are interested in the race. Stories even have it that the governor is looking at one of the three as his most likely successor. “The governor will not leave the process without his inputs. He may appear like someone without succession plans but I tell you, he has his joker. Not less than three of his aides are interested in the race. As events unfold, you will understand,” a source said. Checks by The Nation revealed that Abiodun Oyebanji, the Secretary to the Government (SSG); Biodun Omoleye, the Chief of Staff to the governor and the current Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice, Wale Fapohunda, may be the three hopefuls in the current cabinet of Governor Fayemi. While none of them have declared gubernatorial intention, sources close to the governor’s kitchen cabinet told The Nation that in “a matter of weeks, more light will be shed on the matter as regards these people. Just wait and see things happen,” the source said.