A coalition of civil society organisations, Movement for Good Governance and Greater Nigeria (MGGGN), has argued the ongoing trial of Kaduna-based business tycoon, Mahdi Shehu, by the Kastina State Government amounts to persecution of a whistleblower. This, it said, threatens the anti-corruption war of President Muhammadu Buhari. The group, in a communiqué after its national executive council meeting held in Abuja at the weekend by its executive director Tokunbo Omowunmi – Lasisi and publicity director Istifanus Wuyah Sheyin, said the trial of Shehu, who it describes as a non-commercial whistleblower “is sending negative signals to the international community on the Buhari administration’s efforts of fighting corruption.” The situation, the coalition said, “is worrisome when some federal agencies are found to be neck deep in persecuting the whistleblower.” Buhari hails from Katsina state and “it is disheartening to see a Nigerian being persecuted for advocating for and sharing the same ideals being canvassed by the President,” the coalition said. The civil society said the whistleblower has been detained many times and dragged to about five different courts over the same charges for simply asking EFCC to investigate what he believed is abuse of public funds in Katsina state. The MGGGN said its findings revealed Shehu “wrote nine different petitions and adopted same with attached evidences to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), calling for investigations of allegations of financial impropriety in Katsina state. “While EFCC was investigating these petitions, the Katsina State Government and some of its prominent officials and contractors, became jittery and decided to truncate the anti-graft agency’s investigations by writing a criminal complaint against the whistleblower to the Commissioner of Police,” the anti-graft coalition said. The coalition said the Katsina police chief “swiftly acted on the Attorney General’s complaint by raising a FIR and charged Mr Mahdi Shehu before the Chief Magistrate Court (CMC 1) Katsina for ‘defamation, forgery and inciting public against the Katsina State Government. “By way of Appeal and Cross Appeal, the same case is in High Court No. 4 Katsina before His Lordship Justice Bawale (J) to determine the Certiorari proceedings,” the coalition said. It said while the CMC 1 and High Court cases are yet to be determined, the Secretary to the State Government went to the Upper Sharia’ah Court Katsina and instituted the same matter before the CMC 1 with exactly the same facts, which is a clear abuse of judicial process. MGGGN said while all this was taking place, the case took another dimension when the Force Headquarters invited the whistleblower for an interview on November 25, 2020. He was granted bail after the ‘interview’ with ACP A.A. Elleman. “Surprisingly, Mr Mahdi was detained for 14 days at the Asokoro police station where he was bitten by a snake and subsequently at the Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Bureau (FCIID) Garki. “It is worthy of note to state that Mahdi was also invited for an ‘interview’ over the same case by the Department of State Services (DSS) on the eve of his detention. “While still in detention in Abuja, the Katsina police commissioners sent yet another invitation to Mahdi’s office in Kaduna. “The Katsina CP called severally to ask why Mahdi didn’t honor his invitation having fully known that he was being detained in FCIID Abuja,” the communiqué said. The coalition said the Police Headquarters released Mahdi a night before the day a FCT High Court Abuja ordered him to bring applicant to court for the determination of a case of enforcement of fundamental rights. The Force Headquarters therefore remitted the case file to Katsina Attorney General, who earlier filed a criminal defamation against the whistleblower pending before CMC 1, the coalition said. The Katsina Attorney General filed the same case pending before various courts with a slight addition of ‘cybercrime charge’ at the Federal High Court Katsina. Subsequently, two weeks after his release and while in isolation for treatment of COVID-19, the IGP office through ACP Elleman sent another invitation for “continuation of investigations.” The whistleblower’s lawyers informed the IGP’s office of his condition in December 18 but the top police chief sent another invitation on January 4, 2021. “Mr Mahdi was again arrested and bundled to Katsina for another bout of litigations. And he has been in detention ever since despite his failing health,” the coalition said. The coalition urged President Buhari “to stop this persecution and abuse of court processes. Whistleblowers must be protected by the government. “Agencies of government shouldn’t be seen working with retrogressive elements in rubbishing the administration’s anti-graft crusade.”