Who is Jonathan Isaac? He is a professional basketball player who plays the Forward position for Orlando Magic, one of the leading basketball teams in the United States. On July 31, 2020, Isaac startled the crowd when, at a game between his team and the Brooklyn Nets, he broke with all the players who were kneeling when, alone, he stood when the Star Spangled Banner, the American National Anthem, was being played. But then, two days later, at a game between his team and the Sacramento Kings, Isaac suffered a terrible injury in, of all the body parts possible, the knee! Twitter and other social media platforms exploded with posts which, for the most part, celebrated Isaac’s miserable luck. Some posts from Africans living in the US declared that the gods of Africa were not asleep. From African Americans came posts declaring that “Uncle Toms” always pay for their betrayal of the race. It must be reported that the overwhelming majority of professional basketball players were more generous and merciful – for that moment, they set aside their bitter disappointment in Isaac’s break with the taking the knee act, wished him well and prayed for his full recovery. And Wilfried Zaha, who is he? He is a gifted Ivorian striker who plays for the English Premier League club, Crystal Palace. Four weeks ago on Saturday, March 13, 2021, in a game between his team and West Bromwich Albion, Zaha surprised everybody when, like Jonathan Isaac, he stood while all other players and officials on the field knelt in compliance with the pregame anti-racist ritual. Before the game, he had announced his intention not to kneel while others did so. But still, Zaha’s act of protest against a ritual that was itself a protest surprised everybody. There is one little point of difference between Isaac and Zaha in their respective acts that needs to be pointed out and it is this: in the US, Black players constitute an overwhelming majority over White players while in the Premier League, although Black players are a sizeable group, White and other Non-White players are more numerous than Black players. In effect, Zaha did not seem to be as starkly separated from other Black players as Isaac did when, last year, he emerged as the first Black athlete to show by his refusal that he was done with taking the knee. I am assuming that everyone reading this article is familiar with how and why “taking the knee” is so well-known all over the world that I do not need to give a long introductory explanation about what it is before getting into what I have to say in this piece. Nevertheless, here’s a quick recap to ease us into the discussion. 2016: Colin Kaepernick, a Quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, kneels in protest against police brutality and racial inequality; he kneels alone in a preseason game with another team while all others on the field, players, officials and the huge crowd, stand for the playing of the national anthem. Kaepernick kneels alone for a long time until, gradually, other Black players begin to kneel with him. The act begins to be widely known as “taking the knee” when many, many other players join Kaepernick, especially when former president Donald Trump begins to violently attack Kaepernick and all knee takers as unpatriotic Americans. Finally, in May 2020, taking the knee becomes more than a symbol when Gorge Floyd was killed in Minneapolis by a policeman who placed his right knee on Floyd’s neck and choked him to death while standers bye pleaded for Floyd’s life. At that point, taking the knee becomes a major part, indeed the physical, bodily insignia of the Black Lives Matter movement. And it is at that conjunctural moment that the English Premier League, and many other national soccer leagues in the world, begin to “take the knee” before matches. Thus, as a perhaps the supreme expression of radical, progressive links between professional sports and politics, taking the knee has become perhaps the most iconic cultural phenomenon of our time. It is against this background that Jonathan Isaac and Wilfried Zaha should be judged in their decision to stop taking the knee. Before going into the wider political and social ramifications of the decision of Isaac and Zaha about taking or not taking the knee, I want, first, to briefly discuss what the two players are saying in defense of their decision. Isaac has been more simple and uncomplicated in his self-justification, even though in the end, his explanation leaves more questions unanswered than Zaha’s. Briefly, here’s what Isaac has said: All lives matter. And since apart from being a professional basketball player he is also a preacher, Isaac adds that in the eyes of God, all lives matter. Because he does not wear a Black Lives Matter T-shirt or display any graphics or inscriptions connected with the BLM on his jersey as most Black players do, Isaac has been asked whether or not he believes that Back lives matter. To this question his answer is, yes of course, Black lives do matter. And then he repeats: All lives matter. Zaha is more complicated, more defensive, more truculent in his self-justification. In essence this is what his rambling and barely coherent explanation amounts to: I alone, Wilfried Zaha, will decide for myself how to fight racism; in spite of taking the knee, some of us are still experiencing racism; I told my club of my decision before I acted on it, I did not want it to be a surprise to them; I alone, Wilfried Zaha, will decide for myself how best I will fight racism. Since, so far he has given no indication of how he is going to fight racism by himself, many posts on Twitter handles have praised Zaha for refusing to continue with what many of the posts have called “group think”. Although Zaha himself has not used that term, I don’t think it is unfair to ascribe this to him since his explanation places so much weight on thinking and deciding by and for himself what he will be doing to continue the fight against racism. Zaha and Isaac are of course multimillionaires and historically, this social context has been a crucial factor, positively and negatively, in how sports has been used to fight racism. In the positive cases, radical and progressive anti-racist professional athletes have had to make enormous sacrifices in order to achieve the greatest impact possible. I am thinking here of Mohammed Ali in his refusal to be drafted into the US Army to go and fight in Vietnam. And there is the case of the Black Power salute of Tommie Smith and John Carlos at the Mexico City Olympics of 1968. In these two cases, all the athletes were well aware that their acts would cost them dearly and yet they were willing to make the sacrifices. In the same vein, star athletes have used the specter of huge financial losses to the owners and proprietors of football (American) and soccer clubs to win support from them for their action against racism. The negative possibilities come when the humungous financial world of professional sports makes star athletes with enormous wealth work, at best ambiguously and at worst deliberately and opportunistically, to give comfort to racist and supremacist forces in society. I suggest that in the two cases of Isaac and Zaha, we see, respectively, the opportunistic and the ambiguous cases. Let’s examine each of these two cases with regards to explanations that Isaac and Zaha have given us, but on the condition that we must respect their right to make whatever decision about taking the knee they like. All lives matter, Isaac’s explanation for his action, was already widely in use by conservative White groups pushing back against the Black Lives Matter Movement’s slogan of “Black lives matter”. Was Isaac unaware of this fact? Absolutely impossible. He would have had to have been away from America since the year 2013 when Black Lives Matter was founded. Not only did the counter-slogan, “All lives matter” appear almost immediately after the appearance of the “Black lives matter” slogan, it was also very widely circulated. The only reason it did not achieve the vastness of the circulation of the “Black lives matter” slogan is that it’s circulation was restricted mainly to White conservative and supremacist groups and their supporters, whereas “Black lives matter” had a circulation that was global. This is why it is extremely dubious that Isaac is completely unaware of this connection. He is a preacher apart from being a star athlete, a multimillionaire. He claims that it is from his religious faith that he is asserting that to God, all lives matter. But this is exactly what the conservative White evangelicals who first coined the slogan, “All lives matter” also claimed! Indeed within a week of Isaac’s refusal to take the knee, his numbered Orlando Magic shirt was selling widely among White conservative groups. Look for Isaac to run for office or the Senate in the years ahead as a Republican! On Zaha’s more ambiguous case, while one could concede that he is probably motivated by a feeling that taking the knee is fast becoming a fad, an empty ritual which is beginning to lose its mobilizational potency against racism and White supremacy, Zaha expresses absolutely no appreciation, no praise for what taking the knee has achieved. Therefore he sounds as if, from the beginning, he was always reticent about taking the knee. This is compounded by the fact that he is also against wearing Black Lives Matter T-shirts or paraphernalia. Why did he have to announce that, making it a notable aspect of his refusal? On this score, I suggest that Zaha’s case should remind us of the fact in all cases of resistance to oppression or injustice on a large scale, not everybody in the oppressed community is a “resister”. In other words, anybody who thinks that all Black people are natural supporters of Black Lives Matter or taking the knees is very naïve. It is the same type of naivete of those who expected, during the colonial phase of our modern political history, that everyone was against colonialism – which was not the case at all. In my youth in colonial Nigeria, I knew many people who wanted the British to stay for as long as they wanted, if not forever! In conclusion, here’s what I think will happen, in the long run. In the NBA in the United States, Black professional players are so numerically dominant, their financial muscle and power of negotiation so robust that taking the knee will not just fade away. If and when it does, it will not be without replacing it with something to augment and sustain its powerful antiracist impact on American society and culture – unless of course basketball ceases to be one of the most powerful economic and social forces in America. The situation is very different in the Premier League and the other European national professional soccer leagues. Black players, though a considerably important presence, are not even remotely comparable to African Americans as a group in basketball. For this reason, there is a strong possibility that, in slow degrees, the leagues will take a cue from Zaha and other Black players who will almost certainly follow in his footsteps. Let us hope that before that happens, other strategies and tactics would have been found and mobilized to continue whatever achievements of antiracism we can ascribe to taking the knee.