Anyone who visited the House of Representatives penultimate Saturday could be pardoned if he felt he had strayed to a popular Nigerian market. Many members sought to speak at the same time, shouting at the top of their voices. All attempts by the principal officers, led by the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, failed. It was one day that the Rule book was of no use in guiding discussions. Neither did the gavel have any effect in controlling members who only fell a little short of exchanging fisticuffs. It was, indeed, a show of shame. Had it been the only time that members’ emotions would boil over, perhaps they could be pardoned, but it had become a regular occurrence, thus calling to question any internalisation of democratic ethos and rules of decent debate in the past 21 years. The previous Thursday when the Deputy Speaker, Idris Wase, presided, it was a fierce exchange between him and the representative of Gwer West, Benue State, Mark Gbillah, that nearly scuttled the day’s session. Gbillah had sought to present a petition by some Tivs in America on the plight of internally displaced persons in the state. The fuming deputy speaker caused a stir when he queried the capacity of those in diaspora to comment on developments at home. He said “they cannot stay in their comfort zone abroad to be presenting petitions at home.” He then ordered Gbilla to sit down. When in 2010 the House was always boiling, it was attributed to a learning curve, out of which the legislators would grow over time. Then, as moves were made to remove Mrs. Patricia Etteh as Speaker, some lawmakers turned the House to a motor park where touts usually test their strength by engaging in physical combat every day. In 2015, too, there were regular fights over the internal crisis rocking the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The crisis later led to an unusual development that saw the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) seizing control of the federal legislature. We agree with Speaker Gbajabiamila that neither by intendment nor by express provision does the 1999 Constitution envisage that a hallowed chamber could be converted to, or mistaken for a marketplace. Leaders of the major political parties and presiding officers should immediately organise orientation programmes for the legislators. At a time of crisis when the security situation is threatening the country’s corporate existence, the economy is threatening the socio-economic situation and the political environment remains so tense, elected representatives cannot afford the luxury of setting aside these issues only to resort to personal combats. At the commencement of this legislative assembly, an agenda was published as its central concern. Now, even as we move towards 2023, little attention is being paid to the agenda with a view to ensuring better life for the people who have since been declared as the most impoverished in the world. The purpose of the National Assembly includes representing the people in the various constituencies, making laws for the federation and providing oversight of the working of the executive branch. We have not seen much of this even in a post-COVID 19 era. Unemployment has hit the unprecedented 33.3 per cent, inflation at 17 per cent has ensured that more people live below the poverty line and insecurity, including abduction of school children, is rife in the land. Yet, our lawmakers have no solution to the myriad of problems holding the country down. The lawmakers should realise that children and the young ones watch them on the television and when they set such examples, they are passing the wrong message. The international community, too, is monitoring what takes place among leaders, including those in the legislature. Their performance would influence how Nigeria is rated. States assemblies are known to slide into jungle-like practices, deviating fully from the Rule books. When they see the example of the House that is supposed to take over legislative functions from them if things go awry, the state legislators are likely to feel encouraged to continue with errant behaviour. It is high time the Speaker and other principal officers resolved to go beyond verbal reprimand and appeals in curbing such behaviour. Henceforth, sanctions provided by Law and Rules of the House should be applied to deter such actions. Whoever seeks to turn the House of Representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to a marketplace or motor park should be told he or she is in the wrong place.