 Perhaps no other state in Nigeria can better that Lagos bragging right: policy conceptualisation since 1999; and a relay of four governors — Bola Tinubu, Babatunde  Fashola, Akinwunmi Ambode and Babajide Sanwo-Olu — from the same party, to implement long-term planning, especially in critical infrastructure. The latest of such was the March 5 commissioning of the Pen Cinema flyover and allied works. Incidentally, on hand at the ceremony was Asiwaju Tinubu, under whose governorship (1999-2007) it all started. Governor Sanwo-Olu has earned due praise for focusing on and completing this major artery, bound to boost the economy of a hugely populated mid-town area, though the project was started by Governor Ambode, his predecessor. Such project focus and timely completion are a refreshing departure from each governor leaving uncompleted projects to start own legacy works.  This often leads to dissipation of scarce funds; and possible project paralysis that costs the people dear. This welcome culture would be much consolidated, with the estimated delivery of Lagos Blue and Red Line light rail projects, expected game-changers in Lagos urban mass transit, due in 2022. Again, these rail projects were conceived under Tinubu, got much work done, on the Blue Line (Mile 2-Orile-CMS) corridor under Fashola, and now Sanwo-Olu is set to anchor the completion of both lines.  That is the way to go — policy and project continuity — to save cost and drive maximum value from every kobo spent. The Pen Cinema project was a timely solution to a perpetual traffic gridlock at the Pen Cinema, Agege, hub to five major routes: Ogba, Agege Oja, Iju, Abule Egba, and Iyana Ipaja.  But added to the bridge is a spur that links the works with the Old Abeokuta Road.  Thus, the composite project consists of a flyover, a spur and rehabilitation of five adjoining roads. Such massive urban renewal projects, since 1999, have helped to re-position Lagos to cope with its explosive population of economic migrants, looking for opportunities, from all over Nigeria — and even from neighbouring West African countries. Again, that is a track to stick to, as Lagos needs constant urban infrastructure upscale, to cope with its booming population, diffuse urban tension and conflicts, and lower crime rates. Which was why Aramide Adeyoye, Governor Sanwo-Olu’s Special Adviser on Works and Infrastructure, was spot on in her opening speech at the ceremony, that the Pen Cinema bridge would support business, boost investment, promote economic development and ultimately improve the socio-economic wellness of Lagos residents. Aside from hard core economics and business, wellness, in terms of reduced stress, arising from shortened travel time and less traffic gridlock, must be emphasised.  That is among the social benefits such infrastructure, that seamlessly connect communities, in sprawling urban centres as Lagos, offers.  The multiplier effects, if such assets are well maintained and put in prime shape, are invaluable. Which is why as the government does its part — in project delivery and continuous maintenance — the host and beneficiary communities should buy into the Pen Cinema project, and watch over it, as if it was community-funded. This point can’t be overstated, given the unwholesome Nigerian attitude to public works.  A visit to the near-by Abule Egba flyover and surrounding works reveals a shocking wear-and-tear, of a project commissioned in May 2017 — less than four years ago.  Lagosians can clearly do far better in tending these vital infrastructure. This is why, apart from strong pitches to local communities to partner in preserving these assets, the Lagos State government should put in place rigorous, efficient and effective processes to sanction careless drivers that ram into streetlight poles; or drunken ones that crash into medians.  For too long, this category of citizens have been allowed to destroy public works with impunity.  That must stop. Still, on the Pen Cinema project, former Governor Ambode should have been given due credit, at the commissioning; though Ambode had ruptured the Tinubu/Fashola-era seamless project transition, from one administration to another. It is good Sanwo-Olu has re-set that “cancel culture” (to borrow that American coinage), by his policy to complete all on-going projects, instead of opening up fresh ones.  But not giving Ambode due mention was a missed opportunity: to bury, for good, that bad politics, and birth a healthier and fairer temper.