Vehicle dealers are canvassing the extension of reduction on tariff on imported buses to minivans and cars. The government has commenced the implementation of the cut on tariff on buses carrying more than 10 passengers to five per cent in a move to reduce cost of transportation. Applauding the government policy, the Association of Motor Dealers of Nigeria (AMDON) said at the weekend that an extension of the tariff cut to imported cars and minivans would facilitate full achievement of the government’s objective. President of AMDOM Prince Ajibola Adedoyin said: “Nonetheless, we want Mr. President to also know that a larger number of the so-called cars that are not captured in this reduction are used for commercial transportation. “That is why we said the government can do more. The cars should be included in this tariff reduction. We are not making a case for luxurious ones. They shouldn’t have limited it to vehicles that can carry more than 10 persons. “If you look at our roads, there are some vehicles that are used for commercial transportation that only carry six or seven passengers. We are talking of Toyota Sienna, Volkswagen Sharon and co. These vehicles are everywhere for commercial purposes. Even cars too, they are used for intra-city and intercity transportation. That is why we said the government needs to do more and capture this category of vehicles in the tariff reduction. We’re giving the President kudos for what he has done so far because it takes a strong political will to do so. But we urge him to do more.” On the criticisms that have trailed the tariff reduction initiative, especially from local vehicle automobile companies, who claim the move will distort the Nigerian auto policy blueprint, Adedoyin said their position was illogical because Nigeria only has vehicle assembly plants that cobble together cars that are not affordable to Nigerians for commercial and personal use. The AMDON president challenged the Nigerian Automotive Design and Development Council (NADDC) and other Nigerian vehicle assemblers to collaborate and come up with a locally designed and produced car that will cost between N1.5 and N1.7 million. “I can tell you that it is a doable thing. It might not be to some people’s standard but it is doable and will serve well. What you just need to do is remove most of the luxury accessories, design a good body, get the right engine and gearbox and other vital components and you produce a good car meant for our type of climate and terrain. “Also, you design a maintenance blueprint and you’re in business. We can start from there. From there, you can move into trucks that can convey heavy goods. “Recently, I was sad that despite all we’ve been crying out for and pointing the way to go, we heard that what the NADDC was going to unveil is an electric car. “In this country, we love waste and that is why we’re not going anywhere. We keep going round in circles. For God’s sake, we said design for us a made in Nigeria car that is accessible and affordable. If not, we will remain in the same spot” Adedoyin added:  ”In the first instance, AMDON will never stand against any sincere attempt to make Nigeria a car manufacturing country. No, we will not do that. Rather, we are for it. We want Nigeria to become a vehicle manufacturing nation. It is our dream. It is what we want. “Go and read the history of India’s auto industry. They started from tricycles and grew gradually. We can start small too and grow. Let’s not fool ourselves that we will jump into electric cars when we can’t produce tyres. Taxpayers’ money will continue to go down the drain without any fruitful thing to show for it. After several years, we will come back to the basics.”