The board of directors of Nigerian Breweries (NB) Plc has recommended the adoption of a dividend conversion option under which shareholders can exchange their cash dividends for ordinary shares of the brewing company. In a circular made available at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), directors of the company will seek shareholders’ approval for the implementation of the conversion scheme, which will apply to the cash dividend for the 2020 business year. According to the resolutions, shareholders are expected to authorise that “shareholders entitled to receive cash dividends in respect of the financial year ended December 31, 2020, be offered a right of election to receive ordinary shares in the company instead of cash dividends, and that such new ordinary shares be credited as fully paid, which, when issued, shall rank pari-passu in all respects with the company’s existing ordinary shares”. Also, the election to receive ordinary shares instead of cash dividends shall have been exercised on or before April 21, 2021. The new ordinary shares to be received by shareholders shall be determined by their cash dividend entitlements divided by a reference share price, which reference share price shall be the 10-day average, starting on  March 11, 2021, of the company’s closing share price on the floor of the NSE. Shareholders are expected to authorise the directors “to allot to shareholders who elected to receive ordinary shares in the company in lieu of cash dividends, such number of new ordinary shares as shall be determined by the directors”  in line with the reference conversion price and amount of cash dividend presented. With the April 22, 2021 Annual General Meeting (AGM) almost two weeks after the closing date for the exercise of the conversion option, shareholders are expected to ratify all actions already taken by the directors and all new necessary steps to give effect to the conversion. The Board of Directors of NB earmarked the entire net profit of N7.5 billion recorded in 2020 for payout to shareholders as cash dividends for the business year. The company will pay a final dividend of N5.52 billion in addition to an interim dividend of N1.999 billion earlier paid during the business year. With these, shareholders will receive a final dividend per share of 69 kobo in addition to 25 kobo earlier paid during the year, bringing the total dividend per share to 94 kobo. The dividend recommendation was part of the highlights of the audited report and accounts of the company for the year ended December 31, 2020 released at the NSE. The report showed that turnover rose by 4.3 per cent to N337.01 billion in 2020 as against N323 billion recorded during the corresponding period in 2019. In the statement signed by NB Company Secretary and Legal Director, Uaboi Agbebaku, the Board of Directors commended the company’s management for its efforts in mitigating the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the business. The board also noted the prudent management of resources as reflected in a seven per cent reduction in expenses incurred on marketing, distribution, and administration. The company pointed out that only qualifying shareholders whose names appeared on its register of members at the close of business on March 10, 2021 would be paid the final dividend. The company stated that despite the negative impact of COVID-19 on its operations, it made noteworthy donations in cash and kind valued at about N531 million out of a phased commitment of N600 million to the federal and seven state governments’ COVID-19 Task Forces Relief Funds. The Board of Directors expressed confidence that the company is well-positioned to continue to deliver return on investment to shareholders. According to the company, it remains committed to not only keeping its balance sheet strong but ensuring that the health, safety and welfare of its employees, customers and partners are protected.  