Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said he is certain that the late Alhaji Lateef Jakande will live forever in the hearts of Nigerians. He said Jakande’s legacies would remain with Lagosians for a long time. He described the deceased as a detribalised Nigerian, who was outstanding in his achievements. The governor spoke yesterday at the Chapel of Christ the Light, Alausa, Ikeja, during the 40th day memorial service for the deceased. He said Jakande had laid a foundation which nobody would erase in Lagos State. Sanwo-Olu said: “This service is deserving for our late father, the first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande. We cannot celebrate him enough, and we will continue to celebrate him for the life that this detribalised Nigerian and outstanding Lagosian lived. “He built the foundation that all of us are enjoying today. He will continue to live in the hearts of many children, and even unborn children, because he indeed laid the foundation for something that nobody can erase. “Romans 14:8 says: ‘For if we live, we live for the Lord; and if we die, we die for the Lord. So, whether we live or die, we belong to the Lord.’ This is synonymous with today’s sermon titled ‘The righteous lives forever’. So when we say the righteous will live forever, indeed we can say that Baba Jakande has earned it, and we know that he will live forever.” The Lord Bishop of Diocese of Lagos (Anglican Communion), Rev. Humphrey Olumakaiye, said the definition of a righteous man is not about being an angel or a saint, but a man who touched lives while alive, used his positions to create opportunities and touched the lives of the people who can never pay him back. The cleric urged political office holders to see their positions as a great opportunity to serve and benefit the people. Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Chairman in Lagos Rev. Stephen Adegbite said his generation would never forget Pa Jakande and other defunct Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) governors in the Second Republic because of how they impacted lives through their people-oriented programmes. The memorial service was also attended by the governor’s wife, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, Jakande’s widow, Alhaja Abimbola and her children, former Lagos State Deputy Governor Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, members of the State Executive Council, Body of Permanent Secretaries, clerics, among others.