Nigeria rapidly growing population is   providing ample space for fertiliser producers to pursue their ambitious growth strategies, Vice-President, West Africa Fertiliser Association(WAFA),Dr Innocent Okuku  has said. In an interview,  Okuku  said the nation  produces  more than  three million metric tonnes of fertiliser that are exported  to Africa and global markets. He said  fertiliser manufacturers are sitting on a surplus production capacity that are  exported to earn foreign exchange revenue amid uptrend in international prices. His  words: “With Dangote plant alone, Nigeria is doubling its urea fertiliser production. Even before Dangote plant comes on stream, Nigeria is producing more than it is consuming. About 50 per cent of what is produced in Nigeria today is exported. 30 per cent of urea is used to blending in the nitrogen, phosphate  and phosphorus(NPK) industry.’’ In West Africa, Nigeria is the only manufacturer of urea. Sadly, a lot of exported  urea produced in Nigeria don’t go to West Africa countries. They go to North America, Brazil and other parts of the world.” He   stressed the need to not only increase physical arable land allotments, but also to increase the actual yield of currently cultivated land as well. With its access to natural gas, sulphur and phosphate feed stocks,  he  sees  fertiliser production  increasing. However, the Independent Commodity Intelligence Services (ICIS) noted  that unprecedented series of unplanned ammonia plant shutdowns in both sides of the Suez was the catalyst for another rise in international prices as companies raced to find replacement tonnes. The report said at least five plants, including three involving Norway’s Yara, were  confirmed as offline, removing a combined 300,000 tonnes/month of product – about 20 per cent  of merchant seaborne trade – from an already bullish market. It  added that  robust demand from fertiliser and chemicals manufacturers since the turn of the year has seen ammonia prices rebound strongly, with traders given no option but to pay premiums to secure spot cargoes.