They came from diverse sectors and vocations, but they were united by their common position that gender parity is desirable and, in fact, achievable; and that the time had come to make women equal partners in decision-making. Those were the positions canvassed by Nigerian women across sectors and careers, who joined their counterparts worldwide to mark the International Women’s Day (IWD) on Monday, March 8. IWD was earmarked to celebrate the social, economic, cultural, and political achievements of women while highlighting the problems they face. It is a day to acknowledge and make people aware of women’s rights and gender equality, and a call to action for accelerating women’s equality, this year’s edition was themed “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world.” This year’s edition highlighted how women could be equal partners in decision-making processes, especially those regarding policymaking. This is so considering the need to bring to light the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic while highlighting the gaps that remain. It was against this backdrop that Nigerian women joined their counterparts across the world to celebrate the day and also lend their voices to the discourse. Although some of them, who spoke with The Nation, brought diverse and interesting perspectives into the conversation, a common thread that ran through their position was the need to empower women and incorporate them in decision-making. For instance, make-up artist and social entrepreneur Rosemary Obi said because of women’s struggle to achieve equal opportunity in the work place, there has been noticeable alteration in the world of work by the massive entry of women into paid employment. According to her, the male breadwinner model has become a thing of the past, as women are no longer waiting to be handed relief of any kind, but have become self-reliant. “I think women are already taking position by force even without waiting for anyone to offer it to them. A popular saying says if they did not offer you a seat at the table, bring your seat along,” Rosemary, who pioneered “Project FX Africa,” the first ever make-up reality show in Africa, said, adding that one thing that organisations can do is create more opportunities for women to participate in decision making “Because for as long as women are not allowed, it would always feel like a silent war of genders going on.” The entrepreneur, who is also the convener, “Empower 1000 Women,” which empowers African women in various crafts, also said although, issues around the COVID-19 pandemic formed the theme of this year’s IWD, there was a pandemic before COVID-19 struck and it is called the gender-based violence. According to her, the coronavirus pandemic only heightened the threat for so many women in such situation. She, however, pointed out that CPVID-19 force a lockdown that opened a can of worms in so many homes. “Reports of domestic violence, failing businesses and depression took an upward swing in Nigeria and some other parts of the World. COVID-19 only brought to the open the ills that have been in existence for a very long time,” Rosemary said. She, however, used the platform of this year’s IWD to call on the Nigerian Government to ensure that as the nation recovers from the pandemic, a more gender inclusive society, where women and girls’ rights are protected, is highly promoted. The acclaimed make-up artist stated that at moment, Nigerian women are disproportionately represented in the political space because most of them see politics as a dirty game and they want to be alive for their kids for as long as they can. “Taking care of the home is top priority to Nigerian women. “Although in recent times, most women are now indicating their interests towards participating in politics, in order to correct the wrongs that have been made in our country and continent as a whole, women never give up. So, I see a woman becoming president in a not so distant future,” she said. While many women would naturally share Rosemary’s optimism that a woman would become Nigeria’s president in a not distant future, digital strategist and founder of Learntor, a consultancy company focused on agile digital transformation, data analytics, and digital marketing, Mercy George-Igbafe’s optimism appeared to be measured. Mercy raised a number of posers: “How many women are actually interested in politics and how many men are willing to step aside for women to take on leading roles in politics? In the media, more women and men are rising and speaking up; they are building their platforms. But the question is how many people have voter’s card and how many will go the extra mile to support them by voting?” The ICT amazon also said the impact of Covid-19 on women, especially those with children, could only be imagined. “I would imagine how hard it would be for people with children. Having to be with the kids 24 hours can only come with its own challenges. Many people have lost their lives from lack of food while others to Covid-19. More job loss is increasing the unemployment rate nationally and globally,” she said. Mercy, while pointing out that Covid-19 did not happen to women only, but to every living person, she said the pandemic was a blessing in disguise of sort. She said, for instance, that Covid-19 had pushed her to be more creative and innovative, particularly considering thatt Learntor also came at a time when people were looking to learn new skills and widen their job prospects. The Creative Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of OS Creations, a premium women’s ready-to-wear clothing brand, Oluyemisi Shonubi, said Nigeria had more women in business than most countries in the world. hence, many women-owned businesses were badly hurt by the pandemic. She said as a result, many of them have not been able to get their business operations back to an optimal level since the pandemic struck. “In fact, so many businesses have had to close down, livelihood has been affected and business growth stifled,” the fashion entrepreneur lamented. With regards to gender equality, Oluyemisi said this has been a major challenge for decades. According to her, women are under-represented in key decision making positions all over the world. She, however, said this should not be the case, insisting that drastic measures should be taken to change the narrative. To achieve this, Oluyemisi said there was the need for organisations to change their recruitment practices and culture and drop the mindset that certain positions must be filled by a particular gender. “Rather, recruitment should be based on competence,” she charged. She also said more emphasis should be placed on work-life balance, which, according to her, helps to reduce stress and attrition rate especially amongst women. “Many women are not able to reach the peak of their career due to the inability to balance managing their homes and work adequately at the same time,” Oluyemisi pointed out. Oluyemisi also urged more women to step out and to take on leadership roles in the economy, politics and governance. “Women should participate at all levels of the governance. One of the ways to achieve this may be by giving certain incentives to encourage more women to fill these positions,” she recommended. She, however, admitted that acceptability’ remained a major factor in women’s quest to take on leadership positions. According to her, the Nigerian political space (and in most countries) is mainly patriarchal, making it difficult for women to compete on that space. She, however, said some women have successfully beaten this mindset. On her part, the Managing Director/CEO of AyoIroha Clothing Ltd., a garment manufacturing company, and its sister company, Fashion Brokers Consult Ltd, Ayo Joy Okpa-Iroha, pointed out that it was not that Nigerian women were not participating in politics, but the level of their participation was not significant enough. She, however, attributed Nigerian women’s low participation in politics to the peculiar nature of Nigerian politics, which, according to her, is more about money politics than one driven by values, responsibility, fair play and truth. She also said cultural discrimination and segregation played a major role in the Nigerian society. The correct this anomaly and achieve gender equality, the Creative Director of Elareall Designs, a female fashion brand focused on bespoke tailoring, fabric crafts, ready-to-wear, and t-shirt branding, Esther Sunday, said some harmful practices against women and girls that deprived them from having a voice must be eliminated. She also said patriarchal systems designed to disempower women must be dismantled. According to her, women need an enabling environment to achieve equality with their male counterparts.  