 The Falomo Bridge will be shut down for six weeks, beginning from Sunday, the Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation Dr. Frederic Oladeinde said on Friday. According to Oladeinde, the government has secured the approval of the Federal Government for the repair works which he said would last for six weeks, to be completed on April 30. Oladeinde said the repairs works will run on a 24hours shift in phases to enable the contractor complete repairs within the estimated time and minimize the expected inconveniences for road users. He further explained that the first stage of the repairs will cover the Victoria Island bound lane of the bridge, which will be closed to traffic, adding that motorists heading towards Victoria Island will be diverted to the Ikoyi bound lanes to create a counter-flow. The commissioner also said while the Ikoyi bound lane will be closed down for the second stage of rehabilitation works, in a similar fashion, motorists will be diverted to other lanes. He assured that sufficient signage would be put up to guide motorists as well as traffic management personnel deployed to help motorists navigate their ways home with ease. Oladeinde appealed to the good people of the State to cooperate with the Government by complying with the directives and traffic advisory to allow contractors to finish the projects in record time. Similarly, Oladeinde said the state government will close Badia Junction and Gaskiya level crossings on Sunday night to about 6 am on Monday, March 15, 2021.  Oladeinde disclosed that the closure was to enable the contractor China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) Nigeria Limited continue the Track Stress Dispersion on the level crossings towards Apapa Ports. Earlier the contractor had worked on the Abule Nla, Brewery level crossing from Friday, opening it for traffic only yesterday morning. Motorists trying to access Badia from Ijora 7up are to navigate their way through Marine Bridge to link Boundary inwards Olayinka Street to connect Gaskiya Road and finally, reach Badia. (not forgetting that Marine Bridge is closed). Motorists also coming in from Lagos-Badagry Expressway to Badia are to utilize Orile inwards Sari-Iganmu road inwards Gaskiya Road to connect Badia. Road users are therefore advised to comply with the Traffic directions provided, the Traffic Management Personnel on the ground as well as road signals to minimize inconveniences that may be experienced while the construction work lasts. The state government appealed to residents, especially motorists that ply these corridors to utilize the provided alternatives with patience, as the project is aimed at achieving a seamless Multi-Modal Transport System that will meet the transportation needs of the population.