The new president, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) Bishop Wale Oke, has unveiled a seven-point agenda for his administration which includes promotion of North-South partnership, mobilizing all pentecostals for kingdom advancement and nation building as well as youth empowerment for nation building. Oke, who is also the Presiding Bishop, Sword of the Spirit Ministries, disclosed this while addressing reporters in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital yesterday. He also accused Nigerian politicians of handling the forthcoming 2023 election as a make-or-mar poll for the country given their body language. He said: “We are face-to-face with a make-or-mar 2023 election with the way politicians are playing the game. Therefore, we as Christians see it as a call to duty to pull Nigeria back from breaking, to prevent Nigerian from becoming a failed state.” Oke was elected the seventh president of the fellowship in Enugu last week. He said the signs interpreted by an American some years ago which made him predict that Nigeria would break in 2015 are here again. At the time, Oke said Christians went on their knees to pray against the prediction because a united Nigeria is far better than its independent fractions. “But God loves Nigeria. He cares for Nigeria. He has a plan for Nigeria. That is why He answered our prayers.” He said. Explaining three of the seven points, the cleric said PFN under his leadership would promote partnership between southern and northern Nigeria for national strength and unity. We will explore the strength we have as a people of the same nation as against exploiting the fault lines. We will start in the church. The church in the south will partner with the church in the north. We will do this through spiritual education and enlightenment.” He further explained that the partnership would be built through sincerity of purpose, working in love and be backed up with prayers. With the above, Oke expressed confidence that difference in religion will not be a barrier because everyone will naturally respond to love once it is given sincerely. He added that the fellowship would mobilize all pentecostals across the 774 local governments of the nation for kingdom advancement and nation building. “We will do this by praying, fasting and speaking truth to power. We will mobilize our followers for nation building economically and politically to bring their enormous number to bear in building Nigeria. We don’t want our members to lay back and be complaining. We want to take responsibility to build the nation.” He said. He also disclosed PFN’s plan to empower youths in the church through education, enlightenment, skill acquisition training and start-up capitals to enable them participate in kingdom work and nation building. With spiritual, political and economic enlightenment, he said youths will participate more in economic, spiritual and political activities that will make Nigeria a better place.