 Kaduna Inland Dry Port Limited (KIDPL) has the capacity to export goods to other ports in the country, its management have said. Its said it could keep goods at its mega warehouse, provide empty containers, while the authorised agencies involved in export examination with pre shipment inspection agents would certify the exports before their onward transit to Apapa/Onne/Tin Can and other destinations on-board sailing vessel. The General Manager of KIDPL, Rotimi O. Raimi Hassan, made this known during its Export Forum at KIDPL Conference in Kaduna. According to Hassan, the primary objective of establishing inland dry ports is to decongest Lagos’ seaports and bring shipping to the doorsteps of hinterland shippers, transact business and use the dry port platform to either clear their import or forward export without interface with Onne/Lagos seaports. He said: “The Federal Government is taking export as part of revenue generation by encouraging people to diversify into export business and use it as avenue to balance our international trade so that Nigeria will not solely dependent on crude oil export. “However, Nigeria is blessed with so many natural resources, yet untapped, and this is the time for us to have a rethink and explore into export trade business which the overhead cost is minimal. “The Nigerian Railway Corporation has indicated its readiness to commence rail haulage after test running of the rail lines from Zaria to Jebba and Lagos to Jebba. We are hopeful that export will be sealed here by Customs with other agencies authorised at KIDP. “With these, I assure you that the hindrances faced in export logistics will be eliminated. The northern exporters will smile and enjoy the dividend of the government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari.” Kaduna Inland Dry port, gazetted on May 25, 2015 as port of origin for export forwarding and a port of destination for import consignments, was inaugurated by President Buhari. Hassan advised stakeholders to ask questions to enable them clarify things to have more information on how to handle their export processing at Kaduna inland dry port. The event, which was chaired by Comptroller Abubakar Sanusi Daburan, who conveyed his assurance and support for export processing and delivery from KIDPL, was also attended by Deputy Comptroller Muasu; Assistant Director, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, representative of Nigerian Export Promotion Council, O/C, SON, Quarantine, NAFDAC, Federal Produce, DSS, Representative of Angelia International Services Limited, the Pre shipment inspection agent, and other notable stakeholders. 