To boost food production in line with the policy of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, the Federal Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Development has started the training of Agricultural Extension Agents (AEA) across the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The four-day training holding in Makurdi was declared open by the Ministers of Agriculture and Rural Development Alhaji Muhammed Nanono on Monday in Benue State. In his key note address, accessed Alhaji Nanono, stated that over the years, the fortunes of the agricultural extension system has declined due to decrease funding ,policy change ,and lacked of interest of young people in agricultural entrepreneurship and it’s has affected food production. The Minister stated that the training of AEA is one of several strategies plan by the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to halt the drift in the agricultural extension system. Represented by Dr.Thompson Abi, Benue State Director FMARD Makurdi, the training was also aimed at pursuing the revitalization agenda of the economy by the Federal Government and urged the participants to take advantage of held boast food production. Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, represented by Programme Manager, Benue Agricultural and Rural Development Authority (BARDA) Mr. Augustine Abagi, noted that capacity building programme is to bridge the gaps identified in the performance of the frontline extension agents. Mr. Abagi described Agricultural Extension Agents Z major link between farmers and research/ innovations and commended effort of the ministries technical committee who made several recommendation that gave birth to the training. In his remarks Director, Federal Department of Agricultural Extension ,Represented by State Coordinator Sasakawa Africa Association ( SAA) Mr. Ingya Nor said the training of Extension agents was design to empower participants with skills in the used of extension delivery methodologies and tools as well as best practices in the agricultural value chain. Participants are drawn from the 23 Local Government areas in Benue State.