Aloma Isaac Junior popularly known as Zicsaloma is one of Nigeria’s hottest social media comedians alongside a musical artist. Zicsaloma, the online sensation who quit lecturing for comedy, is known for his dramatic yet iconic female character displays. Chinonso Ukah, also known as Nons Miraj but more popularly as Ada Jesus, is an actress, comedienne, singer and brand influencer. The creative and versatile Ada Jesus enjoys playing the role of a magician in her comedy skits. Her style of comedy is characterised by magical displays. Wisdom Osarinwan Oamen popularly known as Callmiwhizzy is a content creator and actor. He is one of the astonishing and sizzling kids on the comedy block. Callmiwhizzy is the cry cry Instagram boy known for his wailing style of comedy that will leave you completely hysterical and rolling on the floor. ITK CONCEPTS, a four-man comedy group based in Port Harcourt, is one of Nigeria’s exceptionally gifted social media content creators known for their comedy skits that revolve around the Bible. Simply put, their style of comedy is an ingenious interpretation of the Bible. Viper the Wiper a combination of young Nigerian innovative minds who work together to make amazingly hilarious comedy skits. Viper the Wiper is known for their unique horror and supernatural displays. Their comedy is not for the faint hearted but it’s one that certainly leaves its viewers utterly cracked up. Chukwudike Damian Akwudike  popularly known as Mama Chinedu is a comedian, actor, footballer and content creator. He is popular for playing the role of a typical African mother, strict and prayerful. His comedy skits are inspired by the things his mother does. Emmanuel Chukwuemeka Ejekwu popularly known as Mr Funny or Mumuman, is a comedian, actor, Master of ceremonies, and content creator. He draws inspiration from popular Nollywood acts, Mr Ibu and Charles Inojie. The top Instagram comedian is popular for his “mumu” displays. That is, he depicts the character of a dumb/stupid person in his comedy skits.