The Acting Dean of Students’ Affairs, Lagos State University (LASU), Dr Tajudeen Olumoko, has told fresh students of the Open and Distance Learning and Research Institute (ODLRI) of the institution to obey the rules and regulations contained in the Students Handbook. He noted that they would be awarded certificates based on good character and learning. He spoke at the matriculation ceremony of the institute held on the campus in Ojo, Lagos. Director of the institute, Prof. Sena Bak’re stated that the  distance learning programme was rich in content and not part time. She said: “Matriculation number is your identity. With the Matriculation exercise, officially, you become a LASU student. This programme is not part time and you are not a part time student. You are not inferior to the regular students” Bak’re said ODLRI remains a course of convenience, especially for housewives, the working class, entrepreneurs and others who desire higher education. “The classes are not regimented. You study at your convenient time. You are now world class students of a world class university. I wish you the best. I welcome you to LASU, congratulations,” she said. Dr Joseph  Ayeni, the Deputy Registrar, urged the matriculants to take  the opportunity to achieve great things. He told them that they would face four challenges, adaptability, isolation, procrastination as well as lack of motivation. These, he said, were peculiar to regular students and they must overcome to achieve academic success. “You have to adapt to the environment. Do not be isolated when reading. Avoid procrastination. Always believe you can do it , that is motivation. You can get to the top. See you at the top. This is a great opportunity for you. I wish you the best,” he said. Then, the Registrar, represented by the Deputy Registrar, Exams and Records Division, Mr. Olabode Akinrinmade, presented the freshmen for matriculation. The matriculants, together recited the matriculation pledge, while one of them, on behalf of the others , signed the matriculation register. Mr Ismail Bariu of the Information, Communication and Technology Department, stressed the importance of course registration and the need to get familiar with the university website. Furthermore, he enjoined them to complete their bio data registration. He advised the students to always do their weekly assignments, online and submit, too.