 Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State has every reason to thank God. The governor escaped an attempt on his life on March 20, during a visit to his farm. Mercifully, his security details were able to foil the attempt. He should be thankful to God because the essence of government – protection of lives and property  – seems to have become a mirage in Nigeria. Benue State is one state that has had sad tales to tell about the viciousness of some murderous herdsmen, bandits, insurgents and all manner of hoodlums in the last few years. In 2019, on a single day, about 73 indigenes of the state murdered by yet-to-be arrested gunmen were given a mass burial. The number has been on the rise almost on a daily basis in the state as well as other states too, until recently. Along with the slaughter of farmers and other innocent indigenes are cases of increased school abductions, kidnappings and arson of various degrees across the country. The famed Hobbesian state where life is brutish, nasty and short seems to be taking roots in the country. It is sad and very retrogressive that in an era of innovation and global pandemic, Nigeria seems to be fighting an eternal battle with human indiscretion leading to all forms of social vices. The number of human beings that have been lost to wanton killings by a varied number of social miscreants has been alarming and even international agencies like Amnesty International have been raising the alarm about the number of needless brutal murders in the country. Since the issue of the Rural Grazing Area (RUGA) and the debate about the nomadic herdsmen and their gun attacks, the country seems to be sitting on a keg of gun powder. The perennial attacks on farmers and villagers even in their homes have led to loss of lives and property and the reports are that farmers are now too scared to go to farms to avoid being attacked. It remains to be seen how Nigeria intends to feed its over two million mouths in a world already faced by economic crises and increasing nationalistic outlook of nations that would have come to the aid of a poverty-stricken Nigeria with hungry mouths to feed. It is reported that the Inspector-General of Police immediately deployed a team of crack detectives to investigate the attack on the governor, but reports have it that the Fulani Nationality Movement (FUNAM) had already claimed responsibility for the assassination attempt on the governor. We would have expected that some arrests would have been made by now. We know that there have been a series of murders by a variety of criminals with different titles but with the same terrorist styles across Nigeria in the last few years. The question on the lips of both the international community and hapless Nigerians has been who and who have been arrested, prosecuted and set as examples to other intending criminals to understand the potency of our laws? While we sympathise with the governor, we worry that a state chief executive could be so vulnerable and wonder how the ordinary citizens without any form of security are faring in such a highly volatile state that is also, ironically, the food basket of the nation. The question again is, how some criminals operate with such bravado and impunity in a sovereign country. What would the world think of Nigeria with reports like the attack on a governor of a state and almost one week after there are no arrests? But Nigeria is full of unresolved murders, kidnappings, abductions and arson. The resent reports of negotiations with some bandits around the north by both a religious leader and payment of ransom to criminal bandits by some governors say a lot about our sense of security and probity for bad criminal behaviour. Today it is Governor Ortom, tomorrow it might be others, but the fact remains that thousands of Nigerians are dead and the living are gripped by fear of insecurity. Governments exist for the welfare of the people. If this fails, then it is too bad for any nation.