The Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) and Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria (APCON) have committed to exploring joint manpower development and alternative dispute resolution (ADR) to uphold copyright best practices for sustainable development of the advertising and creative industries. Chief Executives of the two regulatory agencies, Director-General of NCC, Mr. John O. Asein, and Registrar of APCON, Dr. Olalekan Fadolapo, who jointly announced this in Abuja during a consultative meeting at the Commission’s Headquarters recently, indicated that a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to facilitate implementation of the inter-agency collaboration. The Chief Executives stated that a simple copyright manual on professional advertising would be developed to assist the practitioners to function legally with minimal or no copyright infractions. According to them, the modalities of the MOU on manpower training and appropriate rights clearance for proper exploitation of copyright works in the advertising industry would be fine-tuned at an upcoming webinar. Mr. Asein noted that as major stakeholders in the creative industry, advertising practitioners should be abreast of the copyright and regulatory laws governing the industry. He observed that government agencies have common goals to deliver in the national interest, adding that the synergy between both agencies would facilitate better service delivery on their respective mandates. “As we endeavour to harness resources, we will check dissipation of energy and gain mileage in the implementation of our respective mandates,” he remarked. The APCON boss, Dr. Fadolapo noted that there was a need to identify and bridge knowledge gaps among practitioners, adding that the collaboration between both agencies as regulators in the creative sector was imperative to avoid their operating in isolation. He expressed the disposition of APCON to the development of a working manual for advertising practitioners, the integration of the training modules of NCC’s training arm, the Nigerian Copyright Academy, into APCON’s academic curricular to add value to the practitioners, accompanied by his Executive Assistant, Mr. Chukwudi Ezeaba, the Registrar agreed to explore the Commission’s ADR mechanism as part of the Council’s process for resolution of copyright issues in the advertising industry. 