Flykite Productions, organisers of GOtv Boxing Night, have announced that a total of 150 fans will be allowed into the Mobolaji Johnson Indoor Sports Hall of the Rowe Park Sports Hall, Lagos, venue of GOtv Boxing Night 22 holding on Friday. The decision to allow a limited number of fans is in line with COVID-19 safety protocols. The event, which hosts seven bouts, including two World Boxing Federation (WBF) world title fights, had initially been billed to be held behind closed doors. Speaking in Lagos yesterday, Jenkins Alumona, Flykite CEO, explained that physical distancing requirements and other safety measures will be fully implemented at the venue. “We have decided to allow fans to watch the event at the venue. However, a limited number of fans, specifically 150, will be allowed in to ensure that the physical distancing measure is enforced to the hilt. As much as we want fans to witness the event, we can only allow a few. So, the first 150 to arrive will be admitted. We will not exceed that figure because that is the proper thing to do. As such only 150 tickets at N1,000 each will be available for purchase. Fans who do not make the cut will watch from home, as the event will be broadcast live on DStv channel 209 and SuperSport Select 2 channel 34 on GOtv,” he said. The main bouts at the event will see Nigeria’s Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu take on Ghana’s Emmanuel “Afuko Addo” Quartey for the WBF world super featherweight title, while his compatriot and Rilwan “Baby Face” Babatunde, will face Tanzania’s Mkalekwa Salehe Omari for the WBF I world welterweight title. In the light heavyweight division, Timothy ‘Nsiefinagaije’ Gonze will duel with Segun “Success” Olanrewaju in a challenge duel. The super middleweight category will see Femi “Small Tyson” Akintayo take on Sulaimon “Olags” Adeosun. Microbiology graduate, Sikiru “Omo Iya Eleja” Shogbesan, will face Yusuf “Innocent” Ogunbunmi in the super featherweight category. The welterweight division is the most represented. In addition to the world title fight, the division will see two other clashes, featuring Sikiru “Lion” Ogabi against William “Kaki” Amosu and Isaac “I-Star” Chukwudi against Taiwo ‘Gentle Boy’ Olowu respectively. The best boxer on the night will win a cash prize of N1million attached to the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial Trophy given to the awardee.