 The candidate for the Southwest chairmanship position of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), Taofeek Arapaja, has accused former Ekiti State governor Ayodele Fayose and his followers of causing the crisis in the PDP to polarise it before moving to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Arapaja, who said Governor Seyi Makinde remains the face and leader of the party in the region in line with the party tradition, noted that the stock in trade of Fayose has been to disrespect people in authority and cause confusion for selfish gains. The former Nigerian Ambassador to Jordan and Iraq was selected by the Makinde faction to contest the Southwest PDP chairmanship position at the March 6 congress. The decision on Arapaja’s choice as well as that of other delegates to contest other positions was reached during a stakeholders meeting held at the Oyo State Government House, Agodi, Ibadan. Speaking in an interview with reporters at the weekend, the former deputy governor said it would be disheartening if the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party gives undue preference and recognition to the Fayose faction by postponing the planned March 6 Southwest congress. He said Fayose is engaging in anti-party affairs by praise-singing leaders of the ruling party and openly identifying with them with the grand plot of breaking the PDP before joining the APC. Asked if his faction would consider a boycott or conduct a parallel election if the NWC postpones or recognises the Fayose faction, Arapaja said: “How can they (NWC) recognise the other side because they are just making noise? “Like my governor (Makinde) said, those making noise are irritants. The face of the party is in one place. “He (Fayose) also acknowledged Makinde as the only PDP governor in the Southwest and by extension the leader of the party in the Southwest, but he was just trying to make himself the father of the fathers. “For instance, when former President Olusegun Obasanjo visited Ooni of Ife, he prostrated for him even though Obasanjo could father the Ooni. Prostrating for Ooni doesn’t reduce Obasanjo’s age or bring him down as an elder statesman he is. “So the face of PDP in Southwest is Governor Makinde, that is what God wants.” He noted that if given the opportunity to lead the party, his main task would be to re-unite the party in the state and region while also restoring it to its winning ways as it was in the past that the region was dominated and ruled by PDP governors. A group of PDP youths in the Southwest, PDP Youths Congress (PDPYC), described Arapaja as a “political wanderer, who does not deserve the attention of sane minds.” The youth said it was funny that Arapaja,  who just returned to the PDP less than four months ago, was the one talking about someone planning to destroy the PDP before moving to the All Progressives Congress (APC). According to its Convener, Comrade Oluwole Durojaiye, it was shameful that Governor Makinde  could choose as his own candidate for the South-West Zonal Chairman,  someone like Arapaja, who left PDP in 2014 and wandered in the wilderness of politics from Accord Party to APC, and later to the African Democratic Congress (ADC), before returning to the PDP in November last year. The PDP youth likened Arapaja’s statement to that of a tenant running his mouth and threatening to give quit notice to the owner of the house. The PDPYC said  it will wait to see how Arapaja,  who has not spent four months in the PDP, will be cleared to contest the zonal chairmanship in contravention of Section 8(A and B) and Section 9 of the PDP Constitution (2017 as amended).