The splotches of the Nigerian story, is akin to some of the tales, in Olukorede S. Yishau’s collection of 10 short stories, titled: Vaults of Secrets. The similarity is such that while Olukorede’s work can be dubbed a fiction, one does not need to look far to see resemblances in the characters around us.  On its part, Nigeria, which ordinarily should be a reality show, sometimes trends more like a fictional entity. Perhaps, Nigeria’s present ‘fictional reality’ started with the 1999 constitution. There are many, who will swear that the document is a work of fiction, by unknown intellectual mercenaries. For such people, the constitution started with a lie in its preamble that: “We the people of the federal republic of Nigeria … do hereby make, enact and give to ourselves.” So, one can understand any diatribe, over which genre the Nigerian constitution belongs. Fiction, faction or Reality? With the preamble a fiction, the constitution furthers the narrative by proclaiming that the Nigerian state shall be a federation, which for many is a combination of fiction and facts, when they compare the provisions of the 1999 constitution with the fundamentals of a federal constitution elsewhere. Indeed, if the country is truly a federation, the 1999 constitution would have restricted its provisions to the prerogatives of a federal government, while each state would be entitled to enact her own constitution. Agreed the states can make some laws, but the jurisdictions allowed the states are so restrictive that the reference to Nigeria as a federation for many is fictional. A further peep into the constitution stretches the confusion on the appropriate classification of the constitution. In chapter II of the 1999 constitution, for instance, one is accosted with a very rich provision which can make the federal republic an Eldorado. It is eloquently titled: ‘Fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy.’ A foreigner seeking the citizenship of a modern country, would be enthralled by those provisions, and may be attracted to apply for citizenship. Such a person after reading chapter II, would think that he/she has found the country with the ideal constitution, and with great expectation may apply for citizenship under chapter III. Such an applicant may assume that if the government can meet the fabulous provisions of Chapter II of the constitution, even by a half, the country would be one of the best countries to live in. Having been sworn to abide by the constitution of his new country, he/she would be excited until he/she tries to enforce any of the provisions of Chapter II. Before a court of law, he would be confronted with a provision in Chapter IV which renders nugatory the detailed provisions of chapter II of the 1999 constitution, as a justiciable right. Tucked away in the belly of section 6(6)(c) of chapter IV, is a denouement of the great expectation of chapter II. There are similar sudden deaths of great expectations in Olukorede’s 10 short stories, which bring the exciting stories to a sudden denouement. One such sudden death is that of the chairman, in the second short story titled: ‘This Special Gift’.  Like Olukorede did to the chairman, the authors of the 1999 constitution, perhaps winking in mischief, struck down the great expectation of chapter II of the constitution, with a stroke of pen. Such is the power of fictional writing that Olukorede, could after gifting readers what looked like a biography of a living chairman, killed the character, to return the story to a work of fiction. So, just as the reader of Vaults of Secret, would complain that the chairman he/she thought the book is referring to is still alive, the new citizen would complain that he/she thought the provisions of chapter II is justiciable, only to be told that the soul was taken in a subsequent chapter. Another arcane resemblance between Nigeria and the Vaults of Secret is seen in ‘Till We Meet To Part No More.’ The story revolves around prisons and prisoners, their crimes and their time in jail. For many, Nigeria has become one huge prison, and everybody including the leaders are like ‘condemned men’ doing time in jail. And like the men in jail, in ‘Till We Meet To Part No More’ many in Nigeria are not ready to divulge what they did, to get Nigerians into the huge jail that the country has turned into. The third story, ‘My Mother’s Father Is My Father’ perhaps captures the shame associated with earning preferment in the Nigerian power conundrum. In the short story, a father rapes his daughter, who bore him a child. In a sense, there is some similarity with what Niger Deltans are doing with the NDDC, set up to liberate the zone from the abandonment of the federal authorities. There are also many, who would never divulge the oaths, and other unthinkable things they did, to beget power. In ‘Letters From The Basement’ Olukorede’s story can be related to the tribal sympathizers in government. With everyone, including the president, and many governors, accused of reclining into ethnic enclaves, the story warns of the consequences of using government apparatus to further such ethnic interests. The consequences could be a jail term, as happened to Nelson, the protagonist in the short story. Of interest, the governor of Zamfara State has raised alarm that the country would quake, if he opens up on those sponsoring the mayhem in his state. Are such persons, politicians of high standing, like Nelson? Another interesting resemblance with Nigeria is the story of Michael Ekiwetan Esq, in: ‘Better than the devil.’ The legal luminary with a big chambers, made his money as a hired assassin. His story reels of similar traits of many Nigerian who pretend to be doing what others are doing, but under the cover of darkness, are engaged in criminal activities. Perhaps, the story is a warning that all that glitters is not gold. In Lydia’s World, set in London, Olukorede, tells the story of swapped Nigerian children. The story somehow pokes fun on the indigene and the settler issue that is unsettling Nigeria. In the story, a Yoruba son was swapped for an Ibo son, and they lived as such until the truth puckered the peace of Lydia. The story reminds me of a rhetorical question I asked a classmate boasting about his brave ancestry, some months back. When I told my classmate that it is possible that at birth he was swapped unintentionally with a child from another tribe, different from the one he is boasting of, the argument ended. Of note, recently in Nigeria, the DNA test, as in Lydia’s World, has become a sharp knife searing the hearts of many families.  