The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC)  has arrested the Chief Executive Officer of 10 Kobo Wine Place, Ikotun, Lagos, Ibeh Theophilus and his mother in connection with the investigation of an alleged  N50 million computer-related fraud. The suspect has allegedly confessed to have defrauded some victims, according to the Head of Media and Publicity of EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren. Uwajaren said in a statement that all the victims were extorted in Lagos. He said the 28-year-old suspect was arrested in his room in Radisson Blu Anchorage Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos, following credible intelligence reports about his alleged criminal activities. He said: “During interrogation, Uche, who presents himself variously as Rachael Armstrong, Keanu Reeves, Rebekah Schwarzenberger, Keanu Private, Elizabeth Hortman and Stefan Paulson, confessed to being into Bitcoin investment scam, romance scam and identity theft. “The suspect also confessed to have defrauded his victims to the tune of about N50m since he started the criminal activities in 2020. “Investigations revealed that the suspect had been using a First Bank account belonging to his mother, who is one of his accomplices, to launder the proceeds of his alleged criminal activities. “Items recovered from the suspect are one iPhone 11 Pro Max; one iPhone 12 pro max; two MacBook Pro laptops; a PlayStation 5; an iPad and a small Nokia touch phone. “Others are a Mercedes Benz S550 2015 Sedan car and a Lexus RX 350 SUV 2016, among other incriminating items. “The suspect will soon be charged to court.” Also, the Benin Zonal Office of EFCC in the wee hours of yesterday arrested 10 suspected internet fraudsters in Oghara,  Delta State. Those arrested are Ifeakachukwu Prince, Vincent Ikechukwu, Oki Morrison Onome, Lucky Morrisson Efe, Ejiro Nwaju, Onyije Ifeanyi, Sunday Fejiro, Wisdom Agharadoro and Peace Omaghoni. Items recovered from the suspects include laptop computers, phones, Mercedes-Benz 350 4Matic and C330. The EFCC said the suspects have made useful statements and will be arraigned in court as soon as investigations are completed.