The Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), General Lucky Irabor, has charged military officers and other security stakeholders, to come up with a workable plan to confront the internal security challenges bedeviling Nigeria. General Irabor gave the charge in Jaji, Kaduna state on Monday while addressing as the Special Guest of Honour, the participants of Exercise Haske Biyu, an annual military training organized by Armed Forces Command and Staff College (AFCSC), for members of its Senior Course. The CDS who was represented by the Director of Peace Keeping at the Defence Headquarters, Maj-Gen. Henry Ayamasowei, said the security challenges confronting Nigeria have been aggravated more than ever before and the armed forces of Nigeria are intentional in finding a solution to the challenges. He said, “this year’s Exercise Haske Biyu could not have come at a more auspicious period when our dear country Nigeria is faced with a myriad of Internal Security challenges. Thus, the importance of collaboration between the military and other law enforcement agencies in defeating these threats cannot be over-emphasized. “In view of the dynamics of the global security environment and our current national security realities, intelligence and security agencies as well as other stakeholders in the security sector have found themselves deployed regularly on Internal Security operations. Such deployments require them to carry out an array of operations that involve kinetic and non-kinetic approaches to counter the threats posed by predominantly irregular groups. “Thus, the relevance of a training forum such as Exercise Haske Biyu, which engages all the security agencies, the media and other stakeholders in the business of security, becomes very glaring and therefore most critical. “Ultimately, the end state of this Exercise is to agitate our minds and possibly serve as an input for producing contingency plans and doctrines for Internal Security and counter-insurgency operations. A series of lectures, presentations, interactive sessions and outdoor exercises have been carefully selected to meet the realities of current and emerging trends in global as well as local security situations. “Consequently, you would be required to research into some selected past or on-going Internal operations in order to elicit useful lessons for the future. We shall therefore welcome the contributions of your individual and collective agency experiences which are vital for the attainment of the desired peace and security in the country, which will engender national development. “It is also my expectation that the Exercise planners will inculcate and interrogate aspects of the challenges posed by the new media and cyber-security domain to Nigeria’s overall national security in future editions of Exercise Haske Biyu. This is more so in the light of current issues relating to these technology fields that threaten our national cohesion and economy,” the CDS said. Earlier in his welcome address, AFCSC Commandant, Air Vice Marshal Ebenezer Alao, said the exercise will entail lectures, presentations and demonstrations on internal security operations, adding that, participants will also be required to provide practical and workable solutions to problems associated with internal security and counter insurgency.