Service Chiefs led by the Chief of Defence Staff, Lt.-Gen. Lucky Iraboh, on Tuesday evening in Katsina, the Katsina State capital, vowed to end banditry. They were received by Governor Aminu Masari at the Government House as part of their tour of the Northwest. Gen. Iraboh said the team was on tour of the zone to carry out President Muhammadu Buhari’s order to free the region from banditry and other forms of insecurity. He added that they were to interact with the troops engaging bandits and other criminal elements disturbing the area and to obtain details of operational activities in the current battle. He said: “Following President Buhari’s marching order to ensure return of substantive peace and security in every parts of the country, we are partnering with critical stakeholders and governors, particularly like Katsina State.  We identify you as very critical in driving home the presidential mandate, since you have a closer link with opinion moulders and traditional rulers. We recognise that quite a lot has to be done.” The Service Chiefs further requested the governor not to be weary in the support his government has been rendering to the military, especially in logistics, and urged him to rally citizens to support them by volunteering critical information and other essential assistance. Masari congratulated the Service Chiefs on their appointments and commended them for their decision to visit the troops on the frontlines. He promised that his government and the citizens would continue to support the military, until the bandits and other criminal elements were routed He said:  “On your appeal that we should not relent in our support, we will not relent, we will continue to support you. But, you should note that when the citizens see your commitment and seriousness and an improvement in their lives, their support will increase.’’ Masari called for tougher actions against the bandits and criminals in the state, adding that there should be a single operations command to ensure that military operations are going on simultaneously across the boundaries of the Northwest. He said: “When the operations are going on simultaneously, bandits will not have the opportunity to criss-cross the areas or escape to areas that are quiet to them.’’