The invitation of Ahmed Musa to play against Lesotho, Benin Republic has elicited a flurry of reactions on social media, especially Twitter. The Nation learnt that Musa has been without a club for 5 months, but was selected ahead of Henry Onyekuru and Michael Olise, both of whom have been active, but were named as standbys. Selection of the 28-year-old striker who played for Saudi Arabian club Al Nassr as picked by Gernot Rohr for the forthcoming AFCON qualifiers against Benin and Lesotho, has set many tongues wagging Gernot Rohr also included deputy captain William Ekong, goalkeeper Francis Uzoho, midfielder Wilfred Ndidi and forward Victor Osimhen in a 24-man list for this month’s 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifying battles. Also included are Enyimba FC goalkeeper John Noble, defenders Leon Balogun, Kenneth Omeruo and Olaoluwa Aina, midfielders Oghenekaro Etebo and Joseph Ayodele-Aribo, and forwards Alex Iwobi, Moses Simon and Samuel Chukwueze. Many Nigerians have taken to social media to wonder why Ahmed Musa was selected despite not playing for any club and has not played for several months. Nigerians also asked why Super Eagles striker Paul Onuachu got surprisingly omitted from the 24-man squad despite scoring 25 goals in 29 Belgian Pro League for this season. @ifeanyicc on Twitter said, “This is unfair. What is Musa doing on that list? Someone that hasn’t played club football since October 2020. So invitation is no longer by hard work? Shame” @ItepuStefan said “Ahmed Musa should not be on this list when weighed on the scale of justice, judgment and equity.” @TukuLekura said, “Ahmed Musa last played in Al Nasr’s away loss to Taawon on th 22nd of October 2020. He doesn’t deserve to be in this team ahead of any player in the NPFL. There’s a long standing belief that players who don’t play don’t get called up. This is very shameful.” Oyedeji Kenny said, “Ahmed Musa should not be in that list ahead of Paul Onuachu. Paul is our best striker based on number of goals at the moment” @ChiefOyendika said, “The inclusion of Ahmed Musa must be political! Must be! From a footballing sense, I will never understand it. A talented squad such as ours should be dominating the African continent easily! If Rohr fails to bring home AFCON 2021, he should walk. Simple.”