Fatgbems Petroluem, an  indigenous petroleum products marketing company, said yesterday that it has completed technical checks on its IBB Abeokuta retail outlet. The outlet was affected by floods due to the downpour  in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital last  weekend. Fatgbems Petroleum Group Sales Manager, Mr. Shina Soleji, told reporters that while the unfortunate incident had posed certain inconveniences on the outlet’s customers, the company had taken steps to fix the issues and had taken the extra step of involving the Department of Petroleum Resources and the Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission for assessment He added that the residual products at the station were  evacuated, storage tanks/product pipelines leak and pressure testing would be conducted before it is reopened for business again. “This retail outlet is one of the most popular in the area due to its strategic location serving locals as well as interstate travellers. We are eager to reopen but in our culture of safety first, our technical team worked round-the-clock to resolve the issue and measures have been put in place to prevent a recurrence.” “We remain committed to exceptional service delivery,” he added. Soleji, who was in company of other senior management staff members, displayed clean products dispensed from the pumps to reassure customers. The company also said the 10 customers whose cars were affected before the issue was detected, have been contacted, nine of the vehicles were tuned-up and refuelled at its other retail stations in Abeokuta, and the company had also intensified efforts to monitor the said vehicles for quality assurance and reimbursement of cost of repairs incurred on the vehicles in case of further breakdown. He however said that the owner of the 10th vehicle was lodged in a hotel on the day of the incident and later transported via an executive cab to his location in Lagos. Rescue and Recovery Team were contacted in tolling the said vehicle to Skymit Motors Limited Service Centre located in Maryland, Lagos for repairs. Consequently, he stated that the issue affected only the mentioned Abeokuta outlet as other locations of the company still continue to sell top quality products that the company has been known for. Also speaking, a customer. Solomon Oyedokun, said that the Fatgbems brand is known for excellent service delivery and the quality of its products has never for once been compromised. “I believe this was an isolated incident and we can’t wait for the fuel station to reopen. Their service is super and we do not normally have issues here like in other filling stations around.” Fatgbems Petroleum had initially released a statement in the aftermath of the incident where they detailed steps taken to remedy the issue.