 We have been hearing about the kidnapping of schoolchildren and their teachers and we do not want that to happen in Oyo State. So, we are seeking every support that we can get.” Those words were a highlight of the remarks made by Governor Seyi Makinde when he inaugurated the Oyo State Security Task Force on Monday, 15 March, 2021, in his office at the Agodi Secretariat in Ibadan. It was a firm reference to the kidnapping of students which has become an ugly, recurring decimal in the North. The statement, with the governor being a person not given to making frivolous utterances, is also an open declaration that he will not sit by and allow such a horrible experience to become the lot of his own in Oyo State. That statement is ultimately a timely warning to criminal elements, merchants of insecurity, to steer clear of schoolchildren and their teachers in Oyo State. It gave the governor away as a father who is concerned about the safety and well-being of all children in Oyo State schools, public or private. The governor’s decision to nickname the task force, which he will be personally overseeing, ‘War Room’ is no doubt a testament to his resolve, as the state’s chief security officer, to tackle head-on insecurity in all its forms in the Pacesetter State, especially as it concerns schools, which are supposed to be safe havens for the grooming of future leaders. A war room is a room at a military headquarters where maps showing the current status of troops in battle are maintained. Apparently, the implicit meaning of ‘war room’ and its significance were not lost on the governor when he did the nicknaming. At the inauguration of the task force, the governor said: “You are welcome to the war room created by the government of Oyo State. This became imperative because of the challenges that we are apparently facing, security-wise. At the exco meeting of last Tuesday, we set up a state security task force. “I will be chairing the task force. This is our inaugural meeting and it is similar to the task force we set up when COVID-19 just broke out. We are supposed to be on top of the security situation almost on a daily basis, so the scheduled meetings for this Task Force will hold on a weekly basis and you should expect to be briefed once we are done with our weekly meeting. “We also hope that we can call an emergency meeting anytime, depending on the security situation. The members have been carefully selected. The Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, for instance, is supposed to be our link with our traditional institution and with the local government areas, stakeholders at the local government level.  “We want to take this opportunity to ask for support from our people, from the traditional institution to our political stakeholders and also the different ethnic nationalities that are residents of Oyo State. We do not support ethnic profiling. “We are looking for criminals and we know that if we are not careful, what goes around will come around.” He capped his remark by saying that “we have been hearing about the kidnapping of school children and their teachers and we do not want that to happen in Oyo State. So, we are seeking every support that we can get.” Makinde has also maintained that his administration is not only working round the clock to keep the students safe but it is not leaving any stone unturned in making sure that their parents, their families, and other residents of the state are able to sleep with their two eyes closed at all times. He spoke on Wednesday, 17 March, 2021, at the Pan Yoruba Congress held at Mapo Hall, Ibadan. Makinde is not strange to taking proactive steps when it comes to the safety of schools and students in the state. In October 2020, during the EndSARS protest, he ordered the closure of all schools in the state to prevent students from being caught in the middle of the skirmishes that were witnessed in parts of Ibadan City other areas in the state. A number of people reportedly lost their lives in confrontations between the police and protesters during the demonstrations that were believed to have been mostly hijacked by hoodlums. Also, Makinde has so far left no one in doubt as regards the commitment of his administration to improving the education sector in Oyo State. He used a recent presentation of exercise books to students of public secondary schools in the state to reiterate this. The event took place at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office at the State Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. The media reported Governor Makinde as saying at the event that his administration was focused on building infrastructure in all state-owned schools and continued investment in education by through renovation of public schools and distribution of shool furniture across the state. The governor, who said that the development would be made through direct resources of the state, reportedly announced that he had approved the payment of grants to public schools in the state. Makinde urged stakeholders in the education sector to work with the government and shun playing politics with the future of children, saying that “we should all work together to ensure that the future is really secured and guaranteed.” A time-tested man of honour that he is, Makinde will, no doubt, have no problem honouring the pledge he made at the Pan Yoruba Congress event, which is to always “take decisions in the best interest of the people of Oyo State and Yorubaland in the fight against insecurity.”  *Olawa lives in Ibadan 