Pep Guardiola and Manchester City must navigate a daunting route to the club’s first-ever Champions League final after the draw for the quarterfinals and semifinals pitted the Premier League leaders against Borussia Dortmund and the winners of the clash between Bayern Munich and Paris Saint-Germain. With UEFA mapping out the road to the final in Istanbul by drawing both the quarters and semis, the prospect of Liverpool repeating their 2005 Champions League success at the Ataturk Stadium depends on Jurgen Klopp’s team overcoming Real Madrid in the last eight, before facing the winners of the Chelsea-Porto tie. Prior to winning the Champions League in 2005, Liverpool beat Chelsea in the semifinal with Luis Garcia’s infamous “ghost goal.” The draw also keeps alive the prospect of an all-English final, with a box office clash between Real and Bayern also possible.  Man City vs Borussia Dortmund While Manchester City will be strong favourites to progress over a Dortmund team that’s outside the top four in the German Bundesliga, it could all go horribly wrong for Pep Guardiola’s team if they fail to nullify the threat of Erling Haaland. The 20-year-old, whose father Alfie played for City between 2000-03, is a major summer target for Guardiola, but right now, he’s the biggest threat to City’s prospects of reaching the semis. Haaland is the top scorer in this season’s competition with 10 goals and will be unfazed by facing City, but Dortmund also have the attacking talents of former City youngster Jadon Sancho to cause concern for Guardiola and his players. Dortmund’s weakness is at the back, as they’ve conceded nine goals so far this season in the competition. City, meanwhile, have allowed just one goal in eight Champions League games: a 14th minute goal in City’s 3-1 win over Porto back in October. But as impressive as City have been, they’ve not faced a striker of Haaland’s quality during a soft run to the quarters, so the tie is less clear-cut that it would seem on paper. City’s overall strength, with the likes of Kevin De Bruyne and Raheem Sterling, should see them progress, but Haaland could turn the tie on its head. Sancho will have ‘something to prove’ vs. Man CityJulien Laurens feels Dortmund’s quarterfinal vs. Manchester City is an interesting one for Jadon Sancho and Erling Haaland.  FC Porto vs. Chelsea Although Porto shocked Juventus in the last round to reach the quarterfinals, the two-time Champions League winners were the team the other seven clubs wanted to draw. Coach Sergio Conceicao has built a tough, under-estimated side at Estadio do Dragao, with the 38-year-old Pepe marshalling the defence in outstanding fashion against Juve. Sergio Oliveira’s goal threat from midfield will worry Chelsea, but Thomas Tuchel’s team have been transformed since the German coach replaced Frank Lampard in January, going unbeaten in 13 games (all competitions). Their impressive round of 16 win against Atletico Madrid also highlighted their emergence as a dangerous outsider in this season’s competition. Tuchel has got Chelsea organised defensively, and he’s also starting to get the best from Kai Havertz. Timo Werner is another player who is beginning to perform under Tuchel after struggling with Lampard. While Porto have the ability and the coach to make life tough for Chelsea and push them all the way, it is difficult to see beyond the English club.  Bayern Munich vs. PSG A re-run of last season’s final, which was won by Bayern in Lisbon, sees arguably the two favourites for this year’s competition go head-to-head once again. Bayern have outscored every other club this season with 24 goals in eight games so far, but Hansi Flick’s team have shown vulnerability in the Bundesliga by losing twice — against Borussia Monchengladbach and Eintracht Frankfurt — in 2021. PSG have also struggled for their usual winning form, with Mauricio Pochettino’s team in an unfamiliar second place in Ligue 1 behind leaders Lille. But the round of 16 elimination of Barcelona was a major psychological hurdle cleared by PSG due to their previous frailties against Europe’s elite clubs, and facing Bayern again has come at a good time for the French team. If Neymar can return to full fitness in time after a lengthy spell out with a thigh injury, he and Kylian Mbappe could bring Bayern down. But right now, Bayern look most likely to come out on top in the closest of the four ties.  Real Madrid vs. Liverpool It’s a repeat of the 1981 and 2018 Champions League finals, but also a clash between two sides that have struggled for form this season. Mohamed Salah’s reunion with Sergio Ramos for the first time since the Liverpool forward was injured by the Madrid captain in the 2018 final will be a fascinating sub-plot to this tie, but the outcome is likely to be decided by which team defends best. Liverpool’s defensive crisis caused by the long-term injuries to Virgil van Dijk and Joe Gomez has destabilised Klopp’s team, while captain Jordan Henderson’s injury absence in midfield has also impacted on results. Yet Real have leaked goals all season, with Zinedine Zidane’s team conceding 10 in eight Champions League games. Liverpool, despite their problems, have only let in three goals in the competition this season. The prospect of the ties being played at Real’s tiny Estadio Alfredo Di Stefano stadium at the club training ground, and the second-leg at an empty Anfield, will have an impact too, because both sides can usually rely on formidable home support in the latter stages of the Champions League. This is a tie between an ageing Real and an injury-hit Liverpool, but if Salah and Sadio Mane are on form, Liverpool will win. Meanwhile, Ream Madrid manager, Zinedine Zidane spoke to the press shortly after the draw for the Champions League quarter finals. Real Madrid will face Liverpool in the last eight, and Zidane is well aware of the threat they pose having faced them in the 2018 final in Kiev. “We know the difficulties at this level,” he said. “It will be very demanding, especially physically.” Real Madrid being drawn with Liverpool in the Champions League will see Sergio Ramos and Mohamed Salah resume their hostilities for the first time since the 2017/18 Champions League final, although Roberto Carlos has joked that the Egyptian won’t go near the Spanish defender. In the first half of the final in Kiev, a coming-together between the two players saw Salah suffer a serious shoulder injury and have to be substituted off, which also put his 2018 World Cup preparations into difficulty. Liverpool fans have since held Ramos as public enemy number one on Merseyside, although the lack of fans at Anfield will ensure the Spanish captain has a much easier evening than he perhaps could have. “Salah isn’t even going to get close to Sergio,” Carlos joked, speaking to the media after the draw. “It will be an incident that will be talked about a lot.” Zinedine Zidane’s charges aren’t seen as having anything other than an outside chance of lifting the Champions League trophy again this term, but the former Brazilian left-back believes that Los Blancos’ form gives them a slight edge over Liverpool. “We’re going to play against a good team,” he added.