Senator Ajibola Bashiru, who represents Osun Central in the National Assembly, is the spokesman of the 9th Senate. In this interview with Deputy Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU and Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI, the former Osun State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice speaks on the relationship between the legislature and the President Muhamadu Buhari-led Executive, the recent endorsement of the ambassadorial appointments of the former Service Chiefs, the ongoing bid to amend the Constitution and the Electoral Act.  In the eyes of Nigerians, the 9th National Assembly has portrayed itself as a rubber-stamp parliament, based on the utterances of its principal officers at the onset that they would approve any request from President Muhammadu Buhari. What is your comment on this? I don’t know the basis for your question, but what I do know is that at the inception, there was an agreement among the lawmakers that we do not want an acrimonious relationship between the Executive and the Legislature. All of us witnessed how such a relationship worked against the interest of the country with the attitude of the 8th Assembly towards the Executive. Indeed, the so-called rubber-stamp tag does not tally with the reality, if one considers the fact that on several occasions the President’s nominees were rejected by this 9th Senate. There are so many instances of this. For instance, a nominee to represent the Southeast in the Law Reform Commission was rejected because he had not been called to the Bar. Even though he is a qualified lawyer, the law requires that he must be called to the Bar. A request for a loan for the government to tackle COVID-19 was also not ratified, even though the ruling party has the majority in the National Assembly. As representatives of the people, we also expressed dissatisfaction over the handling of security issues by the government. Following up on that, we called for the sacking of the Service Chiefs several times. So, the tag of rubber-stamp does not suit the 9th National Assembly. We only approve proposals that advance the interest of our dear country. But, any request that does not represent the aspirations of those that elected us has been turned down on several occasions. The absence of acrimony between us and the Executive does not mean that the parliament is a rubber-stamp in the hands of the chief executive. How come the Senate was so swift in endorsing the ambassadorial appointments of the former Service Chiefs, who failed to win the anti-terror war on behalf of the nation? It is just like a newspaper that had an editor that was considered not effective in carrying out the editorial functions of the newspaper. If tomorrow such an editor is appointed as an ambassador, would you say he is not fit for that purpose because he was relieved of his job as an editor? I am not saying the Service Chiefs did well on their job. The Senate faulted the way they handled the insecurity situation in the country and we passed resolutions to that effect. Nevertheless, we still believe they have put some mechanisms in place that can help in the fight against terror in the future. Besides, the job of an ambassador is different from that of a military commander; they are two different assignments and two different briefs. I asked a question during the screening; assuming the former Service Chiefs decide to contest for senatorial seats in their constituencies, would they be disqualified because there are concerns about the issue of insecurity? I think we should not dwell on emotions and sentiments when answering the above question because it is capable of undermining people’s commitment to serving the country in different capacities. If you recall, the US terror war in Afghanistan started in 2001. As we speak, America is still in Afghanistan. Similarly, the Irish Republican Army (IRA) is still fighting against the authorities in Ireland. I am not saying we could not have done more in the war against insurgency; my point is that insurgency is not a conventional war. So, the Senate approved their appointments as ambassadors because the job of an ambassador is different from that of a Service Chief. Could you shed more light on the constitutional amendment being conducted by the National Assembly? The Senate has set up a Constitutional Review Committee and I happen to be a member. The House of Representatives has also done so. The call for a memorandum has been sent out and quite a number of memorandum have been submitted by Nigerians from all walks of life. Similarly, senators and members of the House of Representatives who want some amendments have also sent in bills. The bills have been compiled and circulated among members of the Constitutional Review Committee. I have also submitted some bills on the subject of constitutional review. Some of these bills are on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), so that the political party registration and regulation function will be separated from the election management function, as recommended by the Mohammed Uwais commission. I have also submitted bills on the unbundling of the Supreme Court. I also proposed for the amendment of Section 12 of the Constitution, such that the international human rights obligations will become applicable in Nigeria. I am also working on a bill to reduce the exclusive powers of the National Assembly; I am working with my colleagues on this. There is also a need to unbundle the powers and functions of the Federal Government and also give additional revenue to the states because they have a significant role to play in the life of the people. We are eagerly looking forward to the contributions of Nigerians, to ensure that we have a constitution that will work for Nigerians. Would this exercise lead to restructuring and true federalism? I am always very careful when the word restructuring is used because it means different things to different people. Restructuring could mean the over-centralisation of powers in the Federal Government. It could also mean decentralisation, to give more powers to the federating units. So, I don’t like using the word restructuring. But, I believe in the devolution of powers. So, it is not enough for people to be bandying the word restructuring; let everyone come up with their ideas on how best Nigeria can be run, to foster development and security. Is the National Assembly considering passing a law to aid the war against terror? We have recently passed a new Police Act, which provides for community policing, youth constabulary armed and professionalised like a new police force, which is in line with addressing the present insecurity. Secondly, I have personally forwarded before the Senate a bill seeking to amend the new Police Act to create zonal Police Command that will have autonomy politically and operationally. I believe the military nature of the Nigeria Police is not helpful in the fight against insecurity. Then, of course, the issue has been raised as to what to do to check the atmosphere of social media where freedom of speech is usually abused to the extent that it tampers with the security of the country. It is a delicate balance because freedom of speech is guaranteed by the constitution, but that right is being abused in social media. The debate has always been intense since the return to civil rule in the country in 1999. In your view, what is the solution to the herders’-farmers’ clashes that have been threatening to destabilise the country? I would say that several solutions have been proffered. First and foremost is the question of the rule of law and the efficiency of our law enforcement agents. The fact that somebody is raring his animal does not give him the right to trespass and destroy someone else’s farm. We must first and foremost see it as something that has to do law and order. Secondly, the crude method of animal husbandry that has been in use must be reviewed. It would be better for all parties if the modern method of animal husbandry is introduced. What I am against is the ethnic colouration given to the problem. Different ethnic groups are all over Nigeria doing their work. What we must do is to see it purely as a law and order issue and not an ethnic one. That one belongs to a particular tribe does not exclude one from obeying the law. But, it has now become critical that we review the system of animal husbandry being practised in the country. The National Assembly promised Nigerians a new Electoral Act in the first quarter of this year. What is the progress on the new Electoral Act? The Electoral Act is at an advanced stage. As at the last time I checked with the chairman of the committee, the final copy was being finalized. This suggests that the amended Electoral Act would be brought before the Senate soon. I am also aware that there have been critical engagements with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), civil society organisations and the Executive, in ensuring that a better product is submitted to Mr. President for assent, unlike the previous attempts to amend the Electoral Act. In your view, what are the legacies that the 9th Assembly would be remembered for? I cannot say for now. We have dedicated ourselves to the service of our country; despite the constraints imposed by COVID-19, we have worked in a remarkable way at the committee level and at plenary, to stabilize the Nigerian economy. For instance, we have been able to revert back to the January to December budget cycle. In order to boost our economy, we did something novel, which is the extension of the implementation of the capital aspect of 2020 amended Appropriation Act to the end of the first quarter of 2021. We have tried to boost the revenue capacity of the country by passing the Finance Act. We have been able to develop the revenue capacity for the oil and gas sector by the passage of the Deep Offshore and Profit Sharing Contract Act.  