 A marketing and advertising publication, Marketing Edge, is set to host leading experts in the integrated marketing communications (IMC) sector at the inaugural edition of its quarterly virtual summit. The summit themed:”Brand Management Imperatives and Challenges in a post-recessionary economy”,  holds on Zoom  on Thursday, March 25, 2021 between 9:00am and 5:00pm. Publisher, Marketing Edge Mr. John Ajayi said it was another offering from the publication’s stable in setting agenda for the industry and also fulfilling its objective of promoting the brand idea. “We are excited to introduce Marketing Edge Quarterly IMC virtual summit as a premier event that will bring together the best minds in all IMC sectors at the highest level. This has become expedient in view of the fact these uncertain times call for collaboration and conversation as we adjust to the fast changing pace of the industry across sectors. “As an agenda-setting publication, stakeholders expect much from us especially at this critical time. This is our little way of stimulating meaningful and result-oriented conversations in the IMC as it recovers from its myriads of challenges. It is also a way of accomplishing our self-appointed task of promoting the brand idea,” Ajayi said. The summit will feature seasoned and leading industry players, outstanding professionals and titans as they share knowledge and insight on how to navigate the myriads of problems besetting the industry while looking at opportunities in building brands in the present age of the new normal and beyond.  According to the publication, the summit is aimed at expanding the frontiers of marketing and advertising knowledge while leading conversation in contemporary issues affecting the entire gamut of the industry. The virtual summit is sequel to the MARKETING EDGE’s National Marketing Stakeholders Summit held virtually last October. The inaugural quarterly virtual summit, with an array of accomplished practitioners in the IMC, promises to be another block-buster especially at this critical time of the national economy. Leading the conversation for the debut edition is renowned marketer, Mr. Baba Awopetu. Awopetu is a growth-focused and thought-provoking marketing strategist at Stragmar. He has spent the last two decades in senior strategy and marketing roles spanning Europe, Middles East and Africa. He regularly gives lectures, writes, and researches on how to improve the effectiveness of marketing on topics like segmentation positioning, diffusion of innovation, and branding. He has a great passion for helping organisations achieve the full potential of their investment. Awopetu will present a lead paper on the theme of the summit. Other panelists include sectoral heads of in the IMC-Steve Babaeko, President, Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria(AAAN); Femi Adelusi, President, Media Independent Practitioners Association of Nigeria (MIPAN); Tade Adekunle, President, Experiential Marketers Association of Nigeria(EXMAN); Israel Opeyemi, President, Public Relations Consultants Association of Nigeria(PRCAN); Bunmi Adeniba, President, Advertisers’ Association of Nigeria(ADVAN); Oti Ukubeyinje, President, Association of Digital Marketing Practitioners; Emmanuel Ajufo, President, Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria (OAAN). 