Like a lighted house on a hill, the Kebbi rice success shows how agriculture, where Nigeria has a massive comparative advantage, can help power Nigeria’s real sector. That links the alert by Bismark Rewane, one of Nigeria’s foremost financial experts, at a lecture in honour of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at 64, that Nigeria’s GDP must grow from seven to eight per cent yearly, in the next five to 10 years.  Else, the country risks being shackled to mass poverty, debt and insecurity.  The Kebbi rice hub shows how agriculture can be a prime driver of that growth. But the security question, in the Rewane alert, is a real threat; which offers a neat link to President Muhammadu Buhari’s charge to the new service chiefs, that they should clear all banditry-prone areas of that scourge, well ahead of the farming season.  That marching order can’t be overstated. Kebbi has North West troubled neighbours — mainly Zamfara and Kaduna; with Sokoto, to some extent — that have security challenges. Such insecurity could easily torpedo Kebbi’s great agricultural work.  That is why the security agencies must accelerate work on that front and clear the entire area of bandits. Still, Kebbi’s huge farming, in the face of neighbouring security challenges, again shows humming economic activity, driven by busy hands and visionary minds, could just be the perfect antidote to violent criminality.  Youths focused on rewarding work are likely to have less time for crime. Kebbi’s success is epitomised by its rice pyramids, each time that state, now Nigeria’s rice hub, showcases its yearly harvest.  But this year’s harvest has been especially significant. It marked the fifth anniversary of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) — the monetary policy intervention that accounts for the Kebbi rice revolution.  But this harvest also came despite a 2020 flooding disaster, with rice and other farm produce, valued at millions of Nigeria, lost to roaring floods. But that setback just shows, five years down the line, how entrenched the Kebbi rice industry has become — doughty enough to hold out against disaster; and still produce a very rich harvest.  It is a piece of good news that must be celebrated and sustained. Yet, the Kebbi case is no happenstance.  It’s a product of deliberate vision, for which Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, and his local officials, must earn full plaudits — for buying into the CBN vision of ABP. Look at the ABP stats, given by CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele himself: 2, 923, 937 farmers, cultivated 3, 647, 643 hectares, spread over 21 crops, in 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Abuja.  Support credit came from 23 financial institutions. Besides, the 2020 wet season CBN-National Rice Farmers Association of Nigeria (RIFAN) partnership, bankrolled 221, 450 farmers, according to a report in The Guardian, to cultivate 221, 450 hectares, in 32 states.  This boils down to a rough average of one farmer to one hectare. Still, more stats: The North West zone, where 85, 261 farmers cultivated 120, 218 hectares, accounted for 38.5 per cent of farmers in the scheme; but claims more than half of the farms (54.3 per cent) supported with credit — and likely a parallel percentage in yield, given Kebbi’s spectacular success. These brief stats show the North West emerging as Nigeria’s putative rice hub.  That explains why Dangote is building a major rice mill in Sokoto.  That also explains the Lagos-Kebbi rice collaboration: its product, Lake Rice, is already in the market.  That collaboration is also inspiring a huge rice mill, in Imota, Lagos State, expected to be the biggest of its kind when completed, though Lagos reportedly is investing in farmlands, in neighbouring states, to feed that mill. The Kebbi hub, the North West as putative rice belt and nationwide linkages (exemplified by Lake Rice) are exciting prospects of food security, not to talk of food processing to add value for exports, after satisfying local demands.  It could also offer a local bulwark against rice smuggling.  If Nigeria can flood the West African region with cheap rice, the hunger for cheap foreign rice may abate. GDP-wise, agriculture, for the first time in recent years, stands on the cusp of really driving the real economy, away from the re-basing expansion of the Goodluck Jonathan era, which canonised Nigeria as Africa’s biggest economy.  Agric-led real sector growth could add a lot of value to all that, reduce poverty, and drive eventual development and  prosperity. Still, despite the Kebbi rice success, a lot can still be done.  A cursory look at the stats shows that far larger areas could still be cultivated.  So, RIFAN should encourage its members to form cooperatives, which can access bigger credit, to till bigger lands, for far bigger output. Besides, if Kebbi is informal “national headquarters” for the yearly Nigerian rice festival, other states should find their niche, and earn the right to host the yearly festivals of other crops.  After all, ABP spans 21 crops — and not rice alone.