 Two months short of their wedding anniversary, Super Eagles and Leicester City strongman, Wilfred Ndidi has poured encomium on his wife, Dinma Fortunate, who he described as ‘Amazing’ and has made him a better player and person.  The couple got married in May 2019 and the union is blessed with a baby girl-Jaina.   He said: “One word to describe my wife? I’m looking for a better word for amazing because that is just what how she is. She is just amazing. “Getting married and having a baby, building up a family has made me see things in different perspective and I try to understand things in a different way. My focus now is mainly on my family, career and trying to do my best. These things have made me a better man and I’m trying to improve on myself. So, I will say yes of course, in spite of my form and hard work, family has given me a level of peace and focus.” Ndidi further described their daughter as ‘a blessing’ that has brought so much joy into their marriage. “Jaina is a blessing to us. We are very happy to have her. She came during the lockdown and she has been a blessing to us. My wife and I decided on the name together. We both decided on giving her the name not just one person but a decision we jointly took. The lockdown was an opportunity for me to be with them (my wife and daughter) and I must say I’m enjoying the joy of fatherhood.” With 135 EPL appearances, seven goals and equal assists to his name, the 24 –year-old answers questions about his recent goal against Chelsea, superlative performance against champions Liverpool, family life and others. Taiwo Alimi conducted the interview. Excerpts: The ongoing EPL season has been going well for Leicester and you, what do you think is responsible for this great run? I just feel we played more as a team, we believed in each other and the manager is been very good to us and he’s been out to get the best out of us not just in football but even outside the pitch. I think those are the reasons that we are actually doing well because the mentality has to be strong and we are working hard. Your goal against Chelsea was impressive, how do you feel about it? I felt very good not just because it is Chelsea but we got the three points from that game. We scored two great goals and the maximum points at stake. It is not just about me scoring but about the team. My main focus on every game for us to get the three points or get a point if it’s too hard. I’m actually happy about my performance and proud of myself because I can actually do this thing. It comes once in a while and I can just hit and it will go in. I’m glad that we won. Against champions Liverpool, you also had great stats, even providing an assist, you must be happy with yourself and your achievements? It’s just one of those things. Liverpool, current champions and a decent team and we winning is great. They scored us first and I did my job, it is just me doing my job and I’m happy that we got an important win. It is very important game to us. And an important win for us too. Most importantly, we got the points and we got to stay up there on the league table. We are looking forward to more games to come. You must be very proud of yourself! Yeah! Yeah! I’m very proud of myself. I’m very happy and I will keep doing my thing and keep improving on every aspect of my game. We see how it goes. You welcome your first child Jaina in May 2020, who chose her name, you or your wife and what does it mean? Jaina is a blessing to us. We are very happy to have her. She came during the lockdown and she has been a blessing to us. My wife and I decided on the name together. We both decided on giving her the name not just one person but a decision we jointly took. The lockdown was an opportunity for me to be with them (my wife and daughter) and I must say I’m enjoying the joy of fatherhood. Your game has been on the rise since your marriage and child birth, would you say having a family of your own contributed to your great form? I’ve always been doing my best and I will say yes getting married and having a baby, building up a family has made me see things in different perspective and try to understand things in a different way. My focus now is mainly on my family, career and trying to do my best. These things have made me a better man and I’m trying to improve on myself. So, I will say yes of course, in spite of my form and hard work, family has brought a level of peace and focus. What is your relationship with manager Brendan Rodgers; he has been saying good things about you? Brendan Rodgers is a kind of coach that doesn’t specify on his first eleven since he came into the club. He has kind of made every bond together. It does not matter if you are playing or not playing. Everyone is the same. You just have to go out there and put on your best performance. He does not believe in one special player. He believes more in the team. The team comes first to him before any player. He brings everyone along and together. If you come close to him, you will see he’s a very nice person and outside football he’s willing to offer his help at all times. He’s one of the best managers I’ve worked with. I’m very happy, proud and grateful to work with him. You have missed a couple of club and country matches because of injury, when are you coming back to national team? It’s a rare priviledge for me to play for Nigeria. It is an honour and hopefully when I get invited I’m always happy to represent Nigeria. I’m always proud of wearing the green and white colours. Hopefully, if I get invited this March, why not, I’m coming. In your absence, Super Eagles drew 4-4 with Sierra Leone drawing widespread anger in Nigeria, how do you react to that. What do you think went wrong? As a player I feel very bad about the game. We dominated the game but unfortunately it did not go well. I felt very sad as a player and as a Nigerian. I also feel for the fans and all Nigerians.  It is just normal thing and this kind of thing prepares one for the future. A team can be on top and something happen you get yourself at the receiving end. It helps to prepare our minds and get us ready for the next match. It is an experience that should not be regretted but we can learn through it. We know the expectation of our fans and we see the coming international break and what will happen and we can take it from there. You recently returned to school, how has it been and how are you combining school and football schedule? For now school is on hold because of the whole COVID-19 thing. Hopefully when things get better I will just continue from there. What is the best adjective to describe your wife? One word to describe my wife! I’m looking for a better word for amazing because that is just what she is. She is just amazing.  NDIDI’S FAVOURITES Favourite pet:  Dog (But I don’t have any) Favourite attacker: Ronaldo Favourite player: Ronaldo Favourite online game:  Call of Duty (I think I’m addicted to it) Favourite book: I don’t have one Favourite artist: Falz the bad guy and 2face Favourite song: I like good songs Favourite other Sport: Cricket and Badminton  Appearances:                                   135 Goals:                                  7 Assists:                                7 Appearances:                    135 Goals:                                  7 Wins:                                   60 Losses:                                46 ATTACK Goals:                                  7 Goals per match:                             0.05 Headed goals:                   1 Goals with right foot:                     4 Goals with left foot:                       2 Penalties scored:                             0 Free kicks scored:                            0 Shots:    161 Shots on target:                25 Shooting accuracy %:                     16% Hit woodwork:                  5 Big chances missed:                        4  TEAM PLAY Assists:   7 Passes:  6,798 Passes per match:  50.36 Big Chances Created:   5 Crosses:   28 Cross accuracy %:   4% Through balls: 16 Accurate long balls:   307  DISCIPLINE Yellow cards:     23 Red cards:                                         2 Fouls:                                  216 Offsides:                                            5  DEFENCE Tackles:                                             530 Tackle success %:                            63% Blocked shots:                   42 Interceptions:                                   283 Clearances:                                       326 Headed Clearance:                          166 Recoveries:                                       1,140 Duels won:                                        1,157 Duels lost:                                         936 Successful 50/50s:                           109 Aerial battles won:                          428 Aerial battles lost:                           351 Errors leading to goal:                    1