 The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) yesterday said it would ensure that it recovers N69.5billion and $5.31 billion that have been outstanding from its 2018 audit reports to date for the Federal Government. Speaking at his inaugural  briefing in Abuja, the Executive Secretary, Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, described the fund as a potential recoverable revenues that the industry watchdog must recover. According to him, the management of NEITI must ensure that its audit reports recommendations are implemented to the letter. He said: “The management under my leadership is already evolving policies and strategies that would ensure that the recommendations in our reports are followed  through and statutory  recoverable revenue due to government, which is paltry at N69. 5 billion and $5.31 billion (as revealed by the 2018 NEITI audit reports) are recovered into government  coffers.” Orji said the recoverable revenue consists of payments on oil royalty,  gas flare penalties, petroleum profit tax, company income tax, education  tax, withholding tax, value added tax and levy. He promised to ensure that the continuity and consolidation of the activities of his predecessor, Dr. Waziri Adio. He also pledged to see to the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill  (PIB) into law by the second quarter of this year.  The new NEITI chief said much attention will be focused on the Mining sector, stressing that a lot more activities need to happen in the sector. He revealed that the sector which contributed N8.19 billion in 2017 the Federation Account, increased its remittance to N67 billion in 2018. The sum, according to him, was 0.18 per cent of the sector Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Orji said: “From the paltry N8.19 billion recorded in the 2007 audit, to over N67 billion earned from the sector in 2018, shows over a 900 per cent increase. A mere 0.18 per cent contribution to sector GDP,  shows that a lot more needs to happen in Nigeria’s mining sector.” The NEITI chief vowed that the organisation will therefore conduct fresh scoping studies on mining paying particular attention to investment opportunities in the sector. He said in the next few days, he will be meeting the chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to ensure that the anti-corruption war succeeds.