 No fewer than 5,222 persons have been vaccinated in Lagos State, Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi said in a statement yesterday. Abayomi said none of the people vaccinated experienced any serious side effect. He said 268 persons were vaccinated on March 12 and 4,954 received the shot on March 15. According to Abayomi, the vaccines were rolled out on March 15 in 88 health facilities, including military and police hospitals, across the 20 local government areas. He said: “Vaccination can only be obtained at any of the 88 accredited facilities listed. Vaccination outside of these locations is prohibited, and will attract heavy sanctions through our regulatory agencies.”  “There is also the electronic self-registration of healthcare workers and other frontline workers using a dedicated URL. Each enrollee is expected to pre-register on https://www.nphcdaict.com.ng or https://www.vaccination.gov.ng, fill the form with their qualifying verifiable details, preferred vaccination site, date and time. “A vaccination ID will be generated and this should be taken to the chosen healthcare facility with an identity card. A confirmation text message and an e-mail will be sent to each enrollee after successfully registering.” “Although the registration portal is open to the public, only eligible participants within phase one should register for now. More information on the vaccination of other participants in phases two to four will be communicated subsequently.” Abayomi listed likely side effects of the vaccine to include pain or tenderness at the injection site, fatigue, chills, joint pain, headache, fever, muscle pain and nausea. He added that health workers have been extensively trained on the administration of the vaccine, safety and the aftercare of vaccination. “Should any of these side effects become problematic, kindly call the number of the LGA Disease Surveillance Notification Officer (DSNO) provided at the back of the COVID-19 vaccination card for guidance, or return to the same health facility for further investigations and treatment. “All vaccinated persons are also advised to download the MED SAFETY app monitored by NAFDAC,” he added.