 Eminent Nigerians have been felicitating with Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo on today’s celebration of his 64th birthday. President Muhammadu Buhari led the felicitation with his deputy, whom he described as reliable and dedicated and who “is not only admirably competent but also exudes confidence and passion in the performance of his job”. Other national leaders greeting the Vice-President on today’s birthday include All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase and Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, President Buhari said: “I’m proud to have selected Osinbajo as my running mate and he has given a good account of himself since our journey began in 2015.” According to the President, “the Vice-President is a cool-headed gentleman who puts the interest of Nigeria above other narrow considerations”. He stressed that “Osinbajo is an incredibly patient politician who demonstrates remarkable intellectual and mental energy in the discharge of his duties”. The President wished him many more prosperous years and God’s continued guidance. Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media) Ola Awoniyi, said: “I pray that God Almighty will continue to imbue him with wisdom and good health as he ably supports President Muhammadu Buhari in their patriotic mission to transform Nigeria and unite its people in happiness and prosperity. “Mr. Vice-President, here is again wishing you a happy birthday and many happy returns of the day.” Gbajabiamila described Osinbajo as a patriot and democrat, whose services to his fatherland have been commendable. In a congratulatory message he personally signed, Gbajabiamila said: “His Excellency, the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, is one Nigerian that should be celebrated at every point in time, but the occasion of his 64th birthday calls for more celebration. “I, therefore, wish to join millions of Nigerians to celebrate the Vice-President on this memorable occasion. On this memorable day, I wish the Vice-President continuous good health and God’s protection.” Wase, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma, said: “…Osinbajo has been a pillar of strength to the party. “The Vice-President has come a long way in his service to the nation. As Commissioner of Justice and Attorney General of Lagos State, he contributed immensely in reforming the justice system.” In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, Governor Oyetola described Osinbajo as a patriotic Nigerian, an accomplished administrator and an exemplary leader, whose commitment to nation-building is commendable. He said: “…Your humility, intelligence, excellent leadership traits and uncommon commitment to nation-building is commendable and worthy of emulation. “We appreciate you for being a dependable ally of President Buhari and for your selfless service to our nation. I must also commend you for your contributions to the growth and stability of Nigeria’s economy in your role as Head of the National Economic Council (NEC). “As you mark your birthday today, we thank Almighty God for your life and pray He grant you longer life, more wisdom and strength to continue to serve the nation and humanity.” Also, the Chief Executive Officer of Financial Derivatives Company Limited, Mr. Bismarck Rewane, will deliver a special public lecturer today to mark Prof. Osinbajo’s 64th birthday. The lecture, titled: Building the Future of Nigeria Through Enterprise and Innovation, is organised by a Pan-Nigerian Coalition, Building the Future Forum (BTFF).     A statement yesterday in Abuja by the Conveners, Mohammed Abdullahi and Dr. Grace Ugochukwu, said the public lecture was a product of a collaboration among Nigerians in the Diaspora, professionals and private sector operators within the country. Also, a group, “Friends of Prof.”, which comprises friends and associates of Vice-President Osinbajo, has announced the commencement of this year’s edition of its empowerment programme. In a statement yesterday in Abuja, the group said it was building on the success recorded in 2020 with an expansion in the scope of the programme in honour of Osinbajo’s 64th birthday. It advised young Nigerians to use the opportunity created by the group to benefit from the programmes. The statement said on Osinbajo’s 63rd birthday, 100 young entrepreneurs received grants of N1 million each to help grow and advance their businesses, among other incubator support services from the group. The “Friends of Prof” conceptualised “The March 8th Initiative” to inspire and promote communal, entrepreneurial and public-spirited endeavours within Nigeria to celebrate the birthday of Osinbajo. It said, in addition to the Entrepreneurship Development Programme, the March 8th Initiative would recognise health workers nationwide. According to the statement, health workers to be recognised are those who, in the face of a global pandemic, demonstrated exemplary courage and professionalism in carrying out their duties. “The March 8th Initiative” is expanding its reach and scope with a view to impacting a broader spectrum of Nigerians. “First, the Annual Entrepreneurship Development Programme has been reorganised into four categories providing more opportunities for young Nigerians between 18 and 35 years old, giving one-off business grants, ranging from N100,000 to N1 million to small businesses in Nigeria. “The four categories cover varying stages of small business growth as follows: Big Idea Business Challenge, Business Support Challenge, Catalyst Support Challenge, and the Bold Innovation Challenge. “Individuals are requested to nominate any health worker who has shown these qualities for a reward of N1 million under a Health Grant Reward category that acknowledges their invaluable service to our communities. “Additionally, the “March 8th Initiative” is undertaking a nationwide ophthalmological intervention to provide succour in the form of surgeries and other therapeutic care for cataract and other eye defects,” the statement said. It said that entries would open at midnight on March 8 and close at 11:59 p.m on March 14.   