 As a build-up to the ‘Live Strong with Iron’ campaign to commemorate the World Health Day on April 7, this year, Nestle Nigeria has called for a multi-stakeholder approach to tackle the troubling statistics of iron deficiency in the country. The study cited by the food and beverage giant had it that 68 per cent of children under the age of five are iron deficient, 58 per cent of women aged 15 to 49 years are iron deficient. Also, prevalence of iron deficiency among uneducated and educated women is 64 per cent and 47 per cent, respectively, and 37 per cent of under-five children are stunted. It stressed that the situation of iron deficiency in the country can cause serious economic consequences as it reduces mental and physical agility, thereby reducing productivity. Also, it is a major cause of stunted growth and reduced motor and cognitive development in school children. The Corporate Communications and Public Affairs Manager for Nestle Nigeria, Victoria Uwadoka, made these known on Tuesday in Abuja during an official visit to the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Health. “We are here in Abuja on a visit with stakeholders to introduce the ‘Live Strong with Iron’ (LSWI) campaign. This is a pre-launch stakeholders’ engagement. The launch is planned for   April 7 2021, which is the World Health Day. The LSWI campaign was borne out of a need to address the current issues that exist in our country and across the sub-region when it comes to iron deficiency. “There has been a very high incidence of Iron deficiency and other multi-nutrient deficiencies in our meals. Sometimes this is called the ‘hidden hunger’ and if there is no concerted effort to address this micronutrient deficiency, there’s going to be a challenge not just for now but into the future of our young generation. Over 68 percent of our young children under five years are Iron deficient. And over 58 percent of women between the ages of 15 and 49 years are Iron deficient. These are statistics that are readily available from the World Health Organisation and UNICEF. “The impact of Iron deficiency is known most popularly when it comes to pregnant women or women who are menstruating or after birth etc. But there are other segments of the population that are actually impacted by this Iron deficiency and we need to address it. One of the things it affects is your physical and mental agility, and your ability to concentrate at work and be productive. For the young children in school, it affects their ability to concentrate to learn and to retain what they have learnt in class. It also impacts their growth, motor and cognitive development. This is a national issue that needs to be addressed. “We are sensitising our stakeholders and driving collaboration around this because we want every stakeholder and everybody who is involved in the chain to find solution to the   problem. It is not only a challenge for the Ministry of Health but a challenge for us caregivers – as individuals and as families to know what are the iron-rich foods and how we can combine it to make sure that our families are well-nourished. “Stakeholders can promote knowledge around iron-rich foods that are readily available in our environment. What we have done is to ‘unbox’ the Iron-rich foods that are available anywhere in Nigeria. Examples are sweet potatoes, ugu, oranges, banana, egusi, palm fruits, cashew nuts, eggs, plantain, corn, soya beans, cray fish, carrots, coconut, water melon, etc. We want to reach at least 50 percent of Nigeria’s population in the next two years with the information about Iron to drive behaviour change and to encourage people to make more informed choices around their nutrition,” Uwadoka said. The Permanent Secretary of the FMWA, Amb. Anthonia Ekpa, while receiving the Nestle delegates in Abuja, said the health of the growing girl-child is important, especially during her menstrual cycle. She promised that government would collaborate with Nestle because “I believe the 50 percent target is achievable if we work together.”