The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has explained why Kogi State is yet to receive vaccine. It said it was due to the ongoing repairs of the cold store facility in the state. It further stated Kogi is the only state yet to receive the vaccine as its cold store was vandalised during the #ENDSARS protests last year. The Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), Dr Faisal Shuaib, stated these in Abuja during the briefing of the PTF on COVID-19. He said: “Kogi state was not supplied with the vaccine because their cold store is still under repairs following vandalization during the ENDSARS protest. “Similarly, all state Governors, apart from Kogi have launched the vaccination program in their States. “These launches also involve public vaccination of the Governor and strategic leaders. “No safety and efficacy standard has been compromised in the decision of the government to introduce the Oxford-AstraZeneca covid-19 vaccine. “The vaccine was approved for emergency use listing by the World Health Organization (WHO) and was tested and certified safe and effective for use in Nigeria by NAFDAC. “Our cold chain stores are very efficient to ensure that optimal temperatures are maintained in the distribution of these vaccines through the States and local government areas throughout the country. “It is important to note that none of the approved brands of covid-19 vaccine is inferior. “Understandably, the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine cost relatively less than the other available brands of covid-19 vaccines. “However, this is not because it is inferior. It is because AstraZeneca which partnered with Oxford to produce the vaccine decided and announced that they will not be looking at profits during this pandemic. “So from the humanitarian point of view, they decided that they will sell at their cost price. This is the reason for the relatively low cost of the AstraZeneca vaccine. It is not because it is interior in any way.”