Michael Ebeatu has emerged as the chairman of the Onne chapter of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA); three other chairmen of other chapters also emerged. The election presided over by the Chairman of Association Electoral Committee (ASECO), Enekwechi Onyimba in Port Harcourt and witnessed by the Board of Trustees (BoT), National Executive Committee (NECOM) and stakeholders also saw Chief Celestine Chinyere Okere, CEO of Celefrank Nigeria Limited emerging as Chairman Oil and Gas Chapter Also elected at the event held at the Presidential Hotel were: Chief Jerry Opara, CEO, Global Eagle W. A. Limited as Chairman, Port Harcourt Area One; Uche Ohaegbuchi of Virgo Treasures Nigeria Limited as Chairman Calabar Chapter and Charles Alozie Onyema of Atlas Dynamic Marine Ag. Limited as Chairman Port Harcourt Airport Chapter The National President of ANLCA, Iju Tony Nwabunike, lauded the conduct of the polls and described the participants as co winners. According to Nwabunike, there is no loser in ANLCA as the organisation has evolved into one big family. “As a body, accept the congratulations of the National Executive Committee (NECOM) on your orderly and brotherly conduct. We are proud of you. “ANLCA is one strong and indivisible group. Don’t be distracted. Our strength is in the collective unity we all profess and uphold irrespective of tribal, lingual and religious differences. “These elections are pivots for our ever strong unity. It’s a routine among distinguished practitioners and I must reiterate that you all are ambassadors of the great ANLCA. We all aictors. No one is a loser in this association,’ he said.’ “Those elected through this meeting should take a cue from the national body and keep abreast of developments like training and retraining programmes we shall be doing directly and virtually later in the year “I urge all leaders at various levels in ANLCA- chaper, zonal and national to have listening ears and be willing at all times to solve all operational problems brought before them by our members” Nwabunike said. 