As Enugu State Government mulls the idea of life pension for its former governors and their deputies, the workers’ pension is in disarray, The Nation has learnt. Although the bill sponsored by the State House of Assembly has been stepped down following outcry, according to a report by the National Pension Commission (PenCom), the state which has enacted laws on the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) is yet to do the needful. For example, the state under the Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi is yet to set up a Pension Bureau/Board to coordinate the CPS as stipulated by the Pension Reform Act 2014. The state is also not remitting the 10 per cent employers’and employees’ pension contributions, nor has it conducted actuarial valuation, put in place the Retirement Benefits Bond Redemption Fund Account (RBBRFA). Worse still, it is not providing funds for accrued rights. Also, there has been no pension payment under the CPS and no group life insurance as required by the law. On the implication of governors,who failed to comply with the pension law,  a  pension advocate, Ivor Takor, said they had shown no regard for labour laws. He stated that they violated the constitution, which they swore to uphold. Section 188(2)(b) provides that a governor or deputy governor may be removed from office if the holder of such office is guilty of gross misconduct. Takor said: “Subsection 11 provides: “In this section, gross misconduct means a grave violation or a breach of the provisions of this Constitution or a misconduct of such nature as amount in the opinion in the House of Assembly to gross misconduct. “Failure to come up with a law on pension for state’ workers and withholding of their pension is a grave violation or breach of the provisions of the constitution, which makes it an impeachable offence.” He added that the actions of these  governors of the ‘red states’ were wrong. “Moral refers to what societies sanction as right and acceptable. While some moral principles transcend time and culture, such as fairness, generally speaking, morality is not fixed. Morality describes the particular values of a specific group at a point in time. The particular group in question is the Nigeria Governors Forum and the nation at large. “The importance of meetings of the Nigeria Governors Forum has been put to question and ridiculed, as a result of the actions of the governors who fail to comply with the Act. One would have expected that for good governance, governors should imbibe and practise the time-tested principle of peer review. Peer review is the evaluation of work by one or more people with similar competence as the producers of the work (peer). It functions as a form of self-regulation by qualified members of a profession within the relevant field. Peer reviews are used to maintain quality standards, improve performance and provide credibility.” Speaking on the case of Kwara and Akwa Ibom states, he said: “In Kwara State, Bukola Saraki ruled for two terms of eight years – 29th May 2003 to 29th May 2011. He installed Abdulfatah Ahmed, who ruled for two terms of eight years – 29th May 2011 to 29th May 2019. In the current dispensation, Abdulrazaq Abdulrahman came to power through what is assumed to be a popular consent, and sworn in on 29th May 2019. The jury, we can say, is still out. However, we wait with eagerness to see if he will be any different from his predecessors. But whatever the case is, he remains a potential beneficiary of the dubious pension law, enacted for the benefit of governors and deputy governors (Payment of Pension) Law No. 12 of Kwara State 2010 by Governor Saraki towards the end of his tenure. “In Akwa Ibom State, Victor Attah held sway for eight years from 29th May 1999 to 29th May 2007. Godswill Akpabio succeeded him and spent eight years from 29th May 2007 – 29th May 2015. Udom Gabriel Emmanuel, the incumbent, is in his second tenure having been installed by Akpabio on 29th May 2015. But before his exit in 2015, Akpabio guided the state assembly to enact the dubious pension law that benefits only those who had served as governors and deputy governors. “The absence of a pension law as enshrined in the constitution is a big dent on the governors. “It is a gross act of bad governance and lack of good intentions for the welfare of their workers, which opens them up to destitution in their old age. It is highly immoral on the part of these governors and against the spirit of the constitution against the backdrop of the many of them enacting pension laws for themselves and their deputies. The cases of Kwara and Akwa Ibom states are eloquent examples of this leadership delinquency,” he added.