Menstruation in every female is a sign of fertility. Every month, the body prepares for pregnancy. If no pregnancy occurs, the uterus, or womb, sheds its lining. The menstrual blood is partly blood and partly tissue from inside the uterus. So, why then should something  normal  be a thing of embarrassment and shame to the female gender? Complication of periods may differ from one person to another, and this is one of the problems that limit  the discussion of periods. For some, it might be very painful menstrual cramps and others  may suffer mood swings. Even without the cramps, few days to the date of your period, it’s possible for one to feel bloated and very uncomfortable. So, the fact that someone is having it easier doesn’t mean other girls do as well. Saying it is no one’s business when you are doing your mensuration is a misconception that allows girls feel disgusted since they treat it like a venereal disease. Besides, how different is menstrual blood from any other body fluid? Parents, especially mothers, while trying to enlighten their  female children about periods,  should endeavour not to make them feel it is something to be ashamed of, or generate the act of making it secretive. The myth they pass across at times is a contributing factor to the cause of period shaming ( imagine being told you can’t cook a particular food because you are on your period, because it won’t get cooked properly). In some traditions when a female is experiencing her monthly flow, she is considered dirty. It is not her doing, so it shouldn’t be seen as such. A survey of 13,000 women and men conducted by health care companies  shows that 60 per cent of female and male respondents believe there is a stigma around menstruation in society today. Nearly half of women (47per cent), have resorted to using names they feel are more acceptable eg; that time of the month, monthlies, monthly visitor etc.That’s why we have young ladies feeling like it is  a crime to buy tampons and pad in the essential stores. Period stigma is responsible for women keeping quiet about their pains and the symptoms. Periods are very important in showing the health factor of a female.If it is  too long, too short,too heavy or too painful, it could be a sign of medical conditions. And this is one of the reasons it shouldn’t be something to be kept secret. And at times, even if the symptoms show you are stressed out, it shouldn’t be difficult to tell your physicians, or for you to discuss it. Sadly, the pains and the discomfort being felt also has to be kept as a secret with the knowledge of you being “on”. According to a  study organised by THINX ( a New York-based company that makes feminine hygiene products),  58 per cent of women have felt a sense of embarrassment simply because they were on their period. 42  per cent have experienced period-shaming,with one in five being made to have this feeling because of comments made by a male friend. The company in a statement said : “The culture surrounding menstruation must be changed, and it takes both women and men to make that happen. It starts with open, honest conversation, and continues with education that empowers women to feel aware of and comfortable with their bodies and flows. We believe that people with periods deserve more information, resources, and options, which is why we’re revolutionising this age-old industry to smash taboos, remove shame, and create communities of support.” Young girls are unable to see their monthly flow of blood for a few months because of stress and at times for more critical medical issues, but due to the embarrassment , they  find it difficult to seek advice from the physician. Doctors often prescribe birth control pills (oral contraceptives) containing the hormones estrogen and progesterone to help control irregular periods. A hormone medication called progestin can also help trigger periods in women who don’t get them. But because menstruation is associated with odour ,mess, blood and impurity,they find it difficult to talk about it with  their doctors. Every female from age nine or above,  faces monthly menstrual discharge, so it shouldn’t be a thing of shame. Do you know the average woman menstruates for 3,000 days during her lifetime? That’s the equivalent of over  eight years! There’s no denying that menstruation is a big part of our lives,thus , it is  very important  that we make that ‘time of the month’ a more manageable, open, and shame-free process. What should be baffling and surprising instead is the exorbitant price of tampons or pad,which is a necessity to every woman yet isn’t made conveniently available. A survey of females of young age and even the young ladies, made it obvious that due to the price and embarrassment they experience going to the store, they resort to other means of taking care of themselves. They  use towels, clothes or sometimes tissue paper,which is unhygienic and very dangerous. Menstrual cramps can be painful, period flow can be messy and the timing inconvenient but it should never be shameful. 