1. Kanye Omari West, popularly known as Kanye West, is an America Rapper, record producer, fashion designer and politician.  The 43-year-old is worth a staggering $6.6 Billion making him the richest black person in the US history. This is largely attributed to the partnership of his fashion brand, “Yeezy” with other international fashion brands. With this net worth, he stands miles ahead of other rappers. 2. Shawn Corey Carter, popularly known as Jay Z is an American rapper, songwriter, record executive, businessman and record producer.  The Empire State of Mind rapper was recently overtaken as the number one world’s richest rapper. The 51-year-old rapper whose wife, Beyonce holds the record of being the female with the most Grammy award wins of all time currently has a net worth of $1.4 billion. 3. Sean John Combs also known as Puff Daddy but more popularly as P. Diddy or Diddy, is an American rapper, record producer/executive and entrepreneur.  The 51-year-old “Bad Boy Entertainment” boss that recently joined several other notable personalities across the globe to celebrate one of Nigeria’s first time Grammy award winner, Burna Boy has an estimated net worth of $1.0 Billion. 4. Andre Romelle Young, popularly known as Dr. Dre, is an American rapper, record producer, audio engineer, record executive and entrepreneur.  The 56-year-old founder and CEO of Aftermath Entertainment and Beats Electronics who played a huge role in popularizing gangsta rap has an estimated net worth of $820million. 5. Marshall Bruce Marthers III, popularly known as Eminem is an American rapper, songwriter and record producer.  The 48-year-old rapper who holds a record of being one of the best-selling music artists of all time has a net worth of $230 million. 6. Percy Robert Miller, popularly known as Master P is an American rapper, actor, record producer, film director, screen writer, entrepreneur and former basketball player.  The 50-year-old multitalented Master P who is also known as The Ice Cream Man, the founder of No Limits Forever Records and CEO of P Millers Enterprises has an estimated net worth of $200million. 7. Aubrey Drake Graham popularly known as Drake is a Canadian rapper, singer, songwriter record producer, actor and entrepreneur.  The rapper, who is also known as Champagne Papi or Drizzy is a prominent figure in popular music. He is the founder of the OVO Sound Record, the global ambassador for the Toronto Raptors and is credited for popularizing their sound, the “Toronto sound”. The 43-year-old rapper has an estimated net worth of $180 million. 8. O’Shea Jackson Sr., popularly known as Ice Cube is an American rapper, actor and film maker.  The 51-year-old, who also contributed in pioneering the gangsta rap movement, has an estimated net worth of $160 million. 9. Pharrell Lanscilo Williams, popularly known as Pharrell is an American rapper, songster, song writer, record producer, fashion designer and entrepreneur.  The eclectic 47-year-old Pharrell has an estimated net worth of $155 million. 10. Calvin Cordozar Broadus Jr., popularly known as Snoop Doggy Dog or Snoop Lion but more popularly as Snoop Dogg is an American rapper, songwriter and media personality.  The 49-year-old rapper who announced some time in 2018 to having become a born-again Christian and even released a gospel song to that effect has an estimated net worth of $150 Million.