The 2021 Honda Pilot is the automaker’s largest and most capable Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). It seats up to eight passengers and has a roomy enough third-row seat for adults. There is plenty of cargo room too for extra loads. Among midsize three-row SUVs, the Pilot isn’t quite the go-to choice, it was when this generation was introduced in 2016. Since then, new competitors such as the Hyundai Palisade and Kia Telluride have debuted, offering even more space and interior refinement. There is also the Mazda CX-9; it’s smaller but in return it gives you a sportier driving experience. But overall, the 2021 Pilot is one of our favourites. The Pilot is a surprisingly able performer. The brakes have a relatively consistent feel and are easy to use in everyday driving. The Pilot’s panic-stopping distance from 60 mph (129 feet in our testing) is average for this class of vehicle. Twisty mountain roads don’t pose a problem for the Pilot — this SUV feels more nimble than most. The steering is precise but offers little feel for the road. The Pilot’s available AWD system is fine for slippery road surfaces, but this SUV lacks the ground clearance and specific off-road aids such as hill descent control to make it truly capable off-road. The Pilot rides comfortably both around town and on the highway. Body motions are well-controlled, but not at the expense of overall ride comfort. Small bumps are dispatched without issue. The front seats have supportive backs and bottoms, providing hours of comfort, and the second-row seats are similarly cushy and can recline and slide. There is very little tire or wind noise inside the cabin, and the V6 sounds pretty good if you wind it out. The tri-zone climate control works well to keep everyone comfortable. The Honda Pilot comes in seven trim levels: LX, EX, EX-L, SE (Special Edition), Touring, Elite and Black Edition. Most Pilots have seating for eight, though second-row captain’s chairs — which reduce capacity to seven — are optional on the Touring and standard on the Elite and Black Edition trims. All models are powered by a 3.5-liter V6 (280 horsepower, 262 lb-ft of torque) that’s paired with a nine-speed automatic transmission. Front-wheel drive is standard, and all-wheel drive is optional except on Elite and Black Edition models, which come standard with AWD. The Pilot exhibits typical Honda efficiency with smart use of space and practical features. The first and second rows are roomy. The third row is big enough for occasional use for adults, but it’s not as spacious as what one will find in a Kia Telluride or Volkswagen Atlas. Access to the third row is also a bit narrow. Most drivers will be able to find a suitable seating position, though tall drivers might want a little more steering wheel adjustment. The upright seating position gives the driver a more commanding view out than a Honda Odyssey minivan provides. Overall, the Pilot’s touchscreen system is easy to use. The navigation system responds quickly, and the 10-speaker audio system sounds great. A Wi-Fi hotspot is included on Touring and Elite models, and users with the Honda CabinControl app can connect to the in-car Wi-Fi and control certain things such as rear cabin temperature and music playlists. As for driver assist features, the Pilot’s adaptive cruise control system isn’t nearly as smooth in accelerating and braking as the systems in some rival SUVs. It also only works above 20 mph, which is a bummer for drivers stuck in stop-and-go traffic. The lane-keeping assist feature works fine on straight roads but can be overly intrusive if the road starts to bend. The Pilot is a useful vehicle when you need to carry a lot of stuff. While cargo room is solid — 16.5 cubic feet behind the third row and a maximum volume of 83.9 cubes with the second- and third-row seats folded — it trails segment leaders. Still, there’s generous storage under the load floor, and the space is very usable. The large door pockets and clever, configurable small-item storage within the centre console are among the many places to store your things inside the cabin. The AWD Pilot’s maximum towing capacity is 5,000 pounds, which matches the capability of most V6-powered three-row SUVs. Front-wheel-drive Pilots are limited to 3,500 pounds.