 A private multispecialty tertiary care facility, Evercare Hospital has opened in Lekki, Lagos, with a vow to transform the healthcare delivery system. The purpose-built 165-bed tertiary care hospital is part of Evercare Group, a leading impact-driven healthcare group of hospitals, clinics, and diagnostic facilities across Africa and South Asia. The new hospital brings Evercare Group’s expertise in operating and developing quality healthcare facilities to West Africa and is positioned to be at the forefront of advanced treatment in major clinical specialties in Nigeria. The state-of-the-art facility promises to offer premium patient care and services across core medical areas. Evercare’s facility is equipped and designed with modern infrastructure and diagnostic services, with specialties, including mother and child services, cardiac sciences, neurosciences, orthopedics, critical care and emergency medicine. The team is comprised of highly skilled local and international full-time and visiting consultants, setting a benchmark that would enhance the long-term sustainability of the country’s healthcare sector. “Quality is at the core of Evercare Hospital Lekki’s healthcare mission. At Evercare, we will constantly innovate to ensure delivery of best-in-class standards of patient safety, clinical excellence, and outstanding clinical outcomes. Our dynamic and passionate team of caregivers will ensure an unparalleled patient experience as we have a philosophy of ‘patient first’ and are always available to cater to healthcare needs. We look forward to embarking on our journey to transforming healthcare,” said Rajeev Bhandari, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Evercare Hospital Lekki. According to CEO of Evercare Group, Massimiliano Colella, the goal of establishing in Nigeria is to create a long-term blueprint for the country’s healthcare sector and support the advancement of medical care across Nigeria. “Evercare Hospital Lekki brings first-class healthcare services to the people of Nigeria and will reduce the need for Nigerians to travel abroad in search of quality medical care. We are making specialty and sub-specialties available and will elevate the standards of service delivery. Our aim to build a sustainable future to provide world-class healthcare facilities in emerging markets and one of our key missions is to invest in local resources to help them expand their reach to help communities in need.” The new hospital is part of the Evercare Group, owned by the Evercare Health Fund, a United States $1billion emerging markets healthcare fund managed by TPG. The construction and opening of Evercare Hospital Lekki exemplifies the ways in which Evercare benefits from the healthcare investing experience of TPG’s global team and the impact investing expertise of The Rise Fund. The Rise Fund’s investment in Evercare, alongside other leading impact investors and global development finance institutions, is playing a critical role in addressing systemic underinvestment in Nigeria’s healthcare infrastructure while remaining committed to delivering measurable, long-term impact. “It is an exciting time for us to work collectively to offer Nigerians superior healthcare options that meet local needs and build the country’s response in tackling diseases,” commented Jide Olanrewaju, Partner at TPG Growth, Africa. “Evercare Hospital Lekki, and its best-in-class facilities, are a great example of how impact investment can address crucial funding needs in the march to bolster Nigeria’s medical ecosystem and its economy. We are deeply proud of the hard work that has culminated in the opening of Evercare Hospital Lekki and we wish our colleagues continued success as we work together to improve healthcare in Nigeria.”