 The premises of Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area of Lagos State were filled when the Igbo community organised a ceremony for endorsement of the council chairman, Fatai Adekunle Ayoola for second term. The carnival-like event attracted prominent Igbo sons and daughters resident in the area and beyond. Members of all market associations in the council area were present. Among them were Berger Business Community and Trinity Market Association. Also present were members of Motorcycle Riders’ Association in Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA. Their leader noted the council chief has been committed to their well-being, especially in the area of providing them with face masks and other interventions during the current Coronavirus pandemic. Addressing the people, the convener of the event, Mr Nicodemus O. Nnamezie, who is noted for his exceptional talent for grassroots mobilisation said: “The Igbo community in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area decided to endorse the council Chairman Mr Fatai Adekunle Ayoola for second term in office after considering his numerous achievements in the council. “When Mrs. Nancy Nwagboso, a member of the Board of Directors, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture mooted the idea and asked me to put the event together, I considered it a project worth organising. I hit the ground running immediately because, personally, I had been nursing such an idea that the council chief ought to go for a second term. “This I did in conjunction with Elder Iwunna Obioma the Apex Leader of the Igbo Community in the LGA, Barrister Anayo E. the Legal Adviser of the Igbo Community in Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA, Sir Richard Okoye, Ugochukwu Nnadi and Pastor Ifembiri Eugene.” The Chairman of Igbo Community in Ajeromi-Ifelodun council, Chief Nonso Akamigbo, said the entire Igbo Community in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Council decided to mobilise all Ndigbo in the council in support of the noble cause. He noted that “the administration of Fatai Adekunle Ayoola is the first in Ajegunle to give the Igbo Community a wider recognition.” Mindful of the business acumen of the Igbo, the council Chairman’s ability to create enabling business environment and ease of doing business for the Igbo, had endeared him to them. Chief Akamigbo alluded to this when he said: “Our economic activities at the various markets in Ajeromi-Ifelodun Local Government Area have benefited immensely from the support of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration in Ajegunle. “Infrastructure, which forms part of Ayoola’s four-point agenda, seems to be the area the Igbo Communities benefitted in Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA. Arguably, it is the greatest contributor to the thriving businesses of the Igbo in the council. “For instance, the reconstruction of Kirikiri Road and some other sensitive roads in Wards C, I, and H of the council has aided rapid vehicular movement and logistic gains for our businesses and personal purposes within major communities in Ajegunle.” Ethnicity and segregation have been identified as major causes of disunity in Nigeria; even though efforts are being made by leaders to make the issue a non-significant one. This seems to be one of Ayoola’s positive selling points when it comes to the management of human and material resources. This could be one of the reasons the Igbo Community in the Ajeromi-Ifelodun council area is championing the second-term tenure of Ayoola. On that, Chief Akamigbo said: “The administration of Fatai Adekunle Ayoola has proven to be a non-tribal government at the grassroots, The Igbo, just like any other natives in Ajegunle, have benefitted from the various empowerment programmes and projects organised by his government. “We are excited to identify with his administration’s policies and programmes in education, health, youth development, and women emancipation. His welfare programme on security in Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA is second-to-none. “Again, the open-door policy of Ayoola’s administration has provided the atmosphere for Igbo traders in Ajegunle to engage his administration in dialogues for a healthy business policies and a favourable environment for our enterprises to thrive…” He assured the council chief of the Igbo community’s willingness to mobilise and canvass support for the APC government at the local, state and national levels, saying “however, charity begins at home.” Mrs. Nancy Nwagboso assured the council chief of total support of the Igbo Community in the area, adding that “the Igbo are firm and resolute in whatever cause they believe in. They are not given to betrayals and pretence. When an Igbo person says I am with you that is a covenant. He will do everything within his powers to protect what he believes in.” The member of Board of Directors, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture noted: “The good works of Ayoola are speaking for him. All the Igbo are saying is that any good path is worth treading twice. Hon. Ayoola’s first tenure in office resulted in the tremendous development of Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA. It is better he is allowed to complete the good works he had begun.” Responding, Ayoola expressed appreciation to Ndigbo in Ajeromi-Ifelodun council for their support. He said what Ndigbo did was the first in local government leadership. “I will not forget this day in a jiffy. I will remember today for the rest of my life. I assure you that we are going to have a cordial working relationship in the next four years.” Dignitaries that attended the event were the Chairman of the council, Fatai Adekunle Ayoola, Secretary to the Local Government (SLG) Mrs. Bella Adeyemi Mary, all executive members of the council, members of the legislative arm of the council, members of staff of the council, Director-General Fatai Adekunle Ayoola Campaign Organisation Alhaji Olawale Ariyo, Eze Ndigbo of Ajeromi-Ifelodun LGA Eze Udo, High Chief Guy Nwajiofor Okoli, and the LGA Welfare Officer Chief Josephine Ogbonna, among others. Some of the associations present to endorse Mr Ayoola included Motivational and Christian Books Dealers’Association of Nigeria (MCBDANIGERIA), Integrity Booksellers’ Association Ajegunle, ANACOWA Okada Riders’ Association Ajegunle, Ibafon Business Community, Berger Soyer Business Community, and Trinity Business Community, among many others.