 The Supreme Court yesterday commented on a petition written against three members of the five-man panel set up to hear an appeal on the disputed Imo North Senatorial District election. The court had, on March 23, suspended hearing on the appeal filed by a politician, Francis Ibezim, pending the outcome of the petition, allegedly written by the Interim National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mai Mala Buni. The Yobe State governor had accused three Justices of the apex court of working to hand victory to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). But in a statement yesterday in Abuja by its Director of Information, Festus Akande, the apex court acknowledged the existence of the petition but said Justice Abdu Aboki was not among those named in the petition.  The statement reads: “We need to state that the news that occupied strategic space in the media yesterday, Wednesday, March 24, 2021, which emanated from a petition purportedly written by the acting Chairman of the All Progressives Congress and Governor of Yobe State, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni, against three Justices of the Supreme Court, never mentioned the name of Hon. Justice Abdu Aboki. “Even though he is on the panel of five Justices hearing the appeal that resulted from the Imo North Senatorial District by-election conducted on October 5, 2020. The information in circulation is not only wrong but equally misleading. “It is pertinent to state that even though the acting Chairman of the APC, Alhaji Mai-Mala Buni, has issued a disclaimer of the malicious and baseless petition, there is still need to keep record straight and to admonish litigants, particularly politicians, on the need to be guided by good conscience and decency in all their conducts, especially when a case is before a court of competent jurisdiction, as such unguarded disposition could send out the wrong signals. “The honourable Justices of the Supreme Court, who have always been working assiduously to promote the rule of law, impartial and seamless dispensation of justice, do not deserve such orchestrated mudslinging, to say the least.”     