Hospitals owned by the Ondo State Government have been shut down owing to strike action embarked upon by the Nigerian Union of Allied Health Professionals (NUAHP). Doctors and nurses in the employ of the state government have been on strike since last month over payment of half salaries for the month of November and December 2020 and other sundry issues. The NUAHP comprises of Medical Laboratory Scientists, Optometrists, Physiotherapists, Pharmacists, Health Information Managers/Officers, Dieticians and Radiographers. Chairman of the Union, Prince Adedire Adeyinka, told newsmen in Akure that the union has withdrawn services from all state owned health care facilities, hospitals and health centres indefinitely. Prince Adeyinka said the union had earlier written to the Ondo State Government on the hardship being faced by its members due to inability of the Ondo State government to pay salaries regularly and the eventual payment of 50% as part payment of November salary. Adeyinka stated that his members members were finding it difficult to fortify their immune system against the ravaging pandemic and other epidemic diseases such as Lassa Fever, COVID-19. He vowed that members of the union would no longer accept percentage salaries being paid by the Ondo state government saying they were always on their duty post 24hrs on daily basis with call duties inclusives at a time other government workers were told to work from home. Prince Adedire lamented the non-challant attitude of the government which neither called nor invited the union to any meeting despite the first 15-day ultimatum and another three days notice of withdrawal of services as regrettable. His words, “The union, via a letter dated 11th of February,2020, gave the government a 15-day ultimatum to settle the balance of 50% of November salary, arears of backlogs of salaries (December 2020 and January 2020), not forgetting the previous year’s outstanding salaries. “Payment of outstanding two (2) months Covid-19 special allowances as agreed in may 2020. “It has got to the extent that health workers could no longer transport themselves to their different places if postings where their services are rendered.”