Oyo Police Command on Sunday confirmed three members of Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) are in custody for arresting suspected kidnap kingpin, Iskilu Wakiliin Ayete, Ibarapa local government, Oyo state. The police said the three men were being interrogated for their involvement in arson and murder while carrying out the arrest of Wakili. Oyo police spokesperson, Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Chief Superintendent of Police, also said the Commissioner of Police has directed that Wakili, due to his frail appearance and state of health, be moved to the hospital while others are being interrogated. He said “The Oyo State Police Command would like to inform the general public that at about 0900 hrs of date (7th March 2021), information was received that a group of persons, (later found out to be members of the Odua Peoples Congress- OPC), had invaded Kajola community in Ibarapa axis of the State. “The invasion was reportedly aimed at arresting one Wakili, a Fulani by tribe, who is alleged to be the sponsor and mastermind of various criminal attacks against the people/farmers of Yoruba origin in the community. “The Commissioner of Police has quickly moved into action and preliminary findings revealed that some OPC members went to Kajola community in Ibarapa North Local government Area of Oyo State. “While there, the house of the Wakili in question was set ablaze, while a female (the identity of who is yet to be ascertained) was burnt in the fire and Wakili (about 75 years old and blind) with two other persons were picked up. “The three of them are presently in the custody of the Police. The Commissioner of Police has directed that Wakili (due to his frail appearance and state of health), be moved to the hospital, while others are being interrogated. Others being interrogated are the OPC members, involved in arson and murder. “Meanwhile, the Oyo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public that any person or group of persons from any region or tribe that has been found culpable to have committed any criminal act(s) in the State would not be spared but would be arrested and dealt with according to extant laws. “In conclusion, anybody that has any case against Iskilu Wakili should report it to the State Criminal Investigation Department, (CID) Iyaganku Ibadan for discreet Investigation.” 