Eighteen-year old Divine Favour Ukwu, a first year Software engineering student of Chrisland University, Ajebo, Abeokuta, Ogun State, has a vision on how to help one of the critical sectors of the country’s economy, the banking sector, with their banking applications. Ukwu is one of the over 300 fresh students admitted for the 2020/2021 academic session. They took part in the institution’s matriculation last Thursday. Ukwu said he was not satisfied with the e-payment system and other Information Communication Technology-driven applications (apps) in use in the banking and financial sector. He has vowed to make improving the apps his priority problem to solve on, or before, leaving the university. He told The Nation that the apps were not pocket or customer-friendly. He said the apps also waste customers’ time due to transaction difficulties, technical hitches and safety concern. The student said he would develop software to address the identified challenges and make e-banking transactions, a seamless venture in the country. “Banking apps in Nigeria are slow. It is going to be the first thing I will change. I will develop software that will disburse cash payment faster with fewer charges on customers. “I will also develop software to serve as an ‘idea pool bank’ where every innovative idea will be kept so, governments, investors and other interested parties can visit to check ones that are likely to succeed and fund,” he said. Addressing Ukwu and other freshers shortly after their matriculation oath, the university’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Chinedum Babalola, charged the students to shun indecent dressing, saying , “acquiring university education is all about learning and character.” Babalola, a Professor of Pharmacy, advised the students to abide by the institution’s regulations and stay committed to their studies to justify their selection for studying in Chrisland University. “This university has zero tolerance for cultism, any form of hooliganism and corruption. I urge you to continually bear in mind, the reason you came to Chrisland University which, I believe, is to acquire knowledge that will enable you achieve your God given potentials. “The 2020/2021 session, tagged ‘A purpose-driven session’, provides opportunity for personal and institutional growth and development. The university is matriculating as phase one, 300 students. Admission is still ongoing until June 2021 in accordance with JAMB directives. So, the window admission is still opened. This number is more than double of last year (124),” she said. In his lecture entitled: “Character, quality education: Panacea for success and sustainable wealth creation”, the guest lecturer, Dr. Gbenga Adeoye admonished the students to imbibe good character, which he said, would make them enjoy referrals for job placement upon graduation, emphasising that hard work, preparation and continuous learning pave way for success. “Your time and days are numbered at Chrisland. How you will graduate is a function of how you start and run through this journey. You cannot grow above your mindsets. Think big, think First Class, think success, move up your mind and work towards it,” he said. 