 Niger State Commissioner for Health and Hospital Services, Dr. Muhammad Makunsidi, has disclosed that as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, Niger State saved over N300 million that would have been spent on medical tourism. According to the commissioner, the state had expended over N300million on medical tourism in 2019, adding that in 2020, nobody in the state travelled outside Nigeria for medical tourism. “In Niger State, COVID-19, for us in the health sector is 90 per cent a blessing because last year, none of us travelled outside Nigeria for medical treatment. This made us save a lot of resources which we, in turn, infused into reviving our medical system.” Makunsidi stated this at the annual general meeting and election of the Kutigi Old Students’ Association (KUOSA) at the College of Education in Minna, Niger State. Responding to the keynote address, titled, ‘Medical Tourism; Matters Arising’, the commissioner described the increasing rate of medical tourism abroad as worrisome, stating that a peg needs to be put on it. “In the Niger State Ministry of Health, we are trying to kill medical tourism abroad because if we do not kill it, it will kill the Ministry of Health. This is because the money taken for medical assistance abroad is taken from our overhead and other votes to the ministry. “It is horrible and has put the health sector in an emergency state. While domestic medical tourism is also very costly, we are very concerned about international medical tourism because 90 per cent of people benefiting from international medical tourism are not using their resources but that of government and individuals”, he said. In his paper presentation on ‘Medical Tourism; Matters Arising’, the Managing Director of the Federal Medical Center (FMC), Bida, Dr. Aminu Usman, noted that COVID-19 reduced international medical tourism which gave the government room to reflect on how to revive the health system. He stated that healthcare concepts, policies and operations and commercialisation of health care further fuel international medical tourism, urging the need for government to see the need for health centres to commence reverse medical tourism Usman advocated that there should be a revival of the healthcare concept adding that individuals and groups can join hands with the government to ensure that international medical tourism ends in Nigeria.