Lagos State Education District 1 (comprising Agege, Alimosho, Ifako-Ijaiye) has rewarded some principals, vice principals, and teachers for their outstanding performance during its 14th Merit Awards. Pupils were not left out as they were also rewarded for excellent performance in the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) and the Basic Education Certificate Examination (BECE). The Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary, Education District I, Mrs. Margaret Solarin, said the award was to motivate and encourage others to improve their productivity. “Educators need to be rewarded and appreciated for their sacrifice in moulding the future leaders because it is not an easy task; but we see them making sacrifice for education, that is what we call  exceptional. “No nation can move forward and no system can succeed without having great educators and administrators and this is why we are celebrating these great achievers who have gone the extra mile to achieve this feat,” she said. Mrs. Solarin urged the educators to show commitment, integrity, as well as be accountable in their duties. Overall best principal for junior school category, Mrs. Adesanmi Olajumoke of Fagba Junior Grammar School, Fagba thanked the district for celebrating her. “The award presented to me shows that the government and educator sector recognised the hard work and dedication of the staff,” she said. The overall best teacher for the senior school category, Miss Adeola Adefemi of Oke-Odo Senior High School, said it was not an easy journey, but as a teacher she had learnt to be exceptional in any job she was assigned. “Being a good teacher is to change the life of the students and also encourage them to be their best version. Teachers should not lose hope in their students but guide and motivate them in the right way and with this, I believe you can break the walls and understand the student better,” she said. With eight As and one C, Abiodun Anuoluwapo from Vetland Senior Grammar School, Oko-Oba, who emerged the overall best student in the 2020 WASSCE, said the award was a result of hard work and determination to succeed. Adebayo Eniola from Olorunnisola Community Junior High School, Ayobo, who made seven As, one B and one C was rewarded as the overall best in 2020 BECE. 