Steven Gerrard has described winning of Rangers’ 55th league title as a crowning glory of rough patches he has been through and  ‘one of the proudest moments’ of his career. The manager spoke to RangersTV for the first time after Gers were confirmed as champions on Sunday – and he took time to pay tribute to a real, team effort not only on the pitch, but behind the scenes too. Said Gerrard, the iconic former Liverpool skipper, “I have had some low days and some tough times – of course we have – but they make you strong, they make you better and you learn from them and you get ready to go again. “But the biggest thing I had to do here was to connect all the different departments – I am not saying they were all broken – and the club has got incredible people working in all the different departments but they just needed someone to connect them all and get a bit of belief back. “The club was obviously having a difficult time and also had previously been through an even worse time. “So for me, it was about moving forward and trying to everything we could to connect everyone so everyone was on the same page, on the same journey and pushing in the right direction to get to a day like Sunday, and thankfully, we got it done. It has been an incredible few days,” said Gerrard, “and the emotions that have run through me have been absolutely fantastic. “It has just been a special time and one of the proudest moments of my career for sure – right up there with some of the highs I experienced as a player and just to get it over the line and become Champions and win 55, is really special for me. “I can’t begin to describe the amount of work that has gone into it, not just by myself, but by everyone connected to the club from the board down, over the course of, not even three years yet but it will be in the summer. “But we have done it and the important thing now is to try and build on that and go for more. Yes, of course, we celebrated it on Saturday and Sunday, and the fans are very jubilant at the moment which you can understand. “But I think now it is very important that we get back with our heads onto the football. It is important the fans remain safe and get back to following the rules and the Covid regulations – that is very important now. “And we want to now go and make this an even more-special season – we have got some fantastic fixtures coming up – obviously Slavia Prague in the short-term – where we want to try and get into the last eight of the competition and go one better than last year.  “We have an Old Firm derby to look forward to, and then we get a mini-break with the internationals where we will get some rest and we will get ready again for the split games and the Scottish Cup. “But what a time to connected with this club – I am very excited and jubilant from the last few days but now it is about what is next for me. Obviously in our preparation before we first came-in, I was working for numerous weeks, and I have had incredible backing and support from the board. What is up next then for Gers is a trip to Slavia Prague in the Europa League Last 16 on Thursday, with Gerrard firmly focused now on that and the challenges beyond. He continued: “It is an historic year and it is an historic achievement, of course, and I don’t think we can ever forget that and I don’t think we will. “But at a club like Rangers, it is about winning and that never stops. The responsibility, especially in my position, doesn’t change when you achieve your first big goal together – it is about enjoying that moment, savouring it and then dusting yourself down and getting yourself ready for the next challenge. “I want this to become a successful period and that is going to be the next challenge for this set of players – have you got the hunger and the fight and the de termination to go and achieve more? “And that is going to be the message, certainly in the next few days. “They [the players] have been on an almighty high like everyone connected to the club – so today was about getting the legs moving again and getting them recovered and ready physically and mentally. “We have to be ready for this challenge as Slavia are a good team who we have major respect for. “They are full of energy, and they are honest, hardworking and have quality. Only the best version of ourselves is going to get this done over the two legs so we have introduced Slavia to them in-terms of the game plan and what is going to be needed. “We will do some more work tomorrow in-terms of their strengths and weaknesses and how we think we can try to get past this challenge and come Thursday night, when it is kick-off time, I have confidence and belief the boys will be ready and I want them to go and play with belief and confidence and be really fired-up for it.”