Gombe Governor Inuwa Yahaya has sacked three commissioners and reassigned portfolios to six others. The sacked Commissioners are: Alhassan Ibrahim Kwami Information & Culture; Dr. Ahmed Mohammed Gana Health and Mela Audu Nunghe (SAN) Special Duties. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Prof. Abubakar Njodi, said the cabinet rejigging is part of efforts to further consolidate operations of government by Yahaya. Those reassigned were: Mohammed Danladi Adamu from Lands and Survey to Rural, Community Development and Cooperatives; Dr. Habu Dahiru from Ministry of Education to Ministry of Health and Usman Jafun Biri from Ministry of Rural, Community Development and Cooperatives to Ministry of Lands and Survey. Others are: Julius Ishaya from Ministry of Youth Development to Ministry of Information and Culture; Dauda Batari Zambuk from Ministry of Internal Security and Ethical Orientation to Ministry of  Education and Adamu Dishi Kupto from Ministry of Housing and Urban Development to Ministry of  Internal Security and Ethical Orientation. The Governor thanked the three commissioners relieved of their post for their services to Gombe. Governor Yahaya also nominated Mr. Christopher Abdu Buba Maisheru, Abdullahi Idris Kwami and Abubakar Aminu Musa to serve as commissioners pending their confirmation by the House of Assembly. All the sacked commissioners told The Nation the Governor had called them on Sunday about the development. Gana said he has taken it in good faith and bears no animosity against the Governor, saying it is part of life. “I am still in APC now and to me it’s just like a transfer from one place to another. Now I can sit down in my living room and watch television,” he said. Kwami said he was returning to his office at FIRS, saying he has already informed the management of the new development. “The Governor called us and informed us of the development and there is no problem with it,” he said. Nunge also confirmed the incident, saying it will allow him to pursue his political career.