  The latest revelations by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) on the job situation in Nigeria has further raised the concern over the future of our country, and indeed the challenge of creating an economy built on productivity as a basis for addressing the critical question of unemployment. According to the NBS figures, the number of unemployed Nigerians rose to 23.19 million in the fourth quarter of 2020 compared to 21.77 million recorded in the second quarter of the same year under review. This, the NBS further said, was a 33.3 per cent unemployment level compared to 27.1 per cent in the previous period in second quarter of the year 2020. Although the NBS alluded to the impact of Covid-19 on the job situation as many companies laid off workers, even as the stringent operating regime including lockdown and consequent effects on productivity, we have to look beyond the intervening circumstances to candidly note that the nation’s economy has since been very sick on account of very low productivity with the attendant job crisis. We need to urgently find solutions to this recurring nightmare. Seriously, I think we need to take a second look at the job creation challenge and see why the situation has been so dire over a long period of time now. Even after series of measures by various institutions established to tackle the problem have been put in place, yet regrettably the situation has remained intractable. Like many have opined, I want to believe that the issue really is with the leadership we have had over time in this country; a leadership that has successively paid lip service to the challenge of job creation and overseen huge sums of money invested into various failed programmes. Thus as we look forward to 2023 for a change in leadership especially at the presidential level, I join many of our compatriots who have since proclaimed their wish to have a young, vibrant and dynamic successor to President Muhammadu Buhari in the person of the Kogi State governor, Yayaha Bello. Let me quickly state here that such endorsement is beyond generational symbolism and is predicated on his established performance in the area of economic development and job creation in Kogi State. His success in this regard in his state, actually sends a clear message on the possibilities of having such a fresh hand at the federal seat to take quick and durable steps in addressing the interrelated economic issues. Here we are very concerned about the critical task of rescuing the nation from so many failures in development and possibly breathing a new sense of realism and modernization into the essential task of revamping our national economy. In situating the Yahaya Bello paradigm in the context of the above proposition, I think the starting point is to juxtapose his example of breeding home-grown economic initiatives that have become very robust and resilient in harnessing available resources to develop his state. From the outset, he made it abundantly clear that he would run government from a crop of dynamic and youthful leaders. Needless to say, majority of members of the state executive and appointees are young elements he believes resolutely are reflective of his leadership convictions and aspirations on achieving a new Kogi, which works for all the people, by bringing efficiency and success in critical areas of development. Governor Yahaya Bello certainly knows that this crop of young Turks represent the future of the state. Even with the financial challenges of coping with development demands in the state, the governor has matched words with actions by carrying out the various levels of empowerment which were tailored towards economic emancipation of the people without political or religious borders or colouration. Thousands of people have been beneficiaries of the programme in the state.  It is all about the people of Kogi State and there can’t be any form of discrimination! The programme was actually in tandem with the New Direction philosophy which has since created many entrepreneurs in the state. Now, the people have come to see that the future belongs to enterprise as individuals think about what they can do to make a living rather than waiting for government and I think this is the way forward. Yet, I want to argue here that such empowerment must come with a human face which necessitates that beneficiaries are appropriately empowered through enabling institutional support by providing them with the necessary economic wherewithal as the Kogi example demonstrated. Significantly, the greater infusion of the public-private partnership in building lasting business and economic models in the state is adding critical values which are commendable especially in the context of the prevailing economic climate across the country. So far I think such audacious thinking and a practical application of knowledge in solving governance issues has been applied in the various endeavours of the governor as he embarked upon his work to make a lasting impact in the state. From the economic summit where far-reaching decisions were made not only in articulating and projecting the diverse resources available in the state that had hitherto been left untapped but actually placing premium on prioritizing those to be tapped immediately, there has been a new consciousness of national possibilities using the Kogi leadership template as a key barometer. It all boils down to knowledge, ability and proven patriotism which the governor has proven more conclusively in recent times especially his action in troubleshooting the North-South sharp economic disagreement which rescued the temporary stoppage of bringing goods from the north to south and his very remarkable performance in mitigating inherited security challenges in the state. Of course, these two issues are tied as economic indices in modernizing society. It was the same seriousness of turning things around that Kogi State established the rice mill in Ejiba, Yagba West Local Government Area of the state. For the record, the N4 billion factory has generated thousands of jobs and adding major value to the state economy. Agriculture is equally getting the right attention as a basic economic pillar of modernizing the state economy. Interestingly, the various other segments of the state economy are receiving the right attention as expected and actually reflected in sectored growth making the entire fabric of governmental system vibrant and revolving. The people as the essence of government benefit from such a well-structured and functional system which I think is made possible by virtue of the right leadership at the helm. Many believe and I subscribe to the persuasion that we now need a youthful president in the country and by 2023 this concern is likely to be at the epicentre of leadership and political discourse. Having been tested and trusted as an example among the youthful elements in contemporary governance structure in Nigeria, Yahaya Bello might as well throw his hat in the ring in 2023 with the high hopes that he could be a redeemer, rallying the youths towards a new era of national regeneration.