 Women of child-bearing age in the states controlled by the All Progressives Congress (APC) must be jubilant following the announcement that the governors have approved a six-month maternity leave for women in the states’ civil service.  The announcement was made at the end of the virtual meeting of the states’ secretaries to government. According to the governors, the maternity leave that has been extended from the normal three months to six months was to enable women do the much promoted ‘exclusive breastfeeding’ that has been known to be the best nutrition for babies in the first six months of their lives. According to the details released to reporters, there were collaborative efforts between various ministries: health, agriculture and education before the decision was taken. We commend the governors for giving a thought to the nutrition of infants, given the high rate of reported cases of infant mortality, child malnutrition, growth retardation and overall poor nutrition of young children, especially in the poorest regions of the country. This new initiative might be of help in stemming the tide if well implemented. However, laudable as this decision appears, we doubt that this singular move will be of any significant impact on the newborn babies in those states. In the first place, how many women are in the employment of those states, and how many are of child bearing age?  The percentage must be very minimal and as such, the impact of the extended maternity leave might not really make much difference. We therefore suggest that other measures be taken to educate the girl child that grows into a woman to have a wider option of nutritional benefits of all sorts of food beyond breast milk. Again, for breast milk to be nutritious, the mother has to feed well and know the value of balanced diet, and that starts from teenage years. That is why we advise against child marriage. An educated girl child would be better prepared for pregnancy and feed better too, thereby giving birth to healthy babies that will be developed physically and mentally, and grow to contribute to the economy.  We therefore suggest deeper ministerial collaborations to empower more women beyond the civil servants for better nutritional benefits for the next generation. Again, such women could be supplied food at subsidised rates to improve their own nutrition. Care must equally be taken to see that those women do not abuse the leave by having too many children too frequently, in their own interest. It was equally reported that President Muhammadu Buhari has approved paternity leave for the staff of National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), being one of the requests for staff welfare proposed by the agency to make the staff more efficient to power the proposed digital economy of the Federal Government. Again, while we see the step as laudable, we fear that other government agencies might begin to say that what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Will the Federal Government be ready for the fallout of granting this wish in an economy driven primarily by the male population that often practices polygamy? What will happen to a man who has about four wives who may get pregnant the same year, or even every other year? How would the paternity leave be shared? In a country with many Christian, Muslim and national holidays already, we feel that given the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on global economies, this approval for paternity leave for one agency might be counterproductive. Countries that have such policies have very different social issues from ours and their economies are stronger and might not feel the impact like a growing economy like ours. We feel it’s not late to rescind that decision to prevent chaos from agitations from other agencies.