 Yesterday, the former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, turned 69 years, and as expected, his expansive political associates celebrated him, while his opponents vilified him. On both sides is a great multitude and they live happily in their divergent worlds.  While his associates consider him the greatest leader in the present political dispensation, his adversarial opponents consider him an enemy of democracy. But interestingly, even his opponents acknowledge him as the most influential non-public office holder in the country today. And with some of his supporters promoting him as a presidential candidate in the 2023 general election, it is fair to interrogate the arguments in his favour for public office which is the centre-piece of this column. Indeed, as the acclaimed national leader of the All Progressive Congress (APC), in power at the centre and in many states, he influences public power. Tinubu’s trajectory shows that as late as 1990, he was a top executive, as Treasurer, at Mobil Oil. His foray into politics started as a senator in the aborted third republic, and he was reputed to be one of the stringent opponents of the military president, Ibrahim Babangida, in his schemes, to commandeer the republic for his selfish benefits. Some records, say that at a time many of his colleagues were circumspect, he openly opposed the schemes of the military president. Eventually, his contributions to the June 12 struggle, eventuated his political rise in the Southwest. He was reputed to have supported the struggle financially, intellectually and physically, while in exile. His immense contribution endeared him to the leading lights of the Obafemi Awolowo’s school of political thought, who had influence and organisational capacity at the resumption of politics in 1999. Some believe that he was rewarded with the governorship ticket of the Alliance for Democracy, and he went on to win the governorship election that followed. Of note, while he may be considered as a beneficiary of the benevolence of the Awoists in 1999, he must be given credit for making the right choice to support the June 12 struggle, which endeared him to the group. Unless he had the power clairvoyance, at the time he invested his resources in the struggle, it would be far-fetched to contemplate any benefits. So the choice he made in the struggle could only have arisen from his firm belief in the pursuit of truth and justice. Having become the governor of Lagos State, it is important to interrogate what he used the power to achieve. He is reputed to have gifted the state with financial autonomy, by using his intellectual skills as a professional accountant, to raise the revenue base of the state from a paltry N600 million to over N8.5 billion monthly, 70% of which was internally generated within the state, by the time he left office. With the parameter he set in place, his successors have built on the revenue legacy to gift the state financial autonomy. Of note, while in office, Tinubu weathered the political blitzkrieg by the regime of President Olusegun Obasanjo when he sought to bring the state to its knees over the creation of local government councils, which the federal government refused to acknowledge. Of course, the state would have crumbled, under the weight of the crisis, if not for the financial acuity of Tinubu as the helmsman. His promoters for the office of the president, would of course rely on this capacity, to push his candidacy for the 2023 presidential election. For clearly, one of the major challenges facing the nation, is the dearth of financial expertise in managing the nation’s resources. Another selling point for the promoters of the Tinubu presidential contest is his disposition to federalist principles. According to some records, in the second and third republics, there were only two court challenges of the limit of the federal government’s power, vis-à-vis, state, up to the Supreme Court. But during the regime of Tinubu as governor of Lagos State, there were 13 cases concerning federalist principles which went to the Supreme Court for adjudication arising from Lagos State challenges. Beyond doubt, such disposition confirms the inviolable belief by the former governor on the need to lawfully disentangle the centralist principles in the 1999 constitution. This writer believes that unless there is economic and political diffusion of power as practiced in the first republic, even a Tinubu presidency would achieve little. The promoters of the Tinubu presidency also argue that as governor, he set the stage for the exponential development of Lagos State’s social and physical infrastructure. He is reputed to have developed a master plan which has become the beacon for the high achievements of his successors, from Babatunde Fashola SAN, to Akinwunmi Ambode, and presently Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Such agencies like LASTMA, LAWMA, BRT, LAMATA, LASIMRA and several others came from the master plan. That again places Tinubu in the vantage position, when discussing his potentials as president. Clearly, Asiwaju Tinubu, has proved himself one of the most astute political mentor and developer of men. By a combination of foresight and luck, his political family stretches to the presidency, the leadership of the National Assembly, several state government houses, federal ministries, local governments and party offices. With one of the most intriguing recruitment and promotion schemes, he has his mentees in far flung political offices across the country. And interestingly, he has helped Nigerians of varied backgrounds, tribes and religion, even as his Yoruba people naturally are the greatest beneficiaries. So, fundamentally, Tinubu stands shoulder high, as a sagacious political leader, and even his opponents would acknowledge that. Perhaps, but for Obafemi Awolowo, who gave the Yorubas a head start in education and infrastructure development in the country, Asiwaju Tinubu may have done more for the Yoruba race than any other person in history. Even with the turbulence under the presidency of the All Progressive Congress, which he eminently championed its emergence, the southwest region has fared better than others. On the other hand, as we match towards 2023, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s sagacious intellect would be tasked to explain the level of insecurity in the country, under the presidency of his party, the APC. His wits will be tasked to explain the grand failures of the party, in handling the national security. Should he throw his hat into the ring, Nigerians would want to know what he would do differently, to stem the security mess, plaguing our country. As the Asiwaju of Lagos and the Jagaban of Borgu, celebrates his 69th birthday, this writer wishes him many happy returns. The column joins his wife, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, as she is reputed to always pray that Asiwaju ends well.