There were conflicting claims at the weekend following the killings of over three persons at Ibaa Community, Emohua Local Government Area, Rivers State. While sources claimed that the victims were killed by members of the disbanded Ibaa Security Planning and Advisory Committee, (ISPAC), the security group denied involvement and blamed it on a cult war. A youth from the area, who spoke in confidence, alleged that members of ISPAC invaded the community despite a ban on the activities of OSPAC in the LGA by the local government Chairman, Tom Aliezi, and murdered the victims. He claimed that the three persons were killed last week in the community and over three others missing after the incident. He called on Governor Nyesom Wike to intervene in the matter, adding that the community might not resettle if the incident snowballed into a fresh crisis. He said: “As it stands now youths of the community are living in fear. These OSPAC boys that have been banned to operate came into the community last week and killed over three boys. “They killed Mr. Henry Madume and Mr. Diamond and others. As it is now there is fear in the community. A government official and some chiefs are the ones sponsoring the ISPAC boys. “If the government does not intervene now there will be another round of crisis in the community. Even the security people in the community have been compromised. We don’t have confidence in them.” However, the Secretary of ISPAC, Aleru Livingstone, denied involvement in the development saying that a cult war was responsible for the incident. Livingstone said: “What happened in Ibaa was as a result of a cult clash. There is a new cult group in the area called Bad Marlians. They clashed and we hear some of them died. The group is a combination of former Deygam and Iceland cult groups. “We thank the military post in the community for the action they took to restore peace in the community. I think the end to cult activities in that community has come. Peace has come back”.