Three houses belonging to a former deputy governor of Edo State Dr Pius Odubu and two All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains were demolished on Tuesday. It was learnt that Odubu’s younger brother and his family were living the demolished house. The other houses were linked to Mike Etemuagbon and Prof. Julius Ihonvbere. The houses were under construction at Edo Osagie Avenue, GRA, Benin. Odubu said the house was a subject of litigation. He said: “I read in the Edo State Government-owned Nigerian Observer newspaper in January that my Certificate of Occupancy of the property, situated at Dennis Osadebe Avenue in the Government Reservation Area (GRA), Benin City has been revoked, without prior notice to me. “The information came to me this (yesterday) afternoon that my property has been brought down by agents of Edo State Government, on the directive of Governor Godwin Obaseki. “My younger brother and members of his family were in the house when it was brought down and they did not give them notice or allow them to remove any of their property, before destroying the house.” The wife of the younger brother of the APC chieftain, Mrs Precious Odubu, told reporters some policemen came to inform them around 4 p.m. that the house was to be demolished. She said: “The way they came in, not through the main gate, I was afraid and I asked of their mission. They told me they wanted to demolish the house, stating that if there were children in the building, they should be brought out. “Without even waiting for my response, they just brought in their bulldozers and they started destroying the house, without allowing us to remove our property.” Secretary to Edo State Government (SSG), Osarodion Ogie, could not be reached   for comment. Calls made to him were not connecting. Edo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Bello Kontongs, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said he was not aware of the demolition. He promised to find out. He said: “I am not aware of demolition of any property in GRA, Benin City this (yesterday) evening. I have just heard about it from you. “I will find out. If I have any information to that effect, I will get in touch with you.”