  We consider as pointless and absolutely misguided the controversy that has attended the declaration by the new Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Abdulrasheed Bawa, that henceforth, all employees of financial institutions, particularly banks, must declare their assets in line with the Bank Employees Declaration of Assets Act of 1986 and submit the requisite declaration forms to the commission as from June 1. Chairman of the Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and other Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI), Oyinkansola Olasanyo, expressed the view that, by this directive, the EFCC is only playing to the gallery as the act in question is an existing law with which bank employees have been complying for over five years. According to him, “EFCC has the right to investigate the top management and board of banks but ordinary workers who are diligently carrying out their responsibilities as professionals should be exempted”. In the first place, even if the Bank Employees Declaration of Assets Act had existed for over 35 years, there is nothing wrong in the commission deciding to more strictly enforce compliance with the law if it perceived complacency or laxity in doing this in the past. Furthermore, the argument that only top management staff of the banks should be affected by the act and not the rank and file of bank workers is unpersuasive. It stands to reason that if the law is enforced selectively, those staff not required to declare their assets mandatorily will become the target of corrupt criminal elements who will utilise the accounts of such staff to launder illegally acquired funds, after tempting them with mouth-watering bribes. A related point of view is that over 44.3% of bank employees, about 46,263 of the total number of 105, 364 bank employees are contract staff who are not employed by the banks and are thus not covered by the law. Again, if such members of the staff are excluded, stolen funds can easily be laundered through their accounts, with only remote possibility of detection. There are also those who have argued that, under the said law, the EFCC is not empowered to demand the asset declaration forms of bank employees. They contend that the act requires bankers to declare their assets annually to the chief executives of their respective financial institutions, but that with the creation of the Code of Conduct Bureau and Tribunal Act, which mandates only scheduled public officers to declare their assets on assumption of office, the law has become obsolete. Yet, another variant of the argument is that Section 13 of the interpretation section of the act specifically empowers the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) to determine the individual or agency to which bank employees must declare their assets. We urge the commission not to ignore these objections despite the contending opinion that it has acted within its powers on this issue since “it is charged with the responsibility of enforcing the provisions of all laws relating to economic and financial crimes”. If the SGF is indeed the appropriate authority to take a lawful decision on the issue, the EFCC should seek his authorisation so that it does not act ultra vires. Even better, the commission should seek necessary action on the part of the Attorney-General of the Federation, (AGF), to get the National Assembly to amend the EFCC Act to empower it to act in this regard. What is beyond contention is that the EFCC is justified in taking this initiative. Banks play a critical role in facilitating money laundering, illicit movement of funds and other financial crimes. It thus stands to reason that placing bank employees under stricter scrutiny will help considerably in more effectively checking financial crimes. Instructively, Transparency International, in applauding this move, has pointed out that, if the Bank Employee Declaration of Asset Act is effectively enforced, Nigeria could prevent between $15 billion and $18 billion of illicit funds from leaving the country annually. This will be a huge savings for a distressed economy like ours.