Former Chelsea star Diego Costa is a free agent following his release by Atletico Madrid in December though is set to be back in action soon and he will stay in Europe Diego Costa has reportedly reached an agreement with Benfica following his release by Atletico Madrid last year. The former Chelsea striker has been without a club since December though could soon be joining up with new team-mates. Costa has had three months to weigh up his options with reports suggesting he headed to Brazil to speak to some clubs there. Though it has now been claimed that Benfica have offered Costa £2.6m a season to play for them, and the 32-year-old has agreed to the move in principle. The move would be completed in June, though Costa is believed to be leaving the door open in case he receives a better option. The striker has experience in Portugal previously playing for Braga before heading for his first stint at Atletico Madrid in 2007. Though Costa’s agent Jorge Mendes has a strong relationship with Benfica and appears to have brokered an impressive deal. Following the termination of his contract with Atletico, Costa said: “I want to thank all the fans, but I think that my moment arrived and that for me, as well as for the club, it was the best thing that could happen. “I think it’s the best moment for both of us, and the best way to help this team and the club. “I have given my best, or at least, I always tried to give my best for this club and this shirt.” Meanwhile, Chelsea head coach Thomas Tuchel has been given further cause for concern with the news that N’Golo Kante will play no part in France’s next two fixtures due to a hamstring injury sustained in  their 1-1 draw with Ukraine. The 29-year-old, who has been in outstanding form of late, will return to the West London club for treatment with Les Bleus not calling up a replacement for their games against Kazakhstan and Bosnia. While French media are reporting that the injury is minor, both club and country will be determined not to take a risk over such a key player. Chelsea’s next Premier League fixture is against West Bromwich Albion on Saturday, April 3. Kante has been largely injury free this season having struggled to stay fit for the entirety of the previous campaign, with his recent performance in the Champions League round of 16 win against Atletico Madrid being hailed as his best for several years.