 The Supreme Court has fixed  June 11 for  judgment in the case of over 14,000  investors in NOSPETCO Oil and Gas Limited whose money were trapped in the Central Bank of Nigeria, (CBN). A five-man panel of justices of the apex court, presided by Justice Aminat Augie had adjourned the case for judgment after lawyers for  parties adpoted their various briefs and written addresses before the court. The 14,296 investors’ N24.4 billion was deposited with the CBN by the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC) following an embargo it placed on Nospetco’s operations. The investors through the human rights activist, Debo Adeleke, had prayed the Supreme Court to compel the CBN to release the money trapped in its coffer. The investors, most of who are aged and pensioners, led by Prince Emmanuel Matiluko, between 2004 and 2005 had subscribed to an investment scheme put up by Nospetco Oil & Gas Limited, each with N450,000 slot. Following the judgment by Investment And Security Tribunal in OA/17/07, the Federal Government listed Nospetco Oil & Gas Limited amongst 48 companies as Wonder Banks. In 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had secured two Investment and Securities Tribunal (IST) judgments against the oil company, categorised as ‘Wonder Bank’, for ‘operating illegally and for engaging in collective financial scheme without SEC approval. Following the development, the 13, 741 investors filed a matter before the tribunal in 2010 against the company through their counsel,  Debo Adeleke, with the aim of securing the release of their fund with Central Bank of Nigeria which had been confiscated from Nospecto Oil and Gas by SEC on behalf of the investors. The matter which took just eight months to be decided by the tribunal went in favour of the investors, prompting the company to file appeal at the Court of Appeal. The Court of Appeal also ruled in favour of the investors. Nospecto had appealed the judgment of the Court of Appeal before the Supreme Court since 2012, the apex court has therefore fixed June 11, 2021 to give its verdict. Some of investors have died, while some are on sick bed as a result of the shock the alleged seizure of their investment had brought upon them.