 Although coming much later than other parts of the world, the AstraZeneca vaccines, manufactured under licence in India, finally arrived in the country on March 2. Before then, the authorities had failed to answer the many questions being asked by the citizenry. No one knew exactly when the vaccines would be arriving.  Neither did anyone know the distribution methodology that would be adopted, to ensure most Nigerians had access to it. However, it is good that the Presidential Task Force, whose task it is to inform Nigerians on COVID-19 matters, has finally assured that a mechanism is in place for the purpose. The 3.94 million doses that the Federal Government succeeded in obtaining, under the COVID-19 Vaccine Global Access (COVAX), is facilitated by the World Health Organisation (WHO); as a means of ensuring that poor countries are not shut out of the distribution channel. The authorities are awaiting another 16 milion doses, from the same channel soon. This is a major development in containing a virulent virus that has left many countries prostrate. Africa counts among the most vulnerable continent, being home to millions of poor people. While the United States of America (North America), the United Kingdom (Europe), and the pair of China and India (Asia) rose up to the task of producing approved vaccine for their population, Africa has no country to look up to. Nigeria, South Africa, Egypt and Kenya, all sub-regional leaders, have been unable to show light out of the dark tunnel.  It is, however, good that the world did not leave us at the mercy of the developed world. But now that the vaccines are here, the next challenge is distribution. Boss Mustapha, chairman of the PTF, and Dr. Osagie Ehanire, the minister of Health, have assured that the process would be transparent. First in line to receive the jab are the frontline health workers. On Day One, marked by ceremonial administration of the vaccine in Abuja, Ngong Cyprian, a medical doctor, was the first person picked to openly receive the jab. The Federal Government has pledged to give preference to medical workers who have made tremendous sacrifice in the course of fighting the scourge, since it landed in our shores on 27 February 2020. Many doctors and nurses have paid the supreme sacrifice.  But others were lucky to be cured of the disease. Therefore, being accorded preference, in receiving the vaccine, should encourage the health workers to work more assiduously and courageously in fighting the pestilence. We, however, hope that the Federal Government will keep faith in with this plan, beyond the first day. Already, about 2.5 million, it has been announced, have registered on the web site, created for registration of those who intend to be vaccinated. Others on the priority list are those aged 50 years; and above and those with co-morbidities. Those under the age of 18 are not expected to receive the vaccines until further studies have been conducted globally on how it interacts with the human body and the regularly mutating virus. It is worrisome that some of the 36 states of the Federation may not be in position to access the vaccine until further notice. The PTF gave the hint shortly before the arrival ceremony at the Abuja Airport on Tuesday. Mr. Mustapha said states without necessary facilities should not expect to be part of this consignment. This is enough to trigger the curiosity of Nigerians who are bewildered that despite the wait for the vaccine, and the announcement in the last quarter of last year of its imminent arrival, some governors and state ministries of Health, have failed to make adequate preparation. This is quite unfortunate; and speaks volume of the quality of leaders running the country. When noted that the first 100,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine had to be turned down because the country lacks adequate storage facility, thus paving the way for the AstraZeneca brand, it is a scandal that many states still lack adequate storage refrigerators; and therefore can’t avail their natives and residents COVID-19 vaccine protection. We call on the PTF to make public the states that fall in this category, as it is the right of all citizens to be vaccinated. The implications are wide. Soon, possession of the certificate of vaccination for the disease would be required for visiting most countries. It could also mark out Nigerians for special scrutiny at major international airports We are bewildered that the Federal Government is taking up the task of administering the vaccine. This is another pointer to the deformed nature of our federalism. Asking the state health ministries to send list of health officials for the purpose of sending the doses is demeaning. Its administration should be left to the states who should receive them through the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency that had already established a chain for distribution vaccines for measles, hepatitis, yellow fever, polio, among others. The idea, of according preference to leaders, is welcome — to the extent that they could be public models for vaccine-sceptics; and encourage the people to trust in the vaccine as safe, wholesome and efficacious.  But even that should not be taken too far. The President and the Vice President; governors and their deputies, could lead the charge.  However, commissioners, legislators, local government officials and legion of governors’ aides, should take their place on the vaccine queue. All should be made to register.  Otherwise, the vaccine inoculation order risks being mired in unfair preferences, capable of hurting the majority. In addition, it should be borne in mind that not all Nigerians are familiar with online registration; nor do many have the means of data-powered access, in a country where a large number are said to live on less than N137, 000 income per annum. Beyond the present online pre-registration, therefore, a new template should quickly be devised, especially to accommodate the vulnerable population assailed by other ailments. The time to act is now.