Former governor of Imo State and member representing Imo West Senatorial District, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, has slammed those making move for his recall from the state, describing them as ‘political undertakers’ and ‘adult delinquents’. A political group in Orlu senatorial district of Imo State, Orlu Political Consultative Assembly (OPOCA) had in its move to recall Senator Okorocha, accused the former governor of having committed several unpardonable offences which require sanctions and a recall. But, in a statement issued by his media adviser, Sam Onwuemeodo, in Owerri, the state capital, on Wednesday, Okorocha the members of OPOCA, ‘glory in absurdities, simply to enlarge their coast or make their leaking pockets fat’. Accusing the governor, Hope Uzodinma, of giving OPOCA N1bn for his recall, Okorocha, a former governor of the State, said that the money would go a long way in offsetting arrears of salaries and pensions. He said that his political relevance could not be watered down by the state government officials no matter how hard they tried. The statement reads, “Those behind OPOCA are Political undertakers who glory in absurdities, simply to enlarge their coast or make their leaking pockets fat. And not just for any meaningful venture, but for leisure and pleasure. “For those who do not know the group, the characters in OPOCA were the same people who carried the mock coffin of Chief Arthur Nzeribe when he was in the Senate and they did that to please Chief Achike Udenwa, who was governor then. “They were also the same group that confined Chief Achike Udenwa to their Hall of shame. They did that to please Chief Ikedi Ohakim who was governor then. “In 2015, the same group wrote petition to the Inspector General of Police against Chief Hope Uzodinma alleging assault. They did that to please Rochas Okorocha who was governor then and they had done that, thinking that Okorocha would make them commissioners. But Okorocha was not interested in the group using him to fight anybody. He rather appointed two of them Special Advisers. “Chief Samfo Nwankwo, may his soul rest in peace, had died, but Chief Anunobi, out of anger, decided to join forces with those who had gathered against Okorocha. And that was how he declared to run for the position of the National Publicity Secretary of the APC at the last Convention of the party against Barr. Emma Ibediro who had the backing of Okorocha. “Today, he is commissioner in Uzodinma’s government and unlike Owelle Okorocha; Governor Uzodinma has found the remaining members of the group willing tools to continue to prosecute his war of attrition against Okorocha. “We have heard that they have been given N1Billion for the recall gimmick. Our only advice is that the governor should use the money to help in paying workers, teachers, pensioners and so on, who have not been paid for several months and there is no sign all the end of the tunnel. “We are also worried that with the deteriorated security situation in the state, some people with the backing of the state government would be engaging in activities that would further submerge the security situation in the State. “It is our candid position that the government should not drag traditional rulers into messy political outings. Under governor Uzodinma, the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN, Pensioners Association, Nigeria Union of Teachers, NUT, Nigeria Labour Congress, NLC, have all been destroyed. Now, the traditional institution. All these do not Speak well of the administration.”