Global  regulator – Airports Council International (ACI) World  has issued a report showing that airports have accelerated investments in technology to aid in recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. The report indicates that the global body has collaborated with other bodies, including SITA, to adapt to changing health and safety requirements which focuses on automated and touchless solutions for both customers and airport workers. The ACI report garnered from results from a survey iundicated that  airports  spent 5.46 percent of revenues in 2020 on information technology,  which represents about $3.5 billion in absolute spend  with  55 percent of the responding airports estimating their 2021 information technology  budgets likely to increase. The survey stated that 87 percent of airports confirmed that programs to address passenger health and safety protocols have either been implemented or are planned. These include sensors, video monitoring, and robots to automatically monitor passenger social distancing, temperature checks, sanitisation, and other health criteria. Touchless self-service offerings at airports have been an unsurprising investment, with an increasing number of airports having implemented solutions during the pandemic. Biometric technology is becoming  the focus for airport investment with 64 percent of airports aiming to roll out self-boarding gates using biometric and identity  documentation by 2023, three times as many as in 2020. Confirming this in a virtual interaction, ACI World Director-General, Luis de Oliveira said: “Airports have done so much already to improve the customer experience, our industry cannot afford to lose ground on this progress, despite the challenging environment we are in. “These findings are encouraging. There is no doubt that the health and well-being of customers, and their experience, remains airports’ top priority. This is not just an investment to meet the demand of the pandemic, but in line with a longer-term trend and a solid investment in the future.” Also, Chief Executive Officer, SITA  at Airports and Borders, David Lavorel said: “In the face of a severe slowdown in 2020, the air transport industry was forced to focus on driving new cost efficiencies. “Adding to the pressure, airlines and airports had to rapidly incorporate new health measures such as touchless passenger processing and the handling of new health information and protocols including PCR testing in many destinations. “To solve these challenges the industry has turned to technology such as biometric technology , which is 83 percent of airports  offering more mobile apps for passengers and staff, and focusing on remote and virtual information technology  services.” Of the 180 information technology decision makers in 41 countries that responded to the survey in the last quarter of last year,  180 IT decision-makers in 41 countries responded to the survey in the last quarter of 2020., 89 percent of airports confirmed they offered self-service check-in options. 64 percent said they have implemented biometric-enabled immigration border gates while  79 percent of respondents said they provided bag tags capability at kiosks with 77 percent of airports are ready to  implement the infrastructure or have already done so, to support biometric touchpoints across the airport. f airports are implementing a major cyber security program with 11 percent looking into a pilot program. For the first time this year, the survey included specific questions around digital transformation. ACI World is working on a handbook on the subject for publication this spring to help airports on their digital transformation journey.