 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) yesterday said it will soon engage the leadership of the National Assembly on the division, revision and alteration of electoral constituencies across the country. The commission said its discussion paper on the matter was being finalised. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who announced this during a consultative meeting with labour unions and professional associations on the proposed expansion of voter access to polling units in Nigeria, assured them that the commission would continue to work with the National Assembly to ensure speedy passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. He said: “In addition to voter access to polling units, the commission will continue to work with the National Assembly to ensure the speedy passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill. “This is critical to our work because it is the legal framework that governs our activities. We have been reassured by the National Assembly that work on the Bill will be concluded in the next few months. Let me once again appeal to the National Assembly for expeditious consideration and passage of the Bill.  “In addition, we are also preparing to engage with the leadership of the National Assembly on the issue of the division, revision and alteration of electoral constituencies in Nigeria. The commission’s discussion paper on the matter is being finalised.” “Let me once again reassure Nigerians that while we are pursuing the expansion of voter access to polling units and reform of the electoral legal framework through the quick passage of the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law, the commission is also working hard on the resumption of voters’ registration. “This will enable citizens that have not registered before or those that may wish to transfer their registration to other areas where they wish to vote in future elections to do so. We are also working on new innovations to deepen the deployment of technology to improve electoral integrity in Nigeria. “The commission shall remain focused on these and other important issues. For this reason, we appeal to labour unions and professional associations to continue to support the commission.”