Governors of the 36 States have assured of their willingness to provide necessary facilities for the storage and protection of the coronavirus (COVID-19) vaccines allocated to their states. The Governors, at a virtual meeting of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. (NGF) on Thursday evening, agreed to adopt all guidelines for the application of the vaccines, put in place by the Federal. Government, through the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA). According to NGF’s Head, Media and Public Affairs, Abdulrazaque Bello-Barkindo, the Governors agreed to take the vaccines, along with their deputies, on March 10, 2021. They insisted the efficacy of the vaccines must first be ascertained with the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) allowed to conclude its examination to confirm that the vaccines are safe for roll out. The Governors, who pledged to sensitise residents of their states on the need for the vaccines, agreed the vaccines should first be admitted to the healthcare workers and the elderly. According to Bello-Barkindo, the meeting was also attended by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha; Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire; the Director General of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Chikwe Ihekweazu and the Executive Director of NPHCDA, Faisal Shuaib, including other medical experts who provided further insights on the pandemic. The NGF spokesman added that the governors gave assurance on the capacity to secure the vaccines. He said they also agreed to work on scaling up advocacy so that all of their people would be covered, but insisted that relevant agencies must first ensure the efficacy of the vaccines. The Governors, Bello-Barkindo added, agreed that leaders of government and front-line health workers should first  receive vaccines, starting on March 6, 2020 with the President and the Vice President. “State governors commit to work with the FG to ensure required cold chain set up, trained personnel and security of the vaccine roll out is in place. “Citizens are encouraged to use the e-registeration portal on the NPHCDA website – nphcsaict.com.ng/publicreg,” he said.