In a bid to create a one-stop site for young people and a better family, Living Home Ventures has launched familylifers.com. This site was launched at an Impressive Media briefing held over the week at Sheraton Hotel, Lagos. The event which attracted journalists from a number of media houses was chaired by the Publisher of City People Magazine, Mr. Seye Kehinde. A family Life Coach and founder of Living Home Ventures, Pastor Bisi Adewale said the new online forum www.familylifers.com put together by his organization will go a long way to impact Nigerian families and the nation in general. Adewale said the site had become necessary given the myriad of challenges facing the world and Nigeria in particular. He said the site was designed to be a one-stop site for both the young and old. His words, “The thoughts of helping to solve many of our nation’s problems were the propelling force behind creating this website and its applications. The platform will help in wealth creation and eliminate unemployment as the platform will provide employment opportunities. “The platform will also empower young people and families. It will keep the youths busy and reduce crime rates. It will help parents in raising better children for society”. “The new platform which is an interactive platform will showcase skills, products, and services FREE OF CHARGE. “It will also be an avenue for unemployed graduates to be linked with employers of labour as they upload their CVs on the platform”, he said. Adewale who is known for his impactful teachings on marriage and family life said the ultimate goal of the site is to help the young ones, “reduce the crime rate and building families with the vision of seeing all youth in Nigeria living responsible lives, gainfully employed and building a very strong nation.” Earlier, The Publisher of City People, Kehinde commended the effort of Pastor Adewale describing him as a great inspiration in society. “I believe this kind of venture should be encouraged. Pastor Adewale has been around for a while and has been instrumental in mending homes and impacting families. We are grateful for a platform like this where people can come forward to share ideas, drop questions and interact. It is thus heart-warming,” he said. In her own speech, a Marriage Counselor and Wife of Bisi Adewale, Mrs. Yomi Adewale noted that the “rate of unemployment is now high given as 27.1% which implies an increase in the poverty level in many families. Many youths are out of jobs beyond gender, geographical or educational biased reasons.” According to her, “the initiative of creating an online platform was built to address structural and practical challenges faced by our youth today. It is a laudable idea as this will collaborate and support the efforts of the government to curb the rate of unemployment among our youths” Adewale a chartered accountant by profession and tax consultant stressed that “the online forum (www.familylifers.com) provides an opportunity for empowerment, employment access, acquisition of skills, advertisement of businesses for SMEs/entrepreneurs, etc. for our youth to engage them in meaningful ventures that will help them to shun activities that could bring set back to Nigeria and cause havoc on her citizens.”