The term multiracial or biracial is generally applied to individuals whose parents are from different racial backgrounds In the entertainment industry multi- racial celebrities are doing great for themselves, these sterling men and women have gone on to have successful careers in their chosen fields.  The beautiful and versatile actress was born in Queens, New York, United States to a German American mother and a Yoruba father. She was brought up in Lagos and the United States respectively. She had her elementary schooling in Lagos and Ogun states. Her Lagos-based father, who is also a businessman, motivated her to study Accounting and she procured a degree in Accounting at the University of Kentucky in 2008. Adunni worked in the housing and insurance sectors in the United States and she ventured into fashion modelling and featured in America’s Next Top Model before joining the Nigeria movie industry. Controversial broadcaster and radio talk show host, Ifedayo Olarinde better known as Daddy Freeze, although from Osun State, was born in Cluj-Napoca, Romania to a Nigerian father and a Romanian mother. He spent most of his growing years in Ibadan, Oyo State, where he attended the International School and bagged a degree in Sociology from the University of Ibadan. He began his radio career in 1996 with the Broadcasting Corporation of Oyo State (BCOS), Ibadan and later moved on to Cool FM Lagos in 2001. Full name Georgina Chloe Eku Edewor-Thorley, the beautiful actress was born at Portland Hospital in London, along with her twin sister Kessiana to a Nigerian mum, Juliana Edewor and a British father, Hugh Thorley. Her mother is Juliana Edewor, an interior designer, restaurateur, and art collector originally from Delta State, while her father, Hugh Thorley, is British and has worked in the food and beverage supply and logistics industries. Although she is into movies now, she is best known for her work as host of the entertainment television program 53 Extra. Caroline Danjuma was born to a Scottish father and a Nigerian mother. The actress studied Environmental Protection Management, Geography and Regional Planning at the University of Calabar. She made her screen debut in 2004, starring in some of Chico Ejiro’s popular films. In the wake of taking a break from the movie business, she made a comeback in 2016, producing and featuring in the romantic thriller ‘Stalker’. Born in Ediba, a town in Abi local government area of Cross River State, the talented actress and filmmaker was born to a Nigerian mum and a British dad. She is an alumnus of the University of Lagos where she studied Mass Communication. Prior to debuting in the movie Thorns of Rose, she had previously featured in a 1997 soap opera titled Winds of Destiny. The Nollywood actress and ex-beauty queen was born to a Nigerian father and an Irish mother. She holds a Bachelor of Arts certificate in English Language and Literature from the University of Ibadan. Ibinabo made her debut as a film actress in the movie, Most Wanted, and has since gone on to star in several Nigerian films. The beautiful actress was born on February 8, 1985 into a family of Nigerian and Lebanese descent. Best known as the video girl for Wizkid’s Holla At Your Boy, Sophie has starred in several Nollywood movies. Born January 16, 1959, Helen Folasade Adu popularly known as Sade Adu, is a Nigerian-British singer, songwriter, and actress, known as the lead singer of her eponymous band. Sade was born in Ibadan, Nigeria but brought up in Essex, England since 4. She is one of the most successful British female artists in history and often recognised as an influence on contemporary music. Highly celebrated Nigerian actor Ramsey Tokunbo Nouah Jr better known as Ramsey Nouah was born in Edo State to an Israeli father and a Yoruba mother making the very talented actor an Israeli-Nigerian man. He obtained a diploma in Mass Communications at the University of Lagos after which he pursued a career in acting. His acting career kicked off when he starred in the Nigerian TV soap opera ‘Fortunes’ and he has since appeared in numerous films starring as the lead role, and has been called “Lover-Boy” for his numerous roles in romantic films.