Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has invited the state Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko on the recent twist in the security situation in Kajola, Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the State. The Governor who said he is aware of the goings-on in the region assures that his administration is doing everything within its powers to ensure there is no miscarriage of justice. He vowed that anyone found wanting of breaking the law, irrespective of the ethnic background or religion will be dealt with in accordance with the law of the land. Makinde spoke on Monday while performing a symbolic presentation of school notebooks to secondary school students across the state. The event which held at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s office, Agodi Ibadan was attended by top government functionaries and select school students. Recall that members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) on Sunday apprehended a suspected kidnap kingpin, Iskilu Wakili in Ayete, Ibarapa area of the state. But the joy of the apprehension was cut short when the police arrested the OPC members for carrying out the arrest on the dreaded Wakili, accusing them (OPC members) of arson and murder. Makinde said “I am aware of what is going on in Kajola in Ibarapa North local government area of Oyo state. I will like to use this opportunity to tell our people that, the government is doing everything within its power to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice. “Anyone that is found wanting or that has broken the law, irrespective of their ethnic background or their religion will be dealt with in accordance with the law of the land. “So, people shouldn’t go into overdrive. “I have asked the Commissioner of Police to see me today and I have been given the assurance that they will do a thorough investigation into the security situations in the area. “And I appeal to our people to please let us be calm. Please let us refrain from ethnic profiling; let us have trust in the ability and the capability of the people saddled with the responsibility of maintaining law and order within our state. “It is the government that you put in place and the government will continue to work in the interest of the people of Oyo state.” Speaking on the free book distribution, Governor Makinde said his administration is more concerned about the need to secure the future of the youths by paying more attention to education and investing more resources. “In Oyo State, we want to give opportunities to students from all background. It doesn’t matter whether you are from Government College in Awe or Ilora or any institution. “We know by a fact that they are the leaders of tomorrow and if we want the best for that tomorrow, we have to give the best to the leaders of tomorrow today and that is why Oyo state government will continue to pay attention to education. We will continue to put in resources and we will continue to encourage all the stakeholders. “I know the Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM) and All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS), everyone has been harassing us for school grants because we stopped them from collecting the N3, 000. “Over the weekend I signed that some of the grants be paid to the teachers. So, we will continue to put resources into education in Oyo state. “We believe as a government that if we get it right at the primary and secondary school levels, and if we have sound students, some products (students) coming out of our (secondary) schools, we would have been about 70 per cent close to what we want to achieve in education. “So, in the days ahead, we are taking the issue of infrastructures in our school more seriously. In the days ahead, we will be having new chairs and tables, we will continue to renovate the schools, but to UBEC and through direct resources of the state. “I will use this opportunity to call on all stakeholders to please work with the government. Don’t play politics with the future of our children. “If we are doing certain things right, tell us and if we are falling short in certain areas, please tell us also because this is our future and we should all work together to ensure that that future is really secure and guaranteed”, the Governor said. He further said his government is open to constructive criticism, adding that he would listen to such with a view to moving the state forward. “And for the naysayers, I will continue to repeat, if this government is not doing well, please tell us. We want constructive criticism, we will listen to you and we will address the issues that are being brought forward.” Additionally, the government called on religious leaders to be cautious and not cause disharmony among the people through their utterances. “Last week I was reading somewhere and an organization called MURIC (Muslim Rights Concern) said we don’t allow students to wear hijab but the student from Elekuro High School named Ajao Aliya is wearing her hijab attending this event. “For us in Oyo state, there is the freedom to practice your religion and nobody can divide us through religion,” Makinde added.