As Children’s House School’s proprietress Mrs Moulin Ashake Agbaje-Anozie turns 90 on March 15, her former pupils celebrate her in this tribute by one of them, Adeniji Okuyiga, who is now a lawyer. At the time she was born in 1931, the odds were stacked against the girl-child. Even parents treated them as if they were not wanted. It was into this kind of society that Mrs Moulin Ashake Agbaje-Anozie was born 90 years ago. But her case was different as her wealthy parents showered her with love and cares. Despite being a girl, they allowed her to follow the path she chose for herself. Her parents, the late Chief Salami Agbaje, the Balogun of Ibadanland, and the late Alhaja Seliat Agbaje, were her pillars of support when she started  the Children’s House School (CHS), Ibara Abeokuta in 1959 in her living room. Over 60 years down the line, a lot of water has passed under the bridge. Mrs Agbaje-Anozie attended Cathedral School, Faji, Lagos, and Islamic Primary School, Ibadan. She proceeded to Abeokuta Girls Grammar School for her secondary education.  She attended North London Polytechnic where she obtained a Diploma in Nursery Education. She also attended St Nicholas Montessori Teachers’ Training College for Nursery and Primary Education. She was the first Nigerian woman to attend the institution. Armed with these qualifications, she returned home to contribute to Nigeria’s socio-economic development. She started CHS, with seven pupils; with three of them are biological children. Mrs Agbaje-Anozie established other schools in different parts of the country. They are Ideal Nursery and Primary School, Arigbajo, Ifo, Ogun State, which she founded in 1968, Mother’s Joy Nursery and Primary School, Ibadan, 1994, and Rockcrest Girls’ College, Ibara, Abeokuta, 1997. Rockcrest is the first private girls’ college in Ogun State. As she turns 90 on March 15, her former pupils who she took under her wings as her children are celebrating a proprietress they see as a rare gem of a woman. They describe her as the “young woman that God used as a vessel to nurture and educate children from all over Nigeria and the diaspora over 60 years ago”.