 ANAMBRA State government has declared that AstraZeneca COVID -19 vaccine benefits outweigh its risks, urging residents  to get themselves vaccinated against the dreaded pandemic. Commissioner for  Health Dr. Vincent Okpala, who spoke yesterday in Awka, allayed fears over the perceived harmful tendencies of the vaccine, saying the benefits could not be compared with the risks involved. Okpala spoke with reporters  on COVID-19 vaccine introduction organised by the State COVID-19 Action Team in collaboration with the State Primary Health Development Agency. He said: “It is no longer news that on March 2nd, Nigeria took delivery of an estimated 4 million doses of the Oxford/Astra Zeneca COVID-19 Vaccine, out of which Anambra State received 78,810 doses. “The vaccine we have received is the product of a rigorous scientific process. And has been certified as safe by multiple agencies abroad. “What we’ve done in our response to the pandemic is to carefully follow the guidelines of WHO which has set the pace and NCDC.” “As of today, they said the benefits of receiving the vaccines outweigh the risk of not receiving it. That means we’re good to go.  “We’ve developed an online tool in the state as a precautionary measure to monitor the adverse effects. When you get your vaccine, note your symptoms so it can be addressed. “There’s no need to panic. I encourage the people of the state to consider the risk-benefit analysis of getting the shots or otherwise. “We want to live. This is a virus that has dealt a heavy blow on the society. We continue to issue the vaccine at the same time monitor the side effects.” According to the commissioner, the centres chosen for the exercise had the capacity and necessary infrastructure to serve as bases for the campaign. Also speaking, the Executive Secretary Anambra Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Chioma Ezenyimulu, said the vaccination would be carried out in four stages, beginning with the frontline health workers. “Right now, we are conducting training for workers until Thursday when we will roll out the vaccination. We are happy Anambra has joined the rest of the world on rolling out the COVID-19 vaccine,” she added. World Health Organisation State Co-ordinator Dr. Chukwumuanya Igboekwu praised the state government for joining the rest of the states in taking the Covid-19 vaccination. 