Lagos State just rounded off the funeral rites of Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande (LKJ), its first elected governor ( October  1, 1979 – December 31, 1983), with an eye on vision and legacy. For vision, Lagos would, in 2022, complete its two on-going mass transit rail projects: the Blue and Red lines.  That is to honour LKJ’s Lagos Metroline Project, a rail transit conceived by the LKJ Lagos government but aborted by the military, after the overthrow of the Second Republic in December 1983. For legacy, the state announced the Lateef Jakande Leadership Academy, to be fully backed by legislation.  The academy would help germinate LKJ-like service ethos, in younger minds aiming at leadership.  Given the way LKJ hugely impacted his environment, this can only be a boon to the future generation. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his government must be congratulated for this thoughtful but thoroughly merited honour.  But aside from the excellent twin-policy announcement, the way Lagos went about it bears restating and commending. Governor Sanwo-Olu made the announcement at the start of a four-day log of ceremonies, marking 40 days after the late Jakande’s departure.  That is clearly an Islamic tradition.  Yet, wrought into it was a church farewell thanksgiving, to provide a Christian segment, in the LKJ celebration, which was just as well! The LKJ service ethos was blind to faith, blind to creed, blind to tribe.  It only saw the people in need of urgent service, which LKJ and co. craved to provide. True and faithful service to humanity is richly rewarding — and LKJ is latest proof.  That is an excellent lesson for the present crop of leaders. Besides, the Jakande obsequies are umpteenth pointers to the rest of Nigeria: tribe, faith or creed need not hamper commitment to the people’s welfare; or block the celebration of the truly deserving.  Again here, LKJ and appreciative Lagos show the way. That ties back neatly into the Lateef Jakande Leadership Academy concept.  Beyond the initial announcement, the details of that wonderful initiative is unknown. But it would make eminent sense for the academy to be open to every interested Nigerian — and even international — scholar and young leader, interested in galvanising public resource for mass development, in challenging political environments, where the basics are seldom settled; and policy unanimity almost, always an exception to the rule. The Jakande persona and school of thought would have a lot to offer in these areas — how, within four years, it settled on and implemented sweeping people-driven policies, in education, housing, roads, rural development, agriculture and even new towns, high and low: the high brow Banana Island, now haven of the rich, being part of that ground-breaking mix. That era would also provide pointers to the gains and loss of consensus, on life-changing projects, in a divisive polity.  Here, the scrapped Lagos Metroline comes into view. As Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) governor, LKJ secured the buy-in of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) Federal Government, under President Shehu Shagari, for that rail transit project — a visionary initiative that could have saved Lagos much of its present mass transit hassles. Yet, an arrogant military government came, buoyed by its own centralist ethos and a double delusion of imposing unitary thinking over a federal set-up, just cancelled that project, without much ado.  That set back the beneficiary people, for generations to come. But, at last, the people’s genuine needs appear to be trumping the arrogance of dogma.  This is why Lagos could even think of completing its Blue and Red rail lines, conceived with much fear under Governor Bola Tinubu, over a possible dog-in-a-manger federal disapproval. Today, the imperative to safely move the explosive Lagos population, in their daily shuttles, seems to be crushing the sterile federal rail right-of-way argument, which partly killed the Lagos Metroline.  Now, confrontation is giving way to cooperation; and it’s a win-win situation. That not only makes national socio-economic sense, it also further boosts the Lagos culture of project continuity, briefly threatened during the Akinwunmi Ambode years, particularly on the Mile 2- Orile – CMS Blue Line rail corridor, where works came to a virtual halt; and the Lagos Homs housing project was practically abandoned. It is good Lagos is expecting to finish its Blue and Red rail lines, in honour of LKJ, for his Lagos Metroline vision.  It’s even better the newfound rail cooperation is coming under the watch of President Muhammadu Buhari, the same retired army general whose military government cancelled the Lagos Metroline. It’s a thing of cheer: the triumph of best practices, and the putative triumph of Nigerian federalism.