Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has boasted he can walk safely around the state without protection by security operatives. Wike said taking such action was possible because he had not disappointed the people of the state and his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said he was loved because his administration and the PDP fulfilled their promises to transform the state for the benefit of all. He spoke at the inauguration of the ultramodern Government House clinic and Administrative Building in Port Harcourt. He said: “I have not disappointed the people of Rivers State and I have not disappointed the party that gave me the privilege to contribute my own quarter to the development of the State. “But for politics, I don’t think there will be need for any Rivers man or woman to think of any other party.” The Governor explained immediately he took over power in 2015, he was attacked from all sides as the Federal Government unleashed insidious forces with a primary objective to cripple his administration. Wike recalled how his election was nullified by the tribunal and the Court of Appeal but said through divine providence, the Supreme Court upturned their verdict and reaffirmed him the winner of the 2015 governorship election. He also narrated how National Assembly and House of Assembly elections were also nullified and fresh election ordered but the PDP still emerged victorious. “I know what we passed through in the hands of the ruling government. No State government has been harassed like Rivers State government, not one, but I will never give up. “I will continue to do what I think is for the best interest of the people of Rivers State because they gave me the privilege”, he said. Wike said when the state was faced with serious security challenges, he appealed to the Federal Government to deploy special force to check the activities of the criminals but his entreaty was deliberately ignored. He said security in the state had been politicised as the Federal Government persistently deployed and redeployed Commissioners of Police in Rivers State. He said: “Since 2015, we have had about 15 Commissioners of Police just to make sure Rivers State does not move forward. But nobody is God. “They go to their ministers to choose Commissioner of Police for our State so that what will happen? To come and make the State ungovernable? But God does not think so.” He explained that despite all the antics by Federal Government agents, he remained undaunted even as a second term governor in the delivery of democratic dividends to the people of the state. Wike said the new Government House Clinic, fully equipped with state-of-the-art operating theatre, top anaesthesia ventilator, ICU Room, Endoscopy Suite, MRI Machines, Laboratory, Pharmacy and 24 hours ambulance service would serve elder statesmen, Government House personnel, judges and legislators. Inaugurating the facility, a former Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, commended Wike for investing in critical infrastructure such as healthcare. Saraki said Wike’s effort, actions and successes in governance clearly distinguished him as an ambassador of the PDP in Nigeria. 