A suspected trans-border drug trafficker, Nkem Timothy, alias Auwalu Audu, has been taken into custody in Sokoto by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). Timothy, 36, was apprehended at the weekend while trying to cross to Algeria through Niger Republic with 62 wraps of substances suspected to be cocaine, officials said. The illicit drug was neatly concealed inside yoghurt bottles. Director, Media & Advocacy, NDLEA Headquarters, Abuja Femi Babafemi, who made this known in a statement in Abuja yesterday, said the substance which weighed 1.550kg, has an estimated street value of about N1billion. Babafemi said according to the acting state Commander of NDLEA in Sokoto, Bamidele Segun, the suspect was intercepted on a motorcycle around the baggage area at Illela border while trying to cross to Niger Republic. The suspect, he said, resides in Algeria. “He was found with an ECOWAS passport with different names written as Auwalu Audu but he gave his real name as Nkem Timothy,” the commander said. He said his men were investigating to unravel his sponsors and other members of the trans-border drug cartel. “This is a groundbreaking feat for us in the Command as a seizure of this magnitude of type A drug (cocaine) has never been made in Sokoto Command before,” he added. The Kano State Task Force Committee on Counterfeit and Fake Drugs at the weekend intercepted fake drugs worth over N1 million. Information Officer of the Ministry of Health, Hadiza Namadi, said the raids were done in two locations in the state, following complaints from residents. Namadi said the first consignment was intercepted at Malam Kato motor park, while the second seizure was carried out at Muhammadu Abubakar Rimi market. Speaking on the development, Commissioner of Health, Dr. Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa said the state government will soon establish a bureau for drug abuse control and management. Also, police in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have arrested 40 suspects in connection with various alleged criminal offences, spokesperson Mariam Yusuf said in a statement yesterday. Yusuf listed the offences to include car snatching, drug peddling, armed robbery and public nuisance. She said the suspects were arrested during coordinated raids and patrols in Abaji, Gwarinpa, Asokoro, Jabi-Daki Biyu and Mabushi axes, between Feb. 18 and Feb. 24. Yusuf also listed exhibits recovered from the suspects to include: one White Toyota Hilux, one ash Toyota Corolla, one locally fabricated rifle, 21 unexpended cartridges and one fabricated marking gun. She said two of the suspects were arrested for snatching a vehicle after attacking and trampling on their victim in the Lugbe axis. The PPRO said the vehicle was recovered by police operatives on stop-and-search operations at the Abaji axis. She said that another vehicle, a silver Toyota Corolla, was recovered from the suspects. According to her, all the suspects have been arraigned except the car snatching syndicates that will be charged to court upon conclusion of investigation. She called on FCT residents to remain calm, law-abiding and ensure compliance with all COVID-19 protocols. Yusuf reiterated the unwavering commitment of the police command to protect lives and property within the territory. She called on residents to report emergencies, distress and suspicious movements to the police on 08032003913, 08061581938, 07057337653 and 08028940883. The PPRO said erring police officers could also be reported to the Public Complaint Bureau (PCB) on 09022222352.