The President, Borderless Trade Network (BTN) Olori Boye-Ajayi has lamented that only 25% of Nigerian women participate in business globally, hence the need to bridge the gap by empowering women. Speaking at a two-day maiden edition of the Borderless Trade Salon Series (BTSS) which was designed specifically for Women in Business to give them leverage to progress in the international business world, Boye-Ajayi said there is need to empower our women to be at competitive level and we have to help ourselves. “With a teeming increase rate in the export and trade industry in Nigeria and the establishment of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA), it has become imperative to build a platform to empower and sensitise women in business on ways to scale their businesses to international standards, particularly in this industry, in order to compete adequately with their international counterparts,” she said.. Boye-Ajayi further revealed that the program is not limited to urban women alone because sensitisation training is being conducted for rural women and the training is free. The BTSS program is in partnership with the U.S. Consulate Lagos and Ascend Studios Foundation for the Academy for Women Entrepreneurs (AWE) programme. OBA Inc. partnering with The Academy of Women Entrepreneurs (AWE), being a White-House initiative with the goal of having empowered 50 million women economically and financially by 2025 has set out to familiarise Women in Business about the operational protocols of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). Another speaker, the CEO, African Sustainable SME Export Trade Solutions (ASSETS) Ms. Shade Bembatoum-Young who spoke on “Women taking a new perspective on the benefit of Export & Regional Trade” discussed extensively on ways for women to leverage on their skills and connection. She also emphasized the importance of learning another language in the trade and export industry. “If you don’t understand your competitors, you can’t step up your game” said Ms. Dorothy Ogbutor, Partner, Inspire Advisory Services Limited, whose topic focused on “Strategies & Support Services for Women in Business to Succeed in AfCFTA.”