The Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Muhammad has described his brother Justice of the Supreme Court who died recently, Justice Sylvester Nwali Ngwuta as a consummate jurist who was dedicated to duties. Justice Muhammad, who noted that the late Justice Ngwuta would be missed by all, spoke when he led a delegation on a condolence visit to the late jurist’s family at the weekend. The CJN, according to a statement by his media aide, Ahuraka Yusuf Isah, was accompanied on the visit by 18 Justices of the Supreme Court and some management staff of the court, including the Chief Registrar, Barr Hadizatu Uwani Mustapha. The statement reads in part: “The CJN and his brother Justices were received by Justice Ngwuta’s cousin, Chief Nwali; his brother, Stephen Ngwuta and his daughter, Chidera Ngwuta. “In his remark, the CJN stated that it was not an avenue for long speeches, being a sad occasion and so he was brief. He said the late jurist was a complete gentleman who won’t hurt anyone.” Isah quoted the CJN as saying that the late Justice Ngwuta “was highly dedicated to his duty and would definitely be missed by many people. “May His Lordship’s soul rest in peace and may God Almighty continue to protect and provide for the family he left behind.” Responding on behalf of the family, Chief Nwali thanked the CJN and the Supreme Court for their support, saying the apex court has been taking care of the deceased from the day he fell sick, both physically and financially until his demise. Chief Nwali added: ‘’Up till date the court has been supportive of the family as regards arrangements leading to the burial of the deceased. We pray for the delegation, just as we will forever be grateful for the kindness and support extended by the court.” The CJN, the statement added, subsequently signed the condolence register on behalf of himself and his brother Justices.
Justice Ngwuta who was due to retire from the Supreme Court bench on attaining the mandatory retirement age of 70 years on March 30, 2021, gave the ghost by 2.30 am on March 7, 2021. The statement said the deceased’s remains have been deposited in the National Hospital mortuary pending the conclusion of arrangements for his burial.