Gunmen struck again on Thursday, killing nine in attacks on Kaduna State communities. Some gun-wielding attackers also invaded a military base in Niger State, killing a soldier and 20 vigilantes. The attack took place in Kotonkoro village, Mariga council area, it was learnt. After invading the military base, the gunmen reportedly ambushed the vigilantes. The attack happened on Wednesday night, it was gathered. The commandant of the vigilantes Abu Hashimu confirmed the killing of his men yesterday in a telephone interview. He said that 16 vigilantes were killed on the spot while the others were shot as they tried to escape. The commandant said the bodies of the slain men have been recovered and buried. It was also learnt that a combined team of security men have begun a manhunt for the bandits in Dutsen Magajiya forest. The state government confirmed the death of the vigilantes, saying it will deploy all resources to catch the bandits. Secretary to the State Government Alhaji Ahmed Ibrahim Matane confirmed the killing of the vigilantes and the soldier. In Benue State, armed assailants disguised as buyers also stormed a market, killing one and leaving nine others with varying degrees of injuries. The Kaduna attacks took place in Birnin Gwari and Giwa councils. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs Samuel Aruwan confirmed the attacks in a statement on Thursday. Aruwan quoted security agencies reports as saying that “armed bandits barricaded the Dogon Dawa-Kuyello Road, after Ungwan Gajere village of Birnin Gwari LGA, and shot six people dead. “Similarly, at Ungwan Maje, also of Birnin Gwari LGA, armed bandits shot and killed two persons. “Armed bandits also attacked Kwama village in Giwa LGA and killed one person, after he resisted their attempt to kidnap him.” In Benue, bandits disguised as buyers killed one and injured nine persons at Abaji Market, in Katsina-Ala council area of the State on Wednesday, spokesperson Catherine Anene said yesterday in a statement. Anene said the bandits came into the market about 6:30pm and started shooting. “About 6:30pm on Wednesday, while traders were closing from Abaji Market in Katsina-Ala, bandits who disguised as buyers started shooting sporadically and killed one person while nine others were injured. “The joint operation of Police and other security agencies returned fire and repelled the bandits to the forest…where they have been cordoned for search.” She said the Command deployed more patrol teams to the scene to assist operatives with the cordon and search operation.