A fire outbreak in Isan-Ekiti, hometown of Governor Kayode Fayemi on Saturday destroyed not less than 20 hectares of cocoa and kolanut plantations. The cause of the fire incident was yet to be ascertained at the time of filling this report. A community leader, Chief Ray Akin-Oguntosin, said the fire affected cocoa, kolanut, orange and coffee plantations and had rendered farmers in the town jobless. “We have contacted the relevant state and federal authorities to come to the aid of our people and I also appeal to the indigenes of the town both at home and in the diaspora to come home and help their people,” he said. Also, no fewer than 200 houses in Erimope Ekiti, Moba local government area of Ekiti state were rendered homeless after a tempestuous wind and rainstorm on Friday night. The stormy torrential downpour, which started at about 6pm, wreaked havoc on residential buildings in the town with the displaced individuals now taking refuge in a neighbouring community. The rainstorm, accompanied by heavy whirl wind, also destroyed two public primary schools and auditoriums belonging to a Pentecostal and Catholic Churches in the town. Properties that were destroyed in those buildings were roofing sheets of different makers, kitchen utensils, foams, household materials, electrical poles and appliances. A community leader and victim, Mr. Oladipo Isaac, lamented that more than 200 buildings were affected by the heavy rainstorm, which had rendered many homeless. While conducting on spot assessment of the wreckage on Saturday, the Chairman, State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Capt. Sunday Adebomi (rtd), described the incident as novel in the history of the community and the entire local government. The SEMA boss said: “The Governor of Ekiti State, Dr Kayode Fayemi was particularly happy that no life was lost during the storm, which affected about 200 houses in this town. We learnt over 1,000 residents had been displaced already. “The government commiserates with the victims and I advise our people to as a matter of urgency embark on the planting of trees in their environment. The move would further avoid future occurrence of such an unfortunate incident”.