Ace movie director Kunle Afolayan is set to have his second Netflix Original. His first was ‘Citation’, a movie inspired by the sex-for-grade challenge in our higher institutions. His second Netflix Original will be ‘Swallow’, in which Afolayan, I suspect, plays a Pentecostal pastor. This movie is a first for Afolayan because this is the first time he has optioned an already existing text acclaimed for its style, form, and content. The movie is an adaptation of Sefi Atta’s third novel of the same title. It is a novel that recreates the military era Lagos. Coincidentally, the book is becoming a movie at the third coming of Muhammadu Buhari, the man who was also Head of State at the time Atta set the didactic work and, sadly, the social malaise treated in the book are still driving Nigerians bonkers. We are yet to solve the power supply challenge; poverty is still pervasive; government hospitals are under-funded; almost every facet of our lives needs some form of catharsis or the other. The novel is narrated by a daughter (Tolani) and her mother (Arike); each renders her account in the first person singular. The mother’s narration is largely about the sixties, seventies, and before. The daughter’s is, in the main, about the War Against Indiscipline era and all its shenanigans. The daughter talks about Lagos, the mother about Makoku, an Egba settlement not far-flung from the city of aquatic splendour. Though narrated by mother and daughter, it is as much also the heartbreaking story of her flatmate and colleague, Rose. The two young women are struggling in Lagos and it shows how two very different people cohabit in the bustle, chaos, and fast rhythm of Lagos Island and Lagos mainland. ‘Swallow’ takes off the day Rose is sacked at a bank on the Island after dealing mercilessly with Mr. Salako, her boss. After Rose’s sack, Mr. Salako instigates Tolani’s transfer to his office. Before long, he starts trying to touch her inappropriately and she finds a smart way to resist him. Rose, who vows never to pledge to a country like Nigeria, is introduced to a deal she tries to get Tolani involved in. This tempting deal puts Tolani in a dilemma. The part of the novel in Arike’s voice is oral with all its rawness and originality. Her story is very instructive. A woman, a strong one at that, refuses to marry a king and decides to marry a drummer who, despite his versatility and closeness to a renowned juju maestro, prefers the village life to the madness of Lagos, a carnivorous city that eventually consumes him. Arike is a woman of class. Going against the grain, she makes history as the first woman in Makoku to ride a motorcycle and she is self-taught. Through her, we see the pressure married women are put under over when they will become mothers as though the decision is solely theirs to make. We also see how society envies independent-minded cum successful women. And there are very searing debates about religion and faith. The advent of Pentecostalism and prosperity preaching is availed enough room. Atta ensures the pages of this book are redolent with social commentaries and we see Nigeria, its leaders, and citizens, receiving appropriate blows. Our craze for foreign fabrics and everything foreign, and the abandonment of the rustic for the urban, do not escape Atta’s scrutiny. The novel shows Atta paints well, and with words, she brings out the colours, the smells, and the flavours of the city. She paints a Lagos where roads are filled with potholes, where people like to shout; mothers shout at their kids, where hawkers shout to attract customers, drivers shout at pedestrians, friends shout at each other, and where passengers rush to board buses. She paints madness, everywhere! There is so much in this work: We see corruption and superstition, we see deceit and loyalty, and plots are unfolded stunningly with a style that benefits from layered and tempered storytelling that takes you on routes not anticipated. We also see gender, class, and intrigues. Atta writes eloquently about ordinary life using the right dosage of suspense to keep the reader going. Her writing is concise. She takes charge, dictates, and endears her narration to us with the skills of an adept chronicler. She creates unforgettable characters you will either love or hate: From Tolani, Arike, and Rose to Mr. Salako, Alhaji Umar, Franka, Ignatius, Sanwo, Mrs Durojaiye, OC and Johnny Walker, they pack enough energy to make a reader cry, laugh, and even curse. I have read every novel Atta has published. The first I read is ‘Everything Good Will Come’. I have since read ‘A Bit of Difference’ and ‘The Bead Collector’, but ‘Swallow’ appears to dwarf others in form, style, and content. It is pure magic that even at the end, a reader is still left searching for an answer to a particular question Arike keeps dodging and Tolani is left with no choice to stop pestering. The layered nature of this work makes me wonder if Afolayan will replicate its charm. Will he capture the sights, sounds, and smells of the 1980s Lagos and its Western ways and customs? Will he deliver a meandering tale with painful punches as seen on the pages of this riveting work of fiction? Will this work’s tenderness, fierceness, boldness, distinctiveness, and rhythm find a home in the cinematic representation? I am hopeful because of Afolayan’s reputation, and the fact that he worked with Atta on the screenplay to retain as much of the text as possible. We are waiting! My final take: It is good that Netflix is bankrolling Nollywood to adapt texts by Nigerian authors for a global audience. Lola Shoneyin’s phenomenal ‘The Secret Lives of Baba Segi’s Wives’ is also set to be a Netflix Original series and a Wole Soyinka play, ‘Death and the King’s Horseman’, will be a Netflix movie courtesy of a deal brokered by Mo Abudu’s EbonyLife Studios. We certainly need more of this because there are so many great texts that can enliven the screen when handled by the right directors.