Operatives of the Lagos Police Command have arrested 113 suspects in two Lagos nightclubs for allegedly flouting COVID-19 protocols. The suspects, who were arrested at Garbana Nightclub in Ajao Estate and DNA Nightclub, Victoria Island at the wee hours of Sunday, were paraded Monday by Police Commissioner (CP) Hakeem Odumosu. The Nation reports that their arrests came barely a week after 172 others were arrested at Cubana Nightclub in Victoria Island for violating all laid down procedures to prevent further spread of COVID-19. Decrying the recalcitrant behaviour of nightclub owners, Odumosu said one of the nightclubs even removed a tape earlier used by the government to seal the premises for breaches, mulling the need for stiffer punishment against such persons. He warned landlords to desist from leasing their properties meant for other purposes to nightclub owners, noting that such action was in breach of the Physical Planning Law of the state. Odumosu appealed to parents to caution their children against nightclubbing during this period, noting that more youths were contracting the virus because of disobedience to laid down rules. “It is disturbing that young people are not ready to respect the law. This is why more youths have the virus. It is very difficult to maintain social distance inside a nightclub. They sweat because of dancing and then the loud music will not allow people have conversations without close contacts. “We got information early on Sunday about clubbers and operatives were deployed to the premises. In one of the nightclubs, despite that the place has been sealed earlier, the owners removed the seal and continued their unlawful business. Then, at the other place, some of the clubbers jumped to the ceiling to hide to avoid being arrested. “So many of them were in the ceiling and when it was no longer comfortable for them, some jumped down. Two of those who jumped fell into another compound and sustained injuries. Why should people subject themselves to all these troubles?” He queried. According to Odumosu, all the arrested suspects would be charged to the court for the Magistrate to decide their fate. The CP held a meeting with all DPOs and Area Commanders at the POWA Hall, Oduduwa, Ikeja, where warned DPOs to stop allowing nightclubs to operate in their jurisdiction or face the consequences. To set an example, Odumosu announced the immediately deployment of DPO Ajao Estate, Isolo, and senior officers of the division for allowing night clubbing and violation of other COVID-19 protocols in the area.