 It was a cool evening in 1592 BCE at Goshen, North Cairo, Egypt. Jochebed, a Jew, had just delivered her last son. The birth was a secret and had to remain so if the child would survive. At that time, Pharaoh of ancient Egypt had ordered that every newly born male child of the Jewish women must be killed. The Egyptians had successfully subjugated the Israelites in slavery for 350 years and they needed to stave off any likelihood of their deliverance. After his birth, Jochebed’s child strangely beamed with light. Everything was unusual about him. Little did his mother know that it was he who would liberate his generation from the evil claws of slavery and oppression. So, the mother took care of him for three months, kept him in a water-proof basket, set him down among the papyrus reeds occupying the brink of the Nile and went back home tearfully leaving his survival to the hands of her God who gave her the strange child. The Egyptians would no longer find and kill Moses in her custody. The sequence of events that followed was mysterious. Pharaoh’s daughter went to the river to take a bath; found the basket; picked up this irresistibly beautiful foundling; requested a lady nearby who was Miriam the child’s sister, to procure a Jewish nurse for him. The child’s mother, Jochebed was invited and paid to take care of him; the endangered child was taken to the king’s palace to grow up as a prince at the very place where the death order that should have killed him was made. The child grew up in the very dwellings of the oppressors of his own people, enjoyed all the privileges of the princes of Egypt. In the end, Egypt, through him, was defeated by the Jewish nation in a grand style. For this, every Jew acknowledged that Moses was truly a born leader. Unlike Moses, Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was not a born leader, so to speak. There were no special circumstances around his birth neither was there a supernatural encounter or childhood obsession to inflict him with the hunger for freedom and deliverance of his people. Yet, he would become the leading figure in India’s struggle to gain independence from Great Britain. Mahatma or “the great-souled one” as popularly called by his followers was born on October 2, 1869, at Porbandar, present-day Gujarat, India. When he was 19, Mohandas went to study Law in London. He returned to India in the mid-1881 to set up his legal practice which was not very successful. Later on, he was sent by an Indian firm to work in its office in South Africa where he stayed with his wife and children for roughly 20 years. The apartheid he encountered in South Africa ignited a fire within him. And the journey started when, in a first-class railway compartment, he refused to give up his seat for a European passenger. He was thrown out and beaten up by a white driver. After that time, as a means of non-cooperation with authorities, he began to teach the concept of satyagraha (truth, insistence) which is a form of nonviolent resistance or civil resistance. After the ordinance on the registration of its Indian population passed by the Transvaal government, among many key incidents that took place, Gandhi led a campaign of civil disobedience in South Africa in 1906 and it lasted for about eight years. He returned to India in July 1914 and by 1920, he had already become the most prominent personality in the movement for independence. He was called Mahatma by his followers because of his eloquence and ascetic lifestyle focused on prayer, fasting and meditation. Through the instrumentality of the Indian National Congress, Gandhi was able to convert the movement into a large organization which attempted to boycott British influence in India at different spheres. Though he ended the resistance movement after violence broke out, he started a new civil-disobedience campaign in 1930. This was precisely against the colonial’s government’s tax on salt. The resistance was called off after the British authorities made some concession. Later in 1947, Britain granted India its independence but partitioned the country into India and Pakistan. Gandhi opposed partition but finally agreed, believing that the Hindus and Muslims could create room for internal peace after independence. To show his desire to bring peace in Delhi, he embarked on yet another fast but was killed on January 30, 1948, by Nathuram Godse, a Hindu fanatic exasperated by Gandhi’s attempts to ensure peace between Jinnah and other Muslims. Gandhi, before his death, spent his life preaching love, peace, tolerance, peaceful protest and simple living. History has proven that oppression does not last forever. An oppressed people will eventually break free from the ugly chains of unfairness and maltreatment. The pathetic story of Nigeria is that of a people trapped in an age-long history of oppression and injustice. Its leaders, like the wicked Pharaoh of Egypt, catch fun in being ruthless and have traded the fear of God and the love of humanity for desperate hunger for power and ill-gotten wealth made from exploiting the people and their resources. Most men who have tried in the past to change the lugubrious situation ended up joining the bad eggs they once attacked. Nobody has successfully been able to resist the dark but enticing force of corruption, partiality and tribalism that bedevil the seats of power. Someone said that the evil seed planted long ago by some group of jolly friends who traded Nigeria have grown wild; so wild that the birds of terrorism, kidnapping and others of the same feather are now chilling out on its boughs and twigs. More people are getting enlightened by the day and young vibrant minds are mastering leadership skills in their numbers across the country. It reached its crescendo in 2020 when the Nigerian youth caught a high energy to resist bad governance but all soon faded into the thin year. That strategy could not be effective in the face of stubborn leadership and the clog in the wheels of genuine socio-political development called ‘democratic process’. One begins to wonder what or who exactly can cure this quagmire. However, the message is clear that the people are ready for their deliverance. A wise observer will submit that they only await that saviour who will be at the forefront and champion a charismatic strategy. Once he emerges, the earth will quake! Now at a time when the clouds are gathered for the salvation of Nigeria, who should we expect to lead us into our victory? While we can all be leaders, the truth is, someone must be at the forefront. And somehow, he will hold the key to the salvation-movement. From history, saviours may be divinely sent to save people from oppression after a massive outcry to God, the creator of the world. That was the case of Moses. Nigerians are very religious and that may qualify to be in the similitude of Israel due for deliverance. Some other born leaders, not necessarily saviours, in this category include Sir Winston Churchill and Margaret Thatcher while Mahatma Gandhi and Nelson Mandela were leaders that ‘didn’t look like it’ but were made by life experiences. Made-leaders are the few people who take an unconventional approach to tough life situations they experience in their growth process and decide to give themselves wholly to the cause of saving their brethren from the pit of injustice, slavery or oppression. They are likely to be more than born-leaders. This does not mean that born-leaders fall from the sky with little or no experience. But overwhelmingly, from childhood, born-leaders are obsessed with an unflinching passion for adventure as they easily deploy natural leadership traits. So, when they combine their natural qualities with the skill set of trained leaders, they are usually exceptional. For Nigeria, nobody knows, yet, who or where the forerunner is. Meanwhile, as Mahatma Gandhi said, we must be the change we wish to see in this world. So, while we await the one person who is the ‘sent one’ to start the mid-fire, let us position our heart and mind to be just, fair and good even in matters of little significance. The truth is this: only men of character can lead their people to their long-awaited Canaan land.