 Tell us, how the journey has been from being an illustrator to a big time Contemporary artist today? My artistic journey from being an illustrator to a contemporary artist today has its ups and downs. The challenges are enormous but my persistence and determination to succeed has been the drive that keeps me going. I am very passionate about my art and these challenges are stepping stones to keep moving forward. In October 1999 my sister saw an advert in a newspaper for a call for pencil illustrator at Soul Publication HEARTS magazine in Ikeja. I was among the top three applicants. Few days after the oral interview the production manager insisted that he urgently needed an assistant who could supervise at the printing press downstairs. The General Manager of the organization is the wife of the publisher she took a look at me and said “You look so slim and small for this position. This media house is a mad!” l stared back at her not wavering from her gaze and l replied “Madame, if you are the boss in this organization your husband knew you are capable and fit for the position. Do not undermine my stature something great can come out of something small” She smiled and said “That is what l want to hear.” I worked for HEARTS magazine for three years. I left October 2003 and l had my first group exhibition in December 2003 Expression Nigeria organized by African Art Resources Center. We understand that the lock down period due to the covid19 menace opened your artistic eyes to new discoveries, forms and experiments. Please elaborate. The rapid outbreak of covid19 presents an alarming health crisis that the world is struggling with. There has been an unexpected changes in the art business. My life as a practicing artist takes a shifting phase as my exhibition project and live art show were put on hold and these cancellations of art related events is where l generate funds to pay my bills. In the era of social distancing l have to adjust to a new reality and seek creative ways to provide my services through digital platforms. The internet has a significant effect on the way we access information. It can be used as a creative space as well as a social space to discuss and to view art. Connectivity is a starting point for new ways of collaborating and socializing. While in isolation in March l participated in #theartistladder14dayartdiary 14days 14 works project Nigeria, Residency in joy artist residency The Cordial Eye Massachusetts, Light and Dark Residencies Mozambique, ArtanEssentialNeed project organized by Art And About Africa, African Art Exhibition Auction by Calabash Gallery New York, The 19th Newark Arts Festival 2020 with the theme : Art+Tech: Perception, Access, Power my artwork “Technological Glitch” appeared in the virtual gallery of Newark Museum of Art and also use to promote the event sponsored by Prudential and Verizon.  l was among the five artists selected to participate in Artist Roundtable panel discussion and Studio Snapshot series of short video exploring the work of Newark contemporary artists with support from Newark Museum of Art, New Jersey. In August Museum of dead words teamed up with 11 international artists to interpret each word in the museum and showcase their works alongside artists interviews, live hip hop theater and weekly live stream. I explored the death of “Hypocrite” the effects and meaning of the word both in the art world and the spaces I inhabit. I was extremely happy when my Art research project “Art in times of Crisis” was one of the 120 Special Covid19/Artists projects (SOFACO) by African Culture Fund. The project is an online art diary that reflects and expresses people’s experiences during the global pandemic, keeping and tracking mental state of everyday lives of the people and l also reflected on the development of my personal creative progress. You always seem too enthusiastic about your forms and medium. Which medium captures your essence most time and why? Artists should have the boldness to willingly explore various medium. I work in Oil, Acrylic watercolor conte pastels. The medium that captures my essence is Graphite pencil and charcoal. They are two of the most used materials for drawing and draughtmanship. They both have unique qualities and functions. Charcoal used for expressive, dramatic work and preliminary sketches and graphite used for detailed, exact work. Vine or willow charcoal tends to be easy to dust or erase making it perfect for life drawing, quick sketches or compositions that need constant reworking. Compressed charcoal is now commonly used as it breaks much less easily than vine charcoal.  Charcoal pencil allow you to make tiny accurate drawings with a lot of control and potential for minute detail. The combination of charcoal and graphite pencils can enhance a drawing by playing both with tone and reflective surfaces of each.  Sometimes I will use graphite for the hair, eyes and accessories and then charcoal for delicate soft skin tone especially children portraiture. As a fundamental female artist, what are the greatest challenges, obstacles? As a female artists in a world dominated by male signatures on art, one of the greatest challenge is how to emerge from invisibility and close the gender gap in the art world. Yes women artists are becoming more visible in the art world but the task of erasing the bias against women artists is still a hard bone to crack. Other challenges that occur; financial hardship; young and under recognized; Over the years instead of focusing on these challenges l focus more on solutions.  Heller Keller stated “When one door of happiness closes, another opens, but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been open for us” Your latest group outing at the Alexis was on destiny and the International Women’s Day. What were the lessons of that fantastic show? The Alexis Galleries’ second edition show “Destiny” is dedicated to International women day. This year IWD theme is “Choose to challenge” challenging gender bias and inequality.  I have the space and platform to exhibit with professional creative and beautiful women artists. The show gives me the opportunity to choose to challenge with my skills and creativity. How do children inspire and motivate your artistic excursions? Children remind me of what it’s like to be young again. I love their innocence. Their fearlessness. They are not afraid to cry or show negative emotions. They are fearless and not afraid of the unknown. They show me how to be carefree again and how to thrive on exploring and experiencing new things. They teach me to turn things upside down and look from new angles. Becoming a parent is a life-changing event that turns into a full-time job. My children are not an obstacle to my practice, I find them as a fountain of inspiration. Most times they are my source of inspiration, not only are they the first to see or hear the ideas, but they also actually help me direct my projects. What message do you always pass across through your works and what level of laurels have they brought you? My works for the past 10 years take a critical look at the social, political and cultural issues with profound emphasis on gender identity. As my art practice progresses, despite my willingness to explore diverse general subject matter in creating my art, l find myself continually returning to the aspects of changing African women’s narratives that are often hidden in plain sight or misrepresented.