The Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA) plans to create orderly and livable communities in the state.  To achieve this and also in concert with the new developmental realities in the state, the agency evolved a new mission statement “Making Lagos an heritage for orderly, spatial planning and development for economic and livable community” Its  General Manager, Funmi Osifuye  said the new mission statement is as a result of the new resolve of LASPPPA to conform with present realities of  Lagos as a smart  city. He said henceforth, the Monitoring and Compliance Unit of the Agency will be zoned into  five operational   and enforcement  locations  according to the five Divisions of the State. While noting the need to focus on the new smart city Osifuye said:  “LASPPPA is poised to ensure a well planned and resilient Lagos  through the implementation of  the State Physical Planning laws. We should own and act on the recommendations of the communique and bring it to bear in the performance of our daily activities. We now have an expanded feedback mechanism and grievance redress channel that can be explored by members of the public in registering their dissatisfaction with process of obtaining a planning permit or a breach of physical planning laws.” Director, Monitoring and Compliance Unit of LASPPPA, Patricia Emozee said the zoning will ensure that monitoring and enforcements are evenly and effectively implemented thereby maintaining a zero stance on illegal development. She revealed that at the Ikorodu Zone, over one hundred contravention notices have been served on shopping malls, event centres, gas and petrol filling stations. Others are places of worship, residential development including demolitions without permits, while fifty seal-up notices were issued to those yet to respond to contraventions served. The areas covered according to her included Baiyeku, Igbogbo, Ofin, Igbe, Agric Busstop, Owutu, Isuti, Odogunyan, Ebute, Gberigbe, Aloba Estates among others. It will be recalled that towards the end of last year, LASPPPA embarked on massive public awareness to sentisize the public on the benefits of obtaining physical planning permit.  She said “the activities of the unit is a follow up to access the rate of compliance and determine necessary enforcement where required”.