 Her fighting spirit is extraordinary. While women faced with the same or similar challenges as hers, when she started her entrepreneurial journey in 2019 would have probably capitulated, the Team Lead, Excellence Advisory Limited, a technology business support services provider, Excellence Anurika Joshua, stayed on, refusing to give up the fight to survive in the face of a turbulent marriage, which, by her admission, became toxic shortly after wedding in 2015. Narrating her ordeal, Excellence told The Nation that she got married in February 2015 while a student at the University of Ibadan (UI). But, unfortunately, the marriage packed up later after what she described as “Three years of severe emotional and physical abuse, a failed suicide attempt and no job.” “I was broke and I had a two-year-old son. I was desperate to survive, pay my bills and feed my son, but the more I looked for help, the more I was exposed to harassment and abuse,” she added. But, Excellence refused to allow the situation to break her. With remarkable grit, tenacity and instinct for survival, she succeeded in weathering the storm and founded Techy Train, which provides access to technology-based vocational skills primarily to women and youths across Nigeria, Africa and the world. In fact, she was able to keep hope alive until, as she put it, “I found technology, harnessed its power and leveraged it to earn big from my bed, working virtually for individuals and corporates.” By dint of hard work and perseverance, the 2018 graduate of Biomedical Laboratory Sciences from the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, has carved a niche for herself in the provision of technology business support services solutions to MSMEs. She said her vision is to pioneer a paradigm shift in entrepreneurship in Africa by helping African born businesses build structures that are  sustainable, profitable and thrive globally. Backed by experienced partners, an Advisory Board as well as highly motivated staff, Excellence Advisory Limited is located in Abuja. However, 90 per cent of its clients, according to the Team Lead, are outside Abuja. The company, however, takes clients globally, having been duly registered in the United States, too. But, Excellence said there were plans to expand the company’s services outside the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), even beyond Nigeria’s shores. According to her, Excellence Advisory has a bouquet of services that have already positioned it as the destination of choice for MSMEs seeking for consultant to help them handle everything tech so they can focus on what matters most: their real businesses. Some of the business support services that have endeared the company to MSMEs and non-profit organisations include Business Advisory Support Services (business plan development, finance model design, profit maximisation etc.); Management Consultancy Support Services (marketing template design, product design, services design, corporate communications etc.); Learning and Development Support Services (business training, customised trainings etc.) Others are Business Operations (customer relations, cash management etc.); Process Re-engineering Support Services (creating internal structures, finance and audit processes, procurement, and supply chain design etc.); Strategic Branding Support Services (digital marketing, social media campaigns, brand statement design etc.); Info-tech Support Services (software development, APP development, website development, bulk SMS). A key aspect of Excellence Advisory’s soaring brand, according to the Team Lead, is its subsidiary Techy Train. Registered as a business in July 2019 and formerly called Animations with Excellence, Techy Train is the training arm of Excellence Advisory Limited. The platform provides access to technology based vocational skills mostly to women and the youth. And it does this by using “accelerated learning” techniques that allow trainees to learn faster and remember more of what they learn. As the Abuja-based budding entrepreneur explained: “The key is “involvement.” Our approach follows from the old saying: “What you hear, you forget; what you see, you remember; what you do, you understand.” Our lessons are simplified and practically tailored, which gives you an option to actually see what you’re learning beyond learning using our engaging audio + visual demonstration technique that helps you apply faster and immediately. “Furthermore, you have an option of joining our robust internship where you get to do and grow and then earn. So, when women sign up with us, they learn, work and earn. We have trained over 3000 individuals from across Nigeria, Ghana, United States and United Kingdom. Over 20 per cent of them have gone up to get good employment in the online media space, while over 50 per cent have used the lessons they learnt to grow their business/enterprise and some have gone on to up-skill further in tech.” The Biomedical Scientist-turned entrepreneur  emphasised: “Technology provides a level- playing ground for women across the world to work and earn good from their convenience and on flexible terms.” While pointing out, for instance, that there are thousands of women who are in the unemployed state she used to be, broke and desperate but handicapped, she said she founded Techy Train to help such women earn more money from the comfort of their homes leveraging technology-based vocational skills. Excellence, who stated that the rate of unemployment in Nigeria is high, said women are the worst hit. She, however, added that the COVID-19 pandemic made the situation worse for them. While pointing out that the situation of women unemployment in Nigeria was more of an issue of underemployment, she said: “Women are rather exposed to vocational skills like soap making, hair making without going further to the skills for the future: technology skills.” The Digital Skills Trainer explained that through Techy Train’s online academy, the company offers women skills like web design, effective social media management, virtual assistance, design thinking, graphic design and more. “Our lessons are highly simplified and pre-recorded screen practical for them to access at their pace and convenience. “The uniqueness we provide beyond simplifying their learning process is our skill bank where participants of our training who have scored 80 per cent and above in cumulative assessment and discipline are inducted into and offered opportunities to work and their skills further improved. “We also provide technology services like digital marketing, content creation, video editing and more that aim at helping women build sustainable businesses leveraging technology to build structure and running their business with ease. We do this by teaching them how to do it themselves, doing it for them or doing it with them,” Excellence said. But how did Excellence Advisory Limited and its subsidiary, Animations with Excellence, registered in August 2020 and July 2019, respectively, become hot items in Nigeria’s MSME space and women empowerment in such a remarkably short time to the extent that she could look back and say with so much pride and confidence that “I am beyond amazed at the rapid growth, the lives touched, level of impact reached as well as the profit made?” What is the secret of her blossoming business empire despite the initial hiccups she faced? What did she do differently from other existing and aspiring women entrepreneur? More importantly, where and how did she draw the strength to declare her interest in becoming Africa’s number one technology business support solution provider, as well as her ambitious push to connect women with digital skills in Africa to the world?” From all indications, Excellence seems to have had it all worked out right from the onset, which was why in the midst of her marital travails, she never failed to prioritise self-development. “I actually started learning by myself online, first via YouTube, Google and other blogs. Then I could afford training. Codecademy, PluralSight, LinkedIn Learning, Google digital skill training all helped me a great deal,” she confided in The Nation. Obviously tech savvy, smart, ambitious and above all, determined to hold her own in business, Excellence said she also learnt Facebook advertisement from Oyekunle Damola. She also took a course on Content Marketing from the Content Marketing Institute and others. “I am self-driven and have given myself to learning. I read voraciously and still do. Books on technology, business, and entrepreneurship are key topics I find most interesting,” she said. She also learnt web development from Udemy, the leading global marketplace for teaching and learning, connecting millions of students to the skills they need to succeed. Udemy Inc. based in …. helps organisations of all kinds prepare for the ever-evolving future of work. Its curated collection of top-rated business and technical courses gives companies, governments, and nonprofits the power to develop in-house expertise and satisfy employees’ hunger for learning and development. Expectedly, her immense capacity to self-develop and hone her entrepreneurial skills via extensive training paid off. For instance, Excellence was selected as one of the 50 finalists from the Access Bank Womenpreneur Pitch-a-ton Africa, the first women-in-business support initiative of its kind designed to provide female owned businesses across Africa an opportunity to access finance and world-class business trainings as well as mentoring opportunities. On the strength of her emergence as one of the 50 finalists, Excellence was sponsored to a Mini Masters in Business Administration (MBA) with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a World Bank Group. That was in 2019. Through the Cherie Blair Foundation, she also got access to do a Financial Literacy course with the Enterprise Development Centre (EDC), the Entrepreneurship Centre of the Pan-Atlantic University. She also earned a scholarship to an Executive Growth Entrepreneurship Program with the EDC. The Abia State-born entrepreneur cum digital skills trainer also won the Access Grant for Start-ups (AGS) Survivor Woman Award in 2019. Excellence said she used part of the fund to sign up at codecademy for one year. Codecademy is an American online interactive platform that offers free coding classes in 12 different programming languages, including Python, Java, Go, and JavaScript. Apart from the training and courses, Excellence said she also surrounded herself with value-aligned people who have been of tremendous help to her such as Founder/CEO of Learntor, a Nigerian digital consultancy focused on agile digital transformation, data analytics and digital marketing, Mercy George-Igbafe and Tabitha of Virtuous Core Limited, among others. She said many individuals and bodies helped her afford the courses. Having come this far, Excellence has a few success nuggets for aspiring women entrepreneurs. “Start somewhere, keep going, leverage as much help as you can get and automate your processes. Finally, believe in yourself and go all out,” she counselled, adding that women and, indeed, other MSMEs, should learn to outsource their weaknesses that are key areas of their businesses so they can focus on areas of strength that matter. The expert also shared her thoughts on why MSMEs in Nigeria fail. According to her, many of them don’t have enough visibility. Also, most of them don’t start businesses with the intention of sustainability hence no structure. Although, she acknowledged that owning and running a business in Nigeria can be quite complicated as nothing prepares one for the challenging business environment, she however, said understanding that the key to starting anything in Nigeria is structure will save MSMEs so much troubles. Excellence also said some MSME founders are not ready to invest in themselves to help grow their businesses. Many of them, she added, lack of staying power. “Nigeria can hit you left, right and centre from power to bills to taxes and all in-between, if one is not brave, you might not stay through,” she said.