 Two challenges will confront Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, who is completing his second term next year. The first is succession. The greatest achievement will be to hand over to a competent successor. This is critical to the defense of legacies. In political climes, it may also serve other personal partisan ends. The second is the governor’s next political destination after vacating the Government House, Ado-Ekiti. Would he vie for president? Would he go to the Senate in 2023? What is certain is that he will not contemplate political retirement. According to observers, election, usually, is war in Ekitiland. Tension always engulf the 120 towns and villages on poll day. That is why people from outside the state often decisively describe Ekiti as a people reputed for stubbornness. While rejecting the label and rationalising their resistance to injustice, the people of hilly towns would always allude to principle. Eyes will be on the state next year. There is no shortage of governorship contenders. Already, many All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains in the Fountain of Knowledge are itching to succeed the governor. They are mobilising and strategising ahead of the primary. Indisputably, Ekiti APC is still a divided house. Chieftains are locked in intra-party crisis. A section of the party is behind the governor. Another section is against him. The arrowheads of the latter group are Senator Babafemi Ojudu and Prince Dayo Adeyeye. Reconciliation is an unfinished business in the chapter. Although the gulf between the two ‘factions’ is deep, truce is possible because the division does not have ideological connotation. The two sides relate well with the minister from the state and former governor, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, who ordinarily should drive the peace process. But, in his characteristic manner, the lawyer is somehow aloof. Source said Adebayo may be interested in returning to the Senate House, if he is endorsed as a compromise candidate. But, for him, it is not a do-or-die thing. Unless the two sides come together, the primary may be more rancorous. But, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ekiti is also not cohesive. The two factional chairmen-Kehinde Odebunmi and Bisi Kolawole-have not completely sheathed their swords. Odebunmi and Kolawole are not the issue. There bone of contention is between former Governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Biodun Olujimi. There is a supremacy battle over the control of the party structures. Since litigation had failed to resolve the logjam, party elders from the Southwest have advised them to close ranks and embrace truce. Already, Fayose has anointed Kolawole, former Environment Commissioner, as his candidate. There are other aspirants. They will slug it out during the shadow poll. Fayemi could not be expected to be indifferent succession, or the nature and tendency of his successor. But, how his camp can anoint a consensus candidate is a challenge. Many loyalists want to succeed him. From 1999, no governor has handed over to his preferred choice or to a party member. Adebayo was kicked out in 2003, following the political earthquake in the Southwest. Fayose, who succeeded him, was shoved aside in controversial circumstances. The impeachment was neither here or there. Lamentably, Ekiti regressed into half-democracy under Administrator Idowu Olurin, reminiscent of the old Ajele captivity in the pre-colonial days. Governor Segun Oni rode to power on the back of a faulty election. The mandate was restored to Fayemi, who was defeated in 2014 by Fayose. He bounced back in 2018. The question is: who succeeds Fayemi, APC or PDP candidate? There are other factors. Many believe that the next election will be a referendum on the performance of the APC government in Ekiti. From experience, performance is not the sole criterion. Then, succession have to be conducted in APC in a way that will not weaken the platform. Although Ekiti, right from the days of the famed confederation, Pelupelu, has been perceived as one united and indivisible zone, politicians are now creating imaginary zones, based on the division of the state into three senatorial districts. Since Adebayo and Fayose hail from the Central and Oni and Fayemi come from the North, the agitation for zoning to the South, which has not produced a governor, has intensified. The argument is fundamentally weak. Should the South persist in its clamour for rotation, it may inadvertently provoke a gang-up between the Central and North, with the South being ultimately left in the cold. It is therefore, better that a strong candidate who will elicit support from other districts, based on merit, instead of leaning on zoning, emerges from the South. These permutations may also be in the realm of conjecture. However, agitations for zoning or rotation does not violate the constitution. It falls within the framework of political rights. Yet, it is doubtful if any political party will make a categorical statement on zoning without a dire consequence. It is also not certain that aspirants from the South will be united to insist on zoning to the end. Along the line, group interest in the South may be overshadowed by the preoccupation with personal ambitions. Paradoxically, the choice of a running mate is always hinged on consideration for a sort of zoning. While the flag bearer can emerge from any of the three senatorial districts, parties or candidates are careful not to select running mates from the district of the flagbearers. That semblance of zoning does not follow a particular order. But, the goal is to reflect what is referred to as ethnic, geographical, and on rare occasions, religious balancing. Historically, it appears the competing parties have focussed on Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, and Ikere-Ekiti more than other towns. They target the two towns because they are perceived as factors on account of their population. Ado has produced three or four deputy governors-Dr. Sikiru Lawal, Mrs. Funmilayo Olayinka, Prof. Modupe Adelabu and Chief Bisi Egbeyemi. Ikere has produced Abiodun Aluko, Bisi Omoyemi and Olusola Eleka. On few occasions, gender was considered in the choice of deputy governorship candidates. Flagbearers are disposed to the choice of deputies who will not rock the boat. The beneficiaries, except perhaps  Mrs. Biodun Olujimi, who is also a tested politician, got the slot, more or less, on the platform of their towns or districts. But, the disposition of the candidate has been the primary factor. Next year’s election will be a big battle in Ekiti as the ruling party pushes for power retention or continuity. Also, the opposition will not be sleeping on guard. Except in 2014, governorship polls always shifted from ballot box to the court. This is a big challenge. But, more challenging is the resort to violence as manifested in the recent inconclusive Ekiti East House of Assembly by-election. 