Director-General National Research Institute for Chemical Technology (NARICT), Zaria, Prof, Jeffery Tsware Baminas, has told a group, Network for Justice accusing him of corruption, to rather go after his predecessors who he said were indicted for misappropriation of the Institute’s budget funds. Network for Justice, a Human Right Organization, had in a petition to the Minister of Science and Technology, dated 25th January 2021 accused the Director-General of abuse of office and breach of public service rules. The organization also accused Prof. Baminas of bias in the promotion exercise, non-remittance of Internally Generated Revenue, witch-hunting in the transfer of staff and irregularity in contract appointment, saying that, “It is crystal clear that the Director-General of NARICT has contravened the provision of the 5th schedule, Part 1, Section(1) of the constitution of Nigeria (1999) as amended.” Reacting to the allegations, Prof. Baminas said, “There is a huge difference between how budget funds were utilized before the period of my administration. The investigations reports from the Anti-Corruption and Transparency Unit (ACTU) gives a clear picture of the financial and budgetary infractions by my predecessors in office which included misapplication/ misappropriation of budget funds, non-implementation of approved projects with cash backing and movement of institute’s property without documentation.” He however threatened to sue the petitioners over the allegations of corruption and use of ethno-religion sentiments in running the affairs of the institution levelled against him. According to him, the allegations of witch-hunting in staff transfer or posting exercise were made out of ignorance and cynicism as well as a deliberate attempt to tarnish his image. “The Deputy Directors, Dr. Musa Mohammed, posted to Amasiri, Ebonyi state to drive the utilization of indigenous Technologies in salt Project, Dr Haruna a Chemical Engineer, transferred to Langtan to drive our solid Mineral Development Programmes and Mr. Bala Danladi posted to Kano to handle commercial activities of the Institute, were done with the highest level of professionalism and patriotism.’’ On diversion of budget funds, the Director-General said the petitioners failed to explain how the budget was diverted looking at the period he took over in 2017.