To drive human capital development, Page International Financial Services Limited, one of Nigeria’s foremost retail financial Institutions, has become an approved employer of the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants (ACCA) in the Professional Development and Trainee Development, Gold category. Page Financials becomes one of only 76 organisations in Nigeria to have received this status recognition. The ACCA Approved Employer status is awarded to leading organisations that offer outstanding continuing professional development opportunities to their finance professionals and demonstrate superior professional values, ethics and governance at the workplace. The programme recognises employers’ high standards of staff training, accountancy resources and development for their ACCA members. The assigned status indicates that professionals from financial departments get supported during their professional development and training. ACCA accreditation proves the effectiveness of the company’s investment in human capital and characterises Page as a responsible employer with a strong HR brand. Page employees can follow a simplified procedure to confirm their membership in the association. Speaking in Lagos while receiving the membership certificates, CEO of Page Financials, Mr. Segun Akintemi, said: “As a leading Financial Institution in Nigeria, Human Capital Development is a key component of our corporate growth strategy. “With hundreds of hours of learning and development delivered yearly, this certification recognises Page Financials’ efforts in investing in people development and growth that translates into company’s development and growth.” Head ACCA Nigeria, Thomas Isibor, said: “Staying relevant to the market is very important in an economy like Nigeria. “ACCA believes in continuous development and it would support Page’s capacity building of its employees and developing the human resource skills needed for flexible learning experience.” The programme will create collaboration opportunities between Page and the ACCA to foster growth and development opportunities for the Institution’s employees, including access to certification courses to further up-skill employees and advance their financial careers.