Wife of Governor of Benue State, Dr. Eunice Ortom has commended Chairman, Association of Nigerian Authors, ANA Benue State Chapter, Mr. Paul Ugah for always writing good book for children that could help them grow into patriotic and useful members of the society. Mrs. Ortom who gave the commendation recently at the NUJ House in Makurdi, Benue State during the public presentation and launch of the book, The Holiday Camp written by the State Chairman of ANA Benue, Mr. Ugah, enjoined authors to encourage positive societal values in their works; represented by the coordinator of her Non-Governmental Organization, Eunice Spring of Life Foundation (ESLF), Mr. Tine Agenor. The State First Lady promised that the Foundation would continue to support projects that would attract positive development to the people of the state. She described Mr. Ugah as an author dedicated to the development of the society especially through his works on children literature and commended him for his efforts. Also speaking the Chairman of the Occasion, Dr. Emmanuel Agaku represented by Terfa Tsetim said the author was his classmate in secondary school and had always proven to be exceptional in whatever he did, adding that the book reflects some of their experiences in school. On their parts, the Chairlady, Mrs. Christy Ode-Okpachu, General Manager of Harvest FM, Makurdi represented by the Head of News, Emmanuel Gwaza, the book presenter, Benjamin Aernyi and the Vice Chairlady, Mrs. Margaret Ikpe, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources, described the author as a passionate lover of children literature and expressed hope that the book would go a long way in helping many lives. While Bishop Udenyi, Rt. Rev’d Peter B. Ikwulono represented by Very Rev’d Philip Ede all expressed confidence in the writer’s ability to reshape the society in line with the values of the people. In their separate remarks, Director of News and Current Affairs Radio Benue, Igba Ogbole, Director of Programmes and Legal Adviser ANA Benue, Onwanyi Ulegede, former State Chairman of ANA Benue, Dr. Elvis Ogenyi, Sam Ogabidu, Prof. David Salifu as well as President Opiatoho K’idoma, Chief Elaigwu Abutu acknowledged the author’s passion for mentoring writers and urged him not to relent. Speaking on behalf of ANA Benue, Regina Achie Nege who reviewed the book also praised the author for never relenting in ensuring that children were not left out in every reading campaign. Regina who titled the review ‘A feast of Lessons’ pointed out that there is something for all classes of people in the book. “There is something for everyone in this book. For children, it is an exciting story that would entertain them while also teaching them valuable lessons. For teachers and parents, it is a source of entertainment as well as a valuable teaching tool. For policy makers especially in the educational sector, this book highlights the importance of such activities as holiday camps in promoting national integration for a country with diverse people like Nigeria…”