Commuters and transporters groan daily on the Agege Motor Road, Lagos over persistent traffic snarl in Oshodi in central Lagos The traffic jam usually lasts hours over a stretch that would ordinarily not take more than five minutes. When The Nation visited the spot on Tuesday, the traffic situation was chaotic. It stretched from a bad spot after the Oshodi Bridge back to Brown Junction. Officials of the state Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and policemen do little to reduce the gridlock. A commuter, Bolaji Akinwunmi, blamed the traffic on the bad road, lamenting that commuters spend between four and five hours in traffic during peak periods. He urged Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to direct the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC) to fix the road. Another commuter, Olu Ayantunde accused LASTMA officials and police officers of extorting motorists. “They create confusion for motorists and always apprehend the ones that fall into their traps,” he said. A trader, Shade Ogunsanwo, said commercial bus operators’ indiscriminate parking and loading and offloading passengers also contribute to the gridlock. She said the commercial drivers are too notorious for LASTMA officials to handle. “If we want sanity on this road, the Danfo drivers need to be cautioned or penalised. They have formed an alliance with policemen who watched them constituting nuisance on the road by parking either to drop passengers or pick passengers on the road,” she said. Government, she said, should also fix the bad spots on both sides of the road to allow unhindered movement. Chairman of National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) Brown Junction Temitope Akanni, said the union has spent millions of naira to grade the bad spots. He stated that lack of drainage was the bane of the road. “We’ve spent millions of naira to fix the bad spots but always return to the bad shape due to water. The road cannot be fixed without good drainage. We want the government to look into the place because they had already fixed the portion between Bolade and Under the Bridge. They should extend it to that spot; just a few meters away,” he said. According to him, the bad spots have cost their members a lot of money to repair their vehicles at Ladipo International Spare Parts Market.