Telecommunication companies have rejected demand by the Nigerian Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF) and banks to submit lists of SIM Swap customers to Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) for watchlist against e-fraud, it was learnt on Tuesday. The Chairman, Association of Chief Audit Executives of Banks in Nigeria (ACAEBIN), Yinka Tiamiyu, said  stakeholders have been working with the Nigeria Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS) Plc on how to improve the SIM Swap and make the banking system safer for e-payment customers. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Financial Stability Report showed that reported cases of fraud and forgeries by banks increased to 25,029 from 20, 774 while the total amount involved stood at N18.94 billion. Tiamiyu said a joint industry committee of the Nigerian Electronic Fraud Forum (NeFF) and the Nigerian Communication Commission have advised  NIBSS Plc and the telcos to develop tools that allow  Telcos  submit records of SIMs swapped on their network to NIBSS to enable the banks access such records online, real-time. He said all the telcos have not been cooperative in this regard except for MTN. “ACAEBIN has escalated this matter to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to intervene. We have also sought the intervention of the National Security Adviser (NSA), pointing out the security implication of this action of the Telcos to the security of the nation. The association will not be deterred as we will continue pushing until we get to our desired destination,” he said. Tiamiyu said the banking industry is creating a lot of digital products to keep the business running and if you look at the banks confirmed cases of fraud that resulted in the loss of about N2.1 billion, more than 90 per cent of those frauds were perpetrated through technologically driven channels. He said the knowledge of technology will enable internal auditors to identify gaps in Nigeria’s core banking applications, in the products and what is needed to be done to bridge the gap. He said banks and telcos collaboration is needed in the fight against e-fraud given the rise in the use of mobile phones for banking transactions. He said telcos to step up their cooperation and collaboration with banks especially in the area of appropriate Know Your Customer (KYC) documentation, noting that the Association has collaborated with all the stakeholders in the industry in achieving all the transformations going on in the industry, especially in the payment systems. “In fact, because of digitization, we must ensure that the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Telcos are on the same page with us in realising the payment systems of our dreams. The Law Enforcement Agencies have also come to realize the role and support the banks are making in the fight against fraud as such, there is the need for improved cooperation and collaboration,” Tiamiyu said.