A firm Future Females Invest (FFI), in partnership with Old Mutual Insurance Nigeria Plc, has launched a campaign entitled: Ready to Inspire, to invest in women. As part of the campaign, FFI will provide N1 million in capital seed fund or COVID-Business Recovery funding for women-led businesses, N500,000 in career development training for professional women and free coaching and mentoring for selected women. FFI said it was time to challenge the status quo, celebrate the achievements of women, and invest in them so that they could continue to make change. FFI’s co-founder Tori Abiola announced this at an event to mark this year’s World Women’s Day in Lagos. She said the campaign was in tandem with the firm’s mission to help women to achieve their potential and equality. “We are actively challenging the status quo to ensure that women are able to lead, be seen, be heard and be funded. This is in line with the United Nations Women’s theme for International Women’s Day, on March 8, 2021 (IWD 2021) as, Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world, she added. Executive Head of Marketing and Customer Experience, Alero Ladipo said the firm shared a mutual passion with FFI – to inspire more women to thrive in their businesses. ‘’We want to see more passion and talents emerging. We all want to eradicate gender inequality. We all want to inspire and economically empower thousands of Nigeria women to take control of their lives,’’ she said. She said the campaign would last one year, using role models and iconic women that would create change. Executive Head of Marketing and Customer Experience, Alero Ladipo said the firm shared a mutual passion with FFI – to inspire more women to thrive in their businesses. ‘’We want to see more passion and talents emerging. We all want to eradicate gender inequality. We all want to inspire and economically empower thousands of Nigeria women to take control of their lives,’’ she said. She said the campaign would last one year, using role models and iconic women that would create change. Executive Head of Marketing and Customer Experience, Alero Ladipo said the firm shared a mutual passion with FFI – to inspire more women to thrive in their businesses. ‘’We want to see more passion and talents emerging. We all want to eradicate gender inequality. We all want to inspire and economically empower thousands of Nigeria women to take control of their lives,’’ she said. She said the campaign would last one year, using role models and iconic women that would create change. FFI Representative, Wura Abiola said Africa has the largest population of business women. As a result, thereby making them the backbone of many families and communities. While 90 per cent of women contribute to the economy and invest 90 per cent of their income in education, health and nutrition of the family and community, only about 40 per cent of men do that. ‘’The evidence is clear: when you economically empower a woman, you empower communities and the economy,’’ she added. Executive Head of Marketing and Customer Experience, Alero Ladipo said the firm shared a mutual passion with FFI – to inspire more women to thrive in their businesses. ‘’We want to see more passion and talents emerging. We all want to eradicate gender inequality. We all want to inspire and economically empower thousands of Nigeria women to take control of their lives,’’ she said. She said the campaign would last one year, using role models and iconic women that would create change 