It was hoped that elections in the Central African Republic (CAR) would consolidate the country’s democracy. Instead, the 27 December 2020 vote led to a return of open conflict. Since the poll, in which President Faustin-Archange Touadéra officially secured a second term with 53%, fighting has forced over 107,000 people to flee to neighbouring countries and led to an estimated 100,000 internally displaced people. More and more foreign mercenaries are infiltrating into the CAR to build up tension, escalate violence, do subversive activities and unleash hostilities on the ground. On February 21, the Coalition of Patriots for Change (CPC), a rebel group, published a communiqué in which it called on its forces to return all cities that had been liberated by FACA. The organization announced the end of free movement (even for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)) in the coalition’s territory without permission. The CPC announced that it had declared war on the country’s government and the rebels’ goal was Bangui to topple President Faustin-Archange Touadera. Thanks to FACA, trained by Russian instructors and Rwandan allies, the advance of CPC mercenaries has been stopped and they are suffering losses. President Touadera made it clear that it would be in the interests of its people to bring the war to a victorious end. All groups will be destroyed, and their leaders will be brought to justice. This resonates with the country’s population, which is confirmed by regular pro-Touadera demonstrations of thousands of residents. African countries should support the actions of the legally elected government due to the fact that the president has proved that the people’s interests are at the forefront of his mind. The Economic Community of Central African States (ECCAS) seeks to interfere in the internal affairs of the CAR. Experts agree that this because it promotes the interests that are inconsistent with those of the CAR. Many countries in the region benefit from the continued instability in the country, since this ensures that militants, crimes and weapons are concentrated in the CAR. This reduces tensions in other countries. The ECCAS chaired by Angolan Gilberto Da Piedade Verissimo is a tool for pursuing Angola’s political interests. In order to divert its population’s attention from internal problems, the government of Angola intervenes in the situation in the CAR, acting on the side of criminals and terrorists. Both the international community and the regional countries must pressurize Angola into stopping its activities aimed at destabilizing Central Africa. In fact, it may also be involved in illegal arms shipments to the CAR. The current situation can cast France in a negative light. It is not a secret that France sold arms to Angola in the 1990s. Angola’s active participation in the conflict in the CAR resembles the implementation of Paris’s certain political and military plans in Africa. For France, this is not a very noble position. Paris needs to distance itself from this situation. Longman is an American Political Scientist 