The proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has dismissed as false media report alleging that its Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has altered the group’s registration documents and converted same to his private estate with his wife, Mrs. Uchechi Okwu Kanu as one of the signatories. The group alleged that the claims emanated from what it described as a faceless group and DSS-creation masquerading as Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), which it added only existed in the imagination of those behind the report. In a statement issued by the Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, the group insisted that IPOB has not effected any change in its registration documents, urging the public to disregard the report targeted at creating confusion. It maintained that IPOB remained intact under one Command led by its Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The statement read, “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our great leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu has been drawn to the ridiculous and fallacious media report that our Leader has altered the registration documents of IPOB and converted same to his private estate with his wife, Mrs. Uchechi Okwu Kanu as one of the signatories. “The stupid claims emanating from a faceless group and DSS-creation masquerading as Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND), only exists in the imagination of those behind the trash. “There is no iota of truth in the above gibberish which only confirms that the DSS has run out of ideas in its propaganda war against IPOB. Assuming but not conceding to this tissue of lies, when and how has who owns and runs IPOB become the headache of these dulards? “We thought they said IPOB is an organization of miscreants run by a lunatic? How come the Nigeria Government is suddenly beginning to lose sleep over the ownership of IPOB the assembly of miscreants? “Can these band of Efulefus (fools) supply answers to the following: What is the name of the business they said our Leaderregistered?
When was it registered? Who are the Directors of the business and their address?
Can the idiots produce a Company’s House entry to confirm their allegations?
These are jobless envious fools looking for cheap relevance with Nnamdi Kanu but they will get none. “For the sake of the gullible, may we clarify that IPOB has not effected any change in its registration documents. People should disregard this imaginary tale concocted by DSS through its amorphous group, CSEPNND to create confusion. IPOB is still intact under one command led by our indefatigable Leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “IPOB is a global movement with presence in over 120 countries. The movements runs a harmonious leadership structure in all the over 120 countries where IPOB is registered. “We, therefore, challenge the faceless CSEPNND and their sponsors to show proof of their hallucination. We also challenge the faceless, statement-issuing self- acclaimed leaders of this amorphous group – one Prof. Madumere Chika, and another robot, Anayo Uchemba, to come out and address the press if they are real. Let them also disclose their communities and address if indeed they are Igbo. “When will these faceless animals realize that we have already left Nigeria. They can move to the North if they want Nigeria. Obviously this is the type of unverified news most Efulefus would like to promote. We are smarter than all of you combined with your propoganda. Unless you are inside IPOB , you can’t write anything real about it. “We wonder why some media outfits would volunteer their platforms for such non-existent groups to be disseminating their lies. It’s more embarrassing when no efforts are made to verify the authenticity of such gibberish before publishing it. This is very belittling of the corporate image of a reputable media organisation.”