 At an investigative hearing into the 2018 audit query against the Debt Management Office (DMO) at the House of Representatives, the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) asked the Accountant General of the Federation (AGF) to furnish the House with a financial statement, on the utilisation of the N2.2 trillion revenue, accrued from foreign and domestic debts, raised by the Debt Management Office (DMO). After a longish prosecutorial exchange between the House PAC Chairman and the representative of the Director-General of DMO, the PAC chair asked the Office of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF) to forward to the House the relevant documents. This demand came after the DMO D-G’s representative had explained that N2.1 trillion represented the cost of servicing loans, secured by DMO, for the Federal Government;  and that his agency itself got allocated only N721,251,798. The PAC chair’s demand, and the DMO D-G’s response, are necessary and healthy for governance accountability. Constitutionally, PAC is a powerful legislative oversight function, which the Constitution gives Nigeria’s bi-cameral legislature.  PAC, the only parliamentary committee entrenched in the Constitution, has the power to audit the annual reports of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government, as when and necessary.  For better transparency, probity and accountability, we move that PAC uses its power more often and much promptly. Though we find PAC’s demand for additional information, on utilization of foreign and domestic debts, crucial to democratic governance, the auditing of documents in respect of the 2018 Appropriation Act, almost at end of the first quarter of 2021, is rather belated.  That speaks of a sparring use of the PAC oversight functions.  That suggests the National Assembly appears lagging in its auditing duties.  That does not bode well for public accountability and transparency. Be that as it may, we urge the AGF to speedily furnish the documents required by the House, to avoid loss of more time on such an urgent matter. It is necessary for the House of Representatives to come to a closure on this matter as soon as possible, having waited for this long — for too long.  This particular matter is of great significance, for public accountability. While commending the House for asking for additional clarifications, we urge it to deploy the constitutional tool of PAC more frequently, in the interest of transparency in the public sector. Extending this process to subnational governments, on sovereign loans guaranteed for states by the Federal Government, can also serve to provide the needed monitoring of foreign loans obtained by states.  It will be proactive if the National Assembly’s PAC  can partner with state legislatures to ensure transparency, in the use of sovereign loans, at the subnational level. Further, holding public hearings on funds that constitute about 15 per cent of the country’s current budget, should be given more enthusiasm than has been evident. Such a process should have required the presence of the DMO D-G (not a delegated subordinate).  The AGF too should be there, at the ready.  The presence and prompt response to queries, by these key accounting officers, would speed up conclusions, on such important public fund matters. Unlike other hearings in the House, citizens should be fully informed of the results of PAC hearings.  That would routinize parliamentary reporting to the people, and boost public sector probity and accountability.