The Niger State House of Assembly has directed the Committee on Education and Legislative Compliance to probe the non-release of the National Examinations Council (NECO) results of over 30,000 students who sat for the 2019/2020 Senior Secondary School Examinations (SSCE). The directive was due to the motion on a matter of urgent public importance raised by the member representing Bosso Constituency, Mallam Malik Madaki Bosso, during the plenary. The Nation had reported that over 30,000 students risked being denied admission due to their inability to access their NECO results as a result of debts owed the examination body by the state government. Bosso had told the lawmakers that the results of over 30,000 students were withheld by the NECO due to the non-payment of examination fees by the government. “Those students who sat for the National Examinations Council in 2019/2020 are yet to access their results till this moment. As a result of the withholding of their results by NECO, the affected students risk forfeiting their admission into higher institutions of learning for two years,” he said. Bosso also expressed worry that  the non-indigent students who had paid for their fees had their results being withheld because the money they paid was not remitted to the examination’s body by the state ministry of education. The legislators asked the Assembly to mandate the committee on education and legislative compliance to investigate the non-release of the results of the affected students without delay. The member representing Mokwa constituency, Mallam Shaba Gbara, said the assembly will not fold its hands and allow some  individuals to mess up the entire state. He urged  the legislators to look into the case as a matter of urgency. Speaker of the Assembly, Hon.  Bawa Wuse directed the House Committee on Education and  Legislative Compliance  to investigate the matter and submit its report within a  week. In a related development, students whose results were being withheld by the National Examinations Council (NECO) protested at the NECO headquarters,  while the National Association of Niger State Students (NANISS) has  given the state government one week to address the issues regarding the non-release of NECO results or risk shut down of government offices in the state. The students numbering over 100 had stormed NECO headquarters complaining the non-release of their results. They said  they should have been considered by the examination body, despite debts being owed by the state government. The NANISS National President, Musa Mohammed, said  they were giving the government and NECO one week to release the results  or the students  or they would lock down the state starting from the government house. Mohammed said  many  prospective students had not been able to gain  admission in  tertiary institutions of their choice. “We are giving the state government and NECO an ultimatum to Friday to address this problem or we will shut down the state and NECO headquarters,” he said. 