 Considering other bigwigs in the PDP ticket race, are you banking on the zoning arrangement being clamoured for? I live in Anambra State. I am aware of all that is associated with our immediate environment. I think I have the capacity to contest for the election with other contestants. I am in the race not because of zoning even though I am from the South Senatorial Zone. A lot of the aspirants are good. But most of them don’t know the political terrain of Anambra State. Some that know have some bottlenecks to pass through. I can match them with everything. I have been in this political environment since 2012. I have traversed the nooks and crannies of Anambra State with the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) that metamorphosed to APC. You can recall I was with them and contested same governorship poll in the party. So, there is nothing to fear. There is nobody that is coming out of the election that has more knowledge of our environment than myself. They all have their experiences and strengths. But if things are done in the way they should, all the aspirants will be weighed accordingly to see what they can offer. I believe none of them is to be feared. Only challenge is that the situation of things in this country is always different. Rating of candidates should be on capacity and not what the person has. This is very sad to our society. It is not doing anybody any good. I’ve traversed Anambra State since 2012 to date. I am a grassroots man. Nzam, Igbokenyi, Inoma, and other communities in riverine areas can tell you my worth. I have been with them not as a politician, but as a social entrepreneur. So, whether the governorship seat is zoned or not, I will still run for the election and the outcome is going to be good. So, it is not zoning that brought me to the poll. Again, each political party should work according to their constitution. Some say they are part of zoning, some said they are not. They should do what they believe in. So, who actually is Mr. Godwin Ezeemo? He is an entrepreneur, publisher, businessman, philanthropist and farmer. Godwin Ezeemo has been living in Anambra State since 2012. About 90 percent of his businesses are in Anambra State. Among them is Orient Group of companies, comprising Life Table water, Orient Farms, Orient Daily Newspapers, Orient Printing Press, among others. This is your third attempt to govern Anambra State. What makes you think it will work out now? I am very optimistic that I will be in Agu-Awka (Government House) on March 17, 2022. This is because of structures I have in place. The structure I have now is stronger than what I had  before. The structure I had when I contested under the PPA in 2013 was the one that I left APC with me. You can’t compare them to the structures I have now; which is PDP. PDP is a strong political party. Anambra State is running a two or three party system. PDP has a solid foundation and structure in Anambra.  And nothing will stop me and the party from winning the election. But I want to remind you that in everything we do, we put God first. He is the reason why we are here. If the Almighty blesses you, no one can stop you. Some analysts say you play a different type of politics, are you continuing with the same style in this race? My type of politics is exactly the type I will always play. It is  decent politics. If anybody emerges as a governor of a state out of indecent politics, it will not pay the state good. When you get it wrongly, it will definitely affect society. But when things are done the way they should, people will rejoice. If things are done accordingly, I will emerge in a good way. I am not coming to do a shoddy job. I am coming to do a job that will ensure a strong foundation somewhere in this state. We want Anambra State to be the first world state. Just note that if the bad system throws you in, you won’t do anything differently. PDP has confirmed there won’t be any impunity in the primary. Impunity has been the bane of the party in the state. But they have assured that things would be done accordingly. I have confidence that they will match their words with action. If it happens, they wouldn’t be any problem. If your party leadership tells some aspirants to step down given the number of contenders in the race, would you subscribe to it? If that must happen, it should be a mutual understanding between the aspirants. We (the aspirants) always hold meetings. If we decide by ourselves to allow anyone to go, it won’t be a problem because in politics, one needs to be an apprentice for some time to study and understand the terrain. It is not what you should jump in as a green horn. Those who can do it as green horns and expect better results are those being sponsored by an incumbent governor. I have been in the system. So, it is not what the party should decide for us. If they do that, it is no longer democracy. The aspirants should be allowed to do that if need be. No one would love to go into a contest he would waste resources in. Where is your strength in this race? My strength is in God. I won’t disclose my strategy to you. Everyone has his or her strategy. It is not what I should make public. Do you consider what you have done in Anambra State as advantage over other aspirants? What I have done in Anambra State is purely a desire from my heart. It was not to please anyone. I thought within myself not to spend all my time in Uk. I decided to come home to contribute in developing my state. Anambra State does not need to appreciate me for that. They could have done road construction. But I built my road and others. They don’t need to appreciate me; those things are for our people also. Have you sat down to calculate what it has caused you in the past nine years, pushing for this project? If you have a burden or passion for something, nothing will stop you from doing more. It may cost you more until you achieve the goal. Nelson Mandela fought for liberation of South Africa till it was achieved not minding what he was provided to back out of the struggle. I am like somebody leaving a country where milk and honey flows to a place where I can invest and contribute to its development. I made the choice. There is no going back. It is true that some Nigeria politicians are not sincere. But I won’t be discouraged.