SIR: Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho is among the persons that are involved in one way or other with Nigeria’s current security concerns. Although a rather new entrant to the scene, he is more or less a household name in the southwest today.  He was catapulted into the limelight by the unilateral ultimatum  he gave to Fulani herdsmen to quit Igangan, a community in Oyo State after the residents allegedly complained of being ‘terrorized’ by them. He has since extended his fight against the herdsmen to other parts of the southwest. In all, he insists that his fight is against “killer” herdsmen.  He says his mission is to rid the southwest of killer herdsmen, free the Yoruba race from the shackles of slavery, injustice and to engender good governance. Igboho is right to feel emotionally pained especially as there has been no solution to the issue with reports of farmers (community)/herders’ clashes in the region continuing with growing casualties. Because of perceived lukewarm attitude  of the authorities in tackling the problem, Igboho now took it upon himself to lead some people to halt the alleged atrocities of the herdsmen his own way; by flushing them out from the forests and their places of abodes. Expectedly, his (action) has led to other actions, reactions, counter reactions, etc., some of whose negative effects we are still experiencing till-date and which closure by way of healing would take a rather long while. As a saying goes, it is easier to destroy than to build. In all of these, the governors and traditional rulers in the southwest seem to have been reactive. I mean there have not been concrete actions to broker enduring peace among the fighting groups by tackling root cause of the problem. Yes, the governors met some time ago and banned open grazing in their states. But an association of cattle dealers (MACBAN) has kicked against this, stating that it is not practicable. None of them appear to have sat down with Igboho or called him over to proffer another way to approach the fundamental issue. I gather that some view him as someone with whom they would dine with a long spoon, but this is a matter that requires all hands to be on deck for a beneficial solution. The governors should remember that part of the reason Igboho took matters into his own hands is because the issue has been lingering without the governments being able to do anything tangible to nip it in the bud. Suspects are yet to be prosecuted several months after their arrests.  Justice must always be seen to be done to dispel speculations of favouritism and sacred cows. And now following on the footsteps of Igboho, the OPC that had seemingly been on recess has woken up and also taken it upon itself to go fish out and arrest “the most wanted criminal in Ibarapa land” alleged to be Iskilu Wakilu. He was handed over to the police. But the police also detained the OPC members because according to them, they allegedly committed murder and arson in the process of effecting Wakili’s arrest. Latest reports say they have been released. There is also unconfirmed but widely reported news that Wakili’s son allegedly ‘killed’ some people since the arrest of his father. Needless to state that tension is brewing anew in Oyo State. It should be noted that war is sweet only to the ears of those who have not experienced it. All  those directly and indirectly involved in this matter, including civil society groups, cultural organisations, traditional and faith-based institutions, opinion leaders, etc., should come together to deliberate on a viable option out of this growing quagmire which if not handled with wisdom could engulf the whole country. Self-help is no solution because of its cyclical effects.