 Stakeholders have demanded the report of the investigation by the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) on the recent barge accident which occurred along KLT/Mile 2/Maza Maza water channel where over N500 million worth of electronics in six 40ft containers sank. The stakeholders, which comprises six groups, noted that the accident was caused by the negligence  of the government agencies saddled with licensing, regulation and supervision of barges. The President, Shippers’ Association, Lagos State (SALS), Dr. Jonathan Nicol, who spoke on behalf of groups, said proper licensing and regulation of the barge and jetty operators and its related operations could not be over emphasised. He added that it is criminal attending to regulatory obligations with gross nonchallant and negligence or without utmost good faith at all times. According to Nicol, “It has been reported that over one million TEUs and more than 10,000 trucks have been moved via barges in the last three years. Agreeably, it could be said that in the recent times, without the intervention of barge operations amid the reported ailing port congestion, chaotic port access roads, the corrupt practices therein among others, the port situation would have been compounded. “Notwithstanding the prevalent situation, it is not a leeway or a suggestion that barge operations should thrive on the premise of carefree and negligence nor professionalism jettisoned nor operational abuses, impurities, high handedness condoned or regulatory obligations compromised at will,” he said. He noted that the association has established the following: many unlicensed and unregulated operators in the barge sector, regulatory negligence and lapses, non-compliance to standards, interagency supremacy tussle caused by overlapping functions of the regulators and absence of a standby emergency rapid salvage rescue team during accidents or emergencies. “In this case, stakeholders folded their hands and watched helplessly as the containers drifted into the bottom deep. To sum it up, there was no cohesive, restructured and practicable regulatory architecture for the barge operations prior to the commencement of barge/jetty operations, whereby professionalism, safety and security concerns was never a driving force rather profit making is the core driving force. “At this juncture, we imagine the huge loss and pains the cargo owners are going through on an operational hazard that is avoidable but because someone sitting on an executive position allowed administrative laxity to thrive in a delicate and sensitive industry engagements. In a sane environment, someone would have voluntarily resigned from office for failing in his duties but it is not so in an atmosphere where corrupt practices thrives and even the perpetrators go unpunished or unsanctioned rather, they are celebrated and reckoned with in operation,” Nicol said. He therefore demanded for compensation for the cargo owners, stating that the situation leading to the loss of cargo is not theirs. “The operational arrangement was skewed against them, the non-firm supervision and monitoring by the agencies of the government is not their fault as they relied on the leadership to safeguard their investment. Regulatory objectives and administration failed them. The three agencies mentioned for their overlapping functions are under one control and ministry, Ministry of Transport. We therefore request Ministry of Transport to direct for the immediate compensation for all losses incurred by the affected shippers. “We demand that the heads of the three agencies vested with these regulatory responsibilities namely; NPA, NIWA and NIMASA should resign forthwith. Above all, the transport ministry should step up its supervisory roles in the port operations.”