 The aggrieved staff of Wema Bank may soon heave a sigh of relief as the allegations against one of the senior staff of the bank is now being investigated. The bank in a memo issued March 2, 2021, expressed its willingness to look into the complaints of staff against one of the heads of the department of the bank. The top management staff who assumed office in 2019, was alleged to have verbally abused a female staff on Wednesday 24th February for over one hour. The woman was also said to have cried hysterically while absorbing the abuse before she eventually collapsed.  “The woman was taken by staff of the banks to R. Jolad Hospital Gbagada, Lagos, where she was immediately placed on admission. According to the source, “the hospital had to refer her for a psychiatrist evaluation when she temporarily regained her consciousness. The psychiatrist who expressed the huge impact of the emotional trauma on her advised her to resign.” The case was reported to the management. Reacting to the allegations, the management of Wema Bank on Tuesday March 2, issued, a memo titled: ‘Wema Bank investigating allegation of verbal abuse’ which was signed by, Head of Brand and Marketing Communication, Funmilayo Falola, the banks said while it respects and upholds the rights and dignity of all members of staff,  it is investigating the  allegations. “Our attention has been drawn to allegations of verbal abuse levelled against a staff of Wema Bank on social media, allegedly following some information from staff. “At Wema bank, our staff are our most valued asset and we treasure them greatly. Equity, fairness and mutual respect are the gold standard of our practice, operations and relations with both internal and external stakeholders at Wema Bank. These are firmly rooted in our values spanning over 75 years of existence. “We respect and uphold the rights and dignity of all members of staff, irrespective of their age, gender or position in our organisation. Their contributions to the growth of the business and success of our customers across all our business touchpoint of interest are of immense value. “Wema Bank assures all our stakeholders that the issue which was already being investigated at the highest level of the organization will receive appropriate redress that will be comforting to the affected parties. We nevertheless thank our stakeholders for their patience as we conclude our investigation.” 