 Greenwich Merchant Bank Limited has appointed Mr. Bayo Rotimi as its new Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer. Rotimi, an investment banker with over 27 years experience previously worked at Fountain Trust Merchant Bank, Lead Merchant Bank, and FCMB Capital Markets Limited. He was the CEO  of  FCMB Capital Markets Limited. before leaving to establish his own boutique investment banking firm. A 1990  Economics  graduate of  the University of Lagos and 1992 University of Sheffield, UK alumnus, he  was  until recently, the Chairman of the Investment Committee of ARM’s Discovery Aggressive Growth, Ethical, Money Market, Fixed Income, and Eurobond Funds with over N110 billion under its management. Rotimi  has over the years led the execution of numerous landmark transactions cutting across corporate finance, capital raising (debt, equities, and hybrids), and financial advisory services (mergers & acquisitions, corporate restructuring, privatisation advisory, and project finance). He is a member of the Institute of Directors; Associate of the Certified Pension Institute; Member, of Chartered Institute of Bankers, and Member of the Advisory Board of the Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) of the Pan Atlantic University. He teaches Strategic Planning at the EDC and actively supports its Experts-in-Residence programme that mentors emerging businesses. Rotimi  was an external member of  Faculty at the Lagos Business School between 2009 and 2013. He also continues to serve on various market development-focused committees inaugurated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to facilitate the development of the financial markets. Chairman, Greenwich Merchant Bank, Kayode Falowo, said:  “Rotimi’s track record and pedigree speaks for itself and offers a reassuring nexus between the corporate ideals that Greenwich is reputed for and proactive dynamism required to stay on the cutting-edge of innovation, product development, and stakeholder satisfaction.” According to Falowo,  Rotimi will provide leadership and direction to the management team and be responsible for driving the company’s overall strategic objectives and operational performance towards delivering optimal value for stakeholders in line with global best practice.