 EKiti State Governor  Kayode Fayemi, his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi and some frontline health workers yesterday received the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. Fayemi received a dose of the vaccine administered by the Commissioner for Health and Human Services, Dr Oyebanji  Filani. His Wife, Erelu Bisi Fayemi; Speaker of the House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye and a representative of the State Council of Traditional Rulers/ Attah of Aiyede-Ekiti, Oba Abdulmumin Orisagbemi and some residents also received the vaccine at a brief ceremony, at Fajuyi Pavillion, Ado-Ekiti. The Permanent Secretary of Hospital Management Board and COVID 19 Case Management Lead, Dr Williams Afolabi became the first health worker in the state to receive the vaccine. Governor Fayemi said his administration had put in place measures to ensure residents had access to the vaccine, and know that it was safe. He said Ekiti was one of the states which strengthened  its testing capacity by procuring a Molecular Laboratory in addition to mobilising eminent people under the Rapid Response Mobilisation Committee (RRMC), to raise $3 million for critical infrastructure in the fight against the pandemic. The governor urged residents to disregard unfounded theories about the efficacy and effects of the vaccines, saying “we should not introduce unnecessary sentiments to the health and well-being of our people for whatever reasons. “The availability of COVID-19 vaccines and its global distribution is a development that should gladden the hearts of all of us. The vaccines have been stress-tested, with clinical trials conducted to guarantee its safety for humans. ‘’Our own NAFDAC has also subjected the vaccines to multiple tests and analysis and affirmed that they are not injurious in any form to the people. This explains why the vaccines have been made available to Nigerians to fight this killer disease.”, he said. Commissioner for Health and Human Services Dr. Banji Filani said Risk Communications officials were being trained to tackle misinformation across the 16 councils ahead of the rollout of the vaccines in Ekiti. “Dr. Williams Mobolaji Afolabi, COVID-19  Case Management Pillar Lead / permanent secretary of Hospital Management Board became the first health worker in Ekiti State to receive the vaccine right after the principal officers. The vaccination campaign is designed in phases to ensure equitable access to the vaccine across the entire state, while prioritising our frontline health workers”, said Filani.