  The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has tactically opted to delay its decision on which of the six geopolitical zones will clinch its presidential ticket in 2023. This, according to party sources, is to avoid a “hasty and costly error.” There are strong indications that the outcome of the PDP National Convention will determine the shape of its zoning formula. The tenure of the current National Working Committee (NWC), led by Prince Uche Secondus, terminates on December 9, 2021. But it was learnt yesterday that some former PDP governors and party leaders are backing Secondus for a second term. They believe Secondus has improved the fortunes of the party by taking its control of states to 15 from the 10 he inherited on assuming office. But some governors, including Nyesom Wike who masterminded his emergence, may not support the return of Secondus’ NWC team. Wike recently wrote off the NWC as non-performing. According to investigation by our correspondent, the opposition party is still busy doing its homework and permutations on how to defeat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2023. One of the calculations is the decision to allow the present NWC run its term in full till December. It was gathered that PDP leaders felt it is better to “keep the party stable” before the National Convention. A top source who spoke with The Nation said PDP had not taken any decision on whether to zone its presidential ticket to the North or the South. The source said: “So far, PDP has not made up its mind on which zone will bear its presidential flag in 2023. “We are being tactical in delaying this crucial decision because of ongoing consultations with founding fathers and leaders. “A lot of permutations are being done in order to unseat APC in 2023.  “We felt it will be hasty to unfold our zoning formula. “Even some zones have not decided on what they will actually want in 2023. “For instance, some PDP leaders are making a case for the chairmanship slot for the Southwest with a former governor on the radar. Others from the zone have sought the presidency. If the chairmanship slot shifts to the Southwest, the zone is ruled out of the presidential ticket. “Some leaders from the North are seeking the slot for any of the three zones in the North. With President Muhammadu Buhari, a Northerner, being in power for eight years, we have to do fresh calculations if it is worth taking a risk on a Northern candidate. “A few leaders are concerned about the unity of Nigeria and they are weighing options on mobilising support for a credible candidate from the Southeast in order to repeat the winning formula which brought ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo to power in 1999. “Again, PDP is watching development closely in APC despite recent defection of some PDP stalwarts to the ruling party.” Responding to a question, the source admitted that the PDP was being managed and piloted towards the National Convention. The source added: “Our main preoccupation is to stabilise the party ahead of our National Convention in December and do some house cleaning in preparation for the next election.” At press time, PDP leaders were divided on whether or not to retain Secondus-led NWC. Findings confirmed that most members of the NWC are interested in renewing their mandate in December. Some ex-governors and leaders of the party are queuing behind Secondus’ team. It was gathered that Secondus is also being backed by a former President of the Senate and most of the 36 state chairmen of PDP and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Another source said: “It is going to be a battle royale at the national convention because based on performance, some of our leaders are of the opinion that he did well having inherited 10 states and moved our figure to 15 states in the 2019 presidential election. “When he assumed office, he met only N5 million in the party’s over 50 accounts. As I talk to you, most of the 50 accounts are under garnishee by lawyers we are owing. It was Secondus’ NWC ingenuity that has sustained PDP so far. “We will lay all the cards on the table at the convention.” The source said a major challenge is the presidential aspiration of some governors. The source said: “There is no way Secondus will remain PDP national chairman if Wike emerges either the presidential or vice presidential candidate of our party. “So, his anger against the NWC of Secondus is politically expedient for him. He has to give the dog a bad name in order to hang it. “Some governors with presidential ambition are desperate to hijack the party with huge state resources at their disposal. But this game is not as straightforward as they are thinking.”