 SystemSpecs has called for applications to its Children’s Day Essay Competition. The provider of Remita, Paylink and HumanManager made this known. Themed “Building a more secure Nigeria using technology”, entries are to be submitted through the competition portal. The competition is open to children who school and live in Nigeria and are not less than nine years and not older than 16 by May 26, 2021. While entries into the junior category are for children between nine and 12 and should not exceed 1,000 words, entries into the senior category are for children between 13 and 16 and with a maximum of 1,500 words. Entries must be participants’ original ideas written in English, and endorsed by an accredited school official, parent or guardian. “It is our belief that a solid technology foundation is necessary for any nation to compete and thrive in contemporary times. The competition’s objective is therefore to stimulate and encourage young Nigerians to become more technologically aware, so they can intuitively consider technology as a natural response to addressing everyday challenges around them,” said Deremi Atanda, Executive Director, SystemSpecs.  The first winners of the competition will receive a laptop, a headphone, monthly 10 gigabyte Internet data for one year, branded travel suite case, a unique keepsake hoodie, a thermal flask and school bag. Second place winners  would also  get a laptop, a  headphone, monthly five gigabyte Internet data for one year, a trendy hoodie, a thermal flask and school bag. The third-place winners in each category would respectively receive a high performance tablet, a headphone, a branded hoodie, a thermal flask and school bag while top 10 Honour Roll winners in each category would also be handsomely rewarded and certified. Similarly, the school that produces the top winning participants in junior and senior categories would be rewarded with 10 and 15 high-capacity personal computers respectively. “The SystemSpecs Children’s Day Essay Competition is another expression of SystemSpecs’ Corporate Social Responsibility which has over the past couple of years been focused on raising a new generation of tech-enabled Nigerians to lead the country to become one where the benefits of technology easily becomes an everyday reality,” Atanda added.