By your role and positions with a history dating back hundred years, the people trust you implicitly and in return, you provide them with comfort and guidance in accordance with our cultural heritage and traditions. ”You are the bridge builders in each of your communities. No one is better placed with your strength of moral authority to ensure that people who visit your communities for either business, leisure or any honest and credible reason are protected and made to feel at home -President Buhari One thing is obvious, when traditional rulers had the mandate and official responsibility to administer their places before the local government reforms of 1976, I think our security situation was better because our security architecture included them. “That is not the situation today, and when we face such very profound security situation that we have today, it is time to look at giving traditional rulers more formal responsibilities in the administration of our country -Senate President Lawan Whether we like it or not, in Nigeria, we fundamentally rely on traditional institutions. They are essential to security and if they do not carry the kind of authority they ought to, we cannot recalibrate the entire political structure. Leave out our traditional rulers, you will begin to see all kinds of leaders of various sects filling the vacuum because their traditional rulers have been taken away from what they are supposed to do and coordinate. It is not to give people traditional titles alone. Traditional rulers must be fully engaged to support our efforts -National Security Adviser Monguno The foregoing words of appreciation from the President, the Senate President, and the National Security Adviser represent growing concerns by major state actors in our federal republic about festering insecurity in many parts of the country. More specifically, the high degree of warmth between traditional rulers and democratic or elected rulers expressed in the quotations overleaf will warm the hearts of all categories of traditional rulers and their admirers. On the contrary, the new love between leaders of traditional rule and democratic polity are likely to welcome the call for the-whole-of-society plus the-whole-of-government approach to current threats to security in the land while at the same time raising concerns about the impact of the rush to constitutionalize the role of traditional rulers by finding new roles in democratic governance for our emirs, oba, obi, and obong across the country. Undoubtedly, urging traditional rulers to get involved in a whole-of-society approach to solving the problem of insecurity in the country is on the mark. Like other citizens in the republic, traditional rulers have more reasons than ordinary citizens to show visible enthusiasm about intelligence gathering, given that traditional rulers have their own culture of finding and apprehending intelligence through the crowd of people that attend to them, in addition to the fact that the safety of traditional rulers generally depend on security in the entire country. But the zeal of government leaders to find new roles of direct state actors in our young democracy requires to be tempered with some patience and not before tabling a thorough discussion of such move by the federal republic’s plural constituencies. Already, naming our country a federal republic is for many reasons an exaggeration. When our founding fathers negotiated for independence, they were preoccupied primarily with seeing the back of the colonialists and seeing the faces of people like them (as believers in the values of democratic culture) in power. Hence, little thought went into calling the country a republic three years after independence. Yes, doing so in 1973 brought some relief to young democratic minds that were averse to being under the canopy of any brand of royalty, about which they had sang “God save our gracious king or queen…” with all the reluctance or Takiyya that went with that in the hey days of colonialism. Consequently, we went into republicanism with some of the baggage of Indirect Rule. British colonialists from Frederick Lugard down found advantage in the policy of Indirect Rule, a system that allowed them to use the natives and their ‘inferior’ institutions to do the heavy lifting part of the colonial project while raking huge profits into the colonial purse. They put their men in posts that created laws and policies to circumscribe the lives of the people while leaving administration of the natives at the local government level in the hands of emirs, oba, and in communities without precolonial form of feudal heritage—full like in the north or half-full like in the south. For example, the colonialists left the responsibility of tax collection, maintenance of public order, internal security and protective intelligence in the hands of traditional rulers. This, on the part of colonialists, was despite the constant messaging of the self-imposed task of bringing civilization including democratization to the natives across Africa and Asia. Of course, leaving local administration at the grassroots level in the hands of indigenous feudalists of diverse horsepower in many parts of Africa gave pleasure to traditional rulers and profit to colonialists. But the focus of today’s piece is not about advantages and disadvantages of Indirect Rule, but on why elected leaders of the Federal Republic of Nigeria should not return traditional rulers to the role they were made to pay under Lugard and his successors, until citizens that still welcome them are given the opportunity to indicate through a referendum. As the current crop of elected leaders contemplate appointing traditional rulers as co-state actors in the governance of the country in the 21st century and at a time that the youths of the country (aka leaders of tomorrow) are gravitating fast in the direction of democratic governance or classical republican rule, it is necessary for such matter to be placed before citizens at the level of each local government in which traditional rulership operates. Currently, voting remains crucial for republicanism, ‘belief in a government in which political power resides in a body of citizens entitled to vote and is exercised by elected officers and representatives responsible to the people who voted them to govern over them and govern according to the laws enshrined in the constitution agreed to by majority of the people.’ The reason why the country’s founding fathers did not, after struggling for self-government and full independence, transfer the political power passed to them to traditional rulers and opted for a duly negotiated republican constitution in 1973 should not be overlooked under the pressure of the current wave of insecurity in the land. Doing so may increase the federation’s over-discussed fault lines, especially the conflict between the federation’s democrats and feudalists.  Traditional rulers are by no means products of democratic elections, which is the raison d’etre of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Across Nigeria, traditional rulers are selected, rather than elected. Even though such selections are determined largely by divine forces, they are still not chosen directly by the people as it is invariably the case with republicanism. In addition, the sanctions that can constrain excessive traditional rulers are not sufficiently secular to be enforced as and when needed readily across the many traditional political cultures in the federation. The country’s professional historians are still wrestling with the unsavoury precolonial relations between many categories of traditional rulers and the people, especially during the two slave trades that preceded the colonial enterprise: the classical Arab and the European human trafficking. It is too soon to push the country’s political culture in the direction of the country’s feudal past. Adopting a whole-of-society approach to security is the right way to go, but the country in its diversity needs a richer discussion and debate, before bringing traditional rulers into modern governance, if the federation is to avoid putting the federation’s republican status at risk. 