National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, on Friday passed a vote of confidence on the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, describing him as a prodigy who has proved worthy of the confidence reposed in him to lead the state. Tinubu praised the governor and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Kadiri Hamzat, for bringing the state back from the brink of crisis occasioned by the COVID-19 and EndSARS violence and for steadying the ship of the state. Tinubu spoke at Pen Cinema, where he inaugurated the 1.4km long Pen-Cinema flyover bridge. He was accompanied by Sanwo-Olu; Hamzat; the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Mudashiru Obasa; traditional rulers led by Oba of Lagos, Oba Riliwan Akiolu, represented by the white cap chiefs led by Chief Ajayi Bembe; lawmakers; members of the state executive council; local government chairmen of Agege and Role Agege LCDA, and a host of party chieftains led by the state chairman of APC, Tunde Balogun. He said: “I thank all leaders of the APC for believing in us when we put these two men down for election. I told you that the two are sure banker, and today, they have proved to us all that they are trustworthy. “They have been moving the state forward. They have been actualising the dream of a prosperous and progressive state. I thank them.” He urged the people of Agege and all Lagosians to make good use of the fly-over bridge, which he said had come to redefine and renew the Agege environs. He praised the people, especially market women and the youths, for their support all through the period of the project. He urged the youths especially to continue to support and promote peace and unity and to continue to partner the government, which he said will continue to work in making life more abundant for them. Tinubu also urged the youth to shun violence and destruction of infrastructure. The Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon Mudashiru Obasa, said the bridge is a product of the cooperation between the legislature and the executive arm of government. He said he had moved a motion for the construction of the bridge in 2017, and when he assumed office in the eighth Assembly, he again moved the same motion, which was thereafter included in the 2018 budget. He thanked the government for sustaining and executing the project, describing it as one of the fruits of democracy and quality representation of the people. Declaring the project open, Governor Sanwo-Olu said when he assumed office on May 29, 2019, the project was less than 20 per cent complete, adding that he was happy to be handing over a world class project barely 648 days in office. He said the government would continue to work on transportation initiatives aimed at improving the travel experience of Lagosians. Espousing more ideas to ease traffic congestion, Sanwo-Olu said: “The government will work on expanding the road network from Ojodu Berger on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway all the way to Ogba and to Fagba and also Agege, reducing travel time all the way from the expressway to about 15 minutes to Agege.” Sanwo-Olu said he is committed to improving the wellbeing of youths within the Agege neighbourhood, adding that not only has the government approved another youth assembly for Agege, but will soon bring a more robust youth empowerment scheme to the people. Speaking earlier, the Special Adviser to the governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye, said the government had delivered over 1,000 road networks since it assumed office, even as she said that more roads would be inaugurated in the coming weeks in government’s commitment to improving movements within the state. She described the new bridge as the longest in the state, stretching from Oba Ogunji to Alfa Nla, around Oke Koto, in Agege. House Committee Chairman on Works and Infrastructure, Hon. Tobun, praised the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration for bringing the bridge to a successful completion. The bridge spans the intersections of Old Abeokuta Road, Railway Corridor and Iju-Isaga Road, and terminates near the entrance gate of Ijaiye Low Cost Housing Estate on the Oba-Ogunji Road. It is designed to convey traffic from Oba-Ogunji Road into Old Abeokuta Road, and towards Abule Egba through the ramp across Railway Corridor.