Chief Executive Officer BukkyKoga Bukonla Ifedayo Esan has offered advice on how entrepreneurs can succeed in a tough business climate like Nigeria’s. An entrepreneur, she said, must take risks and aim for success based on clear vision. “I have an idea of how it will be in the future before the goal is achieved,” the brand influencer and fashion stylist stated. Successful entreprenuers, the founder of @gkglamevents and @bkglam1 popularly known as BukkyKoga, explained must embrace concentration, discipline and knowledge. She said they must also keep a positive outlook to life and situations. “If we concentrate on the negatives, if we allow our decisions to be motivated by fear, then our truth might be of pain and anger. “The fear of the unknown destroyed too many people who were supposed to become successful entrepreneurs. I faced so many obstacles when I started thinking about becoming an entrepreneur, one of which is fear, as I said earlier.” She added: “Some entrepreneurs have a well-structured plan and strategy, they are concentrated and focused but because of fear and criticism, they could not accomplish the dream. “Stay concentrated and nothing can stop you from trying not only assuming the bold move in working towards the plan. “Most entrepreneurs have also struggled because they don’t know where to concentrate, just as you see an entrepreneur in the same stock who is in clothing and wears and also perishable products. “We should be mindful of where our priority is put. What we are focusing on is an option. It will help us to establish clarity of perception by determining what we will concentrate on.” She called for patience, stating it a key factor to business owners. “I remember it did not produce what I expected for many years when I started my business, but I was patient, positive and I remained centered. “Thank God for where I am today, not like today’s entrepreneurs if they don’t get what they want in months they adjust to something else. I wonder why they can’t be patient.” According to her, becoming wealthy is as simple as doing nothing. “If you want to live in poverty, that’s easy. Simply make no effort at all, and you are likely to end up there. To be prosperous, on the other hand, takes a lot of focus and effort,” she stated.