 Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) resumed academic activities on January 18, 2021, following the directive of the Federal Government that schools should resume. However, it shut down again  for an extended period as a result of the Dangote trailer accident, which occurred beside the school’s gate, claiming the lives of students and residents. Upon reopening, the school released a circular, stating that postponed examinations would commence on February 24, till  March 24 in compliance with COVID-19 protocols. However, with examinations in progress, the electricity supply to the campus has become epileptic. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that when students are in their hostels, both on the campus and off-campus, they don’t enjoy electricity. But when they leave  for lectures, then the distribution company restores electricity which, according to them, is useless. According to those who live off-campus,they  don’t enjoy electricity at all and the BEDC officials always come with outrageous bills at the end of the month and failure to pay leads to  disconnection. However, a  group was created  on WhatsApp by the AAUA President of the Senate, Amodu Oluwafemi Abiola, and the AAUA SU President, Obagunwa Oluwasegun. On the group named “No To Poor Electricity In Akungba”, students expressed  grievances over the poor power supply and it was agreed that they  would go to the Benin Electricity Distribution Company office to complain. Thus,  students led by the AAUA SUG President went to the BEDC office at Akungba, and later moved to their division at Ikare to find out the  cause of poor electricity supply, particularly with exams in full swing.  Students react Students who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE noted that the issue of poor power supply has been recurring, even before the COVID-19 pandemic struck. However,they want authorities to look into it because it is seriously affecting their studies. Adeyemi Tiwalade, a Political Science student, said:”For every action, there is always a cause. The poor power is really affecting us.vBut we t don’t have a way to channel our voices and take appropriate action. We were inspired when a Mass Communication student, Baba Sade(a former AAUA SUG Presidential Aspirant) took to a WhatsApp platform to show his displeasure as regards how AAUAites are writing exams and the electricity distribution refused to restore electricity. With other students we marched to the BEDC office in protest.” Olorundare Tomiwa Emmanuel, a 200-Level student in the Department of Fishery decried the insensitivity of the BEDC officials with exams in progress. “That’s an act of wickedness and injustice because they know that students need  electricity for different purposes. What they love is to  come at the end of the month to collect money for electricity we didn’t use,” he said. Similarly, Sèyífunmi Francis Adéosun,  a 200-Level Law student, and one of the protesters,  noted that the protest  was imperative, particularly during this time of their examination. He said: “It is nothing other than an  unfortunate situation we have found ourselves. During the long break, I was around all through and I can say categorically that I stayed because of electricity I enjoyed. As a matter of fact, I was always updating on the various groups how stable power supply was. Unfortunately, immediately students resumed, it became terrible.What could be more heartbreaking? The management of BEDC increased their charges by almost 100 per cent. Despite that, we are paying, so why are we not enjoying the services we are paying for? “We are in exam period, we need light to read and do other things. Particularly, the heat in the past few days has been very unbearable coupled with the fact that there is scarcity of fuel,” he said. Adeyemi Ifeoluwa, a Biochemistry student said:  “It is high time we got the benefits of what we are paying for. They cannot just bring high bills at the end of the month and expect students to pay when they don’t even enjoy light  the way they should enjoy it. When  we are not in school, the light was very constant, but once we  resume or  towards the examination period as experienced now,then things go awry. They may tell you the transformer is faulty. It ought not to be so as this is a university community and students constitute the largest population here in the Akungba community.”  How SUG intervened The Student Union President,Obagunwa Oluwasegun expressed his displeasure on the electricity issue adding that dialogue with the electricity distribution company was necessary. “The issue of lack of electricity in Akungba is  saddening. It is important for a man to benefit from what he’s paying for. “We are  not happy with the current lack of electricity most especially in an exam period like this. Electricity is one of the most relevant amenities every citizen needs to enjoy. “It is very thoughtful of us to protest against any form of oppression.The union being the mouth piece of the students is committed towards protecting the interests of her students. “We are not happy with the situation.   We  have contacted the management of the BEDC and we will hold an emergency meeting with them,” he said. The General Secretary  of the Union   Joel   Taiwo said: “I was in Akungba throughout the lockdown and I must confess that the major thing that made me stay in Akungba then was the electricity, it was very constant. Unfortunately, we are  deprived of the electricity  now that we need it most. We’ve contacted the BEDC headquarters in Benin and the manager here in Akungba and there will be  a meeting with the Students’Union to address the situation, so  we expect a change as soon as possible.” However,  the SUG Executives led by Obagunwa Oluwasegun went  to the BEDC office at Ikare alongside other students and gave officials 30 minutes to restore electricity.  BEDC Management restores electricity Following the complaints of students and the intervention of the Students’ Union by going to the BEDC office, the officials of BEDC acceded to their demands and restored electricity. An official of the electricity distribution company said: “The students came to our office in a peaceful manner.They laid out their complaints which we looked  into. Immediately, we took action  because it is their right to enjoy what they are paying for. As I speak to you now, the light has been restored to the university community and there is nothing to worry about anymore.”  Praise for Students Union Adeyemi Ifeoluwa of the Biochemistry Department lauded the SU executives for their being proactive and for dedication to students welfare. “This is the best and hard-working executives I have ever seen  in  this school.They respond to every situation in the best way they can without resorting to violence. They are truly the leaders we need. After  the SU President gave the BEDC officials 30 minutes to restore electricity, it was done. It  shows the power of the union,” he said. In the same vein, Sèyífunmi Francis Adeosun said: “Since 2017 when I came to   AAUA,  I haven’t seen a hardworking SUG  that has  ever reacted to students case very fast like this. It is a commendable move. The president gave them 30 minutes ultimatum and before then electricity was restored  to Akungba community.” 