 Next years, subject to the timetable of the Independent National Electoral Commission, the people of the Ekiti State will go to poll to elect another governor who will take over from Dr. Kayode Fayemi, whose tenure expires in October. The election is going to be a battle royale because the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) would want to break the jinx of succession and retain the state. The main opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) is also battle ready. The warring factions in the crisis-ridden chapter have agreed to sheathe their proverbial swords and let go of past bitterness in the interest of the party. The Senator Bukola Saraki-led National Reconciliation panel is reconcilling them. Those nursing governorship ambition from the South include: Senator Olujimi; a former deputy governor of the state, Prof Kolapo Olusola; ex-GTBank Deputy Managing Director, Kayode Adaramodu; Amb. Dare Bejide and ex-federal lawmaker, Segun Adekola. Those from the Ekiti North zone are: a former governor of the state, Chief Segun Oni; a former governorship candidate, Yinka Akerele; and Mr. Wale Aribisala. Contenders from the Central Senatorial District include: Ekiti state PDP Chairman Bisi Kolawole, former deputy governor, Dr. Sikiru Lawal, Kayode Oso; a former senatorial aspirant, Lateef Ajijola; and a former governorship aspirant, Hon. Deji Ogunsakin, Aspirants like Oni, Olujimi, Adaramodu, Lawal, Akerele, Abejide amongst others, are considered formidable because of their strong political background and experience. Oni and Olujimi are believed to be leading the pack of aspirants. They are more popular than most of their rivals at the grassroot across the 16 council area of the state.  Segun Oni: He is an old horse and ex-governor between 2007 and 2011 under the banner of the PDP. He became the PDP candidate in contentious circumstances in 2007 as he came third at the PDP primary, but was imposed on the PDP by former President Olusegun Obasanjo. He was removed abruptly after a long drawn legal battle by the Appeal Court in Ilorin, giving way for Fayemi to mount the saddle. Going by the perception of the people, the Ifaki-born politician was admired for his legendary performances in the areas of infrastructure and the management of the lean resources, in spite of the distraction caused by long-drawn litigation against him. Oni defected from PDP to the APC  in 2014 to support Fayemi’s second term ambition and was given the position of Deputy National Chairman (South). He contested the 2018 APC governorship primary, where he garnered 482 votes to emerge runner-up to Fayemi, who clinched the ticket. The former governor returned to the PDP in 2020, following alleged maltreatment and ostracisation of his members in the APC. There is no doubt that as an ex-governor of the same state, Oni has the needed solid experience to launch Ekiti on the part of socio-economic growth and development. He also understand the affairs of the state, including the political intricacies and peculiarities of the Ekiti electorates. Perhaps, based on these, sources said all odds favoured Oni for the job. Many believe that his strong and wide network of political associates across party divides and goodwill among Ekiti people would be a plus for him. His supporters said if he picks the ticket, his well-oiled structure across the state may give him an edge in the main guber election. They also averred that what may advance his acceptability is the perception that he is not corrupt. If this perception is not punctured and if he wins the PDP ticket, Oni will be a strong candidate to watch.  Biodun Olujimi: The senator currently representing Ekiti South is believed to be one of those with strong interest in the race. The Omuo-Ekiti born journalist turned politician has experience. Olujimi has been active since 1999 when she was an ally of the the late Olusola Saraki. She was the national Publicity Secretary of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) until 2003 when she joined the PDP  and became a special adviser to Fayose. In a twist of fate, that same year, she became a member of the House of Representatives, when she replaced the late Abiodun Talabi, who represented Ekiti South Constituency 2. She spent only five months at the Red Chamber when Fayose nominated her as the deputy governor to replace Bisi Omoyeni who returned to the Wema Bank as the Managing Director /Chief Executive officer. She almost became the acting governor after the impeachment of Fayose in 2006. When Oni took over in 2007, Olujimi became the Commissioner for Works.  Fayose quickly resolved his differences with Olujimi, who joined hands to give him victory at the poll. In return, Olujimi got the ticket to the National Assembly. In the 8th Senate, her political activism earned her the office of deputy Minority Whip. She later became Minority Leader when Senator Godswill Akpabio left the PDP for APC. In 2018, she threw her hat in the ring for the PDP ticket but later with withdrew from the  on the eve of the shadow election.  Bisi Kolawole: From the look of things in Ekiti, Kolawole, fondly called ‘Bisi K’, is a force to contend with. The Efon Alaaye born politician currently holds the the chairmanhip position of the PDP in Ekiti State. Before his emergence, he had served as councillor and lawmaker representing Efon Constitutency, the House of Assembly between 2007 and 2011. He was Environment Commissioner during Fayose’s second term between 2015 and 2018. He is holder of Chieftaincy title in his hometown, Efon Alaye, Igbara Odo and Odo Owa Ekiti. His ambition received huge boost few weeks ago when Fayose endorsed him as the candidate of the Osoko Political Association. Fayose announced Kolawole when he paid an unscheduled visit to him at his residence in Efon Alaaye. Adducing reasons for his action, he said: “I painstakingly elect to support Bisi K because he is eminently qualified, a rallying point and a bridge builder.” He had at different occasions, defended his action. He said that the endorsement would not foreclose the primary that will be organised by the NWC, at appropriate time.He noted that some of those who are aggrieved by his action have once benefited in the past from his alleged unilateral action. He added that some members of his OPA, who had indicated interest in the governorship election, voluntarily stepped down for Kolawole. “Anybody has the right to support any preferred candidate,” he said.  Kayode Adaramodu: The Ilawe-Ekiti born politician, is also not a pushover. He enjoys grassroots support. Adaramodu has a financial war chest and wide connections. The UK-based policy expert has despite overwhelming odds and very humble beginning, been able to build an enviable career that has taken him from Nigeria to other African countries, Europe and other parts of the World. He rose through the ranks to Senior leadership positions that cut across public, private and international development sectors.  Olusola Eleka: Also touted as one of those in the race for the Oke-Bareke Government House is Eleka. The Ikere-Ekiti born politician came into the political limelight in 2014 after his emergence as deputy governor Fayose. He served in that capacity until 2018. Eleka was the PDP candidate in 2018. He lost to Fayemi with a narrow margin. He graduated from the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife in 1990 with a Bachelor Degree in Building Technology. He was retained in the university where he served until his appointment as the state. number two man. He is a Professor of Building Technology. Eleka will be major contender to watch in the race. Some factors that may favour his ambition include experience, humility, exposure and the fact that he has instituted structures when he held sway at the deputy governor and the PDP candidate in 2018. Added to these is that Olusola hails from Ikere Ekiti. Ikere is the second largest town in the state and it falls within Ekiti South, the zone that has never produced the governor since 1999.  Akerele: He is from Ayede Ekiti in Oye Local Government. He was Special Assistant to former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe. He was one of the PDP contestants ahead of the 2007 governorship election. Akerele came first at the primary. Prof Adesegun Ojo came second and Oni came third. Because Akerele did not secure the mandatory 50 per cent to win the primary at first ballot, a run-off election with Ojo was needed to get a clear-cut winner. The Obasanjo presidency intervened and Oni, who came third, was adopted as the consensus candidate. The Ekiti North PDP senatorial ticket already won by Prof Tunde Adeniran was given to Akerele who rejected it, insisting on the conduct of a run-off with Prof Ojo. The senatorial ticket was later given to Ayo Arise, who had just defected from Action Congress (AC). Akerele later defected to theANPP where he contested the election in 2007, but lost to Oni. Akerele later defected to APC before returning to PDP.  Sikiru Lawal: It is the second time he would be seeking the number one position. He was the candidate of the Labour Party in the 2018 poll and the deputy governor to Oni. He defected from PDP to LP due to irreconcilable differences with Fayose. Lawal, an indigene of Ado Ekiti, holds a Bachelor Degree in Geography Education from the University of Ibadan. He got his PhD in Educational Management from the University of Ilorin.The former deputy governor is a well loved  in the state. In fact, his emergence as Oni’s running mate contributed immensely to their victory in 2007 that was later nullified by the Appeal Court. As an aspirant, Lawal has many advantages working for him. One of them is that he is a Muslim and the adherents of this religion are determined to produce the governor, a feat they have never achieved. He also hails from Ado Ekiti, the largest town where over 40 percent of the voters are domiciled. Among these are factors that can be deployed to upset both PDP in the party shadow election and APC in real election. His posters conveying clear message of his interest in the exalted position were unveiled on social media platforms by himself and his admirers. Lawal said he remains one of the best materials to lead Ekiti at this crucial time. He will be confronting Oni, his former boss at the primaries if he goes all the way.  Lateef Ajijola: A businessman turned politician. A native of Ado Ekiti, very popular among the youthful elements in the PDP. He is a philanthropist and a generous politician. Contested for the PDP senatorial ticket in Ekiti Central in the 2015 general elections but lost narrowly to the eventual winner, Senator Fatimat Raji Rasaki. He gave Mrs. Raji Rasaki a run for her money in the PDP primary but later went to court to challenge the senatorial primary election result which he claimed was manipulated in favour of his rival. But the primary result was upheld by the court. Now back in frame for the PDP governorship ticket.  Segun Adekola: Segun Adekola was born on September 15, 1964 in Igbara Odo in Ekiti South West Local Government Area of Ekiti State. He studied at the Ifaki Grammar School in Ifaki Ekiti, where he bagged his Senior Senior School Certificate. He thereafter proceeded to a polytechnic where he obtained a Higher National Diploma (HND). Adekola is successful businessman tycoon. As a politician, he was elected in 2015 into the House of Representatives, where he represented Ekiti South West/Ikere/Ise/Orun Federal Constituency under PDP. During his short stint in the Green chamber, he was the Chairman, House Committee on Youth Development. And He raised the bar of quality representation with sponsorship of people-oriented bills and facilitated life-changing developmental projects to his constitutency. He is one of the most loyal foot soldiers of former governor Fayose.  Dare Bejide: The Ilawe born lawyer is a vibrant grassroots mobiliser with wide networks across parties in Ekiti. He was Secretary to the Ekiti State Government under Segun Oni and the candidate of the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN) in 2018. A former Nigerian envoy to Canada is the pioneer secretary of the PDP in Ekiti. He graduated from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife in 1986 with LLB in Law. Being an astute lawyer and homegrown person, he understands the dynamism of Ekiti politics.  Wale Aribisala: If there is one political strategist, master tactician and a dependable political ally of Fayose, the Ikole born politician easily comes to mind. Aribisala attended the prestigious Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife in Osun State, where he obtained B.Sc Accounting and later MBA in Management. He is a former member of House of Representatives between 2007 and 2011. Aribisala is the current PDP National Treasurer. He was elected at the National Convention in December 2017 with the support of Fayose.  Deji Ogunsakin: The ex-chairman Ado Local Government Area of Ekiti is a graduate of Economics from Ekiti State University, Ado-Ekiti. He holds a Masters’ degree in Business Administration from the University of Lagos.Ogunsakin is one of the most intriguing young politicians in the state. An economist, when he first joined politics and showed interest to govern the state on the platform of PDP in 2018, not many took him seriously. But he made in road that he was uniliterally nominated by Fayose as the party’s deputy governorship candidate. He is now counted as a major force in Ekiti, especially among the youths. 