A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)in Abia, Mr Okechukwu Apugo, says no section of the state would be allowed to scuttle existing zoning arrangement for 2023 governorship election. Apugo said this in a statement in Umuahia on Sunday, saying that power shift among the three senatorial districts had come to stay in the state. He bared his mind against the backdrop of comments in some political circles that the next governor of the state would not be determined by zoning. He said that zoning would help promote greater peace, unity and political stability in the state. He, therefore, urged political stakeholders and parties in the state to embrace the principle and objectives of zoning. “Power rotation has become sacrosanct and must be respected by all political parties and aspirants in line with the Abia Charter of Equity,” Apugo said. He said that it would amount to political betrayal for those that had benefitted from power shift to turn around and campaign against it. According to him, the governorship position has rotated among the three senatorial districts in accordance with the spirit of the Charter of Equity and should not be truncated. He therefore urged those nursing governoship ambition in 2023 outside Abia North “to wait for their own turn”. “Equity demands that power should return to Abia north in 2023 in the interest of peace, unity and fairness,” Apugo said. He described those behind the plot to disrupt smooth power shift to Abia north as greedy and selfish and “not having the interest of a united Abia at heart”. He warned that any attempt to stop power shift to Abia north in 2023 would breed mutual suspicion and distrust among the various sections of the state. He further warned against any “sinister attempt” by any person or group to impose the next governor on the people, stating that “Abia youths will vigorously resist it. “The era of godfatherism is gone. We will never allow anybody to impose himself or crony on the state. “While zoning must be allowed, we insist that candidates must emerge through due process from their respective political parties,” Apugo said.  (NAN)