The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a Chadian lady, Vivien Tarmadji, at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja, for alleged trafficking of 234.35 grammes of substance suspected to be heroin. The agency said she was arrested while boarding a flight enroute Addis Ababa to Italy with the substance concealed in her private part. The agency’s Director, Media and Advocacy, Mr. Femi Babafemi, said in Abuja that  the trafficker “who runs a salon business in Italy since 2016 upon her relocation to the country via Libya was arrested by vigilant narcotics agents during an outward clearance of the airline at the boarding gate after being scanned. “Under interrogation, she claimed she was contacted by a man who called her from Italy to collect the drug from one man.” “She decided to insert 18 wraps into her private part and returned the remaining wraps to the man that brought them to her in the hotel. “She said she came into Nigeria to raise money to pay for her house and shop rents which had expired in Italy, as life has been so difficult since the coming in of COVID-19 pandemic. “She said the owner of the drug was to pay her 10,000 euros on successful delivery of the drug to Italy”. Babafemi also said that another trafficker, Okojie James from Oredo Local Government Area of Edo State has been arrested while boarding a Turkish airline flight enroute Abuja-Istanbul-Cyprus. He said that a number of illicit drugs intercepted are 1. 549 kilogrammes of Cannabis Sativa, 223.80 grammes of Tramadol, 192.34 grammes of Rohypnol and 214.05 grammes of Flunitrazepam that were  concealed in tins and packed in a bag of foodstuff. Babafemi said: “During interrogation, he claimed his friend, Mr. Elvis, who resides in Cyprus asked him to collect the luggage for him. The Commander, Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja Command of the NDLEA, Mr. Kabir Tsakuwa, said while Okojie James was arrested last Saturday, Vivien was arrested on March 23, noting that both suspects would soon face prosecution. 