 Like many state chapters of the party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State is not immune to crisis. One thing that probably distinguishes it, is the way and manner the leadership of the party under Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai, has been handling its challenges. Unlike the experiences in many other chapters of the party, El-Rufai, has proven to be in control of the Kaduna APC. One thing that, people who have followed the turn events in Kaduna will not forget in a hurry how the Governor booted out what used to be APC-Akida in Kaduna. Some powerful members of the APC, who were not happy with the way El-Rufai piloted the affairs of the party and governed Kaduna State, formed the APC-Akida barely one year after the 2015 election that ushered in APC. Some of the grievances of the group, which included Hon. Isah Ashiru, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, Alhaji Yero Makama, Senator Shehu Sani, Mr. Mataimaki Tom Maiyashi, Alhaji Tijjani Ramalan and later Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, was that, APC under El-Rufai failed members of the party. They also accused the Governor of sidelining them in the running of the government and hijacking the structures of the party. But the Governor in his response said they were bittered because he disagredd to running a government of using the state resources to service them. The APC-Akida members later left the party: while the likes of Hon. Isah Ashiru, Yaro Makama and Senattor Hunkuyi went back to their origin, the PDP, Senator Shehu Sani tarried in the APC until 11th hour when it was clear to him that he was not going to get the return ticket to the Senate in 2019. He then went to contest his seat on the platform of the People’s Redemption Party (PRP), where he lost to Senator Uba Sani of the APC. Since the exit of the APC-Akida group, the party had been under full control of Govermor El-Rufai and has since been enjoying peace. However, the party if not properly managed, has the tendencies of its peace threatened once again, especially due to the struggle for El-Rufai’s successor. Since the, days of the battle with the APC-Akida, Senator Uba Sani, who was then the Political Adviser to El-Rufai and believed to be his closest political ally, was said to be El-Rufai’s anointed successor. Everyone who witnessed how supportive Uba Sani was in the battle against the Akidas will believe he had the Governor’s blessing as potential heir. The El-Rufai/Uba Sani romance did not however last, especially when after their elections as Governor and Senator respectively in 2019, El-Rufai picked the former Commissioner of Planning and Budget, Muhammad Sani Abdullahi popularly known as Dattijo, as his Chief of Staff, a gesture many described as move by the Governor to groom the then 39-year old chap for the exalted office.  His age notwithstanding, Dattijo has an intimidating credential, as an international development expert. He resigned as a policy adviser at the Executive Office of United Nations Secretary General Ban Ki Moon in New York, to serve Kaduna as the Commissioner for Budget and Planning He was among the core team that developed the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Though, the governor is yet to make any pronouncement or show any sign of anointing any candidate, feelers from the government circle have it that, neither Uba Sani nor Dattijo is El-Rufai’s candidate. While some say he may prefer the the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Ja’afaru Sani, others say the Commissioner for Finance, Bashir Sa’idu, is the governor’s choice. All the mentioned candidates are said to have already been warming up and building their camps, a situation that may cause an internal crisis as the 2023 general elections draw closer. The recent feud between Senator Uba Sani and the State Adsembly Speaker, Hon. Yusuf Zailani, is certainly a pointer to the looming crisis of succession in the party. However, the way and manner the leader of the party, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, handles the crisis before manifesting and the opposition parties taking advantage of it, the better for the Kaduna APC. 