  Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State just raised the alarm that Boko Haram terrorists were regrouping in three local governments areas (LGAs) of the state – Wamba, Nasarawa and Karu. The local governments share boundaries with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The governor spoke at an expanded Security Council meeting in Lafia, the state capital. “One of the reasons for calling the meeting is because of the security concern around the country; and indeed around the state. From what we have seen so far, there are renewed activities of these dislodged bandits; we have these bandits that are in Utu in Toto LGA that were recently dislodged”, the governor told the audience. He added: “Unfortunately, a lot of them, being members of Dar ul Salem that have turned into Boko Haram, have now actually regrouped in places like Bakono, Kabusu, Pander, Danbata and Gidan Rike in Nasarawa, Wamba and Karu LGAs.” He said the matter had worsened with developments in the South West region of the country, where killer herdsmen had been issued quit notices by some indigenes, as the state was now witnessing the influx of unknown herdsmen, forced out of the South West, in places like Wamba, Karu, Doma and Awe LGAs. Governor Sule had cause to make a similar complaint in January. Indeed, he met with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja over the issue; and told him that even though the terrorists had been dislodged from Toto LGA of the state where they had camped, they had regrouped at the Nasarawa/Benue border from where they were attacking residents. According to him, he met with the president to discuss the insecurity issue in Nasarawa along with other issues, including the possible Federal Government take-over of Jitata Road, which serves as an alternative route from the state to the FCT. Since Boko Haram terrorists began their campaign, ostensibly against western education, they have killed thousands of people, raped and maimed countless others, even as they have caused severe social dislocations by violently separating family members, with the possibility of some of them never reuniting again. Millions of people have also been condemned into internally displaced persons (IDP) camps, as a result of the terrorists’ activities. All of these explain why the governor’s alarm should be taken seriously, by the Federal Government pressing the security agencies to instant service.   Besides, Nasarawa State is no stranger to terrorism and insurrection. The reference by Governor Sule to kidnapped students is only one of the sad tales of the Boko Haram insurgency. “We have also seen what is happening to our schoolchildren: where schoolchildren were originally kidnapped in Borno State, were moved to Katsina, then to Zamfara, down to Niger. And I strongly believe that even though we see it returning to Zamfara, we shouldn’t be taken off guard.  We should be more proactive.” We are impressed with the governor’s proactive approach to the matter, especially his early warning signal, instead of watching the terrorists fully mobilise before seeking help. It is heart-warming that the security men that Governor Sule contacted in Abuja have swiftly responded by sending mobile Special Forces to the state. The mobile forces, according to him, were divided into five units and sent to Gitata, Mararaba-Udege, Ogunba Tunga, Gudi Moro, Abaka in Farin Ruwa to monitor the situation. We hope these special forces would Iive up to expectation. We urge the government to give them the necessary support in this regard. Nasarawa, like most states in the northern part of the country, has suffered terrible losses occasioned by the activities of the terrorists and other marauders wreaking havoc in the region. This is one reason the government and security agencies have to take the governor’s alarm seriously. Moreover, the three local governments in Nasarawa State  where Boko Haram cadres are said to be  regrouping  border the FCT. Therefore, the grim, new reality endangers the federal capital, as many workers shuttle to work daily, from the state to Abuja.