Biafra fever is spreading. Ex-Niger Delta militant Alhaji Mujahid Asari Dokubo has caught the fever. He is the leader of the new “Biafra de facto customary government,” according to a statement issued by its Head of Information and Communication, Uche Mefor. Dokubo was quoted as saying, “I also call on Biafrans in the various provinces of the Biafra nations in Aba, Abakaliki, Anang, Awka, Calabar, Degema, Eket, Nsukka, Ogoja, Oji River, Okigwe, Onitsha, Opobo, Orlu, Owerri, Port Harcourt, Umuahia, Uyo and Yenagoa province. “We are going to proceed to set up provincial structures of government starting with provincial assemblies and provincial governance and administrators. “Let nobody be mistaking that a Biafra will be worse than Nigeria. There is nothing that will be worse than what we are facing today in Nigeria.” It is unclear how the new pro-Biafra organisation included territories in its map of Biafra, citing “injustice and marginalisation.” Voices from the Ikwerre Peoples Congress (IPC), the Southsouth Elders’ Forum (SEF), the Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF), the Ibibio Youth Council (iYC), Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, and Order of Egbesu Brotherhood, have opposed the inclusion of certain territories. Dokubo, according to these opposers, “does not have the right, authority, permission and or legitimacy to speak” on behalf of their territories. The announcement of the new pro-Biafra organisation showed that the secessionist project was still on course.   In 2015, The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), founded in 1999, was renamed Biafra Independence Movement (BIM), and Ralph Uwazuruike said he should be recognised as BIM leader instead of MASSOB leader. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), another pro-Biafra group founded in 2012, continues to make the headlines as its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is facing treason-related charges, operates in exile. It is true that Nigeria’s federalism is not perfect. But the truth is that problems arising from the country’s imperfect federalism may not necessarily be resolved by separatist impulses. Disunity among the various pro-Biafra groups is sufficient to illustrate this point. Biafran troops surrendered to the Federal side on January 15, 1970, after a three-year conflict, bringing the Nigerian Civil War to an end, without ending the centrifugal tendencies in the country’s space. Dokubo’s new group brings up the past.  There is no question that the present promoters of the past are too fixated on yesterday. Their extremism is a cause for concern.  Predictably, the new group, which calls itself a government, will collide with the country’s real government. Dokubo’s “Biafra de facto customary government” is a provocative absurdity.