The curtain dropped on Tuesday on the activities organised in honour of the first Civilian Governor of Lagos State, the late Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande. A huge crowd, including Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, turned out at the Police College Pavilion, Ikeja GRA for the final 40-day funeral staged for the elder statesman, who passed on February 11. Not deterred by the downpour, the crowd, who came in early, waited till the end of the event, which created traffic gridlock around the venue. The event featured prayers for family members of the deceased and recitation from the Quran, admonitions and goodwill messages. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat, called on religious leaders to support the government in propagating peace and moral living among Nigerians in the quest to build a better and thriving society. He was responding to the lectures delivered by Chief Missioner of Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Sheikh Abdur-Rahman Ahmad and Chairman of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Lagos State, Rev. Samuel Adegbite, on insecurity in the nation. The governor said: “Religion is one of the strong pillars in Nigeria; people respect their religious leaders and the listen to them than the politicians. So please don’t leave the preaching of moral values to the government alone.” He urged religious leaders to help the citizen act in accordance to the norm of the society and shun all anti-social vices.  Urging clerics to always preach peace, he said: “Nigeria must not disintegrate, men of honour must strive to hold the country together.” Tambuwal said the late Jakande made huge impact on Lagos and the nation, having “served the state with so much compassion and humility”. He advised all to learn from the late Baba Kekere in terms of vision and commitment to building a viable state. “We have a lot to learn from him especially his grass-rooted politics,” he said. Tambuwal appealed to state government to complete the blue rail project in order to honour the late Jakande, who was the first to initiate a metroline project. Sheikh Ahmad in his sermon, urged leaders to be objective and to shun corruption as it only deprives the nation development of growth. He called on leaders to rise against the segregation attitude being displayed by some Nigerians The cleric said: “Nigeria must not be divided. The vagabonds of Nigeria have grown and making the country unsafe for many Nigerians.” He reminded the gathering that everyone will one day die and we all should be prepared for that great day. Adegbite described Baba Jakande as a pillar, a trail blazer, a developer and an encourager. He stated that the late governor ruled for only four years and three months but he turned Lagos State around with his contemporaries doing same in the Southwest. “What are we leaving behind for the future generations, everyone must rise, listen to the clarion’s call and Nigeria must not disintegrate,” he asked. Son of the deceased Deji Jakande thanked the state government for the befitting funeral organised for his father.