Niger State House of Assembly has called on the Niger state government to construct perimeter fences in all the boarding schools across the state to prevent future security breaches in the schools. The call was made when the Legislator representing Mokwa Constituency in the House of Assembly raised a motion calling on the executive arm of government to construct perimeter fences around the Niger state College of Agriculture, Mokwa and Government Secondary School, Bokani. The Legislators who took turns to bemoan the deplorable state of schools across the state stated that it is of utmost importance that the government need to expedient action to construct fences in the schools. The Legislators stated that the motion is apt and timely as it is directed at protecting the lives of students in the schools. Contributing, the Member representing Bosso Constituency, Honorable Madaki Malik Bosso said that although the building of the perimeter fencing may nit stop the bandits in totality, it will however help in the security of the schools and students. Bosso who referred to the deplorable state of the Government Science College Kagara stated that students should not be allowed to live in schools that are unsecured and in a deplorable state. The member representing Agwara Constituency, Honorable Bello Agwara said that it is important for the government, as a matter of urgency to look at how to construct the perimeter fences across the state. “There is a need to look at the perimeter fences in schools across the state to avoid what happened in Kagara. The problem of perimeter fencing is not only in Bokani but it is an issue that affects the majority of the boarding schools across the state.” After deliberating on the motion, the motion was passed on to the Committee on Education who was also directed to interface with the Commissioner of Education, Hajiya Hannatu Jubril Salihu to look at ways of making adjustments to the budget to fit in the aspect of perimeter fences in schools.