 The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division of the Nigerian Army (NA), Maj.-Gen. Lawrence Fejokwu has admonished operatives on internal security operations to ensure minimal use of force and uphold the human rights of the citizens. Fejokwu gave the admonition during a sensitisation workshop on human rights and humanitarian laws held at the Army Officers’ Mess in Lagos. The GOC who was represented by the division’s Chief Staff Officer (CSO), Brig.-Gen. Nsikak Edet, said there was need for troops to know when, how to and the degree of force to apply during internal security operations in line with treaties and principles of such operations. He said lessons drawn from the #ENDSARS protests motivated the army to hold the workshop. Adding that participants would understand the legal status of a soldier as well as justification for the use of force. Fejokwu said: “One of the principles of the Internal security treaty is the use of minimum force. So the troops need to know how to apply force, what would make them apply that excessive force or minimum force as the case may be. Officers and soldiers will be sensitised on these laws, so as to guide them in all their operations because we don’t want soldiers doing things that are not in accordance with the law. “Sometimes, some people level certain accusations against the military. We want to make sure that everything we do is transparent by engaging our troops and officers to have mastery of the laws so that they will know how to apply them appropriately and not take laws into their hands when involved in operations or carrying out joint activity, either with other security agencies or other members of the Armed Forces.” He also educated them on proper management and use of the social media space and the need to conduct themselves appropriately at all times. This, according to him, became necessary, because “people are watching, taking videos and recordings, which can be used against such an officer in a negative form.   “For instance, the case of EndSARS which we handled as a Divison brought about a lot of issues bothering on proper management of social media space as well as how the adversary used it to their advantage. “Also in the conduct of duty, officers should ensure to check their troops and ensure that unauthorised videos and recordings or pictures are not sent to the wrong people. “So many photographs that are not supposed to be on the social media space are there and some of the shots were taken by our own troops. These are some of the lessons to be drawn to ensure that when conducting operations, officers should not be allowed to do those things that could jeopardise operations or embarrass the system,” he said. Earlier, the division’s training officer, Brig.-Gen. Shuaibu Nuhu, explained that the workshop would expose participants to the dangers associated with putting the wrong person as next of kin. He said participants were expected to take back lessons learnt to their various units and platoons so that those who could not attend are also educated. “This workshop will serve as a platform to educate on professionalism, responsiveness in the Nigerian Army through appropriate awareness of Human Rights and Humanitarian Laws,” he said.