 There may be need for the younger generations to study Chief Innocent Chukwuma to tap from his entrepreneur skills and wealth of knowledge. For a man who didn’t have the privilege to acquire a university education, his strides in the society are admirable and the world is forced to pay attention to him. Today, the Chief Executive Officer of Innoson Motors will be getting Honorary Doctorate degree of Business Management from the prestigious University of Calabar (UNICAL) at her 34th convocation ceremony. He has as well received Honorary Doctorate Degree in Business Administration from Enugu State University of Science and Technology in 2011 and Honorary Doctorate Degree in Business Administration from University of Nigeria in 2014. The Vice-Chancellor, UNICAL, Prof. Florence Obi, had revealed that they would be conferring on doctorates degrees on prominent Nigerian industrialists who had distinguished themselves in their different field of endeavours. Such is the kind of effect Chukwuma has had on society. Individuals and brands are proud to be associated with him and his success story. The certificate he didn’t get as a degree now comes in form of honours. After he completed his secondary education in 1978, it was learnt that he dreamt of becoming an engineer. He applied to study Engineering at the university but couldn’t get because he did not make the cut-off mark. When he didn’t meet the admission cut-off, he was taken to Chief Romanus Eze Onwuka, popularly known as Rojenny, where he served as an apprentice for a year. His master is a motorcycle spare parts dealer and also the founder of the first private stadium in Nigeria, Rojenny Stadium, Onitsha. From trading in spare parts, the youngest child in a family of six then founded the company Innoson Group with Innoson Manufacturing, Innoson Tech. & Industries Co. Ltd as its subsidiaries. What makes his success story more flattering is his unassuming personality. He doesn’t dress in a flyboyant way and he may enter a room without anyone noticing unless he is introduced as the owner of Innoson Motors. He would likely say hello before you greet him.