 Odua Investment Company Limited, the asset management firm of Southwest region, has said the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of investment in the region is worth $80 billion. To further unlock the potential of the region, Odua Investment Company  has constituted six new board members for the Southwest Agricultural Company Limited (SWAgCo), for a four-year term while expanding the business to unlock the untapped potential of agriculture in the region so as to create wealth, job opportunities and contribute to the nation’s GDP growth. SWAgCo is an agricultural investment company, fully owned by Odua Investment Company with a strong capital base, established to unlock unrealised agriculture and sub-optimised agribusiness value by transforming underinvested agribusiness opportunities within Nigeria into institutional-grade investment operations. Speaking at the inauguration, Group Chairman of Odua Investment, Dr Segun Aina said the new directors joined SWAgCo at a time of it is implementing its strategy for economic and social impact within the agricultural space in Nigeria. Aina said the development is part of a strategy to strengthen its corporate governance and repositioning the company. He said the directors have been given the mandate to change the the landscape and investment outlook of agriculture in the region. “The new leadership, which were selected through a competitive process handled by KPMG, brings a wealth of professional experience and expertise at a senior level in Investment, Finance, Agriculture and Performance Solutions to consolidate SWAgCo’s operation and set it on the path of achieving its mission to change the landscape of agriculture and agriculture investment in Nigeria,” he said. Also, Chairman, SWAgCo, Mr. Owolabi Salami said he is committed to work towards changing the landscape and investment outlook of agriculture in the region.  “This is a significant moment in the history of our country, it is a great honour to serve as Chairman of the SWAgCo Board of Directors. I am proud of the major accomplishments over the past few months of its establishment and the commitment put into the pre-operational phase of the institution by the Interim Board. I look forward to working closely with all our shareholders, and the management team”, he added.  Among the Board of Directors, Mr. Owolabi Salami is the Chairman of SWAgCo, who recently retired from the insurance industry, Mr. Adeola Adetunji, currently the CEO, Africa for Waxed Mobile and Mvoula Group Limited, Ms. Cecilia Akintomide, currently an Independent Director on the Board of FBN Holdings Plc, Ms. Adekemi Ajayi as Non-Executive Directors to the SWAgCo board, currently an Executive Director in Odua Investment who will be representing the Group on the Board.  For the CEO, Mr. Babajide Arowosafe and Mr. Adegboyega Osobu as Executive Director of the organisation, were both appointed through a competitive selection process, conducted by KPMG in late 2020 as Executive Director, Technical and Chief Executive Officer respectively, to lead the development and execution of long-term strategies of SWAgCo, to increase shareholder value. 