The governing All Progressives Congress (APC) has challenged the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to argue their cases against the ruling party with facts. It accused the opposition of always playing up phantom, baseless and unfounded allegations against the ruling party. This came on the heels of allegations in the media by the opposition party of stolen N15 trillion public funds under the watch of the President Muhamadu Buhari-led administration. APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe in a statement in Abuja on Wednesday said the PDP was yet to get over the hangover of 16 years locust and recklessness, hence the unfounded and baseless allegations. Akpanudoedehe said that, “in the past weeks, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has labored to canvass tales of a phantom stolen N15 trillion public funds in the media.” But noted that, “It is not surprising that the generality of discerning Nigerians has ignored the unfounded and baseless allegation because it is clear that only the PDP believes its deviant tales. “From petroleum subsidy rackets, unexecuted electricity, CCTV, roads, to arms contracts to fight the North-East insurgency, the culture of outright theft, misappropriation and diversion of public funds became the mainstay and pastime of successive PDP administrations. “The PDP is obviously hungover these forgotten and discarded years of the locust. Under President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigeria has left that era. “The most ardent critics of the President Buhari and the APC government he leads will definitely chorus one fact: This government is unsparing and does not condone thieves within and outside government. Nigeria is definitely not where it was in terms of the pervasive corruption, the impunity that ultimately ended the PDP administration’s 16 years of the locust. “With the implementation of Treasury Single Account, Biometric Verification Number (BVN), Whistle Blowing policy among other initiatives undertaken by the President Buhari administration, the fight against corruption remains one of the strongest successes of this administration.” The APC Scribe maintained that “For a rudderless party blinded by its tactless opposition politics, we don’t expect the PDP to see the impact and commendations these initiatives have received and the increased government savings it has brought to fund ongoing and critical infrastructure projects across the country.” Knocking the opposition further the ruling party said the with the advent of APC-led administration, the country has practically forgotten the PDP employment rackets era. According to Akpanudoedehe, “the bribe-for-jobs and other employment rackets perpetuated under PDPs watch remains one of the most disgraceful and lowest points in our nation’s history. Nigerians will recall how a PDP government fleeced young job seekers of application fees under the pretext of mass recruitment. Many died and where maimed in the 2014 Nigerian Immigration Service recruitment exercise for advertised vacancies that had been allegedly sold off by job racketeers. Under President Buhari, Nigeria has left that era. “Nigeria is no island. We suffered our fair share of the economic impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic on livelihoods and jobs. Commendably, President Buhari showed leadership in cushioning the effects and guiding the country out of the economic challenges. “No government in the country’s history has systematically put in place measures to create jobs and alleviate poverty like the President Buhari government. “The proactive and successful implementation of the N2.3 trillion Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) has not only stimulated the economy and prevented business collapse, it has also created jobs through support to labour intensive sectors such as agriculture, direct labour interventions and infrastructural investments. “The administrations N75billion National Youth Investment Fund (NYIF) as well as the Micro Small Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Survival Fund which includes Payroll Support for businesses in health, education, hospitality and food production sectors have targeted millions and provided opportunities for the youths and many Nigerian businesses. “We invite the PDP to argue with the facts,” Akpanudoedehe concluded.