Kogi State Governor  Yahaya Bello has urged the new Commandant of the Nigerian Army Records, Chari Megumeri Barracks Lokoja, Maj. Gen. Gbolahan to ensure the state records no crime or maintain a near-zero crime rate during his stay as head of the military formations in Kogi. Bello, while receiving General Gbolahan on Wednesday in Lokoja, said the role of the military in providing security cannot be overemphasised. He said when he came into office in 2015, he inherited a state where crimes reigned supreme, noting that it was the military and other sister security agencies  that helped in quick stabilisation of his administration. Bello said the perfect synergy between the security agencies and his administration as well as the relationship with the people  resulted in greater success his administration has recorded most especially in the area of crime fighting. The governor charged Gen. Gbolahan to cultivate the spirit of personal relationship to enable his personnel to relate well with other sister agencies and the people  to be able to get useful information that will help in fighting insecurity. Bello, who described Kogi people as peaceful, law-abiding and progressive minded, assured the General of the people’s cooperation and support, adding that General Gbolahan will have the best of his times in service in Kogi State. He said he would continue to provide the needed support that will enable the Army and other security agencies to discharge their duties effectively. In his remarks, General Gbolahan praised Governor  Bello for his tireless efforts in fighting insecurity . He said he was aware of the governor’s position in ensuring a peaceful Kogi State and was also briefed by his predecessor about the contributions the governor is making in boosting the morale of security personnel in the state. Assuring the governor of his cooperation and commitment, General Gbolahan, who came from the DefenCe Intelligence Agency where he served as Deputy Chief Defense Intelligence, said he and his personnel were up to the task in both intelligence gathering operations. He sough for more supports from the governor in the course of his stay. General Gbolahan took over from Major General O. O. Soleye as the Commandant, Nigerian Army Records, Chari Megumeri Barracks, Lokoja, Kogi State.