Although the news story seems overlooked, it was a significant moment in Nigerian research. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has announced that it has picked five research proposals for funding, amounting to N253.54 million. This figure is less significant than the rigour of the process and the enthusiasm of the Nigerians. But it was a response to the apex bank’s offer to pay for ideas that would change the narrative of Nigerian health. “Following the submission of over 286  proposals from the general public, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to the body of experts for finding time out of their busy schedules to review and evaluate proposals,” noted Godwin Emefiele, the CBN governor. It is obviously an ongoing process. The CBN governor announced that, of the over 286 proposals, 68 of them have been assessed and it yielded the five isolated for financing. He described the five as evincing “significant merits.” The research proposals cover some very urgent medical concerns for today’s Nigerians. “Some of the recommended proposals also have the potential to enable the development of the Nigerian vaccine for COVID-19,” the governor said. In a country with a wide gamut of health challenges, it is salutary. Other than COVID-19, Nigeria needs answers to plagues like Lassa fever, typhoid, resistant malaria, sickle cell disease and a broad variety of malignancies. The news is not only a great development for health, but also for the future of medical research. It is a move towards radical independence for Nigerian medicine. But it is just a start. It can stop the rush of the elites and even the desperate poor to move abroad for succour in what is now called medical tourism. With COVID-19 and the hysteria over vaccine nationalism, Nigeria is at the mercy of a new form of imperialism: medical colonialism.  If we had our own vaccine, just as even India has with all its imperfections, we would be looking at our own resources for our own salvation. We commend the CBN for this initiative while raising a significant question. Why is the CBN becoming the development machine in many sectors? The CBN is at it with the revamping of the National Theatre. It is front and centre with the Anchor Borrowers Scheme, among others. We wonder how much such activities affect its core function as regulator. On medical research, we would have expected the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research under the Federal Ministry of Health to bear the torch. Further still, there are so many universities with ambitious health sciences faculties. We presume that the ministry and the institute know about this and play some role. But the CBN activism may derive either from a lack of coherent policy of government, or incompetence and lack of initiatives of the health and finance ministries, and the CBN is filling a gaping hole. The fact that so many proposals were submitted shows the hunger of Nigerians to engage in development ideas. This should not be restricted to medicine. Areas like engineering, physical sciences, software computing, robotics, artificial intelligence, political philosophy, the arts and literature hunger for air in the country. Many young and avid thinkers abound in this country. The level of their zeal undermines the quality of our education. This is the paradox that may even save our education. We may need to organise a system that will embrace ideas and fund them. The developed countries did not lead by accident. The United States is ahead. As of 2016, it had spent $511 billion on research and development with China coming second with $275 billion. If Uganda, Sudan and Algeria could make the top 80 countries, why should Nigeria lag and not even be on the list? This CBN initiative could be the start.