President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Amaju Pinnick is among the 14 candidates jostling for one of the six FIFA Council seat allotted to Africa as he aims to become the third Nigerian after Etubom Oyo Orok Oyo and Amos Adamu to occupy the exalted seat. But the Delta State-born administrator faces a Titanic battle with five others from the Anglophone nations today at the CAF Election taking place in Morocco. OLALEKAN OKUSAN writes.  Nigeria’s presence in the FIFA Executive Committee now FIFA Council was announced exactly 41 years ago when Etubom Oyo Orok Oyo made history, as the first Nigerian to assume the exalted post in world football in 1980. But after two terms in office, Etubom Oyo Orok Oyo was unseat at the CAF General Assembly by Gambia’s Omar Sey in Morocco in 1988. Amos Adamu became the second Nigerian to be a member of the FIFA Executive Committee between 2006 to 2010, and since his unceremonious exit following bribery allegations and subsequent ban from all football activities. And 10 years after, another Nigerian, NFF President Amaju Pinnick, is angling for  the top echelon at FIFA Coincidentally, Pinnick will be up against another Gambian, Lamin Kaba Bajo, who is also in the race as they are both sitting presidents of their respective football associations. Apart from Pinnick and Bajo, other four contestants are also in the race for two of the Anglophone’s FIFA Council slots. Pinnick will also contend with Malawi FA president, Walter Nyamilandu, who is the incumbent FIFA Council Member and the power of incumbency cannot be underestimated. Zambia’s Andrew Kamanga is another fierce rival for Pinnick. Kamanga and as the president of his country’s FA, he will rely on his international clout as a serving member on the seven-man FIFA audits and compliance committee. There are equally oppositions to Pinnick’s ambition from Kenya and Tanzania. Nicholas Mwendwa who was reelected as Kenya FA president last October and Wallace Karia, the Tanzania FA chief. Mwenwa and Karia are serving second terms in their various countries. “Frankly, as a Nigerian that has seen a lot having worked for years in CAF, It is a pity and also a shame that a country as big as Nigeria is playing or no role in CAF at the moment when it comes to football leadership in Africa,” explained Eric Asomugha, a former employee of CAF. “As a country, we are doing well when it comes to trade and commerce administratively  on the continent with Dr. Akinwumi Adesina as the President of African Development Bank and President, African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank) Dr. Benedict Okey Oramah who are leading the two major financial institutions on the continent . “Nigeria has contributed a lot to African football in all spheres  be it in terms of finance and achievements  but  it is just a shame that we are yet to get to that peak of African football leadership . “It’s time we ask ourselves why? Pinnick was the first in recent time to become a Vice President in CAF but we have not really played a united role as a nation to enhance the country’s chances of producing an African football leader,” he noted. He speaks specifically on Pinnick’s bid for the FIFA Council: “There are six candidates from the Anglophone section and it is going to be a tough battle because of the pedigree of other contestants  and it becomes even more difficult because CAF had already produced an English Speaking candidate as the President elect with Patrice Motsepe and that means, the Anglophone section will have one winner unlike the other groups that will produce two candidates. So it’s dicey.” Meanwhile, in  today’s election, 14 candidates will contest for the six seats allocated to Africa in the FIFA Council following a late clearance for  Algerian Khireddine Zetchi  after an intervention by the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) ; He will now slug it out for a position in the Arab/Portuguese/Spanish bloc. Those to contest with him include: Equatorial Guinea FA president, Gustavo Ndong; Morocco FA president, Fouzi Lekjaa and the former Egypt FA president, Hany Abo Rida, In the FIFA Council, Africa has six slots including the position of a FIFA Vice President which automatically goes to the CAF president.