The movie and music arms of the entertainment industry have continued to dominate the space over the years. The beauty industry, unfortunately, has not been lucky enough to enjoy such relevance despite the number of talents, both old and young, it prouds itself with. This sector, which had raised several entrepreneurs, is yet to enjoy corresponding support from the public and private sectors when compared to the movie industry. This, no doubt, could be the reason behind the Onitsha Beauty Shake Up celebrates creativity competition, recently packaged by Shoxzy Beauty Fix, a general beauty organisation in Onitsha, Anambra State. The event which attracted a large number of beauty creatives and lovers across the city and beyond was organised by Mrs Omonefe Elizabeth, Chief Executive Officer of the firm in collaboration with a team of experts in the beauty industry. Over 36 young talented beauty creatives in Onitsha, Anambra State were given make-up kits. They included fashion designers, skincare and hair stylists, nail and gele artists, beauty therapist/cosmetologists, makeup artists, photography/photojournalists, among others. The three winners of the makeup competition who were rewarded with N170,000 worth of makeup items, were Mmesoma Nwacheta (Mimy Debby), the overall winner, Jack Japhet (Jj beauty), the Ist runner up and Mmesoma Ugo (Glimmers makeover), the 2nd Runner Up The first position smiled home with makeup items worth N100,000, while the second and third positions got N50,000 worth of makeup items and N20,000 worth of makeup items respectively. Other participants also went home with makeup items and certificates of participation. Speaking at the event, Mrs Omonefe said the event was aimed at seeking avenues to bringing innovation, creativity and growth to the beauty industry. She said the beneficiaries, drawn from the beauty industry in the commercial city were carefully selected by certified judges through rigorous process and evaluation after submitting their works and images. She said: “The Onitsha beauty shakeup maiden event is targeted at promoting Onitsha Beauty Creative Industry beyond the commercial city, providing opportunities for empowerment as well as giving upcoming beauty creatives a sense of belonging to go beyond their domain. “Our nominees included the honorary awards given to the veterans, photographers, makeup artists, nail technicians, fashion design schools, upcoming beauty creatives and those who have empowered others with knowledge and skills. “We intend to take the event beyond the shores of Onitsha. This time, it will not only be the makeup contest, but we’ll be having the hair, fashion design and photography contests and submissions. “We’re working on promoting the brands that got awarded, including sponsoring some of their adverts.” Omonefe, however, identified convincing the relevant stakeholders to believe and buying into the vision as one major challenge faced by her organisation while packaging the event. One of the sponsors and Chief Executive Officer, Notab solicitors, Victoria Ezeigwe, expressed joy that the beauty industry has over the years evolved from the background to limelight with several other sectors now forming part of the creative class. She appreciated both the sponsors and judges for their dedication and professionalism in the selection process, just as she congratulated the winners of the competition, challenging them to keep raising the bar. Her words: “The vision behind this event; Onitsha beauty shake-up is to solidify a collaborative relationship among the different categories of creatives that make up the beauty industry. “I have known Lizzy for over 9 years and I can boldly say that her passion for this industry is unparallel, she has never allowed herself to be distracted from her Beauty business and that is only possible because of passion for what she does. “So I’m not surprised that we all are gathered here in this maiden event to raise the bar for the beauty creatives. “The goal of this event is not just to meet, have fun and disperse. It’s our expectation that the beauty creatives will begin to bring innovations into their business as well as addressing issues that affects them as people. “Driving healthy competitiveness, creativity as well as proferring solutions for challenges that are faced in the beauty industry, and this can only be achieved when we come together as a group. “I’m sure that nobody or group is in a better position to address the needs of the Beauty creatives other than themselves. We don’t expect that this event will end today, rather it should be the starting point for the beauty creatives. “We want to see them grow to the stage where they would invite us for Annual awards just as we see in Nollywood and the music industry.” She added: “When the call for entries for the award came up, most people were sceptical to be a part of it because they probably didn’t understand the whole essence of it. “However some others with foresight were interested and we appreciate every beauty creative that participated in the awards event.” Appreciating the judges for the hard work and professionalism they displayed in the selection process, Ezeigwe noted that their functions lasted for months and they didn’t give up but ensured that they selected “the best of the best”. “Regardless of their majors and spheres of interest, these individuals have one thing in common – they just love their job and do their best to serve the society and be a role model for young personalities,” she said. She also congratulated the winners of the makeup competition, challenging them to keep raising the bar. “We will not fail to thank our sponsors, your benevolent support made it possible for this event to be a reality today; our major sponsor GLAM GALS COSMETICS, we are so thankful to you. “Others includes Kulture magazine, Beyond Beauty, Stevo cosmetics, Notab solicitors, Zikel cosmetics, Beauty Inspiration, Dills Innovation, M’krunky Entertainments and Eve’s Touch Beauty home. Thanks to all of you for believing in our vision. “Finally, our utmost appreciation goes to the convener; Mrs Omonefe Elizabeth CEO Shoxzy Beauty Fix for organising such an outstanding event. “We hope to see this vision taken beyond Onitsha to becoming an annual nationwide ceremony in the beauty industry. The winner of the competition, Mmesoma Nwacheta, could not hold his joy while talking with reporters, describing the event as extraordinary. She said: “I’m overwhelmed with joy. I thank the organisers for creating this platform for us to showcase our talents to the world. My thanks equally go to my tutor for believing in me and patiently bringing out the best in me. “This opportunity will serve as a launching pad for me to further impact others including training other upcoming beauty and creative artists looking up to us.”