  In the 60s, the agricultural sector enjoyed spectacular growth. Nigeria prided itself as a food-secure country and ranked well among its peers on the continent until crude oil brought a boom. Since then, the farms have been abandoned for petrol naira. This has affected food production. Nigeria lost the crown as a major food producer, according to last year’s Global Food Security (GFSI) Index. It ranked 100th most food-secure country out of 113 countries. In 2019, Nigeria ranked 94th. GFSI is produced by The Economist Intelligence Unit and supported by CortevaAgriscience. Observers expected the country to improve on its position. This is because it has arable land. Many in the agribusiness space such as the President and Chief Executive, NIJI Group, Kolawole Adeniji, are concerned with removing impediments to food production. According to Adeniji, Nigeria’s agro sector will continue to support global food security. He’s not alone in this assessment. Many, including Prof Samuel Agele of the University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State, point to small and large-scale producers as the saviours of the economy. Agele, a professor of Crop Physiology in the School of Agriculture and Agricultural Technology, warned that to avoid the impending danger of hunger, the government and other key actors should put in place structures that would enhance the capacity of small- holder’s farmers. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), according to him, has listed Nigeria as among the nations that are unable to meet their food needs from rain-fed production and low level of input use. Though some analysts point to some progress made in recent years, smallholder productivity supported by fertiliser use remains extremely low, particularly in Nigeria. International research fir, Oxford Business Group corroborated that Nigeria has some constraints in the agricultural sector, chief among which is limited productivity. For instance, the country suffers from sub-par yields, which curb farmers’ profitability and restrict efforts to achieve self-sufficiency in the sector. Furthermore, the World Bank, puts Nigeria’s fertiliser use at between six and 20 kg per ha, well below the figures for developed nations, where usage often exceeds 200 kg per ha. Meaning: The country is not getting closer to meeting the international standard of fertiliser usage of 50kg per hectare. Experts believe the implementation of a fertiliser expansion programme will enable Nigeria to boost food security. It would have to increase its use by 500 per cent to catch up with markets such as Egypt and South Africa. Increase in the productivity levels, analysts believe, will play a vital role in the growth of the industry, as fertiliser accounts for at least half of the crop yield. Therefore, in the last 10 years, many actors have entered the sector. As such, the fertiliser market is entering a period of growth that will have sector-wide benefits. FAO estimated that the country required about seven million metric tonnes (MT) of fertiliser yearly; and with the production of five million mt, the government had to grant waivers to some fertiliser plants to import the product. There are over 33 fertiliser blending plants across the country, with many more underway, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development,  Sabo Nanono, is optimistic that Nigeria would have no business importing fertiliser by 2023. He said with the enabling environment provided for private sector investors, through the National Fertiliser Quality Control Act 2019, Nigeria may end the product’s importation. Under the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI), the government supplies discounted fertiliser input from Morocco and Europe to blenders, through the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) fertiliser fund vehicle. These are then blended with local urea and distributed to farmers. The urea application in the country is continuing full-steam, bolstered by unscathed supply chain in most parts of the country. New investments are expected to increase ammonia and urea production in response to increased domestic demand, reducing Nigeria’s significant dependency on the international market. At present, there are two major urea plants in the country: the Indorama Eleme Fertiliser and Chemicals Production Unit, considered the world’s largest single-train urea plant, with a production capacity of 1.5m tonnes of urea fertiliser, in Rivers State and the Notore 500,000 tpy production facility. The former produces 1.5 million tpy of nitrogen products at its Train 1 facility. It has a new train, with a urea capacity of 1.5 million tpy. Indorama exports 70 per cent of its production to markets, including Latin America, while 30 per cent is allocated to the home market. On the other hand, Notore’s production is consumed internally. The Brass Fertiliser and Petrochemical Company Limited (BFPCL) is expected to set up a 1.3m tonne/year urea and 1.7m tonne/year methanol plant in Bayelsa State. Also, being expected this year is the $2.5 billion Dangote Fertiliser Plant, owned by Africa’s richest man Aliko Dangote. Located in the Lekki Free Zone (LFZ), in Lagos State, the urea fertiliser plant is expected to manufacture three million metric tonnes of urea yearly, with core focus on the reduction of fertiliser imports, and $400million foreign exchange from export to Africa countries. The facility comprises two trains each of urea, with a daily production capacity of 3,850 tonnes. In the first phase, only one urea and ammonia line would be inaugurated. The producer plans to use 25 per cent of its urea output for the domestic market while the rest will be exported, likely primarily to Latin America and West Africa. Siapem of Italy is the engineering, procurement and supervision (EPS) contractor for the project, while Tata Consulting Engineers, India, is the project management consultant (PMC). Dangote Fertiliser has started receiving gas supply from the Nigerian Gas Company and Chevron Nigeria Limited, under the gas sale and purchase agreement through which 70 million cubic feet of natural gas will be supplied to the plant. Natural gas forms a large percentage of the cost of urea production. The fertiliser plant will also compete with Notore Petrochemicals. Group Executive Director, Strategy, Portfolio Development & Capital Projects, Dangote Industries Limited, Devakumar Edwin, said Nigeria would save $0.5 billion from import substitution and $0.4 billion from exports of products from the plant. “Thus, the supply of fertiliser from the plant will be enough for the Nigerian market and neighbouring countries,” he said. Analysts believe investments by Notore, Indorama, and Dangote, put at about $4.5 billion, are the largest ever in the agriculture sector. The plants are highly capital intensive. Outlook Opportunities for the fertiliser sector abound in Nigeria. The key to the production of nitrogen fertiliser is having a large source of inexpensive natural gas. Nigeria produces over 1.5 trillion ft3/yr of gas, exporting about 900 billion ft3 in the form of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG). However, 400 billion ft3 is flared off, and the government wants to monetise it through gas-fired utilities and petrochemical plants. While Nigeria has natural gas resources to produce ammonia products, its relationship with Morocco will enable importation of phosphate. Last week, the Federal Government and the Kingdom of Morocco signed five strategic Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) that would promote hydrocarbons, agriculture, and commerce in both countries. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, led the Nigerian delegation to the agreement signing at Marrakech, Morocco, while the Chief Executive Officer of OCP Africa, Mr. Anouar Jamali, signed for the Kingdom of Morocco.  The agreement among OCP, Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is expected to utilise Nigeria’s gas and Morocco’s phosphate to produce ammonia and phosphate fertiliser by 2025. Under the agreement, Nigeria will import phosphate from Morocco and use it to produce blended fertiliser for the local market and export. As part of the project, the government plans to establish an ammonia plant in Akwa Ibom State. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Simbi Kesiye Wabote, and NNPC Group Managing Director Mallam Mele Kyari were part of the delegation; and they confirmed their organisations would take equities in the plant when the Final Investment Decision (FID) would be taken. Akwa Ibom State Governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel, signed one of the agreements, which covers land acquisition, administrative facilitation, and common agricultural development projects in the state. The deal will birth one of the biggest investments in the fertiliser industry worldwide. OCP’s partnerships are executed by its subsidiary known as OCP Africa, created in 2016 to work with farmers. OCP Africa is constructing three ultra-modern Fertiliser Bulk Blending Plants in Nigeria. The multi-million dollar plants, in Ogun and Kaduna states will be equipped with facilities to produce both crops and soil specific fertiliser blends with micro nutrients. OCP Africa, using its OCP School Lab project’s platform, has deployed four state-of-the-art mobile laboratory technologies in Kaduna, Katsina, Kano and Bauchi states. With this project, OCP Africa will reach out to 70,000 small holder farmers in 2019 teaching them on Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) in 467 farming communities spread over the remote locations in the states. In addition to GAP training, OCP Africa will carry out 21,000 soil analyses and make reports to the farmers on live basis. The farmers will also get professional advice on the best suited inputs for their soil types and targeted crops. PFI Following the visit of the King of Morocco, Mohammed VI, to Nigeria on December 2, 2016, several agreements were endorsed by the two leaders. One of these agreements was conceived as a partnership between the Fertiliser Producers and Suppliers of Nigeria (FEPSAN) and OCP, a state-owned Moroccan firm and a world leader in phosphate production and its derivatives. President Muhammadu Buhari announced the approval and commencement of the initiative shortly after the Moroccan visit, during his 2017 Budget presentation. According to the PFI guidelines, the goal is to achieve the production of one million metric tonnes of blended Nitrogen, Phosphorous and Potassium (NPK) fertiliser for the 2017 wet season farming, and an additional 500,000 metric tonnes for dry season farming. By February 4, 2017, first shipment of potash arrived Nigeria from Europe, while the second shipment arrived the following month.