Embattled chairmen under the aegis of Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) Oyo state chapter have described the planned local government election by the state government as a fraud. They called on Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) to stop the process of what it called “scammed election”, saying it is illegal, presumptuous, wasteful and unnecessary. They also urged political parties not to ‘invest’ in the planned election because it would not lead anywhere. The council bosses have been in a running legal battle with the state government to reclaim their mandate in the last two years. They were sacked by Governor Seyi Makinde- led administration upon resumption of office. The sacked council chairmen spoke during a press conference at the Ring-Road, Iyanganku Secretariat of the Association on Monday. Addressing reporters, Oyo ALGON chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, said it was surprising while all the parties to the suit are awaiting the May 7 judgement of the Supreme Court, the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC), a party to the suit published a timetable for council polls to be conducted on May 15, bare eight days after the Supreme Court judgement. He said the implication of such move is an indication of the Governor’s usual arrogant abuse of power. He added three reasons could be adduced for the decision on the publish timetable which it is either the government may have perfected ways to buy off the judgement or that the OYSIEC is ready to engage in an election advanced fee fraud. “The Governor and his election merchant’s team may just be grandstanding in a wild fight of fantasy just for psychological relief in order to give false hope of judicial victory instead of the uncertainty of where the pendulum of justice swings in the protracted case. “We advise political parties and candidates not to invest in OYSIEC electoral market process which will lead to nowhere if ALGON wins at the Supreme Court on May 7, 2021. ‘’Don’t be scammed. After May 7 judgement, the political climate will be clear to all and sundry and nobody will be scammed. “On this point, we call on OYSIEC to stop the process of its scammed election it’s illegal, presumption, wasteful and unnecessary.”