The Northern Elders Forum (NEF) and chairmen of the Association of Chairmen of Local Government Service Commission have expressed support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s order that bandits carrying AK-47 rifles be shot on sight. They said the President’s order showed that his administration was waking up to the reality that small arms and light weapons were everywhere in the country. NEF’s Director Publicity and Advocacy, Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, who spoke with our correspondent, expressed fear that security operatives may not carry out the President’s order. He said: “He (President Buhari) appears to have lived in denial all this time, but Nigeria has become the repository of millions of arms and weapons. We do not know the particular place they are coming from, but the President said they are coming from the armory of Mu’ammar Gaddafi. “Wherever they are coming from, it is good that they are finally waking up to the fact that the citizens are now threatened by AK-47 in the hands of almost everybody. “The law says you have no right to bear arms and if you do, then it has to be legal. It should not be limited to the Fulani. The law should apply to everybody, every Nigerian. No one should carry arms unless he or she is licensed to carry that weapon. “We welcome the development and the position of President Buhari. Our reservation is if our friends in the law enforcement agencies will carry out that instruction. About 90 per cent of the people who bear arms are not known. They do not walk on the streets with their arms and show them to the public and the police the government is asking to shoot them. “There are communities in the South that are buying weapons because they think that they are facing a war. So, our security agencies need to improve in their intelligence and develop how to track these weapons.” Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria (HURIWA) urged United States (U.S) President Joe Biden and the United Nations (UN) to send armed troops to protect the lives and properties of Nigerians.