 Crude oil prices will gravitate to between $70 and $75 per barrel in April boosted by the decision taken by non-member countries of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC+) to roll over output cuts in April, energy consultancy firm Wood Mackenzie predicted at the weekend. It also forecasts that global demand will increase year-on-year by 6.3 million barrels per day (bpd) this year It said: “If OPEC+ does not increase output in April, except the small amounts for Russia and Kazakhstan, the stock draw will be significantly more than 1 million bpd next month, as the summer demand season looms.” Brent oil price had hit over $69 a barrel on Friday on the back of the decision taken by non-members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC+) to roll over output cuts in April. International benchmark Brent crude traded at $69.37 per barrel with a 3.94 per cent increase after closing previous session at $66.74 a barrel. American benchmark West Texas Intermediate (WTI) traded at $66.25 per barrel for a 3.79 per cent increase after it ended the previous session at $63.83 a barrel. Both benchmarks hit a new threshold with Brent reaching the highest level since January 6, 2020, when it was trading $69.35 a barrel and WTI reached the highest level since April 24, 2019, when it was trading at $66.60 a barrel. The company’s vice president Ann-Louise Hittle said the OPEC+ decision said the group’s decision not to raise production before seeing an actual recovery, as opposed to anticipating one. She said: “The market was expecting a substantial increase in production because a tightening in the supply and demand balance is already evident. “Clearly OPEC+ has decided to take a cautious approach to demand recovery. However, waiting for a solid sign of strong stock draws means prices will have already increased from the present level by the time that sign emerges. Stocks are a lagging indicator and already the market can see solid signals of demand strength.” She added that a recovery is being spurred by the ramping up of vaccination programs in the US, the world’s largest consumer, and with President Joe Biden’s administration promising enough vaccines for every adult by the end of May. Hittle said although these higher prices may dampen the tentative global recovery, the Saudi Energy Minister, Prince Abdulaziz, is adamant OPEC+ must watch for concrete signs of a demand rise before he moves on production. “When compared against last year’s collapse, we expect a strong recovery in oil demand for the second quarter of 2021, of nearly 14 million bpd year-on-year after a subdued gain of 0.8 million bpd in the first quarter of 2021,” she said. With OPEC+ production restraint in place in April, she said upward pressure on prices is likely to continue as demand surges. The record price rises came after the OPEC and OPEC+, announced their decision of keeping the current production level unchanged, instead of increasing it in line with rising oil prices. The meeting also saw the extension of Saudi Arabia’s voluntary cuts of 1 million barrels per day. Russia and Kazakhstan were excluded from the output cuts and allowed to increase production due to continued seasonal consumption patterns. Experts said the decision by the OPEC+ was unexpected for the investors and highly welcomed by the markets as the OPEC+ might want to take advantage of the recent high oil prices. A better and balanced oil market outlook prevails among the industry influencers, as demand is forecast to recover in 2021 and supply is under the control of Saudi Arabia’s adamant production policy. 