Socio-political instability is a component part of human society down the ages.  If poorly managed, the monster can transform into a war at the local or international level. Posterity would not forgive this generation especially the political leadership, if Nigeria should go into another civil war. The lessons of the Nigerian civil war between July 6, 1967 and January 15, 1970 must not be wasted as if the country’s social, political, and economic space is dominated by irredeemable morons. The impacts of the above war were naturally deep, with a special emphasis on the socio-political fabric of the Nigerian society.  Thus, for example, armed robberies became a part of the popular grammar of life and living in the country, immediately after this war. The menace continues up to now. Demobilised soldiers and deserters began to maim or kill innocent people in order to cart away their property including monies. War dehumanizes. Therefore, nobody (even with the faintest idea of sanity) should subtly or otherwise promote war. The successful navigation of a complex network of ethnicities known as Nigeria is not a task for people who lack imagination due to intellectual and/or spiritual poverty. It is gladdening to note here, that Nigeria is a member of the United Nations (UN). Consequently, its leadership can only be engaging in cultural colonisation including ethnic cleansing at its own peril. The federal government is duty-bound to answer some weighty questions or allegations that certain foreign mercenaries from parts of West Africa were invited to this country in connection with the 2015 presidential election. According to social media reports among other sources, these militia men have discovered that Nigeria, is a fertile land to make illicit monies through the lenses of kidnapping, armed robbery, and banditry without punishments. Nigeria’s corporate existence is grinding to a halt, as lies and deception become our national philosophy.  Similarly, Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State wept publicly on several occasions as a result of his people’s agonies. Armed cattle herders continue to deal a devastating blow on the Tiv and Agatu.  In addition, the entire south particularly Yorubaland has been in an unprecedented mental and political turmoil since 2015. Currently, about 5000 Nigerians of the Yewa North locality in Ogun State are said to be refugees in the Republic of Benin, where they have a hellish time. Nigerians feel disconnected from the government. Nobody is safe. There is no social order and no sanctions against kidnappers/bandits well known for brandishing AK-47 rifles along our roads. Even some governors tremble with fear whenever they hear about these criminals. Therefore, Nigerians are tired of empty, nauseating rhetoric from the government as hundreds of innocent citizens are being mowed down daily. The falconer must not go to sleep as the falcons kill other birds with careless abandon across the board. Self-help becomes inevitable in the face of unbridled ethnic bigotry, leading to the pinching silly of many innocent Nigerians by a group of demons in our midst. It is against this backdrop, that the Sunday Igbohos of the Southwest are emerging to rescue the traumatised people. Southerners (with a few exceptions) are known for peacefully engaging in legitimate economic livelihoods in the North.  The above two scenarios are different. Nobody should mix up the issues. Law abiding, honest northerners are everywhere in the South doing their legitimate businesses unhindered. Nigeria does not need another civil war with all its devastating effects, too deep to be accurately mathematised even by the Chike Obis of this world. The Amalgamated Union of Foodstuffs and Cattle Dealers of Nigeria (AUFCDN) went on a strike on February 25. This was mainly because of the crisis that erupted in the Shasha area of Ibadan between some Hausa-Fulani and their hosts. According to newspaper reports, at least 151 people lost their lives, while over 100 trucks and cars were destroyed. This strike was called off as a result of government’s intervention. During the strike, such basic food stuffs as onions, pepper, and tomatoes were not brought to the south especially the west. This was in addition, to beans and cattle. The blockade led to sharp increases in the prices of these items. I’m a strong believer in the principles of Nigerian oneness. However, we should not forget that economic stoppage is multi-dimensional in nature. One of these possibilities in a war situation is petroleum pipeline blockade. Therefore, nobody out of myopia should cast caution to the winds. Northern Nigeria, an integral part of the Sahara experienced desertification at different periods in antiquity. Indeed, the Sahara today is as dry as it was around 11,000 B.C. Many water bodies including Lake Chad began to shrink. Northerners were migrating southwards with some of their plants and animals for survival. The Atlantic region gave them opportunities to survive and make progress. Indeed, these migrations led to a lot of biological and cultural exchanges. Are we the only country in West Africa keeping and eating cattle? Are the Togolese, Ghanaians, Senegalese, and Malians not keeping and eating cattle? What is really wrong with Nigeria? Are the gods and goddesses angry with this generation? Why are we turning shamelessness of huge proportions into our new social norm? The Atlantic has enough sand and robust human capital among other resources, to engineer its modern architecture of sustainable development. In this regard, the South is capable of producing food for the region and even package some for export. Food blockade shows that Nigeria is now on the edge of a precipice. A war erupts whenever a given political authority fails or refuses to act in the interest of the common good. The North can stop bringing their cattle and other food items while those criminals keep away from our highways and forests, where innocent people are being slaughtered daily like chickens. The recently crafted law that grants visas to foreigners on arrival has to be abrogated, because it is turning Nigeria into a dumping ground for all kinds of evil men. The country is under threat from some unwanted outsiders. It is becoming an unliveable geo-polity. What does it profit the leadership to plunge this country into another civil war, capable of making the first one, a child’s play?  We can begin now to re-define our Nigerian essence, devoid of primitive nepotism or village patriotism and cultural colonisation before the bubble bursts.