 You were born and bred in the UK to Nigerian parents, what are your recollections growing up? I grew up in the UK, and my parents are Nigerians. They are both from Edo State. Growing up was good. I was able to have fun and enjoy my childhood and played outside. Most importantly, I was able to go to school and my parents like to harp on me doing my homework because I love to play football a lot. Sometimes my homework suffers because of football but I’m allowed to play out side and enjoy my childhood. They discipline me well and taught me how to respect others and to love God and praise Him. What part did your footballer father played concerning your soccer career during your formative years? Did he give you soccer tips? My dad played a major part because my parents are always around me to support. My dad always comes to my games and if I lose a game he would tell me not to worry and ask me to improve on my mistake when the next game comes. Whenever I have a good game he would praise me but always wants me to do better. He has a way of pushing me to attain a higher standard and he was very helpful for me becoming a professional footballer. Your father played for prominent clubs like Bendel Insurance and Eagle Oil, what did he tell you about his game and how did it rub off on your career? Back in the days, my dad played for Bendel Insurance and Eagle Oil. He used to tell me that back then the coaches in Nigeria were very good and they used to demonstrate what they want the players to do on the pitch. So the Nigerian league was very good at that time. He told me that he was always confident of himself and he was younger than his teammates then. I started quite young too and he would tell me that I just go out there and play my game. He made sure that I could use both feet well. He said as a professional you must be able to employ the use of both feet to juggle, dribble and control the ball. My father taught me the entire basis when I was young.  How does it feel to be nephew to one of Nigeria’s greatest midfielder Thompson Oliha? What memories do you have of him? My dad and Thomson Oliha were very close back in the days when they were playing together. I can remember that in 2010, we were in Nigeria and I spent two or three weeks at the Kwara Football Academy. Oliha was around and it was a great experience for me to see how it is been done at home. It was an opportunity to be with new coaches and learn new things and how my parents grew up and about other people and how they lived growing up. I was able to learn other techniques and other aspect of my game to improve on getting back to England. It was an enjoyable time, the coaches were very good and the players were good too and it remains a great memory for me. So, talk us through the journey to becoming a professional footballer. My journey to become a professional player was not easy. There was a lot of setback but at the same time that’s what made me stronger and to ultimately prove people wrong to get to where I am today. First, I started on trial with Bolton Wanderers playing well there. I was there for like six months and did really well but did not get a contract. It was hard at that time but because I look forward to a brighter future I could not just give up, I became hungrier. From there I went to Crystal Palace for two years and then I signed for Birmingham. I spent two years in the youth team and one season with the U21. I had a good season with the U21 and by the time I turned 18, I remember the manager called me and told me, ‘I’m going to give you the opportunity. I’m going to give you your debut.’ That was how I made my debut and from then I’ve not looked back. I scored my first goal against Fulham away at 19 and that is how it started. Even then, I left Birmingham to go to CSKA Sofia, which was a good move for me because I learn a new style of football. I played in the Europa League qualifier and from that exposure got Nigeria call up. I was called up to re place an injured player and that was like a dream come true. I played with top players and I was learning other languages as well because it was an avalanche of players from all over the world. Birmingham gave you the first real chance at professional football, and in 2015, you were awarded the Young player of the season award. My memory at that time playing for Birmingham was fantastic in terms of being young and playing for in the Championship and winning an award for the Best Young Player of the Season, which was great. It was amazing been my first season as a professional player playing first team game.  SOLOMON-OTABOR TOP 10 Favorite Food: Jollof rice Favourite Drink: Nigeria Fanta Favourite Boots: Fanthom, viper Favourite No: Number 17 Favourite holiday destination: Dubai and America Favourite Artist: Wizkid, Davido Favourite player: Ronaldo Favourite other Sport:  Athletics & Tennis Favourite Song: There are many Favourite club: Manchester United You have a childhood crush on Manchester United, how come? And is that your ultimate destination? I’ve always supported Manchester United as a young boy and obviously my favourite players back them were Wayne Rooney and Christian Ronaldo and Ruud van Nistelrooy. I used to love watching Man United and I’m a fan, though my dad is an Arsenal fan. It would be dream come true to play for Manchester United. There are other teams I dream of playing for too, certainly, Manchester United is one of them. Now you are back in the UK with Wigan, how’s it been for you? Been back in England is also great and playing for Wigan is great. I’m really enjoying it and it’s been a good season so far. Obviously, the setback came when I got injured. I twisted my ankle and was out for four months. But, at the same time I made me stronger mentally and I’ve come back stronger and playing well. It’s a good season and we just need to finish strong. You opted to play for Nigeria in 2019, did your parents play any part on that decision or was it basically your idea? Why did you choose Nigeria? My parents did not really say that I have to play for Nigeria. It all went back to 2010 and going to Kwara Academy and learning about how soccer is played in Nigeria, where I’m from. As a young teenager playing under Nigerian coaches, I just fell in love with my country. When I turned 19 in 2015, I got called up for the Nigeria U23 team and I came back and played with the team and got selected for the Olympic team and it was a dream come true. But, I could not go for the tournament having just signed for another team and with the league clashing with the tournament. But my parents are supportive of my decision because I’m playing for their country as well. I would just love to represent my country. How was your first time in the Nigeria senior team, tell us about the experience? My first time out with Super Eagles was amazing. The players and staff welcome me well. They made me feel at home. I met some players that I have played with in the U23 and some that I’ve known in England. It’s an amazing time and the training was great. It’s an enjoyable experience and I hope to be back there soon again obviously representing the national team.