 Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola, wife, Mrs Kafayat Oyetola, and his deputy, Benedict Alabi, yesterday received the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine at the Government House, Osogbo. The vaccine was administered to the governor by the Chief Medical Director of Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Prof. Peter Olaitan. Some senior officials of government also took jabs. Earlier, the government administered doses on the frontline medical personnel in line with the protocol and schedule by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency. Oyetola, speaking at the event, said the decision to be part of the first set to take the vaccine was to build confidence in the public, particularly residents, that the vaccine was safe. “As a state, we recorded our first COVID-19 case in March last year, March 25, to be precise. At first, we were frightened. We were frightened not because we have no competent hands in our health sector to manage the situation, but largely because of the challenge of paucity of funds.  “Today, I am happy to report that we have given the fight a good shot, notwithstanding the obvious challenges. “On this note, I want to single out our health workers for their untiring efforts at containing the spread of the virus. We will not relent until we defeat the virus in our state. We must, however, be reminded that taking the vaccine does not mean throwing away the non-pharmaceutical COVID-19 protocols. “We would like our people to know that Coronavirus is our common enemy. It poses a threat to our lives and livelihood. ‘’We, therefore, appeal to our citizens and the general public to cooperate with us to tame this deadly virus by not only presenting themselves for vaccination but also observing the protocols even after being vaccinated. “It is not time yet to throw away our face masks. It is not yet time to stop washing our hands regularly with soap and water. We will continue to insist on the observance of all of them.  “We will, as a government, enforce them so that in the end, we will all be happy for it. We put ourselves, our families and livelihood in jeopardy when we pander to ignorance and play politics with a life-snuffing virus. Osun received 64,240 vaccines on Tuesday night. The deputy governor, who also chairs the COVID-19 Taskforce Committee, presented the vaccines to the governor,at the Governor’s Office.  