Despite growing global concerns over possible side effects of the Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, the Federal Government has maintained it is safe for Nigerians. National Incident Manager of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, Dr Mukhtar Muhammad said clinical trials had shown that side effects are generally mild. According to Muhammad, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had in the last three days, through series of briefings, vouched for the vaccine’s safety and efficacy, adding that it had been proven to have about 70% efficacy level. He advised those who might have received the vaccine but who have felt symptoms of its reactions for about 24 hours to report through right channels at the state level. “The Nigerian health sector, the Federal Ministry of Health, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, are working also, not only to reassure Nigerians, but also to make a determination and to continue to get information regarding any side effects that people are experiencing in this country. “So, with this, I will say that the available information from clinical trials has shown that the vaccine is generally safe and efficacious and that it has an efficacy of about 70%. “The side effects are usually mild, which include fever, cough, symptoms of cold and maybe the general feeling of unwell,” he said. He also warned Nigerians to desist from flouting the already laid back COVID-19 protocols, challenging state authorities to intensify enforcement. He also advised political and religious leaders not to make unverified comments, which he said are capable of sending wrong and misleading signals to the public on the management of the health crisis, advising that expert advise should be sought before directing the public of the situation. Chairman of the PTF and Secretory to Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha, assured that government would prioritize the health of Nigerians. He said: “The Nigerian authorities have tested and authorised the use of the vaccines because it is safe and efficacious. “I however wish to reassure you that the Government of Nigeria shall always prioritize the health of Nigerians.”