A firm, Esso Properties Limited, is making an inroad into the real estate industry in the East to solve the problem of housing. It is encouraging investors to buy into its projects, which offer good margins. It adds that the best currency in real estate is integrity, which the firm offers. Chief Executive Officer ESSO Properties Limited, Smith Ezenagu said: “We have identified this pressing need, its peculiar challenges and have devised innovative/creative real estate products aimed at delivering first-rate, affordable and secure property ownership for both the top and low income earners in the zone and everywhere we operate. Our three distinct estate models – Berry Prime, Sunray and Summer View – are built to meet the high, medium and low-income individuals. “The fundamental creed guiding our operations is centred on sincerity, transparency, respect and gratitude to our clients, partners, workforce and players in the real estate value-chain has positioned us as an emerging force in the industry within this short period of our existence. “We have delivered several projects in Lagos and Awka and are expanding our reach to Enugu, Asaba and Abuja within the next 10 months to reach our target of delivering 2500 properties before the end of the year.” Smith stressed that his organisation’s unique range of services is advancement from the conventional norm in real estate business. He added that his firm is investing in young real estate managers through our Esso Properties Academy. He said he wanted to use the academy to partner reporters on real estate not only to train them, but also help them to acquire houses. ESSO chief noted the issues of validity and integrity of land document and the authenticity of the claims of land speculators and sellers. According to him, the courts are rife with land litigation and disputes as result of fraudulent and multiple land sales by individuals and families. “In 2021, this should not be happening, that is why Esso Properties has chosen to rise up to the challenge by providing a system that ensures a peaceful transfer of land rights and documents to potential buyers. ‘’Land purchase should be a dream come true and not a nightmare. And that is why we are in the Southeast and other places we operate to offer dream homes with flexible payment option, suited to individual budgets with authentic and certified property document without rancour.” On their other services, he said his organisation also engage in land acquisition, residential and commercial property sales, real estate consultation and structured buildings.  