“We give thanks and adoration to almighty God that the community is fast growing. When I became the Oba, 17 years ago, hardly did I have about 100 to 150 people living here. And now I have over 123 villages that are now over populated. Itori is hosting Lafarge, and will house a mini train terminal. Dangote will soon be back here. If not God, what can we do? He has been so merciful and has always been our strength. That’s why, to mark the day, we conducted prayers. We prayed God to be involved in what we do forthwith just as He had in the past years. And my wife has been supportive. Being 17 years on the throne is indeed worthy of celebration; but we thought it wise to mark it in a small way with the pandemic in view and also to cut cost. We gave takeaway: nobody was allowed to sit down and eat because of the COVID-19 guidelines from the government. We do all possible things to observe the COVID-19 protocols. Last year was a terrible year, it is supposed to be named COVID year. I cannot but mention, Aremo who has also been supportive in all ramifications. Last year, he and some chiefs did a lot of empowerment for our people in thousands, putting smiles on their faces.  Historical relevance of Itori Although Itori is an ancient community that migrated to Abeokuta in the 18th century, it is a cosmopolitan town. I believe this place was founded  in 1802. Itori got to the limelight in 1846 when the first train in Nigeria stopped here from Lagos. The then Queen of England was here and the first Alake of Egbaland, Osokalu was here also. That train brought flock of individuals and since then Itori has prospered and become a cosmopolitan town. And for over 40 to 45 years, that old train has been abandoned but right now, in a couple of months, the old terminal would be decongested: they are going to establish a mini terminal in Itori. So, you can live in Itori and work in Lagos.  And I believe with this new development, the town would witness a lot of developments: more commercial activities, a boost in tourism and employment for our youths.  My thought on culture It depends on one’s perspective. The question is “Why are we traditional rulers in the first place?” The onus is on us to uphold the culture and the tradition of our people. As custodian of our people’s culture, we try to create a conducive environment for your people. But it is not an easy task. I will tell you the truth, uneasy lies the head that wears the crown because all eyes are on one single person. All that glitters is not gold. Even if you find gold in its raw material, you can never believe it is gold: it goes through a degree of heat before becoming gold. That is the principle of culture and what we are doing. In the olden days, people brought  their cases to the palace.  Today, we find means of giving back to our people by way of empowerment. I like to garner support from the wealthy in our midst to alleviate the lot of my people. For instance, during the COVID-19,  I called a lot of my people, including Bishop David Oyedepo, Aliko Dangote, Kayode Kolade, Aremo and many others and they gave us palliatives. So, the pain was not so much on them.  Herders/farmers clash in your domain As a Nigerian you can live anywhere but what really matters is how you conduct your activities. What should really matter is how one carries out one’s activities in the community one belongs to. The herdsmen have been here long before now and so we live as brothers and sisters.  We do not propagate things unnecessarily. We have a 92-year-old Seriki Fulani who was born here. Will I ask him to go? No. We just have to ‘jaw-jaw’. We’ve met in recent times and he was advised to report any strange face he sees. Indeed, there is no where there is no issue. But no, we don’t have the issues of the violence you find in other places. Once in a while, disagreement does occur because cows feed on grasses, but when it does come up, we have ways of settling it. You see, Yoruba is so powerful that if we grind red pepper and put it on the grass, the cows will not eat it and those that will do will die. But what is the gain if their cows are dying? We just need to ‘jaw-jaw’ and not ‘war-war’. Whoever might have seen war will not pray that we or our children should see war. It is a matter of understanding and carrying ourselves along.  My words for traditional and political leaders If you know how to do bad or good, continue. It has its reward. If you buy knife from the market for the purpose of cooking and you decided to use it to cut somebody, what has the knife turned to? It has turned to a destructive weapon. And we all know the consequences of a destructive weapon; but the one who uses it will not escape at the end of the day? We should always pray for God’s wisdom and intervention in what we do. My advice to all traditional rulers is that they should be closer to their God and see their chiefs as their partners and their youths as their investment. There are three seeds you sow: vegetable which does not last more than a year; the other is tree. A tree may last for 10 years and is cut down and used for something else; but when you sow a human being, it is for life. Investing on human being is everlasting. Over 17 years what I have been eating is the work of my hand, the work I have done while I was working.