 SIR: Majority of Nigerians only desire better a nation, not a divided one. The paroxysms of secessionist agitations here and there are only by the vocal minority — the vociferous and insidious minority. What these progenies of anarchy do is to coagulate citizens’ frustration and deploy it for turmoil, anxiety and inter-ethnic collisions. But the silent majority loves their country; though they may be dissatisfied with the way things are, they will not give it up for a mess of pottage or a million Sunday Igbohos and Nnamdi Kanus. There is a tribe we ignore in our maddening pursuit of offence against one another – the scions of multiethnic marriages. There has been a cross pollination and fecundation of cultures, ethnic origins, and even blood over the decades. If we begin to trace our genealogy we will certainly see the inter-crossing of ancestries. Some of those in the vanguard of secessionist agitations today will be staggered to find out that their ancestors are Fulani or that there is a tincture of Fulani blood in their gene-pool. Hate is ossified by ignorance. The knowledge that we are all connected in an endless loop by the commingling of destines should guide our relationship with one another. Reinforcing stereotypes about certain groups could be self-deprecating. As a matter of necessity, we should take interest in digging into our genealogy like African-Americans do. We will be flustered by the findings. Emeka from Enugu will be startled to know that his ancestors are from Kano.  Perhaps, that can help in bringing humanity to some unyielding hearts. Kogi is a veritable example of how hybridised our country is. In the state, you will find citizens of Igbo, Yoruba, Hausa, and Fulani origins – as well as many other origins. The state is a melting pot of cultures and ethnic linkages. God forbid it, if Nigeria is sundered today, under where do we group this composite population? In Ebonyi (south-east), a good mix of the indigenes are of northern ancestry just like in Enugu. We have a melange of hybridised communities in Ilorin, Kwara; the same in Port Harcourt, Delta, Edo, Oyo and other parts of Nigeria. There are only pure-breed Nigerians. Also, the offspring from multiethnic marriages are a new tribe; the silent majority who listen and watch in horror as we go for each other’s jugulars. We ignore this category of Nigerians who form a formidable number of our population. Have we considered the trauma dealt on the psyche of children whose dads, for example, are from Abia and moms from Kano when we engage in this revelry of hate-trading? Those of us who share a strong passion for Nigeria must not take a day off in advancing the cause for our unity because those who are desperate at putting the sword to what holds us together are not reclining.