Stakeholders in the capital market have reaffirmed their commitments to providing enabling environment that allows all to realise their potential, irrespective of their gender. As a strategic move to deepen the quality of human capital in the financial market, women have been advised to take a profession in the securities market. Besides, women are believed to have innate ability to match their male counterparts in any profession and thereby remove the stigma of gender inequality. Speaking on the Theme: “Promoting gender equality as  a core value in the Nigerian capital market”, at an event to mark International Women Day (IWD) by Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), former Director-General, Nigerian Stock Exchange, Prof. Ndi Okereke-Onyuike explained that although stockbroking was dominated by men, more women should aspire to join the profession as they have equal opportunities. According to her, women have made serious contributions to the growth and development of the capital market by removing the stigma of gender-inequality in many professions. They have achieved this by using their God-given sixth sense. “The unique theme of this year’s International Women’s Day has opened the floodgate of how we stockbrokers can effectively achieve the core value of equality in the capital market and the whole financial district of Nigeria. The institute should work towards holding a forum to encourage those who have derived wealth from the market to support the millennials who lack the wherewithal to participate in the market,” Mrs Okereke-Onyuike said. Corroborating her, the first female stockbroker to be inducted and licensed by the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mrs Elizabeth Ebi explained that she left her comfort zone as an investment banker, broke barrier and opted for the securities market which was largely dominated by men. “Considering my comfortable and exalted position at the bank and the heavy work load attached to the position, there was no motivation to take on the extra-curricular required to qualify as a stockbroker. However, as I recalled my long drawn out crusade to break the barrier against women becoming stockbrokers I decided to take up the challenge. “I humbly and dutifully applied myself to the task by not just meeting all the training required but also excelled in the exam recording one of the best results. I was subsequently inducted and licensed as the first female stockbroker on the NSE, together with Chief Nike Adeniran,”  Ebi said. President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe urged females to embrace the securities market to take advantage of its opportunities. “I assure you that the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers is committed to the ideal of gender equality. The capital market is a remarkable exception when it comes to discrimination against women. Our own Prof. (Mrs) Ndi Okereke-Onyuike was a long- serving Director-General of the Nigerian Stock Exchange. The apex regulatory body, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has had two female Director-Generals till date: Ms Aruma Oteh and Ms Mary Uduk,” Amolegbe said. A past president of CIS, Mr Mike Itegboje lamented that out of 3000 stockbrokers in Nigeria, only 85 were women. Itegboje advocated an increased level of enlightenment on the benefits of the capital market across the nation to attract more females. At the event organised by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), which also marked the IWD with a bell-ringing ceremony, the NSE reiterated its commitment to gender equality. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr Oscar Onyema said the NSE was committed to playing its part by implementing various initiatives aimed at promoting gender diversity and empowering women. He said the NSE recognises that there is a pressing need to do more to advance gender equality across the ecosystem noting that one of the NSE’s key initiatives is the three-year Nigeria2Equal programme that  it is implementing in collaboration with the International Finance Corporation (IFC). According to him, the programme will support the private sector to increase women’s participation as leaders, employees, customers and entrepreneurs through favourable workforce policies and practices, products and services that target the women’s market segment and deliberate measures that promote women’s participation in corporate value chains. In delivering her goodwill remarks, Chief, Intergovernmental Relations & Africa, United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Ms. Olajobi Makinwa called on business leaders to choose to challenge the gender disparities that exist within organisations and set clear targets to address gender equality. According to her, these targets should includes policies that ensure equal pay for work of equal value, address gender bias and prejudice, prevent violence and harassment, offer clear opportunities for career development, and ensure women are included in the decision-making process across all levels of leadership. Member, National Council, NSE, Erelu Angela Adebayo noted that NSE will continue to celebrate women and create fair and equal opportunities for their growth and career advancement. “It is imperative that we all consider the challenge ahead of us in achieving a gender equal world and recognise that we have a critical role to play in ensuring we create a post-pandemic future that fully includes and supports women. We must choose to challenge the gender norms and stereotypes and build a more inclusive society that ensures we make steady, collective progress towards empowering all women and girls by 2030 as enshrined by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” Adebayo said. The event culminated in the ‘Ring the Bell’ for Gender Equality which was of particular significance to the Exchange given the advancement in the NSE’s demutualisation which suggests that this will be the last International Women’s Day that will be commemorated as the entity called the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Headlined by the 2nd Vice President, National Council, NSE, Ms. Catherine Nwakaego Echeozo, the bell ringing ceremony honoured the women leaders who currently serve on the National Council of the NSE as well as the newly appointed women leaders who will serve on the Boards of the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc and its subsidiaries. The virtual event was organised in partnership with the World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), Sustainable Stock Exchange Initiative (SSEI), International Finance Corporation (IFC), United Nations (UN) Women, and the United Nations Global Compact Network Nigeria (GCNN).