 Tottenham face bitter rivals Arsenal in the first North London Derby of the year tomorrow aiming to maintain their push for a top-four spot after a recent revival reignited their Champions League hopes. Spurs have scored four in three of their last four matches across all competitions and sit just five points behind fourth-placed Chelsea with a game in hand. For the Gunners, winning the Europa League is likely their best hope of clinching a Champions League berth. They sit in mid-table, but Mikel Arteta is refusing to contemplate the possibility of a first season without European football since 1994-95. Tottenham head into the match at Emirates Stadium following four straight victories across all competitions but visiting  Arsenal with a particularly strong home record in north London derbies. While Arsenal are winless in their last five meetings with Tottenham in all competitions, Spurs are looking to win three consecutive league games against Arsenal for the first time since 1974. And Dimitar Berbatov wants former club Tottenham to punish Arsenal’s ‘leaking’ defence tomorrow. Tottenham has regained form ahead of the derby, winning each of their last four games, the Gunners followed up back-to-back wins with a draw against Burnley last time out when they conceded their fourth goal in just three games. And that defensive vulnerability is something Jose Mourinho and Spurs should be looking to punish ahead of this weekend’s derby, according to former striker Berbatov. “This weekend it is the north London derby and Spurs have the momentum with Bale also coming into form. However, it is a derby and you just have to try and win that game,” Berbatov told Betfair. “Arsenal are leaking goals and making mistakes, the Burnley goal highlights that. Spurs need to enforce that and make Arsenal make mistakes and not make mistakes themselves. I think Spurs have the better players on paper, but in these games, nothing is certain. It’s an important game for both teams. It is a north London derby. Both sets of supporters want to win the game. If Spurs win it, they edge closer to the top four. It’s good for the ego and pride too. As I’ve said before, when you step onto that pitch and you’re mentally ready, you will be OK.  “A win over Arsenal will build their confidence even higher. Spurs had a good season in the beginning, then they hit a dip in form and now again they have stepped up a gear up and are performing well. “Hopefully they don’t have another dip in form as otherwise it would be the same old story. My only wish if they beat Arsenal is to maintain their consistency as that separates big sides and then the really big sides.” Meanwhile, Gareth Bale looks to have found his rhythm, with a hand in six goals in his last four Premier League appearances (4 goals, 2 assists). The Welshman has more goals against Arsenal (5) than against any other side in the Premier League, but Mikel Arteta will be determined to pick up his first points against Spurs after two successive losses against their neighbours since he took the reins. The Welsh forward struggled to break into Mourinho’s starting 11 initially, and was also publicly criticised by the Portuguese manager for an apparent lack of desire and poor work-rate.  Speaking to Ladbrokes ahead of Spurs’ North London Derby clash against Arsenal this weekend, former Tottenham striker Bobby Zamora believes that Mourinho has dealt well with Bale’s situation despite some suggesting he should have brought the best out of him earlier. “We don’t know how Gareth Bale has looked behind the scenes for the majority of the season, but it looks as though Mourinho has just been biding his time and waiting for him to get back to full match fitness before playing him regularly, Zamora said. “Just because you’re Gareth Bale doesn’t mean you’re going to walk straight into the starting XI, especially under a manager like Jose Mourinho. “There’s only a handful of managers who would be able to make a decision like that about such a big name. He’s been under a lot of pressure this season from the owners undoubtedly, but also from the fans. Everyone rightly expected Bale to be a regular pretty much from the offset so there were questions from the supporters and the media as to why he wasn’t playing. “But Mourinho is one of the only managers who has the credentials and the trophy cabinet to say ‘shut up; I’m the manager and I’ll do what I want’, so fair play to him. I’m a big fan of Mourinho. Jose Mourinho believes Harry Kane will be fit to face Arsenal tomorrow  despite the striker needing ice on his knee after picking up a knock against Dinamo Zagreb. Kane scored twice to give Spurs a comfortable victory in the first leg of their Europa League last-16 tie but was quickly substituted when he went down in pain in the 82nd minute. The 27-year-old was seen getting some treatment on the injury while he sat on the bench for the remainder of the game but Mourinho played down any fears that it could affect his involvement in the north London derby this weekend. “Harry, I don’t believe is anything big,” the Spurs boss said. “Sunday is a match everyone wants to play and little things will not stop him. I don’t have the feeling it is anything serious. Let’s see the reaction tomorrow but I am sure he will be fine.” Kane put in a man-of-the-match performance with two clinical finishes in each half to take his goal tally to 26 for the season. The striker also played a role in preserving the team’s clean sheet with a number of important clearances. “He is doing everything,’ Mourinho said of Kane’s performance. “He is doing the striker job of scoring goals, the team work of creating space and linking play and the extra work not many strikers do in defence. He helps us a lot.