Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun at the weekend reiterated his administration’s commitment to complete road projects awarded but abandoned by the last administration. He said they have direct socio-economic impact on the residents. The governor said more funds would be allocated for the construction of 53km Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road, to ensure its timely completion. Abiodun said the projects awarded by his predecessor ought to have been prioritised by the last administration, adding that action would be expedited on the project, which he described as “major arterial road between Ogun Central and West.” He spoke on the sideline of the inspection of three key road projects, including Lafenwa-Ayetoro, Panseke-Adigbe-Opako and Oke-Lantoro-Elite-Idi Aba in Abeokuta. Said he: “We are committed to the quick completion of Lafenwa-Ayetoro Road, because it accounts for thousands of our citizens travelling between Ayetoro and Abeokuta for commerce, school and work. This project should have been given more priority than it was given by the previous administration. We should not have come to meet this project in the state we have met it.” The governor said he had seen some portions of the road, which required attention, adding that he had ordered the contractor handling the road to move to the affected areas and make movement around the corridor easy. “I have seen that there are areas and pockets of parts of this project that require attention, particularly the area towards Lafenwa market, which is in a deplorable state. I have consequently instructed the contractor to move to that part of this project and make it accessible, so that it can relieve the passengers travelling from Abeokuta to Ayetoro,” he said. On the three-kilometre Panseke-Adigbe-Opako Road, Abiodun said the road would be further extended by one and a half kilometres to solve the perennial flood, submerging of Opako culvert as well as ease vehicular movement between Obafemi Owode and Abeokuta South local governments. He said the company had assured him that the construction would be completed by the second week of May. The governor has assured residents of Oke-Lantoro-Elite-Idi Aba Road area that the transformer serving them will be fixed before Easter. He told them that the drainage on the road had been redesigned to accommodate more water, adding that a canal on the road would be dredged with a retaining wall built to ensure that the water flowed freely. Urging the residents to desist from dumping refuse into the canal, Abiodun said the asphalt laying of the road would begin soon.