Taiwo Alimi examines the frustration of grassroots and academy coaches that have lost millions in income and up and coming footballers that have abandoned soccer for cultism, cyber crime and menial jobs all because of the eleven-months closure of the National Stadium  Tade Samson, (18) captain of FC Banjoh U21 Football Academy, is an emotional wreck. He is not happy with the turn of event in his life. “My dream is to be a great footballer in Europe but I’m losing it because I could not train for many months.” His words came out slowly with registered pain. Samson dreams of toeing the foot paths of Nigeria’s top players like Victor Osimhen and Wilfred Ndidi of SSC Napoli and Leicester City respectively. “I watched them play with other academies in the National Stadium Lagos (NSL).  They inspire me to dream of walking their paths to Europe.” The creative midfielder, who has marshaled FC Banjoh to many victories, the most recent of them a third place finish at the 2020 Hon. Tajudeen Ajide U20 Championship which took place at the NSL. Samson is emotionally and physically frustrated because that dream has been dealt a blow by the closure of NSL. He has not come to term, yet, with the eleven months shutdown of the stadium since March 2020. It was only opened to the public in February 2021. The initial shutdown was initiated by the Federal Government to avoid contact spread of the Covid-19 pandemic and later by the Ministry of Youth and Sport Development due to rehabilitation work on the stadium. The famous stadium; once ‘slaughter slab’ of African teams from the late 70s to the 90s (for three decades) was nicknamed ‘Sportcity’ due to its multi-purpose facility. Opened in 1961 it hosted the 2nd All Africa games in 1973 and the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) plus dozens of World Cup and AFCON qualifying matches. Sportcity houses a 60,000 capacity football stadium and several training pitches that have been revamped over time, an Olympic size swimming pool, hockey pitches, indoor sport halls and gymnasium. For up and coming footballers like Samson, Sportcity is their haven; a sanctuary where they come to dream, create, build, work and live their dream of making it big in soccer. Samson represents a group of youngsters who train as a team under the guidance of certified coaches who mostly doubles as owners and converge, at least, thrice in a week at the training pitches of the National Stadium Lagos. There are hundreds more like Samson and living for them starts and stops at Sportcity. DREAM DASHED Samson said his dream was shattered in March 2000, when the Federal Government (FG) imposed a lockdown on the whole country forcing sport to take a temporary halt. “In February, we took part in the 2020 APFAN/Ajide U20 Championship, at the NSL and came out in third position.” It was a great way to start a new year, so he taught, until Coronavirus crept into Nigeria, and Lagos became the epicenter of the pandemic leading to a total lock down of activities, sport inclusive. “It was devastating.  Sportcity was shut down and other government sports facilities did not open for months.” As days crept into weeks and weeks into months, Samson became uneasy and in a short while became apprehensive.  “I became restless and out of form. Football is my life and I became shattered for not playing for months. We could have gone to school fields but they were locked down too.” Gideon Emeka, Samson’s teammate; equally, did not taking the lockdown well.  Football, he said has become his lifelong ambition and training a second nature. “I have put everything into this and to be locked down without football was frustrating.” Reprieve came their way, so they thought, when the lockdown was eased by the FG in May and football gradually resumed at the local league level in December. They young players jumped for joy and began to harass their coach and proprietor of Banjoh Football Academy, Coach Kamiludeen Banjo, to begin the process of going back to the field. However, their jubilation was caught short when directives came from the Sport Ministry that the Sportcity will remain closed to any kind of activity due to rehabilitation work which began during the lockdown. “Sportcity was shut to athletes for eleven months,” Samson lamented. “We the players have been at home for more than six months-going to one year. It has affected our form. Some of us have left to do other things because we have to do something.” Emeka echoed same sentiment: “The closure has truncated many dreams. It has delayed many things and dashed career. It was not only the National Stadium that was shut down, other sports facility belonging to government (State and Federal) did not open for months. Our career was locked down and some of our colleagues have abandoned football out rightly.” By the time NSL was finally opened to the public last month mid February, Coach Solomon Adeshina, an academy owner and Technical Director of Association of Proprietors of Football Academies of Nigeria (APFAN), said it has affected negatively coaches, owners and players. “For 11 months, March, 2020 to February 2021; we could not do anything. The careers of many up and coming athletes were thwarted.  It is now that we are gradually getting back and many of my players are yet to come back. I don’t know if they will ever come back,” said the Sidab Football Academy proprietor. He confirmed Emeka’s claim using some of his wards as illustration. REVENUE LOSS “As an academy owner and coach in the business of producing talents at grassroots level, we faced a lot of hardship during the lockdown as our source of living and inspiration was disrupted for months. The closure of training facilities at Sportcity disrupted developmental programmes for teeming children under our care. Many players became rusty, some join commercial buses as conductors, and others took up menial jobs to make ends meet. Indeed.  It was a painful experience for coaches and youths.” Coach Banjo added that some teenagers were forced back into the streets to engage in clandestine activities. “We noticed that most of the boys who took to football to stay away from societal vices, drug addiction, and Yahoo Yahoo (cyber crime) have gone back because boys are naturally resilient.  Eleven months was too much to close down an important sports edifice like NSL.” He said it was also counter-productive to the athletes to keep them permanently lockdown for months on end. “It can also lead to breakdown in their system and injury because they need to go back to training for at least three months to be fully fit. That is why I say that government needs to forget about the National Sport Festival (NSF) for now because it is an invitation to injury. They have to begin with simple stretches to expand their lungs, body nerves to ensure that all the bones are awake.” COACHES OUT OF JOB Coach Adesina bemoaned the fate of grassroots coaches and academy owners. “This is our work and life devotion. Many of us have no other work that we are doing. We are full time coaches and it is through this academy that we make money to put food on our tables. Most of the programmes the players were to attend were cancelled. And this is where the grassroots coaches and players are making little resources to make ends meet. Team owners and coaches are groaning.” Sadly, the grassroots football academies were excluded from state, federal or FIFA palliatives.  Banjo said: “There were no palliatives for the grassroots developer. But for Hon Tajudeen Ajide, Executive Chairman of Surulere Local Government Area (LGA), no other persons deem it fit to extend palliatives to academies. The palliatives would have gone long way to support us. Most of the players did not get anything.  The NFF only give to the coaches association and to the league players. Academies did not benefit from the palliatives distributed, even though we are registered with the states.” Abiodun Adefemi, owner and coach of Sharon Football Club, said some of his ‘boys’ drifted away from football during the lockdown. “There is no denying that the pandemic lockdown affected sports greatly. It denied coaches and players the joy of doing what we love to do. Talking about their career, it stalled the career of many players who could not go out for scheduled trials. I tried to use the social media to encourage them that is not as effective as physical contact. “Economically, nothing was coming. Up till now we still feel the effect. I operate in Ikorodu- a volatile environment- and from what I experienced, many players simply drifted away from football into cultism.” Adefemi, who went into full academy practice in 2011, in February 2021, launched a tournament purposely to bring back lost footballers in Ikorodu.  “We played a mini tournament last week when we realized that many of our players are not coming back to the field after the lockdown. We had the tournament in Ijede, where cult activists have increased since sports lockdown. We felt that the players who have drifted away will come back to show off their skills when they hear of a competition. The goal was to pierce them away from cult activities to return to their first love-football.” Adefemi, who is also the older brother of late Super Eagles defender, Olubayo Adefemi, bemoaned the neglect of grassroots sports in Lagos and in extension the country. “We spend so much but get nothing. There is no structure put in place by the Nigeria apex football body. Grassroots is where the basics of football are learnt, yet we are poorly treated. Look at our leagues, you see players that cannot string together three passes, it is a result of poor foundation. We are the most affected by the pandemic. We were totally neglected.” Though, Sharon FC is affiliated to Ikorodu Football Division, under Lagos State Football Association (LSFA) and nationally to Nigeria Football Federation, (NFF), he said no academy got any incentive or palliative at the state or national level. “We suffered huge revenue loss and we did not getting anything. No palliative got to us. We only heard about the FIFA, federal and state palliatives, we did not get anything because those in authority feel that we don’t matter. They don’t care about us. And that is why we have youth restiveness, cult wars and social vices all over the country. Football is where these youths would have dissipated energy and it was not there for them.” Michael Etim, a seasoned grassroots administrator and APFAN Secretary General, said the mass participation of youths in the 2020 EndSARS protest, which led to monumental \destruction of public properties and death of youths and Policemen at the Lagos Lekki Tollgate, was partly a result of shutdown of Sportcity. “Those in government did not look at the economic and social impact of shutting down sport facilities like the Lagos National Stadium. If these youths were able to train as they have been doing, I’m sure they would not have time to go for any protest. They became willing tools because they could no longer play football. I see the mass appeal of the EndSARS protest a result of youths’ restiveness due to scarce recreation centre to dispel their power.” MINISTER’S ANGLE Justifying the 11 months shutdown of NSL, Nigeria Minister of Youth and Sport Development, Sunday Dare, said the shutdown is vital for the overall rehabilitation of the 45-year-old stadium and for the good of Nigerians. “For 18 years, the national stadium in Lagos has been used for purposes other than sports. We have started a new regime of trying to develop our sporting infrastructure, the new orientation around sports. “What we are trying to do is to return that place to its original blueprint and prepare it for concession. The concession process is in the last stage, we are receiving people with their submissions. They must have access to that place….We hope to build a 150 shops shopping mall that all these people can come and be in a single, unified and decent place. ” Dare confirmed that Sportcity main bowl pitch will be ready for use as from May, 2021. He noted that the contractors handling renovation of the pitch and tracks had assured the ministry of early completion of the renovation works. WITHER THE PITCHES The closure of the LNS also brought to the front burner issues around inadequate and dilapidated recreation and sports facility in Lagos state. The Nations’ investigation revealed that the closure affected players and coaches negatively because Lagos lacked sufficient sports and recreation centers to cater for its abundant youth population. According to the 2006 census conducted by the National Population Census (NPC), Lagos has a population of over nine million, of a national estimate of 150 million. NPC put the population growth rate at 600,000 per annum, with a density of approximately 4, 193 persons per sq km. in 2016, the Nigeria Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in conjunction with Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) put Lagos population at an estimated 12,550,598. In 2020, it was estimated that Lagos population would be in the 14million range. NBS approximates 53.5 percent of Nigeria’s population to be in the 15-64 age brackets with Lagos leading the way. It means Nigeria has a relatively productive population with close to half of the population classified as youths. The 2009 Nigerian National Youth Policy defines youth as between 18-35 years. Young people are characteristically high in spirit and vigour and highly active in sports and with Lagos having a greater number of youths in the country, sports and recreation centre should be central to it planning. For example, Sportcity, is central to densely populated areas as Somolu, Bariga, Ojuelegba, Surulere, Itire, Ikorodu road, Lawanson, Palmgrove, Fadeyi, Yaba and others, and attracts thousands of youths from all these areas like bees. They come in the morning and evening to gain access to the facilities because they do not have it in their localities. According to the Lagos State Sports Council (LSSC), the state boasts of 16 sports facilities scattered throughout the five administrative divisions. They are Teslim Balogun Stadium-Surulere (TBS), Onikan Stadium, Agege Stadium, and Campos Mini Stadium, in Lagos Island. The others are Rowe Park Sports Centre, Yaba, Elegbata Playing Ground, Sari Iganmu Mini Stadium, Iganmu, Ijede Mini Stadium, Ijede, Ikorodu, Amuto Playing Ground, Island, Isheri Swimming Pool/Football, Abesan Stadium, Jalisco Mini Stadium, Oshodi, Orile Iganmu Playing Ground, Orile, Epe Creation Centre, Alapa Stadium Badagry and Igbogbo Mini Stadium. What LSSC did not, however, say is that some of these facilities are run down and no longer function. “Where are facilities they talk about? It is as good as there is nothing. For me to operate and train my boys in Ikorodu we make use of primary and secondary schools’ fields. The Ijede Mini Stadium was demolished since 2014. Igbogbo Mini Stadium is just a bare ground without facility. It is overgrown with weeds. Because of the frequent kidnapping experienced all over the country, most secondary schools don’t open their gates again to outsiders; we only make use of a primary school field.” Coach Banjo, who is also the national coach of Nigeria Deaf Eagles, noted that they don’t have access to some of the facilities while spaces originally designated for sports and recreations have been turned to housing estates. “We have no access to Agege Stadium, neither do we have access to state owned stadiums. It is only the NSL that is giving us free access and they now shut it down for 11 months.”  Aside from the state owed facilities, there are also more privately operated sports facilities. They are Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Estate (for members only), Ikoyi Club 1938 (members only), Lagos Polo Club (members only), Lagos Lawn Tennis Club (members only), Ikeja Golf Club, (members only) Abraham Adesanya Estate football pitch (for public use), University of Lagos Staff School Football Pitch (for private use), Gbagada Estate Playground (for public) ISL Football Field (private use), Okobaba Football Field, (public use), Amoo football pitch (public use), Kokobire Soccer field (private), Gowon mini field Gowon Estate- Abesan (pubic), 36 Lion Soccer Academy pitch- Bamgbose St (private), Computer Open field (public), Maracana playing field now Odion Ighalo football pitch –Ajegunle(public), Egbe field, Ikotun Egbe (public), and Milo Tennis courts, ilupeju Bypass (private/public), and Police College Training Ground (private). The problem common to these facilities is that you may have to pay through your nose to use some of them. Money that struggling academies cannot afford. As indicated, Lagos state with a territorial land area of 351,861 hectares and with five administrative divisions, namely, Ikeja, Badagry, Lagos, Ikorodu, and Epe, needs more than 16 sports centers to cater for its ever growing population. The few public arenas available for use cannot possibly accommodate the teeming populace and football academies in the state. Dr Francis Akinremi, PFAN president and former National Institute for  Sports (NIS) head of department, said Lagos state need to have hundreds of public sports arenas to be able to cater for Lagosians and the hundreds of academies and grassroots clubs. “It is evident that Lagos does not have enough sports facilities to take care of the populace. Sporting facility should be locality based. It should be such that you can walk to a sporting arena from your home and walk back. We don’t have that in Nigeria, yet it is important because this is what guarantees a healthy people. If we have more pitches, we would spent fewer money on healthcare and youth unrest. “Look at place like Ajegunle, Somolu, Bariga and Agege, many youths have nothing to do and these are areas prone to social unrest and crime, which are perpetrated by mostly youths. Give them something to sweat on and take out their anger and you will have a productive and healthy youth. “I will call on every governor and local government chairmen to consider building more sports facilities and it would reduce drastically unrest in our nation.” Babajide Oguntuase, ex-international and football coach at Lagos State Polytechnic Ikorodu, compared the level of unrest and crime in Ikorodu to sport facility available. “Ikorodu is home to many ex-internationals who have their own football academies, but we are handicapped by the facility available. When you have a locality brimming with thousands of school leavers and unemployed youths, yet they don’t indulge in any sport to keep them busy, it is an invitation to chaos and social malaise, which is exactly what we are getting in Ikorodu. “During the pandemic lockdown, you notice that many people; including youths and adults took to the Expressways to play football, exercise and keep fit. It is due to lack of facility,” added Oguntuase. Like the Elegbata Playing Ground, which was renovated by private company, Axxela Limited in 2019, some of the facilities have also been handed over to corporate bodies that now operate them for commercial purposes. Some of the facilities have been encroached upon like the Ikotun Mini Stadium which is in a state of despair and now partly serves as motor parks. In reaction, Sola Aiyepeku, Executive chairman, LSSC, said the commission has commenced rehabilitation work on Igbogbo Township Stadium and the upgrading of facilities at the Elewa Youth Center. He said the proposed Ikorodu Township Stadium will also commence soon. “Already the state has done the ground work and we have seen plans designed for the stadium. Whatever we are building must have room for expansion. It must be self sustaining. It must be something that will serve the community properly and dine with quality. These things take time but we are already working on one but there is nothing bad in having two facilities.” Coach Banjo agreed that Lagos state should create more sporting arenas in every locality to reduce the over-reliance on Sportcity. “Without this, the inevitable is that academy and grassroots coaches and wards will continue to suffer from neglect and abuse in a system that does not cater for the down trodden. “We know that Sport Minister Dare meant well for Nigerian sports, but he should consider coaches at the grassroots and our wards who do not have anywhere to go before we lose more to crime and Yahoo Yahoo.” 