 I have had an emotional attachment to Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, since my first visit to the historical town as a secondary school pupil in the 1980s. For reasons I could not fathom, my usually protective father, who had previously resisted my bid to travel to neighbouring Kabba town for an interview that would earn me admission into secondary school, strangely decided to yield to my Ilorin-based elder sister’s request that I should spend my holiday with her. It was my first real journey outside the village setting and away from the prying eyes of my parents under whose guide I could do nothing beyond going to school, accompanying them to the farm, performing the house chores they assign to me and doing some evening reading before retiring into bed. In Iloring, it was a different ball game. My excited sister felt an obligation to pamper me with all manner of victuals and even take me to the state government owned park and garden located at the intersection between Ibrahim Taiwo and Unity roads, among other fun spots. So pleasant was my stay that I felt reluctant to return to the village at the expiration of the holiday. My suggestion that my sister should register me in one of the missionary schools in Ilorin so that I could continue to stay in the city was rebuffed by her. It was enough luck that she secured my father’s consent to spend my holiday in Ilorin, asking him for more would amount to pushing her luck too far. Ilorin naturally became my base after secondary school, and I later realised that the city hosted a lot of my kinsmen from Okunland in the present Kogi State, who carried on like sons and daughters of the soil. So much so that when Kogi State was eventually carved from Kwara and Benue states with Lokoja as the capital, the Okun (Yoruba) people in Ilorin were reluctant to return to their new state until all the sensitive positions in the civil service had been occupied by the Igala from the Benue end. That became the genesis of the dominant influence of the Igala in the affairs of the state till this day. From the foregoing, you can imagine my shock and pain at the news that a piece of head covering called  hijab is threatening the foundation of the peace and spirit of camaraderie that has governed Ilorin for ages. The Christian and Muslim population in the city who had lived at peace with one another for centuries are now at daggers drawn over whether the hijab won by female Muslims should be allowed in schools built and run by Christian missions. Trouble was said to have begun on a fateful morning an okada (commercial motorcycle) rider took a Muslim student with the head covering to one of the missionary schools in the city. On getting to the gates of the school, the girl alighted and removed the hijab as she made to enter the school’s compound. The curious okada man called the girl back and asked why she removed her hijab. ”We are not allowed to wear it within the school’s premises,” the innocent female pupil responded, not knowing that she had just triggered the Third World War. The okada rider, now in the garb of an advocate of the oppressed, told the girl to wear her hijab and volunteered to escort her into the school’s compound. Of course, her mode of dressing was met with resistance at the school’s gates and all hell was let loose. The okada man took it upon himself to call as many Muslims as he could to behold the ‘abomination’ that had just occurred. Thus was born the brouhaha that is threatening to tear the state apart. Unfortunately the age old counsel that a government can best deal with religion by not dealing with it was lost on the state government, which has taken it upon itself to champion the course of the Muslims in the matter. Religion is a private affair; a personal relationship between an individual and God. Granting aides to the mission schools in the state does not necessarily transfer their ownership to the government. Schools everywhere in the world have codes of conduct, among which is the mode of dressing, which must be respected by anyone who desires to pass through them. The previous administrations in the state apparently realised this and chose not to teach the owners of the schools which mode of dressing should be accepted or rejected. School uniforms convey a sense of belonging and orderliness among pupils, but the idea of hijab, particularly in schools founded by Christian missions, has put the concept under severe threat. What happens, for instance, if members of the Celestial or Cherubim and Seraphim Church decide to turn up in school in their long, immaculate robes, claiming that it is part of their religion? I am not a Muslim, but I have many Muslim friends, neighbours and relations whose wives and daughters do not wear the hijab. It takes nothing away from their identities as Muslims or their belief in the oneness and supremacy of Allah. If for many months during the recent COVID-19 lockdown the mosques had to be shut just like the churches and the heavens did not fall, the few hours a female student would spend in school without the hijab cannot determine the extent of her piety or her candidacy for al-Jannah. Other than political reasons, the hijab crisis is a needless controversy.