The management of ATCO Homes, a real estate firm has hinted of plans to build over 10, 000 housing units within the next five years. Making this disclosure recently was the firm’s Managing Director/CEO, Mr Triumph-Abatan Oluwayomi, the Managing during a media parley in Lagos. While speaking on the planned homeownership initiative, the former aide to Bishop David Oyedepo, the General Overseer of Living Faith Church Worldwide aka Winners’ Chapel International, said his passion for the Nigerians in the lower rung of the economic ladder informed the decision to serve the segment for the affordable housing scheme. ATCO Homes, Oluwayomi stressed, plans to lead the charge to make affordable homes, investment opportunities available to Nigerians. ATCO Homes, a fast-growing real estate firm, has reiterated its commitment to making affordable housing and scalable real estate investment opportunities available to Nigerian low-end income earners and the elites. Specifically, the company announced an ongoing promo which will afford Nigerians to become landowners in the top Lagos city of Ibeju-Lekki for as low as N800, 000, starting with an initial deposit of N25, 000. “At ATCO Homes, we are driven by a passion to empower Nigerians to live a fuller and wealthier life. This is why we are making opportunities available to all Nigerians to own properties in Ibeju-Lekki, a choice area of Lagos. “To drive mass land-ownership and home-ownership, we have in place a payment plan of two years with zero per cent interest on the land cost. In another case, we put in place a gift of Toyota corolla for purchasing from three and above plots from one of our estates, Nation’s View Estate, Shapati, Lekki,” he added. He further explained that the real estate firm which is driven by a passion to serve Nigerians is exploring all avenues to enrich the lives of the growing national population through outright home-ownership or investment in lands that have higher return percentage on both a short and long term bases. Presently, ATCO Homes portfolios comprise 12 residential estates and lands. The real estate portfolios include The Nations View Estate, Cloud View Estate in Ode-Omi, Bliss Vale Estate in Lamijo; The Blue Ocean Estate, The Dove Estate, Brampton Lake, Milton Estate, Oakville Garden, Angle Blue Estate, all located in Ibeju-Lekki, in Lagos. Nigeria’s housing deficit is put at an estimated 17 million according to a statistic report. The report emphasised that 700,000 new houses are needed yearly to tackle the worsening housing deficit. This is why ATCO Homes has stepped forward with a bold new home and land ownership plans that are structured around an instalment and zero-interest regime to support the various federal and state government housing schemes which seek to make lands and homes more affordable and accessible to Nigerian citizens.