The women leaders of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in the PACFaH@Scale project have decried women’s inadequate access to essential health services, particularly to immunisation and family planning services across the country. While recalling that in July last year, the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, disclosed that immunisation rates, skilled birth attendance, RMNCH+N (reproductive, maternal, newborn, and child health and nutrition (RMNCH+N) had declined, the group noted that COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted Nigerians, especially women who bear the burden of child and family health. Stressing that disruption to services means disaster for the woman who must care for her family, it therefore called on the government to keep its promise of giving adequate and priority attention to essential health services, while also addressing the COVID-19 emergency. The President and Project Director of the Medical Women’s Association of Nigeria (MWAN)-PACFaH@Scale Project, Dr Minnie Oseji, made these known in Abuja, to commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day, with the theme: ‘Choose to Challenge.’ “We, the women leaders of civil society organisations in the PACFaH@Scale project are happy to celebrate all the great achievements of Nigerian women this 2021 International Women’s Day. As women leaders, however, we must address the numerous challenges and hardships faced by the women of this country on a daily basis. “We are meeting here today to celebrate International Women’s Day in the middle of the global pandemic, COVID-19, which has impacted negatively on all Nigerians (men, women and children) but on women in particular who bear the burden of child and family health. In a press statement of July2, 2020, the Federal Minister of Health signaled the threat COVID-19 poses to child and family health of the nation and to the mothers, grandmothers, aunties and sisters who are traditionally responsible for the health of children and the household. In the statement, the Honourable Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire said ‘Immuniswation rates, skilled birth attendance, RMNCH+N have declined’. “The Honourable Minister’s statement has been backed up by words of caution by UNICEF, the WHO and by the research findings of health professional associations in the PACFaH@Scale project such as the National Association of Public Health Practitioners of Nigeria. Not only has routine immunisation been affected as Primary Health Care Centres all over the country are unable to provide full immunisation services, but women have been finding it harder to access  family planning services and trainings scheduled by so many state governments,new treatment protocols for childhood killer diseases have been put on hold due to COVID-19. There is no doubt that there has been a disruption of Essential Health Services throughout Nigeria as a result of COVID-19. “The Nigeria National Strategic Health Development Plan II lists Reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health, plus nutrition (RMNCH +N) first in the definition of essential health services care package. Disruption to services means disaster for the woman who must care for her family. We commend the Nigerian government for developing the National Action Plan for Health Security 2018-2022. This plan seeks to protect Essential Health Services such as RMNCH and incorporates these routine services into emergency health responses for COVID-19. While we appreciate the government’s foresight for developing this Plan, as CSO leaders of the PACFaH@Scale project, we have done the research and known the reality on the ground is one where adequate funding is not made available for essential health services.” She added: “We also know that even when funding is allocated, it is seldom released in a timely manner. Moreover, while there are clear and dedicated budget lines for COVID-19 related expenditure, budget lines for Essential Health Services such as Routine Immunisation are not separated. Rather funds for routine services are merged together in bundled up and opaque lines labelled in some states as ‘counterpart funds’. “Some of us here today are women civil society leaders, who are also clinicians in Medical Women Association of Nigeria trying to provide family planning services for women in the face of commodity stock outs. Since 2020 we have been asking, and please bear with us as we ask again today – where is the 75 percent cut to the 2019 family planning budget, which was reallocated in the 2021 budget and why has it not been released? “Why are these funds still stuck in the Service Wide Vote? Should the Service Wide Vote not serve the needs of the women of the nation? Since the Nigeria National Strategic Health Development Plan II prioritises reproductive health as a primary and strategies component of Essential Health Services, is it not essential and strategic to fund the family planning needs of the women of Nigeria?”