The University of Calabar (UNICAL) has sensitised  students on how to access the $5,000 Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) grant, secured by the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Florence Obi, under the TEF Entrepreneurial Development Programme. Obi urged the students to take the training seriously to be self-reliant. The VC, who was represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Administration),  Prof. Mike Okom, said the TEF Entrepreneurial Development Programme was a great opportunity for   the students to sharpen their entrepreneurial skills. Obi  said  the  programme was the first of its kind to be brought into the university, adding that $5,000 for students as start up was  huge. She said testimonies from TEF beneficiaries within Africa show that the university was in the right direction of creating the next generation of entrepreneurs. “We are praying and hoping that we explore other opportunities that will benefit our students. TEF is a great opportunity for our young ones to build their entrepreneurial skills and become self reliant,” she said. Founder, TEF, Tony Elumelu  said the  entrepreneurial programme  was aimed at empowering the next generation of Africans to be entrepreneurs in various fields of endeavour. Elumelu said the programme was also aimed at supporting 10,000 young Africans to become great entrepreneurs with  ideas that can develop the continent. Dean of Students Affairs, Dr Tony Eyang, said TEF was coming to Calabar for the first time due to the vision, commitment and resourcefulness of the VC. He described  Elumelu as a great entrepreneur who is lifting Africa to a higher level of entrepreneurial development. He said the sensitisation was to guide the students on how to access the non-refundable grant. He urged the students to take the  training  seriously because the idea was also to develop their business mindset and to guide them to be  independent after graduation. “This programme has been designed to define your path to prosperity and sustainable growth and to uplift you to become an entrepreneur,” he said. The sensitisation was attended by students from the Faculties of Management Sciences, Education, Social Sciences, Law, Arts, Agriculture and Environmental Science.