Patron of EL-Amin polo team, Mohammad Babangida and Jos Polo President, Murtala Laushi have been honoured   with iconic  awards for their commitment to the development and popularity of polo, the king of games in the country. The Nigerian national polo team captain Babangida  who led his EL-Amin team to an all-time Georgian Cup wins, was voted the Most Outstanding Sports Philanthropist and Icon of Hope in Nigeria for the year 2020 alongside the Jos Malcomines supremo Laushi at a  grand ceremony in Abuja. Babangida, the  Minna-born polo patron who is also the First Vice President of the foremost Kaduna Polo Club, was singled out for the esteem award for  promoting Nigerian polo both locally and internationally. Laushi whose Malcomines team made history as the first team ever to compete for two of Nigeria’s biggest high-goal trophies, the Georgian Trophy and Majekodunmi Cup respectively, was honoured for transforming the club from Grade  C to Grade A club within four years of serving in the club’s management committee. Babangida who  was represented by two of his players, Bello Buba and Ibrahim Mohammed dedicated the award to all polo patrons, players, administrators and enthusiasts of the noble game in the country, while reassuring he would continue to do everything humanly to develop and promote the game within and outside the country. Jos polo captain Yusuf Umaru who witnessed the ceremony in Abuja, thanked the organizers for the honour done to Jos Polo Club and the President Laushi, promising that the game will continue to set the quest to restore Plateau State as the capital of peace and tourism in the country. Others polo big wigs honoured during the award ceremony include the President of Kaduna Polo Club, Suleiman Abubakar who was singled out for the tremendous infrastructural improvement of the foremost club in the last three years. The long list of  awardees included Aliyu Hassan Hadejia for his commitment and love the game as one of the longest serving captain of the Kaduna polo centre. “On behalf of myself and my family, I want the thanked the organizers for this recognition which I dedicate to all lovers of polo,”  said Hadejia.  Minister for Youth & Sports Development , Sunday Dare who was the Special Guest of Honour at the prestigious event that attracted most of the big names cross the all sectors of the economy and beyond, was recognized with a special award for his efforts at transforming the sports sector in the country. The distinguished list of awardees on the good governance category included  the Governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Abubakar Bagudu; President of the Nigeria Volleyball Federation Engr. Musa Nimrod; President of Nigeria Basketball Federation, Engr. Musa Kida and President of the African Beach Soccer Union, Mahmud Hadejia . According to the SLA Organizers, the annual award identifies, nominates and reward outstanding sporting heroes, pacesetters, corporate organizations and stake holders of various sports in Nigeria and Africa. Speaking during the award presentation, SLA Coordinator, Solomon Omonokhua said winners of the inaugural edition, were singled out for their excellent track record and outstanding character, especially in the area of sports philanthropy and peace making. “We have taken time to follow your exploits over the years. All the winners stand out in sport philanthropy, an apostle of peace as you have touched the life of more people across the country and beyond in all aspects of life,” Omonokhua added.