 Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has assured residents that the COVID-19 vaccine is safe. Akeredolu, who spoke yesterday in Akure when he took the first jab of the COVID-19 vaccine dose, said the state received  73,570 doses from the Federal Government. Others that took the jab were Deputy Governor Lucky Aiyedatiwa; the Osewawe of Ondo, Oba Dr. Victor Kiladejo; Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi; and some political leaders. The governor said in line with the guidelines laid down by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), the eligible population for the COVID-19 vaccination were citizens aged 18 years and above, including pregnant women. He said the vaccination would be rolled out in four phases, with the first recipients as frontline health workers, COVID-19 rapid response team, laboratory network, petrol station workers, policemen, and strategic leadership. Akeredolu said the state Cold Chain was fully functional and ready to receive and properly store the COVID-19 vaccines. “In the phase 2, the recipients will be older adults aged 50 years and above; those with co-morbidities, aged 18-49 years “Phase 3 will be those in local government areas with high disease burden, who missed phases 1 & 2 while the Phase 4 will be other eligible population as vaccines become more available,”he said. “Furthermore, to be able to partake of the COVID-19 vaccination, an e-registration link has been created for eligible Nigerians to register. You will be able to put in your details and choose a convenient place and time where you wish to be vaccinated “I use this opportunity to implore Ondo State citizens to shun the unfounded rumours about the COVID-19 vaccine. Let me assure you that the vaccines have been tested and certified safe for use by reputable international organisations and NAFDAC. “While it is true that you are not 100 per cent prevented from getting infected after vaccination, you are less likely to get seriously sick or die from the infection if you get it and less likely to infect other people,” Governor Akeredolu said. He urged local government chairmen, traditional rulers, religious leaders and health workers to step up intensive sensitisation for the people to register and get themselves vaccinated. 