 The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has launched a new activity designed to empower no fewer than two million young Nigerians with life skills and resources to realise their future dreams. The five-year $15 million Youth-powered Ecosystem to Advance Urban Adolescent Health Project (Adolescent Health) will help teenagers to have access to reproductive health services within a holistic context of youth empowerment. The project , which be implemented in Nigeria’s two largest cities, Lagos and Kano, will reflect a deeper understanding of the challenges that adolescents face, said USAID Health Office Director Paul McDermott at a virtual ceremony to launch the project. “By investing in youths, USAID is helping prepare the next generation to lead Nigeria to a more healthy and prosperous society. Young people can make a strong contribution to a more productive and prosperous Nigeria if they are healthy and informed,” McDermott, who was joined by the Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire at the ceremony, said. Nigeria’s burgeoning urban youth population includes a marginalised segment of individuals who are out-of-school, unmarried, or poor. They are also vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases and unplanned pregnancies and face barriers to accessing reliable health information. Thus far, traditional programmes have struggled to meet these needs, leaving a huge gap. Adolescent Health will build a network of Youth Hubs to provide age-appropriate access to a host of services, and teach life skills, leadership, and work readiness. Through partnerships with the private sector, the activity will connect adolescents to internships and employment opportunities. The hubs will provide safe spaces for adolescents to receive information and support to uptake reproductive health and improved behaviors through regular interventions, club meetings, youth-led events, groups, camps, and other community outreach and events. They will also improve access to counseling and referrals, youth-friendly health providers, gender-based violence services, substance abuse, and mental health programs. In addition, an associated Youth Advisory Council, composed of 60 per cent girls, will provide insights and inputs to the hubs, thereby developing their leadership and decision-making skills. “We must devise ways and mechanisms to continually improve the general health, skill acquisition and overall development of the Nigerian youth. I implore every Nigerian to get involved,” said Tobi Bakre, 25-year-old reality star and youth ambassador for the new activity. The activity will be implemented by Development Alternatives Incorporated in partnership with Grassroot Soccer, Women Friendly Initiative, Yellow Brick Road and the Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative.