Nigeria’s first and foremost premium independent football Academy, Fosla Academy of Abuja are champions of the football event of the maiden National Principal’s Cup. The Abuaj-Karshi- based academy showed class and superiority as they defeated Christ Comprehensive School of Kaduna 2-0 in yesterday’s final. Played at the practising pitch of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja, Fosla Academy from FCT represented the North-Central zone at the final while Christ Comprehensive School Kakuira represented North-West region After a cagey start, fleet-footed Tukura Joel struck twice in the 23rd and 24th minute to swing victory to his side while their opponents found it difficult to penetrate the Fosla defence line. With this feat, Fosla Academy has become the pioneer winner of the maiden National Principal’s Cup. Speaking after the victory, coach of the side, Gilbert Igwe expressed joy over the feat adding that the mission of the academy has been achieved. He said: “We set out from day one to win the competition and I am glad that the players did not lose focus. I am grateful to God for his grace and also thankful to the management of Fosla for their support. “We played nine matches to win the cup without losing any. So the players were spot-on and the coaching crew did their best too,” he said. FOSLA Academy is owned by former Nigeria Football Federation, NFF President, Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdullahi who oversaw the affairs of the federation from 2006 to 2010. Meanwhile, Events were also held in table tennis, athletics with participants featuring in the relay races and high jump, long jump and other field events. In the table tennis event, Timileyin Ajibade won the boys singles event while Saidat Akeem emerged champions in the girls’ singles. John Mathew and Samuel Boboye won the Boys Doubles event while the girls doubles was won by the pair of Saidat Akeem and Ayoola Kabira. Present at the event were Minister of Youth & Sports Development Sunday Dare; former FIFA Executive Committee member Dr. Amos Adamu; former Director of Sports Alhassan Yakmut and former Principal’s Cup players Joseph Dosu and Tajudeen Disu.