 The first and most important organ of government in a democratic system is the legislature. It is largely the most representative arm with deep tap roots across the constituencies, and hence, the anchor of popular rule. However, the parliament has been the greatest victim of military incursion into politics, an indisputable fact that has affected its growth as a formidable democratic institution. In the country’s search for growth and stability, the parliamentary history of Nigeria has not static. From parliamentary system, the country metamorphosed into a presidential democracy. Parliamentary system has its strengths and weaknesses. There is the fusion of legislative and executive powers. Under the Westminster model, ministers are from the parliament. The first advantage is the legislators partake in policy initiation and execution. Thus, governance is made easy and there may be no waste of time. Another advantage is that party solidarity is relatively easier in an atmosphere of party supremacy. The ruling party, which is the party of the Head of Government which commands majority in the parliament, can whip members into line and enforce discipline. Generally, the cabinet system of government is also largely less expensive. Parliamentary candidates, unlike the presidential flag bearers, limit their campaigns to their constituencies. The prime minister is selected, based on the majority of seats won in the House. The opposition is not ignored. But, they only have a say without much effect. The majority always have it’s way. The weakness of parliamentary system is lack of separation of powers and the accompanying checks and balances because the influence of the executive often dwarfs the stature of parliament. These inherent darksides were considered by the drafters of the 1979, 1989 and 1999 presidential constitutions. How has the National Assembly fared since 1999 after the soldiers returned to the barracks? The national parliament has tried for the greater part of 22 years to be assertive. It has made frantic efforts to maintain its independence as an organ of government, despite the weight of the executive. Despite the fact that the presidents and the majority of members of the National Assembly belonged to the ruling party between 1999 and 2015, the parliament refused to be cowed by the executive. The frosty legislative/executive relations led to instability in the National Assembly whereby Senate Presidents and House of Representatives Speakers were shoved aside, based on presidential incitement. In the absence of the party caucus system, it has been very difficult for the legislature and executive to reach a consensus on burning national issues requiring the performance of constitutional roles by the two organs.  Although presidents have often wanted to impose Senate Presidents and Speakers on the National Assembly, the move has often been resisted by the lawmakers. When it appeared that the caucus of the ruling party would have it’s way, based on the party directive, a section of the ruling caucus has a way of joining forces with the opposition caucus to abort the agenda of the ruling party. Instructively, at a time the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) threw its weight behind the ambition of Mrs Mulikat Adeola to become House of Representatives Speaker, another aspirant, Aminu Tambuwal, who was not supported by the party, struck a deal with the opposition lawmakers. He defeated Adeola during the election on the floor of the House. The gulf between President  Goodluck Jonathan and Speaker Tambuwal widened due to contrasting partisan interests. In 2015, efforts by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to mobilize its lawmakers in the Senate and House of Representatives to support Dr. Ahmad Lawan for president and Femi Gbajabiamila for Speaker failed as Dr. Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara again ran to the opposition for support. However, in 2019, the ruling party, having put its house in order, was able to achieve the agenda of making Lawan President and Gbajabiamila Speaker. Although their ascension heralded cordial legislative/executive relations, it has not been a blind cooperation without strict adherence to duties and responsibilities. The screening of presidential nominees has been thorough and more importantly, the legislators have not relented in their oversight  functions over the executive and its agencies. Indeed, national interest should not be jeopardized by the legislature in a bid to satisfy the whims of the executive. There has been occasional faceoff, particularly triggered by the penchant by the executive to ignore the resolutions of a democratic parliament. Another source of conflict is the refusal of the executive to respond to legislative summons. The purpose of separation of powers is not for the legislature to cripple the activities of the executive. The goal of checks and balances is not to erect roadblocks, thereby becoming a clog in the wheel of progress. The executive should always learn to moderate its actions in utter sensitivity to the presence of a parliament that is not docile. 