Erling Haaland’s transfer fee this summer has been set by Borussia Dortmund, sources told ESPN, with interested clubs needing €180 million in order to land one of the most sought after players in world football. Haaland has been a revelation in Germany, scoring 49 goals in as many matches after his move from FC Salzburg in January 2020. He has scored 32 goals in 31 appearances this season, including 10 in six Champions League matches, and his agent, Mino Raiola, has said 10 clubs are in a position to sign him. The striker moved to Dortmund last year amid fierce interest from Manchester United, but the Bundesliga side managed to secure a deal after agreeing to include a release clause in his contract. That clause is not active until the summer of 2022. Clubs can sign Haaland this summer, but the €180m Dortmund are asking for represents a premium for losing him before the clause kicks in next year. Dortmund underlined their stance on their star names last summer when United attempted to negotiate a lower fee for England international Jadon Sancho. The Premier League side attempted to bargain with BVB in order to lower their €120m valuation of the forward, but Dortmund refused to negotiate. The same hardline tactic is in place this summer for Haaland, sources told ESPN, in a move that is designed to warn Europe’s heavyweights off making a bid. United, Manchester City, Chelsea, Real Madrid, Barcelona and Bayern Munich all have varying levels of interest in the Norway international, but in a transfer market impacted by the coronavirus pandemic, Dortmund hope their €180m valuation will keep Haaland at the club for another year. Sources had told ESPN that senior figures at Chelsea believed they could tempt Dortmund into a deal this summer, but this was before the Bundesliga side’s position on Haaland’s fee became clear. Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer is a long-term admirer of the 20-year-old, but the club’s latest financial records show revenue is down 7% to £281.8m and profit down 7% to £33.6m, with Solskjaer admitting the club will need to be “realistic” when it comes to transfers. Barcelona’s new president Joan Laporta is eager to make Haaland a cornerstone of his tenure at the club, but with Barca in debt to the tune of €1.1 billion, a €180m move for the player will be difficult. La Liga president Javier Tebas has said it would take a “magic trick” for Barca or Real Madrid to land Haaland given the sums involved, and sources told ESPN that Manchester City are surprised at the optimistic reports in Spain regarding the two teams’ hopes of signing him as they believe they are in a stronger position to make a move. Dortmund are struggling in the Bundesliga this season despite Haaland’s brilliance, with the club in a battle to qualify for the Champions League next season under interim coach Edin Terzic. BVB trail Eintracht Frankfurt by four points in the final qualification spot for next season’s competition, and the meeting between the two sides at the Westfalenstadion on April 3 will go a long way in determining who features in Europe’s elite tournament next term. Haaland stormed off the field last weekend after Dortmund drew 2-2 at relegation-threatened Cologne despite their star striker’s double, but sources say they will resist attempts from clubs looking to lowball them this summer if Dortmund miss out on the Champions League. — Stephan Uersfeld and Rodri Faez.
Real Madrid should sign Erling Haaland and Kylian Mbappe this summer, according to club legend Fernando Hierro. Haaland has emerged on Madrid’s transfer radar after a stellar start to his Borussia Dortmund career, while Paris Saint-Germain striker Mbappe has long been mooted as a potential target for the Spanish giants. It has been reported that the Blancos will try to sign one of the two men later this year, as Zinedine Zidane seeks to bolster his attacking ranks, but Hierro sees no reason why his old club can’t land both players. What’s been said? Hierro, who played over 500 games for Madrid at the height of his career while picking up five La Liga titles and three Champions League crowns, told Radio Marca: “If I were Real Madrid, I would sign Haaland and Mbappe.” How much would Haaland and Mbappe cost? Haaland moved to Dortmund from Red Bull Salzburg in January 2020 for the bargain price of €20 million (£17m/$24m), but his stock has sky-rocketed since then. The 20-year-old has scored 49 goals in his first 49 games for Dortmund, and recent reports have suggested that he is now being valued in excess of €80m (£69m/$95m). Mbappe, meanwhile, is currently the second most expensive player in history, having been snapped up from Monaco by PSG in a €145m ($171m/$125m) deal in 2017 – which included €35m (£30m/$41m) in add-ons. Like Haaland at Westfalenstadion, the Frenchman’s worth has only gone up at Parc des Princes as he has helped the French champions earn three successive Ligue 1 titles and reach the Champions League final, while also becoming a World Cup winner at international level. If Madrid do indeed decide to try and broker a double transfer when the market reopens, they will almost certainly have to part with over €300m (£259m/$355m) in order to prise Haaland and Mbappe away from their respective clubs. The bigger picture Madrid could be one of the few clubs in Europe capable of making big-money deals in 2021 amid the coronavirus crisis. The Liga champions decided not to spend any money during the last summer transfer window due to the financial uncertainty caused by the pandemic, and could therefore, have funds available for new players at the end of the season.