Former aviation minister and chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Femi Fani-Kayode on Saturday alleged that his ex wife, Precious Chikwendu, once tried to kill him and their children in a fit of anger. Fani-Kayode was responding to claims by Precious in a suit in which she is seeking custody of her four children. The ex-minister, speaking through his media consultant, Hon. Oladimeji Olaiya, described the statement of claim and affidavit filed in court by his ex-wife against him as lies and falsehood. In the said suit, the applicant had accused the defendant of high-handedness, utter disregard for her feelings and beating her up during every quarrel. Olaiya, however, dismissed the allegations as sheer falsehood. He said: “Not one thing that she has alleged there is true. She is a pathological liar and a slanderer, and we intend to prove this in court. “We also believe that she is unfit to be a mother and that she has shown nothing but cruelty to her children whom she has never taken care of or shown the love and affection of a mother. “We believe that the children’s lives would be in danger if they are with her, and we shall prove this in court. “For the avoidance of doubt, at no time did Chief Fani-Kayode expose his children to danger, and he has always provided them with the best of care, including 12 nannies and nurses who did all the work even when their mother was in the house and whom she herself employed. “Chikwendu’s only pastime was to post pictures and words on Instagram and sleep with men outside. “She also tried to seduce a number of Chief Fani-Kayode’s friends when he was in detention and extort money from them. “Neither is it true that she was ever beaten by Chief Fani-Kayode or anyone else in his staff and security team, either when she was pregnant or not pregnant, and it is not true that she was subjected to any form of physical or mental abuse from them. “As a matter of fact, she was the abuser and not Chief Fani-Kayode or any of his security team or staff.” Olaiya told of an instance “she cut two people with a knife and almost bit off the finger of a third when she was trying to attack and kill her own children and husband with two knives. Thirty people witnessed this and we have it on video.” Continuing, he said: “On another occasion when she was caught in bed with a married naval officer in a hotel, she cut her own foot with a broken bottle and said she would tell the world that her husband did it. At least three people witnessed this. “She and her lover begged not to be prosecuted for adultery even after there was evidence to show that they were planning to have Fani-Kayode murdered. “At a later date, she was committed to a mental health facility for one month. “We urge members of the public to wait until the truth is revealed about Chikwendu (Precious), her mental and physical abuse of her own children, her mental illness, her numerous attempts to murder Chief Fani-Kayode and his four children, her adulterous ways, her unfathomable cruelty, her gold-digging ways, her violence and so much more before they make up their minds. “All this, with the necessary evidence, will be produced in court. Sadly due to the fact that the matter of the court’s jurisdiction is still in question, we cannot say anything until that matter is settled. “Once it is and we file our responses and statement of defence and affidavits, Chikwendu’s attempt to rubbish a man that has been her entire family’s sole benefactor for seven years and one that has shown her nothing but kindness and love shall be exposed.  And so shall her inexplicable ingratitude and greed. “By that time, her little pity party and false and misguided attempt at playing the victim, which she uses to sustain her wayward and disgraceful lifestyle, will come to an end and people will know her for the cheap harlot and desperate crook that she really is. “Even though Chikwendu’s plan was to ambush Chief Femi Fani-Kayode into surrendering custody of the children to her, an act that will be grossly inimical to the proper development and well being of the children, we will not respond to her other than to say that our client, Chief Femi Fani-Kayode, has expressed gladness that Chikwendu has purportedly approached a court. A Federal Capital Territory (FCT) high court sitting in Apo, has fixed March 12 to commence hearing in the suit filed by Precious Chikwendu. Apart from praying the court to grant her custody of her four children, the applicant also wants the court to direct the former minister to pay the sum of N3.438 million monthly for the maintenance and upkeep of the four kids, “with the possibility of a review of the sum every two years upon an application to the court”. She asked the court to direct that Fani-Kayode will “be responsible for the payment of all sums and ancillary expenditure necessary for, arising from and appertaining/incidental to the advancement, and/or education” of their four children. In the affidavit in support of her application, Chikwendu described her relationship with the former minister as “a turbulent and unhappy one”, adding that he was “in the habit of beating me up during every quarrel”. “My relationship with the respondent witnessed fear, harassment, and series of assault both perpetrated by the respondent himself or with the use of the Nigerian police force, his security details and, or his personal bodyguards,” she said. “From the early days of our relationship, the respondent has always maintained a lifestyle of utter disregard to my feelings. This was evident in the way and manner the respondent assaulted me while pregnant with our first son, Aragorn. “The respondent kicked me severally on my stomach over a petty argument that ensued. It was my friend, Vanessa, who was around at the material time, that intervened in the nick of time to save me. “I had to leave the respondent’s house a few days after this incident. The respondent repeated the same act when I was pregnant with the triplets. This time, it was my mother and sister, Faith, that intervened. “That the respondent at the slightest provocation, abuses, beats and assaults me, my late mother and my siblings when they visited. “That as we progressed in the relationship, the beatings became so severe that on many occasions, I feared for my life.”