The Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, has debunked the claim by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that the convicted Electoral Officer, Prof Peter Ogban, was jailed for allegedly rigging election in his favour and that of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He described the claim as spurious, unfounded and malicious. Akpabio said he was rather a victim of the fraudulent manipulation of the election of Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District held on 23rd February 2019. The minister, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Aniete Ekong, in Abuja yesterday also accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for twisting the context of the judgement. “In their desperation in a continuing campaign of calumny against Senator Akpabio, the INEC in Akwa Ibom State twisted the context of the judgment and maliciously claimed that the election was rigged in favour of Senator Akpabio. Nothing could be further from the truth. The facts of the case put a lie to this assertion. Contrarily, Senator Akpabio was a victim of the fraudulent manipulation of the election of Akwa Ibom North West Senatorial District held on 23rd February 2019. He is vindicated that the perpetrators of the electoral fraud are being brought to justice. At last the chickens are coming home to roost.” The statement further said: “It could be recalled that Sen. Godswill Akpabio had approached the National Assembly Election Tribunal to challenge the outcome of the February 23, 2019 Senatorial District elections which were held in Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District. Amongst those who were sued was the Returning Officer of Akwa Ibom North-West Senatorial District, Professor Ogban, who alongside the Resident Electoral Commissioner, Mr. Mike Igini, hijacked the Election Results from the Senatorial District Collation Headquarters, Ikot Ekpene to another Senatorial District at the INEC office in Uyo, where the collated votes of Senator Godswill Akpabio were maliciously and arbitrarily cancelled.” 