 The Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development , Alhaji Mohammed Sabo Nanono, has said that the Nigerian livestock industry that forms 18 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the agricultural sector  is worth over N33 trillion. He urged that the sector should be given proper attention. He made this known in Abuja while inaugurating the 5th Council of the Nigerian Institute of Animal Science (NIAS), adding that the recent happening in the country does not go well with the development of the livestock industry. While noting that cattle form the most important part of livestock development of any country because of its size, value and mobility, he stated that the nation needs to quickly transit from conflict era to becoming a net exporter of premium beef. According to him, “The nation needs to quickly transit from conflict era to becoming a net exporter of premium beef, emulating and surpassing the enviable achievements of countries like Uruguay which has metamorphosed over the recent years into a leading exporter of premium beef to the EU, US and the Chinese markets. “It took Uruguay years of branding, food safety and quality reforms as well as investment to get to that enviable market leadership. It will take us nothing less. I think we have allowed ourselves to be delayed by emotions and sentiments in this very important industry. This is an industry that forms 18% of the GDP of the agricultural sector and worth over N33 trillion, no county on earth will play with such industry.  Nanono however called on the Institute to play a lead role in proffering the needed solution to the current incessant conflicts between herders and sedentary farming communities in Nigeria. He added that the institute has a collection of the requisite technical expertise in all disciplines of animal husbandry to effectively facilitate the implementation of the plan. He however called for the establishment of additional Animal Husbandry Research Institutes so as to compete favourably within the sub-regional, regional and the global livestock space. “Land resource is indeed scarce and not expandable, but science has proven that we can generate all we need with renewable agricultural strategies for both crop and livestock production from the available land resource without any form of conflict. I strongly call on the Institute to come up with scientific and practicable models that the government can adopt to finally lay to rest this front-burning problem. The ministry has handed over the National Livestock Training Centre to the Institute. I am confident that you will put the facility to efficient use not only in training but also in the establishment of model units for livestock production that will impact the economy through improved livestock productivity,” he said. 