 In furtherance of efforts geared towards using its mandate to achieve food security and quality health for the country, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) Governing Council has approved 96 new Nigerian Industrial Standards for national use which cut across Chemical Technology, Electrical/Electronics, Food/Agriculture, Textile/Leather and Services. The approval was granted at the first meeting of the Council following the appointment of Mallam Farouk Salim as the Director General brought the total number of Standards approved by SON Governing Council to 264 in year 2020 following the earlier approval of 168 Standards. The Council Chairman, Dr. Nasir Sani-Gwarzo commended the new SON helmsman for being able to convene the Council meeting few months after his appointment in spite of the challenges of the health pandemic and other socio-economic events. He pointed out that the newly approved standards were significant, given the scope of their coverage. According to him, the approved standards include the essentials for the production of medical and other supplies required for the management of the Covid-19 pandemic such as syringes, face barriers, alcohol based hand sanitizer, medical electrical equipment, Health and Safety Measures for Tourism and Hospitality Establishments – Post Pandemic (Covid-19) Resumption amongst many others. He outlined others of great economic, regulatory and industrial importance to include standards for agricultural, petroleum and automobile gas products, electrical/electronic standards for smart energy meters and renewable energy, all of which support the Federal Government policies, strategic priorities and plans. Represented by Dr. Halilu Hamma, the Chairman formally congratulated Mallam Salim on his appointment and assured him of the full support of the Council members via a harmonious working relationship based on mutual trust and respect in order to significantly improve the organisation’s efficiency and effectiveness in delivering on its mandate to Nigerians. Earlier in his address, the SON DG expressed appreciation to President Buhari for giving him the opportunity to further contribute to National development through SON, stressing that he looked forward to tapping from the rich expertise and experience of the Council members in the areas of providing necessary approvals for policies to make the organisation more efficient and effective in touching the lives of Nigerians. He expressed concern about the lack of a befitting Corporate Headquarters for the organisation, conducive working environment for the staff nationwide to enable them deliver efficient services, need to be properly positioned to tackle the influx of substandard products into the country, faking and adulteration amongst others and sought the Council’s support to tackle them. Salim hinted the Council that a Committee of distinguished Nigerians appointed to help review SON management practices and procedures and make recommendations for far reaching reforms to strengthen the system has submitted its interim report. The SON boss acknowledged availability of highly trained, knowledgeable and smart personnel in the organisation and sought the Council’s support in putting them to optimal use.