Following the poor showing of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in last Saturday’s by-election in Abia State, some stakeholders of the party from Anambra State have called on the party hierarchy to jettison any plan to foist an unpopular candidate in this year’s governorship election in the state. The party chieftains, operating under the aegis of APC Patriots, Anambra chapter, observed that the rancour which trailed an alleged imposition of a candidate was responsible for the party’s loss of the Aba North and South Federal Constituency seats to the rival Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) last Saturday. In a statement jointly signed by the Coordinator of the group, Dozie Ikedife, and spokesman, Victor Afam Ogene, the group wondered how an aspirant (Mascot Uzor-Kalu), who was said to have won the APC primaries with 47, 825 votes-as announced by the Bisi Idaomi-led electoral committee-could not garner beyond 3, 674 votes in the general election. A chieftain of the party from the area, Prince Paul Ikonne, Executive Secretary, National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA), had also decried the process that led to Mascot’s emergence. Other members of the group’s sterling committee include former House of Representatives members, Chizor Obidigwe and Chukwuemeke Nwogbo, APC Southeast zonal youth leader, Olisa Onyeka, communications guru, Ike Chidolue, business tycoon, Chidi Ogbaji, veteran strategist, C.J. Chinwuba, and Mike Mbanefo, a lawyer. “The obvious lack of transparency, which led to the disqualification of the other aspirant in the primaries, Dr Nwokeocha Ogbonnaya Eze, was a precursor to the poor showing of the APC in the by-election. “Being a younger brother to the Senate Chief Whip, Orji Uzor Kalu, the feeling is rife that Mascot’s emergence as a candidate was tantamount to an imposition. “We, therefore, restate our earlier call, made on March 11, 2021, to the effect that we shall use all lawful means at our disposal, resist any attempt to anoint any candidate. “On the contrary, we reiterate our resolve to take over the governance of Anambra State by unveiling, at the appropriate time, a candidate that would be acceptable to majority of Anambra people,” the APC Patriots said.