 Jigawa State Governor Alhaji Muhammadu Badaru Abubakar and his deputy, Alhaji Umar Namadi, have received COVID-19 vaccine at the Government House clinic. The governor took the vaccine shortly after receiving 68,520 doses fom the Federal Government in Dutse, the state capital. Abubakar hailed President Muhammadu Buhari, and the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 for their commitment towards safeguarding the people. He noted that health personnel would be the first to consider, then security agents, and people with ailments. The Victims Support Fund (VSF) Task Force on COVID-19 has donated four solar powered boreholes, overhead tanks and other Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities in public secondary schools in the state. Speaking, while handing over the WASH facilities at Ringim Government Unity Secondary school Ringim, Chairperson of the task force  Mrs. Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji said “the donation is after the completion of the 1st and 2nd phases of the VSF COVID-19 emergency intervention, the VSF Task Force on COVID-19”. The chairperson explained that the VSF had distributed a  emergency interventions on COVID-19, which included foods items and personal protection equipment (PPE) materials. “As part of the 3rd phase of the intervention, the VSF embarked on the massive construction and hand-over of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities in schools and other public places across the country” Mrs. Akerele-Ogunsiji said “three schools in Jigawa State benefited from the WASH projects  – Day Science Secondary School, Wunti Hadeja; Government Girls Secondary School, Jahun; and Government Unity Secondary School, Ringim”. According to her, “each school received a solar-powered borehole and overhead tank,  four Hand Wash Stations, 2000 Pcs of Reusable Facemasks, and 5 pieces of four liters Hand Sanitisers”. “Others materials include 120 Bottles of 500ml Liquid hand wash and five cartons of bleach”. She noted that the hand-wash stations had been set up in the schools and the schools had been supplied with liquid hand-wash, sanitisers and bleach. “VSF continues to provide succour to vulnerable Nigerians and as well as institutional support to agencies involved in the fight against COVID-19”, Mrs. Akerele-Ogunsiji said.