The journey to the Imo State Industrial Layout, Owerri is a very tortuous one. The roads that lead to the area are extremely sandy (during the dry season) and with heavy but pools of water gathered from the beginning of the roads to their end with deep craters as well as overgrown grasses (during the rainy season). Located in the high brow area of the state capital, along Onitsha Expressway, the Owerri Industrial Layout, covering a vast portion of land, measuring thousands of hectares of land, has been in existence for over forty years. The first military administrator of Imo State, Rear Admiral Ndubuisi Kanu, established the layout while the first civilian governor of the state, Sam Mbakwe, started the actual development on the layout in 1981. Before 1983, the then governor did a soft base for all the roads. He also did the underground drainage and as well as the highway lights within the layout. The Nation’s findings showed that the layout is planned to sit nothing less than 254 manufacturing industries and attract industries from within and outside the state, especially Igbo industrialists operating outside the South Eastern region, to raise the industrial profile of the state, nay, the southeast. Contrary to the general belief by many people that there are no production or manufacturing industries other than hotels and petrol stations in Imo, the state can boast of hundreds of industries located at the Owerri Industrial Layout and other parts of the state. A first time visitor will be expecting to be greeted with the sound of heavy-duty machines as is the case in the functional industrial estates across the country. On the contrary, the Owerri Industrial Layout can best be described as an isolated area with little or no serious activities going on except for Nigerian Bottling Company, Nigeria Correctional Service Training School, Nigeria Customs Service warehouse with a few pockets of aluminium and vegetable oil companies. The rests are the shut or abandoned structures competing with overgrown trees and weeds in the better part of the layout. It was gathered that from the time Sam Mbakwe left till date, no administration has added a single infrastructure into the industrial layout. And the total kilometres of roads within the layout, begging for attention is 16 km single lane. When The Nation visited the layout recently, it was discovered that the lights that were mounted by Mbakwe have been cannibalised, the whole street poles removed; the wires and cables stripped and sold, while the underground drainages that connected water and flood from the layout to the Nworie River, have been destroyed and blocked with sand. The environment, instead of improving, has deteriorated so badly. It was also learned that the few companies that started in the layout in the 1990s have either closed or relocated to other reasonable places. Findings also show heavy encroachment into the layout as most industrial plots overlooking the Sites and Services area have all been converted to residential buildings since no industrial activities were ongoing in that part of the layout. Though the layout is well planned with connecting roads – that government has refused to construct – to other major roads like Onitsha Road, connecting to Orlu Road and New Owerri to Port Harcourt Road, the bad condition of roads, lack of infrastructure and poor physical structures make it lose the profile of industrial estate. Speaking with our correspondent, the chairman/ chief executive officer of Camela Vegetable Oil Company Nigeria, Chief Okey Ikoro lamented that the business environment was generally bad for a few of the remaining industries in the layout. Ikoro, who was amongst the first persons to establish industries in the layout, said Owerri Industrial Layout was supposed to rank as the same with Agbara Industrial Layout in Lagos. “This layout was established before the one they did in Ogun State. But today, if you go to Ogun State Industrial Layout, it can boast of over 200 industries. You know what it means. It is not just the employment creation, but the ancillary jobs they will create in the state are so much that the potential of the state will be so enhanced if industries are operating in the state. The people coming into the state either to buy or to sell or supply will improve the economic viability of the state. “Unfortunately, Imo has been very unlucky. No governor has bordered to develop the industrial layout we have. “When you come into the layout, you discover that there is no single motorable road except the entrance road built by Sam Mbakwe in 1981 and it’s still there. That tells you the quality of the road. Apart from that road, from 1981 till 2021, no single infrastructure has been built here by any government. “This has led to most of the industries here shutting down. The few that are left are battling with bad road and lack of infrastructure.” While disclosing that over 90 industries were operational in the layout as of 2012, Ikoro lamented that less than 20 industries were currently operating in the layout due to the excruciating environment. “During the rainy season, nobody can access here and small vehicles including SUVs hardly come inside here,” he said. Ikoro lamented that a lot of people, who had shown greater interest in bringing industries to the layout, abandoned them because of the harsh environment. He said, “People like my brother who produces Tummy Tummy, are interested in building industries but they cannot build it in a place that is not conducive. He has abandoned the project he started here and continued it in Nnewi. His expansion was supposed to be from Nnewi to Owerri. But the more they come here every day, the more they think we’re crazy. That is how so many people abandoned their own. “If the government is sincere about economic development, industrialisation should be key. “I noticed that all the governments that have governed Imo here are talking about building roads. After building roads would you drive on an empty stomach? If there’s no production, the road you are building is useless.” He lamented that there are no incentives for anyone coming into the layout because 60 per cent of productions are run on a generator. “How can people survive it? At the end of the day, you still pay a huge electricity bill. “We are the producers of gas in Imo yet we don’t have gas into the industrial layout. We need gas for 24/7 electricity. If you go to Ogun State now, they have gas in their Industrial layout. The same with Agbara Industrial Layout in Lagos. The gas they have is taken from Izombe, Imo State to those places. That’s why their prices are always cheaper. If we had gas here, it would give us cheaper production. We can do a lot with it. We are the producers of gas and we don’t have gas because our governments are not proactive. It is the responsibility of the government to insist that gas must be brought into the industrial layout. “If you focus on giving us gas that will generate 24 hours of electricity, you have done so much for your people,” Ikoro stated. He also lamented that despite all the hiccups and challenges, a few remaining industries were still being harassed by government agencies for all manner of levies. “They do it as if it’s a crime to come to Imo State to do business. How can someone come into this place and be talking about fumigation? Do they fumigate bush? You have not done anything to improve the environment and you are talking about sanitation and fumigation levy and all manner of levies. I’m not saying there’s something wrong with paying a development levy. Let’s see the development which levy we are paying. “A state like Imo will be looking for employment generation when they are not ready to develop their industrial layout. “Imo is so strategically located in the Southeast and Southsouth that you cannot think of a better place of locating your industries than Imo especially, Owerri,” he said. Corroborating Ikoro, one of the staff at Bro Kenn Agro-Allied Industries Limited in the layout, who simply identified his name as Emma lamented that the business environment generally was not so good. This, he said, was because of the lack of access road in the area. “For example, our trucks carrying 30 metric tons of oil will fall on the way after loading, wasting several millions of naira because of bad road. This is mainly during the rainy season because there is nothing you can do as an individual to give you a motorable road. “Apart from that, we’re battling with insecurity in the layout. As you can see, this layout is like an abandoned bush, so, we spend a huge amount of money on the security of our facilities. There is no security post around here, no road, no electricity no recreational place. I think the government doesn’t have an interest in attracting investors here despite its huge potential.” He stated that the challenges faced by industries in the layout were taking a huge toll on his company. According to him, “Actually, we are not doing much. Our plant has up to 70 tons daily production capacity but some of our customers refuse to bring the raw materials here because of the bad roads. Because of that, we produce at about 50 per cent capacity of our plant. Also, it’s difficult to sell what we produce particularly during the rainy season.” He said the fear of running businesses at a loss due to lack of basic infrastructure especially roads and electricity was the major problem discouraging industrialists from establishing industries in the industrial layout. Speaking when he hosted members of the Correspondents Chapel last weekend, the state governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma said his administration would in no time restore and develop the industrial layout to achieve its full potentials for the state. He also disclosed that his administration was taking steps to establish new industries and revamp moribund ones to boost the economy of the state. Uzodimma said the government was collaborating with a foreign-based organisation to establish new industries, noting that efforts were being intensified to put the necessary infrastructure in place to support businesses at the industrial park located on Owerri- Onitsha expressway. “We’ve identified all the areas of encroachment and as soon as we restore the place, we will ensure that the major problems militating against industrialists setting up their industries there are tackled. “On our part as a state government, we are working now on a visibility study on the Seplat/ ANOH(Assa North Ohaji) Gas Project so that industries can have stronger output using gas. “All these and other efforts are what we’re putting in place to reduce the cost of doing business in the state to the barest minimum. “By the end of February, we were already talking with a Chinese group who were ready to come to the industrial layout with about 17 industries. Covid-19 did not help that initiative. We are hopeful that as soon as the pandemic slows down, we will resume with them”, Uzodimma said, promising to do things differently.