The younger brother to Senate Chief Whip; Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, Mascot Uzor Kalu has emerged the flag bearer of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for Aba North/South Federal Constituency bye-election. The election is scheduled to hold in the two cosmopolitan cities that serve as the commercial hub of Abia State on March 27. Senator Kalu’s younger brother who was also the Chief of Staff to the incumbent Abia Central Senatorial Lawmaker; Senator Theodore Ahamefule Orji was the only candidate of the party. He got a total vote of 47, 225 votes from the votes cast in the 24 wards of Aba North and South LGAs respectively. Announcing Kalu as the winner, chairman of APC primary election committee, Barr. Bisi Idaomi said only Mascot Uzor Kalu was cleared for the election while another aspirant, Ogbonnaya Nwokeocha Eze was disqualified by both the screening and appeal committees. “The Committee Members were clearly instructed by the National Leadership of the party not to do any affirmation. We were given result sheets for us to go to the 24 wards; 12 in the North and 12 in the South and from the results, Mascot Uzor Kalu won with overwhelming votes,” said Idaomi. In an interview after his declaration, Kalu said that his emergence as the APC flag bearer means that they are closer in achieving the goals of APC to represent Aba North and South federal House of Representatives. Kalu who also was the APC flag bearer for Aba North and South Federal Constituency in the last general election in 2019 said that the party is stronger than what it was in 2019, expressing hope that he will be clinching the seat this time around. Senator Kalu’s brother who called on other aggrieved members of the party to sheath their sword and join to deliver the party on March 27 promised to ensure that the people of Aba North and South will never regret sending him to represent them in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly. The Publicity Secretary of the Party, Comrade Benedict Godson also speaking said that the party is confident that Mascot Uzor Kalu will deliver the thrust the people of Aba North and South Federal Constituency will repose on their House of Representatives candidate.