Insecurity is scaring away foreign investors, the Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers (NCRIB) has said. The brokers said they were worried about the development and called on Federal Government to overhaul its security apparatus and enhance collaboration with governments and institutions to end the menace. They believe that it is high time the government at all levels joined the league of developed countries who  use Information Communication Technology (ICT) to combat crime by intall CCTV in designated places. According to them, the insecurity is  affecting economic growth. NCRIB President, Mrs. Bola Onigbogi, who spoke at the February  edition of the Council Members’ Evening hosted by Linkage Assurance Plc in Lagos, said as a major player in the economy, it could not close its eyes to the development. Mrs Onigbogi, who spoke on National issues: State of security in Nigeria’’,  said: “As a critical player in the national economy, the onus is on the NCRIB to express grave discomfort about the increasing spate of insecurity in the country, in spite of the government’s efforts to improve the national economy generally. There is hardly a day that passes by without reported cases of kidnapping, killing, terrorism and other criminal cases that is fast making our country dreadful to live in. This has reached a preposterous dimension and is adversely affecting the pace of economic growth as genuine foreign investors are scared putting their money into the economy. ‘’Since there is a correlation between insurance and economic growth, it is most auspicious for the NCRIB to join its voices to the need to call on the government to put in more efforts to combat security challenges in the country. “We are using this medium to call on federal government to overhaul its security apparatus while at the same time enhancing collaboration with governments and institutions both within and outside the country to put an end to this menace. It is expedient to eulogise the federal government on its decision to change all the service chiefs, we enjoin the newly appointed service chiefs to brace up to the challenge and ensure the challenge of insecurity is tackled head-on. “We also like to reiterate that the role of education and prompt information in tackling insecurity cannot be undermined. At this juncture, the National Orientation Agency (NOA) should be rejig and repositioned to conscientise Nigerians continually on the need for them to be their brothers’ keepers by breaking down belief systems, be they religious or cultural, militating against peaceful coexistence and sanctity of human lives.” She continued: “Also, we implore government to join the league of developed countries of the world who have resorted to using Information Communications Technology (ICT) to combat crime. It is not out of place for the federal, states and local governments to deploy the use of CCTV in all towns and cities in the country. This device would assist the law enforcement agencies to keep better tap on criminal activities throughout the country.” The Council congratulated Dr. Okonjo-Iweala on her appointment as Director-General of World Trade Organisation (WTO). “It is hope that with her emergence as the Director-General of the organisation, she would deploy her brain and brawn to evolve with laudable strategies that will boost and develop international trade in the world. “This will aid smooth flow of mobile trade between Nigeria and other Countries of the world thereby deepening insurance business in Nigeria and showcasing the structured practice of insurance that exist in our nation.” On admission of new associates, fellows, she said Council met to ratify and approve their admission into the Council. “Admission of new members into the Society of Fellows will further increase the number of members who have been admitted since the inception. The screening process has begun and hopefully, the Board of Fellows, the Committee responsible to access the eligibility of members who had submitted their application forms, would come out with their report. Barring unforeseen circumstances, about 56 insurance brokers be inducted as new associates of the Council.