Akwa Ibom Governor Udom Emmanuel has officially declared the 21-smart storey building also known as the Dakkada Towers completed and up for lease to high-earned clients. The Governor stated this at the State Executive Council meeting in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital. The smart building, which is a flagship project of the current administration, was delivered to Emmanuel fully completed in December 2020 by the project contractors, VKS Nigeria Construction Limited. The commendation from the Governor came on the backdrop the project, meant for completion in two years and six months was delivered by the contractors in less than two years. After thorough inspection by experts, the state-of-the-art edifice, which is renowned as the tallest in the Niger-Delta region, was declared ready for use by the Governor. Addressing newsmen at Government House after State Executive Council meeting, Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, said the Council was pleased with report of completion of work on the 21-Smart storey building. He also noted relevant government agencies have been directed to commence the process of leasing out the building to interested tenants. The Commissioner said the Governor was satisfied with the timing of the completed Tower and the quality of work delivered. He said VKS delivered a world class building on record time. The commissioner charged contractors handling various projects in the State to ensure strict adherence to deadlines set for completion and delivery of the projects in their purview, in line with the administration’s completion agenda. The Dakkada Tower has attracted eminent personalities to the state in recent times. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, in his recent visit to Akwa Ibom State, visited the Smart building at Udoudoma Avenue and thanked Governor Emmanuel for erecting what he described as “the best I have seen in the country”. Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva, told newsmen the Dakkada Towers is built to a world class standard. He said the NNPC has offered to take some floors in the building. The Dakkada Tower has no doubt added aesthetics to the landscape of the state, and will run with 24- hour power supply. The building contains all necessary facilities and equipment of a smart building. Some of the facilities include: four elevators, two emergency exit, fire protection sensors and aviation wing. The tower has an access control with components like card reader, biometric control keypads, central stand-alone server workstation, electric lock hardware cabling for doors, boom barrier for cars, automated cards, automated turnstiles, fire protected doors and time attendance reader.