A mild drama ensued at the Anambra State Police Command headquarters when a 40-year old woman arrested recently over alleged abduction of children (two boys and a girl) and ritual killing at the Federal Housing Estate 3-3 Nkwelle Ezunaka, near Onitsha suddenly went violent while being interrogated. The suspect, Rejoice Raymond, who said she adopted the kids from one Sabina Izuora, a staff of the Social Welfare Department of the State Ministry of Women and Children Affairs at the rate of N3,050,000 verbally attacked both police officers and journalists in the course of being interviewed. The Police had on February 19, 2021,  arrested the suspect and her aged mother at No.13 Akunwanta Mbamalu Street for allegedly confining the kids inside different rooms, and subjecting them to physical and emotional torture without food and leaving them unconscious. The Police who also rescued and rushed the kids to the hospital for medical attention, had recovered some fetish substances, blood stained canes, concoctions and other incriminating items at the scene of the incident. But while being interrogated by the journalists yesterday, the suspect suddenly went violent, and almost physically attacking  one of the journalists but  for the cuffs on her hands. She said, “You’re very stupid for asking me questions about how I make my money! I think I’m here with respect to the children, not for my business to be investigated. “You may wish to know that I supply clothes to Area Command, CPS at Okpoko, NEPA office, Magistrates  and high courts since 90s. I travelle to Cotonou to bring goods for over 20years. “Later, I joined okada business before joining keke business which I’m currently into. Besides, I’m also a pastor. What is N3m to me?” she replied a reporter who asked how she got the money she adopted the kids with. The suspect said she adopted the children with the necessary documents from the State Ministry of Women and Children Affairs, adding that she had since been treating them as her biological children. She further denied knowledge of the bruises on the body of the children until a day before her arrest. She insisted the Police should investigate the Ministry of Women and Children Affairs and not her. She added, “You journalists and the Police should rather investigate the Ministry of Women and Children Affairs and find out what is happening there and not me. “Let us meet in court. I adopted the children legally with the necessary documents. So I am not afraid of the allegation. Reacting, Commissioner for Women and Children Affairs, Lady Mrs Ndidi Mezue, said Sabina, now at large was not a staff of the ministry, adding that all documents presented by the suspects were forged. She said, “I can assure you that ever since we assumed office till date, we have a clean slate on issues relating to child abduction.