Super Eagles have lost only once  to Squirrels of Benin Republic  in all their past  15 meetings by winning 12 times, drawing twice. Tomorrow at Charles de Gaulle Stadium in Porto-Novo, the Coach Gernot Rohr’s side will be aiming to confirm their superiority against their West African neighbours  in  the AFCON 2021, reports OLALEKAN OKUSAN.  Since June 13, 2015 that William Troost-Ekong made his debut for Nigeria in an AFCON qualifier against Chad, the 27-year-old has been an integral part of the team and a regular in all competitions for the three-time African champion. As the Vice Captain of the Coach Gernot Rohr-tutored Eagles side, Troost-Ekong  is not doubting the ability of the team to turn the tide against the Squirrels of Benin Republic in tomorrow’s encounter. “All of us are very motivated to make sure we win this game. We don’t want to waste any opportunity by taking things lightly,” he said.“We know we only need one point to qualify but we want to go down and win the game.” Troost-Ekong has  been in good form since switching   from Serie A to English Championship where he has commanded his place in the Watford FC side After starting football at youth level in England for Fulham and Tottenham Hotspur, Troost-Ekong began his senior career in the Netherlands with FC Groningen and FC Dordrecht. Having played professionally in Belgium, Norway, Turkey and Italy, Troost-Ekong has come of age and his carriage in the Super Eagles defense has made him a stand-out player for the national team. Despite being unbeaten in Group L of the AFCON 2021 qualifiers, Super Eagles will stake their record away to Benin Republic with Troost-Ekong beaming with confidence that the Nigerian side has what it takes to overcome their visitors at home. He continued: “It is going to be a very tough match but we are going to be charged up for it. We saw each other last in November of course and we are some of the lucky people that still carry on with our jobs. Even though we don’t have the fans there with different protocols in place. “ But we are still playing football and we are very lucky. It is nice we still saw each other in November and I think the team is very tight with a lot of young players who are very good friends,” he said. He added: “We played against them in Uyo and we know it is going to be a tough game because that was a very tough game as well. Also playing away anywhere in Africa is an advantage to the home team. We know we are up against a serious opponent; they are going to be fighting for their lives and we know it is going to be a very difficult game.” Similarly,  Fulham defender Ola Aina is also fired up for the battle against the West African neighbour. “I expect a very good performance, so we will go into this game with full focus and determination to win the games,” the 24-year-old told NationSport. “Of course,  we wouldn’t give our opponent an advantage on us but things happen in football if they score first again, we would keep calm as we usually do and we will perform.” The former Chelsea of England star, however, believes the qualities of players in Eagles is an added advantage to the team He quipped: “Of course, I think our talent has nothing to do with our abilities, we just have the will and the passion to do well for the nation and that is what we have in abundance in the team I think that will be good for the team. “The target will be to win, I will love to win the AFCON if we get there and hopefully we get there, so that will be the target.” Also Rangers of Scotland midfielder Joe Aribo has allayed fears of Nigerians over the tie in Port Novo. “I don’t really have any fear or worry as I just know that we need to stay together as a team, fight together, give 100 percent for the country and hopefully get the result we can get. “We know them (Benin) a lot, we played them once before and we are going to even study them for a few more days to the game and up to the game,” Aribo added. Not ready to dwell on Super Eagles shambolic display against Sierra Leone in Benin City, Super Eagles’ ‘non-playing’ captain Ahmed Musa has said that the team won’t put up a laissez-faire attitude away from Benin Republic. Musa who was included in the squad  as a rallying point  to his teammates  according to coach Gernot Rohr,  said that the team is poised to pick the ticket  to the delayed 2021  AFCON  to be hosted by Cameroon. “A draw in Port Novo is going to qualify us for AFCON but that is not what we are going for; we need to win but you know football anything can happen,” stated Musa. “I am sure that all the boys know the hard work they are going to put into that game against Benin Republic.” Aware of the quality of Benin Republic at home, Rohr is not ready to play to the gallery as he acknowledged the near invincibility of Squirrels. The German said the Beninese will be tough to beat at home giving the fact that they have enjoyed an eight-year unbeaten run. Since losing 1-3 at home to Algeria in the 2014 World Cup qualifiers, the Squirrels are  yet to be beaten at home in all competitions  but Rohr hinted  this  record would surely be tested by the Super Eagles. “You will expect a Super Eagles team that wants to play good football at first and a team that will want to show Nigerians that they are fighting for their country and they are able to do well in Port Novo where we are playing against the team that has not lost a home in the last eight years,” Rohr frankly said. He continued: “The Benin Republic team has not lost a match in any competition at home since 2013 when they lost 1-3 against Algeria in a World Cup qualifier. So it is a big challenge for us to go and to try to win. “But we know that with one point, we will qualify. So let us play for qualification or winning but without stress if we are not winning, if it is a draw, we will still qualify. “But if at all we lose, we still have another plan to win the match in Lagos against Lesotho and qualify,” Rohr noted. But his opposite number French coach Michel Dussuyer is confident his wards can upstage Nigeria when  in Saturday’s Group L match of the Total Africa Cup of Nations, Cameroon 2021 qualifications at Stade Charles de Gaulle in Porto Novo, reports cafonline.com Dussuyer, who had previously managed Cote d’Ivoire and Guinea, said the Squirrels will press for a win on Saturday, after naming his 23-man squad, in addition to unattached Stéphane Sessegnon as the “team’s motivator”. “On Saturday, our ambition is to win. It will not be an easy task, but we have hopes,” said Dussuyer. “Stéphane Sessegnon is selected as a special guest. He is not on the list of 23. He is called for his leadership and will participate in training sessions.” After hosting Nigeria on Saturday, Benin will be away to the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone on March 30 at the National Stadium in Freetown.