Only five per cent of women in technology head the companies they work while they account for 30 per cent of the professionals in technology, it was gathered on Tuesday. It was also gathered that as at last year, the total female labour-force participation rate stood at 61 per cent. These were part of findings at a virtual forum organised by Beyondperception.io, a digital transformation agency in Lagos. Speaking at the forum, Brand Campaign Manager, Tecno, Infinix and Itel West Africa, Seun Badmus, said there is a lot of room for female professionals in technology to excel but were being held back by artificial forces such as social constructs. Seun said there’s a glass ceiling preventing women from advancing their career in the field, adding that women who intend to claw their way up the ladder usually have to do twice as much to prove themselves worthy. In most cases, the voices and contributions of women in technology are usually under-appreciated, Seun said, adding however, that all these are gradually changing as women continue to show competence. Seun said: “Women should not be denied of roles that they aspire for as long as they are competent and meet the requirements for such roles without any doubt.” Other participants at the forum were the chief host, Gloria Olufeko, presenter at Africa Tech Radio and co-host Ebun Amusan, Head of Strategy at Beyondperception.io, the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Lagos State on Development, Partnership, and Economic Planning, Ayisat Olabimpe Agbaje;; and Lagos Housewife, Rayo Ahenmokhai. Other presenters aligned their thoughts with that of Seun and pushed that women be allowed to make valuable contributions to the society. Culture and social constructs should no longer be barriers to women who are highly aspirational and hardworking to the same measure. Research has shown that there is a direct correlation between gender parity and economic growth and general development. The forum which had “Tech, Her and the Future Webinar” as its theme, was held in commemoration of this year’s International Women’s Day. The discourse was focused on highlighting the invaluable contributions of women to society and economy, and charting the path towards achieving gender parity in the tech space and in society at large.