The Commissioner of Police in Imo State Police, Nasiru Mohammed says his command is strategizing to forestall the recurrence that rocked some local government areas in Orlu Senatorial Zone of the state. The CP also said that the strategy would ensure the security of the command both in the state capital and in the rural areas. Speaking while receiving members of the new executive of the State’s Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) led by the state correspondent of The Nation, Chris Njoku, in his office in Owerri, CP Mohammed said he had already held stakeholders meeting with community leaders in Orlu, Okigwe and other areas of the state. Describing the recent crises in Orlu and its resultant consequences as unfortunate, the police boss said that the ongoing stakeholders meeting in the areas would forestall recurrence of the incident and sued for partnership between the police and journalists in the state. He expressed happiness that during the course of the operations in Orlu, no member of the public was assaulted “because of our commitment to the protection of human rights”. Mohammed expressed sadness that some members of the public were busy urging and encouraging the hoodlums, who attacked policemen and police stations. “It’s very shameful that people will be clapping for and hailing those killing policemen in their communities. “The press should help us put a stop to this. Get the communities and their leaders to support us to protect them. If Communities support the police, 50 percent of the crime will be solved,” he said. He also has warned officers and men of the command who still indulge in all forms of professional misconduct to desist forthwith or be prepared to face the full weight of the law. According to him, policemen who humiliate or molest innocent members of the public, including journalists doing their legitimate duties, would similarly not go unpunished. He said that as watch dog of the society and the fourth estate of the realm who inform, educate and enlighten the society, especially on the activities and operations of security agencies, the command would always make vital information available to them to avoid speculation and rumour mongering. The CP however took exception to ceaseless misinformation on the social media by some mischief makers and enjoined the journalists to always get in touch with him for clarification of distorted bulletins before going to press.