After netting a goal in Leicester City 2-1 win over Brighton & Hove Albion, Kelechi Iheanacho believes they need to show more of what they can do in the English Premier League (EPL). The Foxes fell behind on 10 minutes when Adam Lallana opened the scoring, however they were much improved after the break as Iheanacho levelled matters with a fine finish with under 30 minutes to go. It looked as if City would register their second-straight 1-1 draw, however Daniel Amartey positioned himself perfectly to nod home a Marc Albrighton corner to win it for Leicester with just two minutes remaining. “We’re all delighted and happy,” the Nigerian told LCFC TV. “It was a little bit poor in the first half, but we came back in the second half. “We had hunger in the second half, and we did the job. We came back, we equalized, and we got the win. “I’m happy! I’m happy with the goal. I was composed and I just dipped it over the ‘keeper, so we’re happy.” Playing alongside 2019/20 Premier League Golden Boot winner Jamie Vardy, Iheanacho explained a little more about his role against the Seagulls after the full-time whistle. “The manager said I can drop deep to get the ball,” he said. “Sometimes, I can make runs off Vards’ (Jamie Vardy) shoulder as well, so it’s a really good role for me to play. “I like playing alongside Jamie. It’s working great for us.” The triumph – their 10th away from home in the league this season – moves City up to second in the Premier League table with 10 games to play “It’s a big win for us,” Iheanacho continued. “We’re second in the table. It’s a massive win for us, so we’re happy. “We need to get back now, work hard in training and in games, we need to show that we want it more than other teams. “At the end of the season, we’ll see where we are. I’m happy with the way I’m playing. I just need to keep working hard and we’ll take it one game at a time and see how it goes.” Iheanacho also had some kind words for youngster Sidnei Tavares, who made an impressive first Premier League start for the Foxes. “I’m happy for him,” the forward added. “He’s a great kid and he’s really working hard in training. “He has great confidence, and he’s a great technical player, so he needed to show that today and he did that. I’m happy for him.”