SIR: From the beginning of year 2021, Edo State has experienced unprecedented criminality ranging from cultists fighting one another to kidnappings. Pundits refer to Edo as a den of robbers and kidnappers. The celebrated incident of the Nigerian-American who was kidnapped and killed after ransom was paid further sent shivers down all our spines. But in all this, what has the Obaseki government been up to? In January, there were reports of a move to start a neighbourhood watch project. It was to look like the Know Your Customer, KYC programme that banks usually carry out for due diligence purposes. We all clapped and applauded at that announcement knowing the positive outcome it would have for security purposes. But as we speak, we are not sure what has come of that announcement. The Edo government also has a security outfit aka Wagbaizigan, Stop Crime (in Edo language). In a report by ThisDay December 13, 2020, Obaseki was quoted as saying that  ‘we have trained and graduated 800 community police personnel and other 1,200 will soon be called up for training in the next few weeks. We are investing in the police training school in Ogida police barrack to make it a permanent and proper training facility’.  But with Wagbaizigan and the ‘trained and graduated 800 community police personnel’ in Edo State, crime festers. If you live in Benin City, and you are still not home by 8pm at the earliest, your life is at great risk. Don’t try to be at Sakponba Road, the King’s Square (Ring road), 2nd Junction, New Benin, Agbor road by Guinness, the bypass and the road leading to Ogbemudia farms any time after dark. What makes the situation in Edo awfully awkward is there are claims that the governor, and indeed nearly every governor in Nigeria, budgets almost $2million monthly ‘security money’. As incredulous as that sounds, there are assured assertions that governors have such an incredible sum of money somewhere for security. The origin of the security vote has many theories: a government official in Edo State was adamant in his argument that the source of the security vote is a percentage of an IGR from state coffers and set aside for security. In the case of Edo, without viable industries and a viable economy, one wonders how it generates $2million every month. Economies able to generate such sums run 24/7. Edo’s does not.  Second, and a much more practical theory is that that amount is from a monthly allocation from the Federal Allocation Accounts Committee, FAAC – that based on the needs of a state, authorities often allocate a sum from their federal allocation deemed fit to handle security problems. Based on the sensitive nature of intelligence gathering for security purposes, the said monies cannot be accounted for. But even at that, it goes against the grain of good governance, transparency and accountability if the security situation continues to deteriorate after such monies have supposedly been spent on securing the life and property of residents of Edo State. In February 2019, and according to FAAC, Edo received a gross total allocation of N4, 439, 862, 053.25 ($USD11, 668,490). In the light of the intractable security uncertainties in this state, budgeting $USD2million out of the above amount looks like a sensible thing to do. But in our case as a small community, we wouldn’t be needing to fund and mobilize the police to conduct an investigation if the police get some reasonable fraction of the said monies allocated to fight crime, criminality and its allied appendages.  Before we make our appeal to Obaseki, we call on the federal authorities to consider state police to check the recurrent and capital incidences of insecurity in Nigeria. If the federal government is unable to fund or reform the police, why is it pussyfooting with letting it go for the regions to organise their own security? That said, we appeal to Governor Godwin Obaseki to go beyond the rhetoric of training and graduating community police personnel, activate his neighbourhood watch project, rev the Wagbaizigan and increase funding for police beyond the N5million he is alleged to give the police in Edo State monthly. Edo, and Benin City especially, is fast becoming a den of robbers, kidnappers and life is being measured in coefficients of uncertainty and fear.