Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday gave veteran actress Lanre Hassan, popularly called Iya Awero, one of the 120 units of three-bedroom apartments at the LagosHOMS Igbogbo 2B Housing Estate in Ikorodu. The best teacher and best head teacher for 2020 academic session also got three-bedroom apartments each. Sanwo-Olu, who opened the estate, said his administration would bridge the housing deficit by providing affordable, accessible and decent housing for the people. He renamed the estate after a former Commissioner for Finance and one-time Lagos State Deputy Governor Prince Abiodun Ogunleye. The estate is the seventh to be opened since Sanwo-Olu assumed office. The governor said: “This housing scheme symbolises our unwavering commitment to the Greater Lagos Project, and our determination to build and deliver modern homes, so that irrespective of social or economic class, Lagosians can enjoy the dividends of democracy and good governance. “The completion and opening of this estate, comprising 360 units, is a promise kept, and sends a strong message about our determination to truly make Lagos a 21st century economy and a smart city. We will continue to bridge the housing deficit by providing decent and affordable houses for our people. “We recognise that decent housing is a crucial component of sustainable development, and this is why our housing projects are being funded through direct budgetary allocations and public-private-partnerships, which have yielded remarkable results. There are also some ongoing Joint Venture Schemes across the state as we encourage capable investors to collaborate with us in the provision of affordable and decent homes for the citizenry.” Commissioner for Housing Moruf Akinderu-Fatai said the transformation of Lagos to a 21st century economy is a visible and profound passion. Iya Awero, who could not contain her joy, thanked Governor Sanwo-Olu for putting a roof over her head. She prayed God to keep blessing his endeavours and help him to succeed in leading the state aright. The estate has 360 homes, comprising 120 one-bedroom, 120 two-bedrooms and 120 three-bedroom apartments in 30 blocks. . It has infrastructures such as car parks, street lights, water reticulation plant and modern sewage treatment plant.