Rising from a life of defeat as domestic help to an uncle several years back, passionate Social Worker and founder CleverMinds Foundation, Zion Oshiobugie, has revealed plans to build a second free school for orphans and underprivileged children in Warri, Delta State. According to a statement by Oshiobugie, the vision of the  foundation is to set up a free primary school for orphans and the less privileged children in the slums of Iyara community in order to reduce the increasing number of out of school children in that community. “We owe it a duty to give every child an opportunity to go to school. Hence, the school, when completed, will give 70% of its admission to school-aged girls and 30% to boys in the community. It will have a skill acquisition center and in addition provide free uniforms, books, bags, shoes and a free lunch daily to enable the students to learn effectively,” he added. Oshiobugie, a multiple-award winner for his social works, notes that his foundation commenced activities in Iyara, a community located in Warri South, LGA of Delta State, providing educational interventions since last year and is currently promoting a project tagged, ‘Engage Iyara’ a six month dance project from February to July 2021 to harness rural talents. On how the foundation plans to secure funds for the school project, the social work advocate says it has already started appealing to members of the public and good spirits well to do individuals to support the great work and has uploaded the project on the Giving NG crowdfunding platform. “GivingNG, a funding platform by Sterling One Foundation, has donated NGN1M to our school project with more support coming from popular gospel act, Timi Dakolo and his fans. We will also write to the Delta State government and request for its teachers to be deployed to the school, thereby reducing overhead cost while we also have plans to allow good spirited individuals to become partners to the school to keep the children learning and give them a better life. He explained.” It’s worthy of note that Cleverminds Educational Foundation has been doing social impact work that has impacted over 4,000 children since inception in 2017.