Women and youths have been urged to cast aside the apathy for politics and get more involved ahead of the 2023 general elections. Niger Governor Abubakar Sani Bello and legislator representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajowa Federal Constituency, Shina Peller made this call in Minna during the get involved leadership training. The Governor decried the low level of participation of women in politics as well as their apathy in political processes which have contributed to continued gender inequality in the polity. Sani-Bello canvassed 40 per cent of women engagement through election and appointment in politics. “There are very few ladies participating in the political process in Niger state. We need more women to participate in the political process. In Niger state, we are trying to be gender-sensitive. “We need 40 per cent of women in elective offices and as political appointees. “Women are the most reliable political officers. Women chop but they chop small because they remember others but the men, it is different because they will eat and take everything away including the plate. We must do something about women participation in the state.” Peller lamented the huge gap between policy makers and those who will feel the impact of the leadership. He challenged youths to rise to the opportunity in setting the new trend, saying they need to shatter the thinking that leadership is meant for only the elderly. ‘We cannot be successful until the youths contribute their quota in leadership. “We cannot be successful if the youths do not get actively involved in politics and nation-building. “We have to break the stereotype and shatter the thinking that leadership is only meant for the elderly. “The youths need to have adequate representation in leadership. We deserve to have a seat at the place where the decision is made. “I urge the youths to seek to get informed, show interest in the national discourse, join a political party,” chairman of the Board of Trustees of Lead Generation Initiative stated. “2023 present a new opportunity for everyone interested in the new Nigeria. As there won’t be an incumbent president contesting at the polls. There will be a level playing ground for all. The youths need to be well prepared for the opportunity ahead,” he said.