Stock fish, commonly known as “Okporoko’’ especially by the Igbo or “Panla’’ is unsalted fish, cod, dried by cold air and wind on wooden racks (which are called “hjell’’ in Norway) on the foreshore and has a storage life of several years. As dried cod product, it has been a source of great national pride in Norway and has provided nutritional values anywhere it is consumed. But recently, Okporoko which has become a delicacy in virtually every home and at parties in Nigeria was delisted along with 42 other items from the Federal Government’s “Official Foreign Exchange (FOREX)” Window. In 2015, the Central Bank of Nigeria placed some 42 items on a list not valid for Foreign Exchange Window in Nigeria. Initially fish was not included, but it was later added to the list. This has made Stock fish and Stock fish Head importers to move for its delisting. At a recent two-day Seafood seminar by the Norwegian Seafood Council in Ikeja, Lagos, the Chairman, First Premier Stock Fish Importers Association of Nigeria, Deacon Gregory Ilobinso, said: “The taste of Stock fish or `Okporoko’ is life… “The smell of Stock fish is pungent and clings to the back of your throat. Stock fish is also used as a souvenir and gift that our people appreciate.’’ Ilobinso added: “If importers want to bring in Stock fish, then we have to have an approved ‘Form M’ from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) with evidence of U.S. dollars to finance the import. “It takes from six months to one year to get a Form M approved, and because of this, we cannot stock up the product. That is why we are appealing to the Federal Government to allow us access FOREX to enable us import Stock fish.’’ According to him, getting FOREX for their businesses has been a big challenge. “We understand the Federal Government’s stance that the oil market is volatile, FOREX is not in steady supply but the cost of accessing dollars for Stock fish is not so much compared to other commodities,’’ he said. Ilobinso, however, made a case for the relevance of Stock fish in the Nigerian diet and the need for the government to ensure ease of accessing FOREX for the trade, saying there is no substitute, alternative or competition for Stock fish in Nigerian cuisines. “Stock fish has its own place and adds its own flavour to Nigerian meals. Eating and using Stock fish for meals has become a tradition and a delicacy for us. “It has a long shelf life that cannot be compared to any protein source; it can be kept in the kitchens for an average of two years. “During the Nigerian civil war, due to the outbreak of Kwashiorkor, the World Council of Churches imported Stock fish to help solve the protein deficiency,’’ the chairman said. He explains that when dealers cannot import Stock fish, a lot of people in its value-chain will lose their sources of livelihoods. “The wholesalers, retailers, truck drivers, mechanics and loaders will lose their jobs if we cannot import Stock fish. If we are allowed to access FOREX, it will be an added benefit to the government in terms of increased revenue. “But if these goods find alternative ways of getting into the country, the government will likely lose revenue from its importation,’’ he said. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) Alhaji Sabi Nanono, who was represented by the Director of Fisheries, Dr Ime Umoh, at the seminar, called for more collaboration between Norwegian and Nigerian governments and for ease in Stock fish trade in the country. “The total fish production in Nigeria is about 1.123 million metric tons, including imports, and it still does not satisfy the total fish demand. “The volume of Stock fish imported from Norway into Nigeria is only about 8,000 metric tonnes and this represents about 0.4 per cent of the total volume of fish imported into Nigeria. “With this, it can be said that the total volume of foreign exchange consumed by this product is very minimal. “In spite of the fact that the government needs to reduce the nation’s import bills, we need to take cognisance of the importance of cheap and affordable protein and other nutrients for the Nigerian populace. “While initiating policies and regulations, there is need to be aware of the reciprocity of trade among nations and the fact that we can also involve our trading partners like Norway to assist us with our integration process into commercial aquaculture,’’ the minister said. Also, the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Mr Adeniyi Adebayo, represented by the Deputy Director, Mr Ishayaku Zakaria, noted that the present administration would continue to initiate policies and reforms to remove bottlenecks and trade barriers. “We appreciate the special nature of the relationship between Nigeria and Norway that predates our independence. Nigeria is the second largest importer of seafood from Norway after China. “Nigeria’s imports from Norway stood at $ 148.39 million as at 2019. We cherish the relationship and will continue to foster the growth of investment, trade and cooperation between both countries. “The present administration has initiated several reforms and policies geared toward removing some bottlenecks in trade, restructuring the economy and diversifying the sources of revenues,’’ Adebayo added. On his part, the Norwegian Minister of Fisheries, Mr Odd-Emil Ingebrigtsen, appealed to the Federal Government to make FOREX accessible to boost ease of importation of Stock fish into the country. “Today, Nigeria is Norway’s largest market for Stock fish. As the Norwegian minister of fisheries, my target is to create access for Norwegian seafood. “I will like to appreciate the Nigerian government for lowering import duties for Stock fish head from 10 per cent to 5 per cent thus, lowering the cost of the commodity. “Now, we also urge you to reduce the import duty for Stock fish in general. We also seek the removal of stock fish from the list of products of foreign exchange barriers,’’ Ingebrigtsen said. The Norwegian Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Knut Eiliv-lein, also called for the continuous promotion of Stock fish trade between both countries. “The history of Stock fish trade has created a bond between Nigeria and Norway in which Norwegians are really proud of. “As current Norwegian Ambassador, I have met many Nigerians who are proud of the trade. Together we have created lots of jobs in Nigeria. “We have invited you here today because we want to continue this trend in Nigeria. We want to increase the trade of Stock fish in Nigeria. “Doing what we can to promote Stock fish trade is a win-win for Nigeria and for all involved,’’ Eiliv-lein said. The convener of the seminar, Mr Trond Kostveit, made an appeal on FOREX for Stock fish imports because of the importance of the commodity in the Nigerian diet. “The placement of all kinds of fish under the FOREX embargo, I believe, is to boost local fish production which is quite understandable. “But unfortunately, Stock fish is very important to the Nigerian diet, hence, we appeal for its removal from the FOREX embargo,’’ Kostveit said. But stakeholders at the end of the seminar urged the Federal Government to review the landing cost of stock fish importation in the country, appealing that government revisits and reverses the policy. They noted that Stock fish (COD) cannot be farmed in Nigeria and in Nigerian waters, saying “Stock fish and Stock fish Head importation has not negatively affected the increase in local production of fish in Nigeria because the volume imported is relatively low. They maintained that foreign exchange requirement for importation of Stock fish and Stock fish Head is nowhere compared to the other heavy 42 items on the exclusion list. The participants also harped on Stock fish and Stock fish Head containing high nutritional value; 75 to 80 per cent protein; its low fat content; essential vitamins which include Calcium, Vitamin B12; and 280kcal source, and as affordable protein source for majority of Nigerians living in poverty. They also alluded to the fact that Stock fish business is a major avenue for Income and Wealth Creation — direct and indirect, especially for the middlemen, retailers, market women, transporters, loaders and off loaders, so that the incidences of crimes can be stemmed. They, however, appealed that the duty on Stock fish and Stock fish Head should be reduced from 20 to 10 per cent to reduce smuggling. “The government is advised to make policies that will create enabling environment for Non-oil Export such as Fisheries, Agriculture and Agro businesses covering Livestock and other key value chains with respect to the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA).” The stakeholders appealed to the Federal Government to review the inclusion of Stock fish and Stock fish Head in the list of items not valid for Foreign Exchange, as well as reduce the landing cost of Stock fish and Stock fish Head into the Nigerian market.