Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike and his Delta counterpart Ifeanyi Okowa have said the country’s redemption depends only on the return of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to power in 2023. The Governors said the PDP had demonstrated proven ability to improve the living condition of the people, which they insisted had diminished under the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Wike, while addressing delegates at the PDP South-South zonal congress which held in Port Harcourt on Tuesday, said Nigerians were yearning to return the party to power in 2023. He said everything had been done to ensure that the PDP zonal congress hold without hitches or rancour. He said: “The hope of this party in this country is the South-South zone. Since 1999 that has been the case and it has never changed, and by the grace of God it will not change. “Let us conduct ourselves to show that PDP is different from all other political associations. And that of course will show we are more committed, we mean well and are waiting by the grace of God to take over power in 2023.” Okowa said the PDP had a bright prospect to return to power in 2023 maintaining that Nigeria was much better under PDP’s administration rule than the APC. He declared that the PDP would pull back the country from the brink and Nigerians would be better for it. The Governor said the South-South zone dominated by the PDP would continue to be a voice in national politics. He urged delegates and members of the party to collectively work together, because in unity the zone would be able to make strong impact in the nation. He said going forward, the South South zone of the PDP would remain strong, united and the leadership would continue to give direction to rebuild the party and to take back the country. Okowa reassured the zonal leadership of party that the South South Governors would work in close relationship with them to strengthen the state chapters of the party. The PDP national legal adviser, Emmanuel Enoidem, moved a motion for dissolution of the zonal executive led by acting zonal chairman, Chief Dan Orbih. The motion was seconded by Senator Aisagbonriodion Matthew Urhoghide, who represents Edo South in the Senate. Also present at the zonal congress were the Governor of Edo Godwin Obaseki; Governor of Bayelsa State, Senator Douye Diri and the Deputy Governor of Akwa-Ibom State, Mr Moses Ekpo, who represented Governor Udom Emmanuel.