Conflicting approaches to fighting insecurity won’t achieve security. The major causes of insecurity in the country are clear, but there isn’t clarity concerning how to tackle them. Terrorism, banditry and kidnapping are the main problems, and they are fuelled by illegal possession of firearms. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity Mallam Garba Shehu said the president “has directed the operatives to shoot anyone seen with dangerous weapons like AK-47, on sight, in as much as the person is not a security operative.” Then, on March 9, Zamfara State Governor Bello Matawalle said “recalcitrant bandits have been given two months from today within which to embrace the peace process and surrender their weapons to the government.”  Does this mean that they can carry guns illegally, and also carry out their unlawful activities, within the stated two months? What happens if security personnel encounter bandits in Zamfara? Are they supposed to carry out the president’s shoot-on-sight order or respect the governor’s two-month ultimatum? It is noteworthy that 6,000 additional troops are expected to arrive in the state soon. Bandits must not be given the impression that there are ungoverned spaces in the country. Accommodating them reflects a failure of governance. The governor’s ultimatum ultimately sends a wrong message to criminals. It opposes the president’s measure. According to President Buhari, “Criminals are criminals and should be dealt with accordingly.”  He stressed that his administration “shall continue to deal with insurgents, bandits, kidnappers and other criminals who constitute a threat to innocent citizens across the country.” His shoot-on-sight order highlights the danger in having firearms in the wrong hands.  Notably, the Senate wants more severe sanctions for anyone caught with an illegal firearm, believing that would help to stop gun-related criminal activities in the country. The Senate is deliberating on a bill titled ‘The Firearms Act CAP F28 LFN 2004 (amendment) Bill, 2021’ sponsored by Senator Uba Sani representing Kaduna Central. Governor Matawalle’s ultimatum to bandits amounts to unnecessary delay in dealing with them. It won’t be surprising if banditry continues in the state since the governor gave bandits two months to rethink and repent. It is curious that the governor said the president “has agreed to a timeframe within which the recalcitrant bandits should accept our peace truce and surrender their weapons to the government.”  It remains to be seen how the two-month ultimatum will work side by side with the shoot-on-sight order to achieve security. The two approaches are conflicting. The point is that those fighting insecurity should be on the same page in the pursuit of security.