Chief Ikenna Ogbukagu and his 22-year-old son, Chukwunonso, have raised the alarm over alleged harassment and intimidation by a certain policeman in Anambra State for challenging him over an illicit affair with his mother. The young man was arrested, handcuffed and detained by the Randy policeman, Danladi Edibo, an Assistant Superintendent of Police ASP for trying to stop his illicit affair with his mother The 22-year-old was alleged to have been detained at the anti-cult unit in Enugwu Ukwu, Njikoka local government area of the State where the policeman works. As a result, the family has petitioned the State Commissioner of Police, Monday Kuryas to intervene on the matter The young Chukwunonso, who revealed this to reporters Saturday in Awka, said he managed to escape from the unlawful detention, by the grace of God. He said he visited Nimo, a town in Njikoka LGA to see his mother who recently left his dad to rent a separate house, but noticed that the mother had a male friend who always visited her in the apartment. According to him, “When I demanded from my mother who the man was, I found out it was the same police officer, (ASP) Danladi who had a problem with my father, who also caused my parents to separate. “The man knowing that I had noticed who he was now called some policemen who came with guns and handcuffed me and detained me in a toilet in the apartment. ” I stayed there for four days without food or water, and later I realized that I may die if I continue to be here, so I summoned courage and escaped.” He begged the State police command to come to his aid, as his life and that of his father was in danger, as the policeman may come after them. His father Chief Ikenna Ogbukagu, had petitioned the Anambra State Police Commissioner, CP Monday Bala Kuryas, calling for the restraint of ASP Edibo from further harassing him and members of his family. Speaking with reporters further, he said, “ASP Danladi Edibo has been harassing me and members of my family. “He collected my wife from me, and I said I have no problem with that, that he can keep her. “He has taken her and rented a house for her in Nimo, and I did not protest, yet he has been threatening me. “Last year, he came to my house at about 1 am with police officers, destroyed my doors and arrested me, saying that I sponsor cultists. “There is nothing he has not done to me. I am very afraid for my life now, that is why I petitioned the commissioner to come to my aid.” When contacted on the matter, the State Police Public relations Officer, Mohammed Haruna confirmed the incident He stated that the petition was receiving attention, saying that it may not be right to preempt it.