Members of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) have faulted the claim that the coronavirus vaccine being applied in the country comes with a harmful side effect. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) has also concluded that AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine is “safe and effective”, leading Ireland to announce it would resume using the jab in the next few days. The governors, who have all taken the vaccines along with the deputies, reached the conclusion after sharing their experiences at a virtual conference of the NGF on Wednesday evening. As reflected in the communique issued at the end of the meeting, but made available yesterday, members deliberated on issues affecting the country, particularly on the rollout of the COVID-19 vaccines and the attendant issues that have arisen since the rollout. “The chairman congratulated his colleagues for accepting to be vaccinated and declared that so far, the vaccines have not shown any signs of side-effects as is widely rumoured,” the communique stated. The governors reiterated their belief in the safety of the Astra Zeneca vaccines and commit to continuously encourage uptake of the vaccines by all eligible persons in their states. They encourage the public to report any adverse events noticed following COVID-19 vaccination. The governors’ position on the vaccine was reinforced by the assurance by Prof.  Oyewale Tomori-led NGF’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Group (CTAG) that the increasing concerns of the public on the safety of AstraZeneca vaccine was unfounded. Tomori, while briefing the meeting, said his committee recommended “that Nigeria should continue to vaccinate all eligible persons with the AstraZeneca vaccine in line with the latest World Health Organisation (WHO) recommendations as available evidence, including findings from research in which some CTAG members are involved showing that the AstraZeneca vaccine is safe.” The governors resolved to support the logistics and operational activities of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) officials in their states, including programmes that will promote drug use prevention. The governors, who were briefed by the NDLEA Chairman, Gen.  Muhammad Buba Marwa (retd), promised to push for a greater role for NDLEA in the country’s fight against insecurity, particularly in relation to combating drug abuse and the illicit trafficking of drugs. The NGF members resolved to support a Federal Government-led cross-agency trade facilitation as a critical objective of the e-customs programme coordinated through the National Trade Facilitation Roadmap (NTFR). However, the European regulator said it “cannot rule out definitively” a link between “a small number of cases of rare and unusual but very serious blood clotting disorders” and the vaccine, though investigations were ongoing. Emer Cooke, EMA executive director, said this situation was not unexpected, adding that “when you vaccinate millions of people” such reports of rare events will occur. But the EMA has concluded there is no overall increase in the risk of blood clots with the vaccine, and in fact it is likely to reduce the overall risk of clots. Ms Cooke, who said she would personally take the vaccine, told a news briefing: “The committee has come to a clear scientific conclusion. “This is a safe and effective vaccine. Its benefits in protecting people from Covid-19, with the associated risks of death and hospitalisation, outweigh the possible risks. “The committee also concluded that the vaccine is not associated with an increase in the overall risk of thromboembolic events, or blood clots.” It comes after it emerged five men in the UK have suffered an “extremely rare” blood clot problem after having the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, though no causal link with the jab has been established. The men, aged 19 to 59, have experienced a specific type of blood clot in the brain together with low blood platelet count. One of the five has since died. The UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said it was looking at the reports but stressed the events were “extremely rare” and there was a possibility they could have been caused by COVID-19 itself.