  BISONG: My name is Bisong. I applied for 25 per cent of my pension with NLPC since December 2019. I am yet to be paid. Please help facilitate approval. PENCOM: Mr. Bisong’s application for temporary access to his RSA was sent to the Commission on  June 17, 2020. Approval notification was sent to NLPC on June 21, 2020. ASUQUO: I am Asuquo from Akwa Ibom State. Please what are the rules and regulations of payment for Federal Government retirees? Secondly, I retired in April, last year, when will my accrued right be paid. PENCOM: The rules and regulations for payment of Federal retirement benefits under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) starts by participating in the Commission’s pre-retirement verification and enrolment. The prospective retiree/retiree should contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. After the exercise, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But please note that retirement benefits are paid subject to release of funds by Federal Government for payment of accrued rights. FOLOWOSELE: My name is Folowosele. I retired as a civil servant. Please what document do I submit to PENCOM to process my pension. PENCOM: He should contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his MDA to get the documents for enrolment. He is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. EMMANUEL: Good day, ma. My name is Emmanuel, the son of the late Superintendent of Police (SUPOL) James. We have an issue  with the pension of our late dad who passed away on March 13, 2015. We have paid the money they asked us to and we have also submitted the documents. But we have not received any message on his pension. Please help us. PENCOM: Please we need further details such as his PIN Number and Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to enable us investigate the issue.  We called the above number provided, but was wrong number. UDOCHI: I am Udochi and I am 47 years old. I retired from Walvis Nigeria Limited in 2014. My PFA later paid me 25 per cent. I need your help because I am have a health issue and I have issues with my children school fees. Please you can give me half of or all the money that is with you. I will be happy so that I can take care of myself. PENCOM: Having collected 25 per cent, the balance will be paid to you as pension when you attain the age of 50. OJI: Hello Ma. My case is PenCom related. I retired from service in 2015 on GL 08, but was paid off on GL 07. The reason is that I got promoted in 2014, but Custom failed to implement or effect the salary variation till September 2015, when I was to retire the following month.  I was heavily shortchanged.  Kindly help me as it is affecting my monthly pension. PENCOM: Custom is a self-funded organisation, therefore, you should channel your complaints to Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) to get the variation for your promotion. Your employer NCS will compute the variation and remit same to your Retirement Savings Account (RSA). JOEL: My name is Joel. I wish to complain about my unpaid pension to my PFA since March 6, 2020. After I had complained to them about my application being unnecessarily delayed, I got a text message from them on April 20, 2020, saying that my application had been sent to PenCom for approval. Since then, nothing good came from them. I regret choosing this PFA. What should I do now? Kindly help me. PFA (ANNONYMOUS): With respect to Joel’s complaint on the delay in processing his benefits application, we would like to clarify that his programmed withdrawal application was received on Friday, March 6, 2020. While processing his application, the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown started and processing was halted due to the restrictions on movement. However, as soon as operations started in April 2020, his application as well as that of other clients affected by the lockdown, were processed to the PenCom for payment approval. Please note that payment was made to his bank account on Thursday, May 14, 2020 upon receipt of the PenCom’s approval. We regret the inconvenience experienced by the client. We have also reached out to him via his registered email address to tender our apologies. ANNONYMOUS: I want to remain Annonymous. My PFA is Stanbic IBTC. My issue is that when I claimed for 25 per cent, I was given a form to fill and, in the form, they requested for date of birth which I filled. They, then, told me that what I filled is different from what they have in their record. They told me that for them to correct it, I should bring evidence and they also wrote my last employer. My employer responded and verified my correct date of birth. Since then, I taught they have done the correction, but to my surprise, I received an SMS last year, which stated the wrong date of birth, showing that they have not corrected it. Kindly help me so they can the change. STANBIC IBTC PENSION: The client filled a date of birth on his account opening form and this was captured accordingly on our records. He engaged us on August 17, 2015 for the correction of his date of birth, and the requisite list of documents was provided to him. We engaged his employer on his behalf, for the letter of confirmation of his date of birth, a document also required for this purpose. The letter of confirmation was received from his employer on August 27, 2015. We await additional validation documents requested from the client to enable us complete the update process. We regret the inconvenience experienced by the client and have reached out to him via his mobile number to apologies as well as request for the outstanding documents (National Identity Number and completed Date of Birth forms). Please be assured that his request will be resolved as soon as we receive the documents outstanding.