A student of the University of Abuja, Miss Aimalohi Ojeamiren, has emerged the overall winner of this year’s short video competition on Sexual and Gender-Based Violence (SGBV). The event, organised by the European Union (EU) delegation to Nigeria and other ECOWAS countries, also produced five other winners in descending categories, all winning various prizes. Ojeamiren got a 2020 iMAC editing suite as a grand prize for the competition. The second prize was awarded to Miss Doris Okorie, who got a MAC laptop while the third prize of DSLR Canon Camera went to Miss Anita Abada. David Nkwa, Ebunoluwa Oluwarinu and Ms. Twammsen Danaan from Plateau State who placed fourth, fifth and sixth positions, got cash prizes. Head of EU Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, commended the finalists, saying the European Union was happy to stimulate the awareness and creativity of Nigerians on issues of gender-based violence through its short video competition. Karlsen said he was pleased that despite the constraints and challenges occasioned by COVID-19 Pandemic, the EU received 685 entries, all creatively put together to illustrate the competitors’ understanding of sexual and gender-based violence and ways to eliminate it in society. “To all six of you that have emerged finalists, I would like to congratulate you. If out of 685 entries you were able to make it to the top six, you are no doubt, already a winner,” Karlsen said. While applauding all the participants for their exceptional brilliance, he urged all distinguished participants to remember to listen to young Nigerians and victims of gender-based violence. Ojeamiren said she was excited to be crowned the winner of the EU SGBV competition even as she urged the EU Delegation in Nigeria to sustain the initiative as a way of challenging the creativity of Nigerians while creating the needed awareness that will wipe out cases of Sexual and Gender Based Violence in Nigeria. “I’m excited to emerge the winner this year. My three-minute video on Sexual and Gender-Based Violence was inspired by the need to mitigate its prevalence in society through story telling,” Ojeamiren said. The objective of the EU SGBV competition was to stimulate the awareness of Nigerians on issues of gender-based violence, ensuring that the voices of young people are heard and taken into consideration when shaping and implementing programmes and policies in Nigeria. Entrants were asked to send in three-minute video expressing what they understood by sexual and gender-based violence and ways to eliminate it in society. Judges were drawn from Nollywood; the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs; the EU funded Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption (RoLAC), EU office in Nigeria and Spotlight Initiative.