The Chief Executive Officer, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Adesola Adeduntan, has said technology, innovation and enhanced capabilities are keys to achieving significant business growth in the post-COVID-19 era. Speaking at a Digital Disruption Series webinar organised by the Surrey Business School of the University of Surrey, England, the bank chief said the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has for years encouraged innovation of the financial sector and that has reflected on the positive growth seen in the sector. He said if there is any part of the  economy, where there is significant progress in terms on innovation, it is in the financial services sector, and that has allowed the Financial Technology (Fintech) firms to thrive. The webinar was themed: “Digital disruption: How can companies thrive in Africa post-COVID-19.” According to Adeduntan, there was need to study the environment and leverage the digital space to meet the needs of the public. He said FirstMobile, the bank’s mobile banking and *894# USSD platforms, remained some of the digital disruptions that had impacted positively on the financial institution, the industry and the financial ecosystem. “We have the largest bank agents – close to 90,000 – of them spread across the country, helping to bring in people that were financially excluded into the financial system,” he said. On barriers to growth in creating innovative and indigenous knowledge, the CEO cited capital constraint, social infrastructure and cultural approach as some of the  factors. “In Nigeria, to solve the capital constraint, the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Banker’s Committee contribute certain percentage of our profit to a pool of fund to serve as equity for entrepreneurs,” he said. According to the FirstBank CEO, the absence of social infrastructure in African countries has denied citizens the ability to lead better and quality life, thus leading to the migration of many young and brilliant minds from the continent. He said the bank evolved a deliberate approach in its employment, remuneration, exciting work roles and talent development to inspire and retain its young workforce.. Also,  Thought Leader, University of Edinburgh, Scotland, Prof. Kenneth Amaeshi, said the pandemic has unravelled the need to realign Africa’s institutions, and convert challenges to opportunities. Amaeshi said African governments should evolve more favourable policies and incentives that would encourage renewed innovation, increase investment in education, research and development and intellectual property protection. “As much as we want to celebrate technology development in Africa, we need Africans to participate and contribute to the knowledge going on in the digital space,” he said.