The 2020 BBNaija reality show-themed The Lockdown edition had 20 housemates including Lilo, the second housemate to be evicted, and Laycon, the winner of the show. It’s been over six months since the show came to an end and not many of the show’s fans know what has occurred behind the scene. While Laycon won the show and has gone ahead to pursue his music career, Lilo had gone ahead to establish and run a cafe, 23 Cafe. However, that is not where the gist ends. A seeming connection had been created between the older siblings of the two ex-housemates of BBNaija. Abayomi, Laycon’s elder brother, and Alicia, Lilo’s elder sister, struck an alliance while their younger siblings were in the house. Following Lilo’s exit from the house, Alicia had joined forces with Abayomi to dedicate their votes to Laycon. The alliance paid off as Laycon emerged winner of the BBNaija season 5. The two – Abayomi and Alicia – have become so close as good friends. They both insisted they are mere friends in a platonic relationship. Speaking of his relationship with Alice Aderogba, Abayomi says, “We met during Big Brother. At some point during the Big Brother show, alliances had to be formed. When a contestant gets evicted and they have a fave (favourite) in the house, your teams align. So during the alliance, Alicia was the one in charge of her sister’s campaign while I was in charge of Laycon’s. Our conversations went well and we became friends.” Continuing, Abayomi says, “After the show, we hung out and got to know each other better. But there’s nothing there; we’re just friends. My name isn’t saved as Yomi on her phone, it’s saved as Best Friend and that’s how she refers to me anytime we see each other. I love the friendship we have. It has been a very productive relationship on both sides. That’s why when the opportunity to design Laycon’s house came up, I had to plug in my friend because I know she’s good at what she does. It’s also the same way she hits me up when she has projects she knows I can handle.” After the show, Laycon had tried hanging out with Lilo but fans are unsure of the result of their hangout.