Nigeria’s service chiefs on Thursday arrived in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Led by the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Leo Irabor, they arrived at the 2 Division of the Nigerian Army early in the morning where Gen. Irabor addressed officers and men of the division. Other service chiefs in attendance include; Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. I. Attahiru, Chief of Naval Staff Rear Adr. Awwal Gambo and Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Isiaka Amao. They were received by the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the division, Maj. Gen. Anthony Omozoje. Addressing top officers and soldiers of the division, Irabor said they were in Ibadan to show that the armed forces were now ready to work together in addressing security challenges confronting the country. He added that their visit to Ibadan was to give leadership direction in restrategizing against terrorists and other security challenges in the country in line with directives from President Muhammadu Buhari. He said: “We have come as a team working together and to also let you know that the charge that Mr. President has given to us that we must in partnership with other security agencies take measures to bring sanity to bear within the security landscape of the country. So, we have come and have been briefed by the GOC along the Flag Officer Commanding. The brief has been given to us. We know that you are doing the utmost to meet that objective. We can only commend you and urge you to keep up the spirit. “We want to see across the length and breadth of the armed forces training activities, operational engagements that are result-oriented. This is what we want to see of you going forward. In due course, the service chiefs will be coming around to have interactions with you on a more detailed level. So, let me commend you for the commitment you have shown in tackling security challenges across the country. The cooperation that exists among you must be maintained, and the liaison that we have displayed with other security agencies must be maintained. “We are convinced that you have been doing your utmost best to preserve the integrity of the armed forces. And we are delighted with your performance thus far. But the work is not over. “I will like to let you know that we, from the headquarters, both the defence and the services, are happy with what you are doing in this AOR. Keep it up. Every one of your engagements must be such that you achieve results. “Regarding your welfare and administration, so much is being done. Details will be made known to you when we leave.”