 State capitals across the country yesterday witnessed protests by members of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) against the plan to remove minimum wage from the Exclusive List. In Osogbo, the Osun State capital, workers marched to the House of Assembly and urged its members to stop the bill which proposed the removal of minimum wage from the Exclusive List to Concurrent List. The Chairman of NLC, Osun State, Comrade Jacob Adekomi who led scores of its members to protest against the bill, addressed the speaker, Hon Timothy Owoeye and members. He said: “Nigeria will breach the agreement it signed with International Labour Organisation in 1961. “The Revenue Mobilisation and Physical Commission set a minimum wage for all the political functionaries in the country. If this minimum wage is removed from Exclusive List who will negotiate on behalf of the private sector? We will be going back to the dark old days where workers are receiving slave wages. “We appeal to the speaker and members of the house of Osun Assembly to stop the obnoxious, anti-worker, anarchy bill should be killed.” Owoeye said the state would always support the workers noting that political functionaries in Osun have denied themselves a lot to ensure that they pay minimum wage to workers in the state. “There is nothing like moving minimum wage from Exclusive list to Concurrent list in the state. I will work with my colleagues in the speakers’ conference to advocate for the workers’ position on the issues, within the state and Nigeria as a whole.” In Delta State, workers temporarily shut down Asaba, the state capital. Hundreds of workers and civil society groups marched on major streets with placards with inscriptions such as “President Buhari, No Room for Fifth Columnists, Stand with Nigerian workers keep minimum wage on the exclusive list,” Removing National Minimum wage from Executive List Is a Declaration of War on Nigerian Workers,” “National Minimum Wage Is Our Right.Don’t  Decentralise Minimum Wage” , “WAGE THEFT, Crime Against Workers, Crime Against Humanity”. The protests resulted in traffic gridlock on Summit and Okpanam Roads in Asaba metropolis. The Chairman, NLC, Goodluck Ofobruku, who led the protesters to the Delta State House of Assembly, accused some governors of attempting to further impoverish workers. Delta Speaker Sheriff Oborevwori, who was represented by the Clerk, Mrs Lina Ochulor, assured that the state legislature will stand with workers on the issue of welfare. The situation in Bauchi State was similar. Protesters bore placards with inscriptions such as “Wage Theft: Crime against Workers. Crime Against Humanity, Wage is Our Right, Don’t Decentralised Workers’ Wages, On National Minimum Wage: We Stand: No to Minimum Wage on Concurrent List; Yes to Minimum Wage on Exclusive List”. Bauchi NLC Chairman Danjuma Saleh said the move to transfer the national minimum wage from the exclusive legislative list to the concurrent legislative list is an affront to the legitimate workers’ rights. He described the planned removal as a declaration of war on Nigerian workers by the National Assembly. Bauchi State House of Assembly Speaker Abubakar Suleiman pledged to mobilise his colleagues against the bill. “Even though the action of our senior colleague at the national Assembly is in line with his constitutional requirements and responsibility, however, it is not out of place to consult widely before embarking on any mission or action that touches the life of any citizen, let alone, an important institution like organised labour,” the speaker said. In Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, the House of Assembly said it would not support the bill. The Deputy Speaker of the House, Abiodun Fadeyi, gave the assurance while receiving workers who stormed the House of Assembly Complex in protest of the move to transfer issues on the legislative list. Fadeyi, who described the bill as obnoxious, anti-workers and not-too-friendly, said the Oyo State Assembly, as a citizen-friendly chamber, would only listen to the yearnings of the people before taking any decision. Workers staged a protest in Ibadan. The workers, from various unions and groups under the NLC and TUC gathered at the Unions secretariat, American Quarters, Agodi, Ibadan as early as 8 AM wearing their different unions uniform. The workers were led by the Oyo State NLC Chairman, Comrade Kayode Martins, and his Trade Union Congress (TUC) counterpart, Comrade Emmanuel Ogundiran in the company of other leaders of the union in the state. In Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, workers urged the lawmakers to kill the bill.  The protesting labour unions coordinated by the NLC chairman, Emmanuel Bankole, and Bunmi Fajobi of the TUC, stormed the Hon. Kunle Oluomo – led 26 – member Assembly in Oke – Mosan,  rejecting moves by the government to yank the national minimum wage off the exclusive list. Speaker Kunle Oluomo assured the labour that the House of Assembly has  the interest of workers at heart, saying their request for the support on national minimum would always be granted anytime the bill comes up for debate. Workers in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, said the bill should be rejected because it would make civil servants slaves of governors. They appealed to the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Ikwuinyi Owaji-Ibani, to reject the bill. The Assembly Clerk, Stanford Oba, received the protest letter. The speaker and other members of the House were on project inaugutation tour with Governor Nyesom Wike. For workers in Sokoto, they got the assurance of the House of Assembly that the bill would not receive its members’ support. Members of the NLC in Imo State presented a letter signed by their Chairman, Austin Chilapku and Secretary Ken Onwuemeodo, to the House of Assembly. According to them “while we align with the national leadership of NLC in this struggle, we urge you members of the National Assembly and members of Imo State House of Assembly to reject this Bill listed in the House of Representatives as HB 950 sponsored by one Hon. Garba Datti Mohammed from Sabo Gari Federal Constituency.” Katsina State NLC members matched to the House of Assembly complex carrying placards against the bill. The Katsina State Chairman of NLC, Husseini Hamisu Yanduna, told reporters that they were at the Assembly to insist that the minimum wage must remain on the Exclusive list. The Speaker, Katsina State Assembly, Hon. Tas’u Musa Magairi, urged the union to be patient while their demand was being looked into. The workers threatened to disrupt November 6 governorship election in Anambra State if the issue of minimum wage was not trashed out by the state government. The Chairman of the NLC in Anambra State, Jerry Nnubia, said workers would never allow the minimum wage removed from the exclusive list. The workers carried placards with different inscriptions such as “Stop the war on workers or lose your seat”, “enough is enough for our lawmakers”, and “ wage thief crime against workers”. The organised labour in Ekiti State accused All Progressive Congress (APC) governors of sponsoring the bill. The labour alleged that some governors’ within the ruling APC who they branded ‘enemies of workers’ contracted Hon. Garba Muhammed, representing Sabon Gari federal constituency, Kaduna State to initiate the wage re-classification bill. The workers who were accompanied by the police took a long walk from Fajuyi park through Bank road to the Ekiti State House of Assembly with them chanting solidarity songs against the minimum wage re-classification bill. Addressing the Speaker, Funmiyi Afuye, the TUC chairman, Sola Adigun, condemned differential minimum wage bill, describing it as obnoxious legislation laced with evil intents targeted at the Nigerian workers. Afuye commended the labour for expressing their grievances in peaceful manner and promised to deliver the message Governor Kayode  Fayemi. In Lagos, the organised labour vowed to resist the bill. Members of the NLC, TUC, Nigerian Union of Local Government Workers (NULGE) and other unions, marched on the House of Assembly yesterday to protest the ‘obnoxious bill’. State Chairman of TUC Gbenga Ekundayo  said assenting to the bill would throw Nigerians into further misery because it would allow private employers to treat their workers as slaves. The Chairman of NLC, Funmi Sessi, accused the leaders of working to kill the common man by paying workers starvation wage instead of a living wage. “We don’t mind taking over the National Assembly until the decision is changed. Workers have the right to a living wage but what we get in Nigeria is starvation wage. That wicked dishonorable member that sponsored the bill feeds his dogs with food worth more than N30,000, monthly but workers should get 30,000 monthly. How much is that for a family of six?” Nurudeen Solaja-Saka (Ikorodu II), who addressed the protesters, promised that their requests will be delivered to the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mudasiru Obama, who he said was on a state assignment. “We are together and we appreciate your peaceful demonstration. Mr speaker is on a state assignment and we will forward your demands to the general house and take appropriate actions. Thank you,” he said. In Edo State, NLC members staged their protest at the popular Ring Road, Benin and they later moved to the nearby Edo House of Assembly to express their displeasure over the wage re-classification move. The protesters were armed with placards bearing various inscriptions, including: “Datti Muhammad, don’t destabilise Nigeria” and “El-Rufai, agent of anarchy.” Speaking on behalf of Edo organised labour, the state’s Chairman of NLC, Sunny Osayande, stated that the attempt by members of the National Assembly to remove the National Minimum Wage from the Exclusive Legislative List to Concurrent Legislative List would amount to wickedness and not being considerate. The protesters then submitted their letter to the Speaker of Edo House of Assembly, Marcus Onobun, who was represented by the Clerk of the House, Audu Omogbai. The Edo speaker hailed the protesting workers for their peaceful conduct, while promising that he would appropriately deliver their message. The Kaduna State Council of the NLC held a peaceful protest, asking the National Assembly to throw out the bill. The labour union members who marched from the NLC state secretariat to the Kaduna State House of Assembly, chanting solidarity songs. Presenting the labour’s request to the Speaker of Kaduna State House of Assembly, Hon. Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani, the State Chairman of NLC,Comrade Ayuba Magaji Suleiman ,said National Minimum Wage workers’ right and should not be decentralised. The labour leader said: “It is a shame for me at the national level that, member representing Sabon Gari Federal Constituency of Kaduna State, Hon. Garba Datti Babawo, sponsored the anti-workers bill seeking to remove minimum wage from exclusive list.” Receiving the protesting workers, the House of Assembly Speaker, member representing Zaria Kewaye and Chairman House Committee on Appropriation and Finance, by Hon. Mohammed Ahmed, assured that the assembly would always protect workers interests. Lawmakers in the Ondo State House of Assembly pledged to reject the bill. The lawmakers led by Speaker of the Assembly, Hon Bamidele Oleyelogun, gave the pledge in Akure when workers protested at the Assembly premises. Oleyelogun said the wage bill if passed into law, would further impoverish Nigerians workers. The Speaker said the lawmakers would ensure that minimum wage is not put in the concurrent list. The Ondo Chairman of NLC, Comrade Sunday Adeleye-Oluwole, and his TUC counterpart, Comrade Helen Odofin, said Nigerian workers at the state and local government levels would become slaves if the bill is passed into law. The Ebonyi State chairman of the NLC, Mr Ikechukwu Nwafor, said the bill was unacceptable to workers nationwide. He said Ebonyi workers were fully in support of the nationwide protest by NLC, adding that NASS should jettison the move. He described the bill as unhealthy for the well-being of workers. “The union is saying that the move to remove the minimum wage from exclusive list is devilish and we cannot accept it. “If you remember, Nigerian workers have enjoyed the minimum wage since 1981, in line with global standard. “This took years of high struggles and sacrifices by workers to get the first Minimum Wage Act in 1981. “Labour took steps to put the minimum wage in the exclusive list since 1979 and 1999 Constitution and this has given a certain level of protection to workers. “So, the minimum wage flow, which has granted basic income to the lowest level of workers is what some group wants to write off. This is not good,” Nwafor said. “The minimum wage in the exclusive list guaranteed that all workers, irrespective of their locations in the federation, will enjoy the wage flow. “This is the practice in over 90 per cent of the countries of the world, where social dialogue is key to minimum wage determination. “So, Nigerians cannot at this time accept those that want to use us as laughing stock. “You must first address the wage flow for you to tackle the ravaging poverty, which the minimum wage in the exclusive list is protecting. “We are resisting such move in the country and Ebonyi,” Nwafor said, while urging workers to remain steadfast in the steuggle. He gave assurance that the union would not rest on its efforts in promoting the welfare of its members. Workers also marched against the bill in Akwa Ibom, Gombe, Niger, Abia, Kogi, Ondo and Cross River states.