Burna Boy broke the Nigerian music record at the 63rd Grammy Awards yesterday by winning a Grammy award for his album Twice As Tall. He is the first Nigerian to win a Grammy in his second attempt. Burna Boy’s win was announced at the award ceremony, which was hosted by TV show host, Trevor Noah. Twice As Tall, Burna Boy’s fifth studio album, was adjudged one of the best to be recorded by the 29-year-old Nigerian-born Damini Ogulu. Wizkid won the Best Music Video for his song with Beyoncé. Twice as Tall, released on August 14, 2020, is a mixture of Afrobeat, dancehall, pop, and hip hop. In 2020, Burna Boy’s fourth Studio, ‘African Giant,’ had vied for the category but lost to Angelique Kidjo. Burna Boy said: “To every African out there, no matter where you are, no matter what you plan to do, you can achieve it; no matter where you’re from, you are a king. Look at me now – Grammy award-winning Burna Boy. Thank you to everyone.” The Grammys described Twice As Tall as “a masterclass in the vibe and hustle that have made Burna Boy an international musical force”. “[He] continues to torch limitations, seamlessly blending styles and genres and fearlessly fuelling the fire heating the melting pot of pop, Afrobeat, dancehall, reggae and more,” it said. Ayo ‘Wizkid’ Balogun won his first-ever Grammy Award. The award is coming through his duet with Beyonce on the song: “Brown Skin Girl” off the 2019 album, “The Lion King”. The collaboration, which also featured Beyonce’s first child, Blue Ivy Carter, won the Best Music Video category. The announcement was made at the premiere of the 2021 edition of the Grammy Awards in Santa Monica. The official Twitter account of Grammy tweeted: “Congrats, Best Music Video winner – ‘BROWN SKIN GIRL’ @Beyonce #BlueIvy @wizkidayo” As of press time, it was unclear if Wizkid will get a certificate or a gong for his role in the song and in its video. The Grammy Award for “Album of the Year” is presented to the main artist, the featured artist(s), the producer, the engineer and/or mixer, and the mastering engineer. Wizkid is believed to have won the award alongside Beyonce, and other featured artist, Saint Jhn, as well as Jenn Nkiru, who directed the video. In 2016, Wizkid’s contribution to Drake’s album, “Views”, which was also nominated in the “Album of the Year” category, was omitted. The nominations also had some shocking omissions including One Dance, a song by Drake featuring Wizkid, and British singer, Kyla. “Brown Skin Girl” was made for Beyonce’s album, “Lion King: The Gift”, which featured other Nigerian artists like Burna Boy, and Yemi Alade. The music video for “Brown Skin Girl” was released on August 24, 2020, and as of the time of this win, has over 31 million views on YouTube.