The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Monitoring Unit, Abuja, has cleared the Chairman of Ocean Marine Security Ltd, Captain Idahosa Wells Okunbo, of the allegations of stealing and criminal diversion of company funds made by his former partner, Dr Tunde Ayeni. It said the documentary evidence provided by Okunbo clearly showed that he lawfully acquired Ayeni and his wife’s interest in Ocean Marine Security Ltd, contrary to the latter’s claims. The unit’s Head, A. A. Elleman, in a March 16 letter to Okunbo’s counsel, Mr. Austine Alegeh SAN, described Ayeni’s allegation of criminal diversion of company funds made against Okunbo as ‘baseless, malicious and false’. Ayeni had made the allegations in a December 7 petition to the IGP through his counsel Mr. Femi Falana, SAN. Following an investigation, the police published its findings via a letter, titled: “Request for Certified True Copy (CTC) of investigation report in respect of petition written by Falana & Falana’s Chambers on behalf of Dr. Olatunde Ayeni against Capt. (Dr) Idahosa Wells Okunbo and Ocean Marine Solutions Ltd. It said: “The brief fact of this case as contained in the petition submitted is that sometime in September 2007. Dr. J. O Ayeni, Captain Idahosa Wells Okunbo, Admiral Joe Aikhomu represented by his father – Chief Alfred Aikhomu and Garth Dooley came together and formed a company called Ocean Marine Security Ltd which was incorporated by Dr J.O. Ayeni, and now known as Ocean Marine Solutions Ltd with the following shareholding; Capt. Idahosa Wells-Okunbo – 46%; Dr. Tunde Ayeni – 35 per cent; Garth Dooley-14 per cent; Admiral Augustus Aikhomu – originally has five per cent which was subsequently re-acquired by the duo of Capt. Idahosa Wells Okunbo. “The complainant further alleged that he discovered a lot of stealing and diversion as well as mismanagement of large sums of money belonging to the Company, hence his petition. “All the documents submitted by the suspect (Capt Idahosa Wells-Okunbo were perused, scrutinised and forensically investigated and were found to be genuine and they were all endorsed by the parties (Dr Ayeni and Capt. Idahosa Wells-Okunbo) to the transactions. “Also during the investigation, it was revealed that all those documents were distributed and copied by the parties to all the stakeholders and relevant agencies. A letter of invitation was written and dispatched to Dr Ayeni who reported on 1 February 2021 for his explanatory statement and adoption of his petition. Also, letters of invitation were endorsed to companies relevant to the investigation, they all reported, made statements and submitted relevant documents for further investigations.” The police said its investigations showed that Ayeni and Capt. Okunbo “were long-time friends since 2003 which led to a lot of business relationship.” It said the business relationship led them to establish Ocean Marine Security Ltd which later became Ocean Marine Solutions Limited and other Companies, with Wells-Okunbo and Ayeni becoming chairman and vice chairman respectively. It added: “The Complainant – Dr Tunde Ayeni voluntarily and legally transferred his shares and of his wife from Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMS) & its subsidiaries to Captain Idahosa Wells-Okunbo in consideration of the total sum of N2 billion which the Complainant (Dr. Tunde Ayeni) acknowledged receipt of same and resigned his membership from the Board of Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMS) and its subsidiaries.” According to it, the allegations of stealing and criminal diversion of company funds as alleged by the Ayeni against Wells-Okunbo “could not be established as there was documentary evidence provided by Capt. Idahosa Wells-Okunbo which clearly shows that Capt. Idahosa Okunbo has lawfully acquired Dr Tunde Ayeni’s interest in Ocean Marine Solutions Limited (OMS) for a valuable consideration of N2 billion.