Until Saturday, March 6, the Nigerian Navy’s (NN) Underwater Warfare School in Ojo, Lagos, faced the danger of erosion. By virtue of its location, the school facilities suffered greatly from high ocean tides which usually saw water overflowing its banks, thus, washing away the shorelines. Moreover, it was practically impossible for ships to berth there since the 40-year-old 80-metre jetty there had collapsed beyond repair with stand-alone woods and iron bars posing further danger to mariners and divers. Concerned about the state of the jetty and the devastation that would occur at the Navy Town if unresolved, the Federal Government, through the Ecological Fund Office (EFO) intervened upon several requests from the navy, a move that has allayed fears of heavy flooding in the community. Like the Underwater School, the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) BEECROFT, Apapa, the navy’s premiere base, for decade suffered the same fate. Theirs was so bad that there were visible cracks on the concrete, making it impossible for ships to move in and out of harbour. It also posed huge risk to personnel as one could easily slip into the lagoon. These worries were also laid to rest by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari, who in spite of dwindling resources, prioritised the need for a standard jetty and shoreline protection facilities at the base which were completed and unveiled last year. Similarly, the Central Naval Command (CNC), last month commissioned a newly built Pontoon and Shore Protection Wall at Naval Outpost, Koluama II, Bayelsa State, to boost the service’s efforts in stamping out crude oil theft and other maritime crimes in that axis. The Eastern Naval Command (ENC) headquartered in Rivers State was not left out as the jetty at NN Shipyard Port Harcourt was also rebuilt and a floating dock provided. Aside jetties and shoreline protection facilities, the government made resources available for the service to upgrade office spaces and accommodation for officers and men. From available statistics, a total of 3,638 units of accommodation were built and 1,613 others renovated across the country between 2015 and last December. Also, the navy acquired 305 small ships and patrol boats, 14 houseboats, four barges/tugboat and 11 capital ships within the same period, all thanks to the government’s commitment to emplace a strong and well equipped naval force capable of discharging its constitutional duties. Among the completed projects are hundreds of Compressed Earth Bricks buildings at Atimbo Barracks, Calabar, Kuje Barracks, Abuja, and NNS LUGARD in Lokoja; various units of accommodation for officers and ratings at Kubwa, Navy Town Asokoro-Abuja and Navy Town Ojo, Lagos; institutional houses for Commanders and Chief Boatswain Mates of operational commands; armouries, sports centres and worship centres at most Nigerian Navy bases, Forward Operating Bases (FOB) and Nigerian Navy schools. Others include Naval Base in Lokoja and a-150-units barracks in Banda, Lokoja, Kogi State; an ultramodern Nigerian Navy Reference Hospital, Calabar after 40 years of neglect; an Imaging Centre at Nigerian Navy Reference Hospital Ojo, Lagos; upgraded Nigerian Navy hospitals in Warri and Port Harcourt, as well as a COVID-19 Treatment and Isolation Centre in Lagos to cater for NN personnel infected with the virus. Minister of State for Health Olorunnimbe Mamora said he was positive such facilities would boost personnel capacity and stimulate aggressive drive to secure the country against criminality. The Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS), Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, said the event was a milestone in the intervention efforts of the Ecological Fund Office at addressing ecological challenges across the country. Admiral Gambo noted that the facilities would enhance NN maritime security operations, adding that the timely completion has stave off fears associated with shoreline erosion including the attendant risk of flooding to the entire landscape. The CNS also appealed for more Ecological Fund Office’s intervention in other identified sites at NN bases and establishments like Escravos, Ibaka, Igbokoda, and Calabar jetty. The Permanent Secretary (PS), Office of Ecological Fund, Dr. Habiba Lawal, said the government executed the project as a result of imminent danger posed by the devastating recurring erosion and flooding that have been threatening the lives and property of the communities