After 30 years of residing in Europe, Tunde Olupese (not real name) was excited returning to his fatherland. As a final step to his relocation, he had shipped all his household belongings to Lagos, if only to save some cost of settling down. But the planned hope of saving cost on buying new household items locally soon vanished. Upon clearing his consignment at the Tin Can Island Port (TCIP), Lagos, Olupese was stunned when he got a bill of N1.3 million to convey his 40 feet container in a truck to his Ikeja residence. “It is ridiculous that I had to pay N1.3 million for such a short distance. That is not even as much as it cost me to freight the container home from Europe. I can tell you that this amount for local transportation from TCIP and Ikeja has totally eroded the gains of shipping these items home because I probably would not have spent so much replacing them here,” a visibly angry Olupese lamented. For Taiwo Anjolaoluwa, a trader in Ogba, but for the fact that business has to continue, she would have packed up her trading. Her thought was influenced by the effect of local freight movement of her consignment which she said has “completely eaten up her profit.” According to her, she had to pay N950, 000 to convey her 20 feet container from TCIP to her warehouse in Ogba, Lagos. “I practically had to beg the truck owner before he accepted to collect N950, 000 from Tin Can port to this place (Ogba). What is the total profit on the goods that I have to pay so much? I am not in business to make a loss, so, unfortunately, I will have to transfer this cost to the final consumers,” Anjolaoluwa said. The experience of both Olupese and Anjolaoluwa captures the scathing reality importers have been subjected to in moving their consignment to their final destination. The situation seems not anywhere near abating. Last week, a national newspaper was stunned when it was charged N1.5million to move its 40 feet container of newsprint from TCIP to its office on the mainland. This is the unfortunate development now in the country’s maritime industry. A recent News report by the Financial Times- “Nigeria’s port crisis: the $4,000 charge to carry goods across Lagos,” revealed that business entities pay more than $4,000 to truck a 40ft container 20km to the Nigerian mainland. Interestingly, this is almost as much as it costs to freight a container from China which is about 12,000 nautical miles away from Nigeria. The report further quoted senior executives at logistics firms revealing that most importers now prefer to pay spot prices to fleet operators, who charge N1.5 million ($3,953) to drive a 40feet container from TCIP to warehouses within Lagos rather than pay lower rates for a truck that could take several weeks to gain access into port. This cost, it reports, include road access charges and bribes but does not include terminal or storage charges on the port; general prices (which can run into tens of hundreds of dollars) associated with ships parked at sea or money extorted by touts and officials while trucks wait days in traffic jams. Finding by The Nation, however, showed that trucking containers within Lagos from TCIP costs between N700, 000 and N1.5 million. Stakeholders blame officials and security personnel of various agencies that participated in the now-dissolved Presidential Task Team (PTT) saddled with the responsibility of clearing Apapa port roads of gridlock for the development. The personnel, mainly drawn from the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) Security Department, police and the Presidential Task Team on Apapa gridlock, who were deployed to manage traffic in the area, were said to be at the behest of extortion of truck drivers trying to access or exit from the ports. This was in addition to the poor condition of the port access roads. The development has led to a sudden rise in haulage and shipping cost. This sharp increase, The Nation gathered, is to make up for the extortion of truck drivers by the security personnel, who have put in place a well-structured racket system, which ensures that no truck leaves the port or enters without greasing the palms of the security personnel, parting with between N70,000 and N200,000 per truck. The President, National Council of Managing Directors of Licensed Customs Agents (NCMDLCA), Lucky Amiwero, told this reporter that the increase in trucking cost is to make up for monies extorted and the long days or weeks the drivers spend on the queue before being able to leave the ports. “Somehow, a driver that has spent two weeks on the queue has to make up for the lost days by charging more; he also has to make up for the bribes he has to pay,” he said. Yet, Amiwero alleged that in Apapa port, an average of N140, 000 to N155, 000 is collected for a 20-feet container truck, while an average of N215, 000 to N250, 000 is collected for a 40-feet trailer before entering the port. He further revealed that the return of 20-feet and 40-feet empty containers to holding bays cost about N50, 000 to N65, 000 and N80, 000 to N100, 000 respectively, while the transfer from Tin Can Island port to bonded warehouse cost between N330, 000 and N400, 000, depending on the location. The Chairman, Nigerian Shippers Association (Lagos chapter), Jonathan Nichol, said: “It has never been like this in times past. Official and unofficial compulsory payments are made on every cargo movement. Trucking has become a big challenge. Take, for instance, paying N1, 000, 000 to Ibadan. Local trips are between N350, 000 to N800, 000. It is unacceptable. But what do you expect the Shippers to do? Manufacturers suffer huge clearing bills to get their consignments delivered to them.” A truck owner and an executive member of the Association of Maritime Truck Owners (AMATO), Mr Sanni Bala, said the security agents would not grant them access to the ports unless they pay between N70, 000 and N200, 000 depending on the “bargaining power” of the truck driver. As a result, many truckers have been left with nothing to take home and maintain their trucks. Last year, the House of Representatives had resolved to investigate the extortion of truck drivers in Apapa by security operatives. The resolution was made after lawmakers identified extortion by security officials as being a major factor responsible for the traffic challenges as operatives delayed the movement of trucks drivers who refused to cooperate with them. But reacting to the corruption allegation, Kayode Opeifa, former Executive Vice Chairman, Presidential Task Team on the Restoration of Law and Order in Apapa (PTT-RLO), in an interview with The Nation, said the though removal of extortion was not part of PTT’s mandate, his team was able to remove the prospect for extortion by restoring law and order, removal of all parking trucks around the port, keep all trucks at nominated parks, make call up a system that is transparent and that is reliable and ensure that Lillypond terminal worked so that there is a transit park from where trucks are called up to proceed to the port. This, he said, was achieved within two months of the commencement of their operations. “The problem was containerised trucks returning. If they don’t get into the ports within certain days they pay between N14, 000 to N20, 000; so they would rather pay money to anybody to get them into the port,” Opeifa explained. Opeifa continued: “A member of the House of Representatives informed me that the police took N2 million from his Manager. We got the manager and when I confronted him with the head of the export group, Mr. Bunmi Olumekan, the man said he paid N200, 000 per container to a policeman from the task team who facilitated the deal. But when I asked further, the man said he didn’t pay any policeman. Rather, he said he bought a pass from a member of the export group. This pass is given free, but you pay the union dues to the export group, which the PTT are not involved with or in support of, though I am not against the unions collecting their dues. This guy eventually confirmed that it was because he could not get that pass that he went and bought from somebody who had the pass and bought it for N200,000 each and there was no policeman involved. I know of one of those people who I was told collected 10 tickets and disposed of it for N150, 000 each. The tickets encourage corruption, but like I said PTT is not in charge.” A renewed hope has now appeared on the horizon. With the NPA’s newly introduced Electronic Call up system (ETO), stakeholders are expressing the hope that the cost of trucking will be drastically crashed anytime soon. One of such hopes was expressed by the National President, Association of Nigerian Licenced Customs Agents (ANLCA), Tony Nwabunike. According to the ANLCA helmsman, the ETO will to a large extent, eradicate the high cost of container trucking we have been experiencing for some time. “The turnaround time for truck drivers has been very sluggish and delayed. A driver and his truck that has made only one trip in three weeks because he cannot get out of or enter the port definitely have to recoup his loss from somewhere. That is why the cost of container trucking is now very high. But I am very optimistic that if this ETO regime is well handled all these little problems will disappear. Let us all support the NPA and ensure that they get it right because it will be to the benefit of all of us,” Nwabunike submitted.