There was drama at the Police Command headquarters, Ikeja, yesterday when 172 suspected clubbers and workers at Cubana Nightclub were paraded following the ‘collapse’ of a female. The female suspect identified as Ayo, who sat on the ground like the others, passed out as soon as the Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu approached the podium and all cameras focused on the event. Within split seconds, the lady stretched out on the floor and was surrounded by co-female suspects, who started shouting “she has fainted” to attract attention to her. Immediately, Odumosu directed policewomen to carry her out of the crowd and advised those crowding her to give way to avoid suffocating her. Less than two minutes after the woman was carried out of the crowd and laid beside a tree, she arose from the spot and walked back to the crowd as though nothing happened. About 15 minutes later, two policemen on the instruction of the CP approached a Black Maria the woman entered en-route the court to check on Ayo and probably let her go but she screamed “Leave me alone, I am not coming.” Other female suspects started lamenting how they have not had a bath since Friday and some of them were on their monthly periods, pleading for mercy. Odumosu lamented that young people were not complying with COVID-19 protocols, advising them to imbibe self -discipline. The police chief also stated that the command would arrest and arraign the club owner once he comes out of hiding for breaching all the guidelines. He said the suspects were arrested in the Victoria Island branch of Cubana in the wee hours of Saturday, adding they were all inside the clubhouse with no face masks or social distancing. “We had 172 people inside one club breaching the social distancing rule and there is a viral video to that effect circulating on the internet. “They have been arrested for violating the law of the state and the law will take its course. They will be charged to court and whatever decision the court takes is final. “The owner of the club was not there he had disappeared when we got there. So, also when we arrested fun seekers in Victoria Club, Ajose Adeogun, the owner was nowhere to be found but when we locked his club and arrested some of his staff, he came out from where he was hiding and was charged to court. “It also repeated itself at Club 38 in Surulere, the owner also came out when we shut down the club and he has been charged to court. “So, definitely the owner of Cubana will surely surface because we have shut down his club and arrested some of his staff as well. “Cubana Club has been raided in the past but it was the one at GRA, Ikeja and it has been sealed off by the Lagos State Safety Commission. “It is only clubbing that is totally banned but all other social engagement must get the approval of the Lagos State Safety Commission before engaging.”