The All Progressives Congress (APC) should zone its presidential ticket to the South in 2023, a former House of Representatives member, Mr. Eseme Eyiboh, said in Akwa Ibom State on Thursday. Eyiboh, who noted that Nigeria needs a detribalised leader, dismissed the agitations for micro zoning being canvassed by some politicians for the next president to come from one of the three regions in the South. The one-time Chairman of the House of Reps Committee on information and immediate-past board chairman of the Cross River Basin Development Authority, spoke on the state of the nation in his Akpautong country home in Esit Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom. According to him Nigeria was in a critical stage and therefore in dire need of a leader who will set aside every ethno-religious sentiment in administering the country. Eyiboh described Asiwaju Tinubu as a nationalist with a large heart who accommodates everyone regardless of ethno-religious backgrounds, an attribute the incoming president must posses to unite Nigeria. The APC stalwart said Tinubu will pattern Nigeria after Lagos state which he described as a ‘mini Nigeria’. His words: “The state that Nigeria is today I don’t mind anybody coming out from any part of the country if he has the right pedigree and capacity to drive the country because Nigeria is in dire need of a leader, in dire need of capacity and experience. “The presidency should come to the South, but I don’t support the agitations for Southeast, Southwest and Southsouth. I no longer want to go into those micro zoning. “I want the South to present its best. And within my contemplation, we have so much problems in this country that I can give you the reasons and who I feel should wear this cap. I can tell you without fear of contradiction. Lagos state is a mini Nigeria in terms of diversities, religion, social, cultural. It is a mix of people.” He said Nigerians from other states who reside in Lagos enjoy the benefit to aspire into political officers in Nigeria’s political capital. Eyiboh said: “You can imagine if you have somebody from Akwa Ibom State who is also in the Sokoto House of Assembly, somebody in the Kwara State House of Assembly who is from Abia State and so on and so forth we would not have ethno religious conflicts. “Lagos has set that leadership template. Lagos has been able to show leadership in talent hunting and of course no one has done all these other than Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.” He hinted on the inauguration of a non-for-profit group, AKISAT23 in Uyo today, adding that the platform will be used to promote nationalism, leadership values and social justice.