 A former member of House of Representatives from Akwa Ibom State Obongemem Ekperikpe Ekpo, has said that he gave up his senatorial ambition in 2019 in reverence to Senator Godswill Akpabio. Ekpo, who is the Director General of Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum (ADF), explained that he took the decision because he believed in Akpabio’s leadership qualities. He made the disclosure at the weekend while rounding off the inauguration of ADF chapters in the 10 local government Areas of Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District. “Akpabio is our leader. I allowed my ticket to go in 2019. I was vying for the senate seat and 2019 he came into the APC. I looked at myself – Ekperikpe Ekpo, yes a well-known name in the Senatorial District and the State. “But, His Excellency, Akapbio is a well-known name beyond Akwa Ibom State. If I were in the Senate, I wouldn’t have done much like he did. If I was the candidate of the party and the whole thing turned out to be the way it was, I wouldn’t have been appointed a Minister. But God has made him the Minister and the leader of our people. “It is not by power, but by the uncommon grace God has given to him. We have to tap into this uncommon grace by identifying with him. Therefore, you have been invited to identify with him so that the goodness of the uncommon grace, the attribute of the uncommon grace will reach you at the appointed time”, Ekpo said. At the inauguration of the Abak Chapter of Akwa Ibom Democratic Forum, the Coordinator, Oto-Abasi Edet said “Godswill Akapbio is a brand on demand”. He enumerated the many achievements of Senator Akpabio to Abak and Akwa Ibom State and called on the people of Abak Local Government to support him to do more . The group, which began the exercise penultimate week in Ikot Ekpene Local Government Area, brought the series of inauguration in the Senatorial District to an end with the inauguration of Ukanafun, Oruk Anam, and Abak Chapters. Addressing a crowd of supporters who throng the venue of the event at Abak, the Director General said,” Today we have come to inaugurate ADF in Abak Local Government. This will go down to the unit level  and it is all about Senator Godswill Akapbio our grand leader is a known name in Nigerian politics and beyond, a name that cannot be undermined if you want to succeed.  He is a man that has the capacity to represent and care for his people. He is a distinguished dependable leader,” he said. Obongemem Ekperikpe Ekpo said ADF was about Senator Godswill Akpabio, who has distinguished himself as a dependable leader. Obongemem Ekpo said ADF was out to spread the message of dependable leadership as exemplified by Senator Akpabio. According to him, “the message that we have come with may not be too new to the elderly ones, but to the younger ones who were not very politically minded when Senator Godswill Akpabio was in power as governor. “They need to know this so that they will understand what it takes and what it means to be a good leader. We have come as a result of understanding the good deeds of Senator Godswill Akpabio as a commissioner, as a governor, as a Senator, and of course, as a Minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and resolved that we should work together to support him, encourage him”. the DG stated. The Director General admonished the youths to be good followers of a leader that has shown dependable leadership in all strata of public service. “If you want to be a successful leader, you have to draw closer to Senator Godswill Akpabio, who has shown potential, evidence and whom today has been vindicated as a dependable leader. Godswill Akpabio is a dependable leader, that is why we have come together to work with him. He is a leader who is interested in the affairs of his own people. He is a leader that wants to entrench the virtues of being a dependable leader”.