Chairman, National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) Alhaji Zikrullah Hassan, his commissioners, management and staff of the commission were yesterday vaccinated with the Oxford Astra-Zeneca vaccine against COVID-19. Also, Osun Government yesterday stated that over 800 intending pilgrims to this year’s Hajj will be vaccinated as part of the requirements for visiting the Holy Land. A statement issued by the Head, Public Affairs, NAHCON Fatima Usara said: “Hitherto, the commission had sent letters advising state Pilgrims’ Welfare Boards and intending pilgrims to register and receive jabs of the vaccine under their respective state government allocations.” “This move followed an advisory letter from National Primary Health Care Development Agency expressing fear that if intending pilgrims miss this first phase of vaccination, the timeframe may be insufficient for them to receive the second dose before 2021 Hajj season. “It is, therefore, recommended that intending pilgrims wishing to participate in the 2021 Hajj to seize the opportunity of the on-going inoculation exercise to be vaccinated. Some SPWBs have already commenced vaccination of their registered pilgrims in alliance with their respective state governments. “After receiving his jab of the vaccine, Chairman Zikrullah expressed gratitude for witnessing the day, stressing that he feels fine. He encouraged whoever wishes to participate in the year’s Hajj to have hope and start preparing by first availing themselves for vaccination as exemplified by NAHCON.” The statement by the Chief Press Secretary to Osun State Governor, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, said exercise complies with the NAHCON directive on the safety guidelines of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA). This is even as the Commissioner for Home Affairs, Tajudeen Olaniyi Lawal, said the Governor Adegboyega Oyetola administration was committed to the citizens’ welfare, healthy living, safety and general well-being. He said: “The leadership of NAHCON had earlier directed all the 36 states’ pilgrims welfare boards, including the FCT and Armed Forces in the country, to urgently give COVID-19 vaccination to all 2021 Hajj intending pilgrims, to meet up with the average of 12 weeks’ interval required for pilgrims to take two rounds of vaccination before the Hajj exercise.” Addressing the registered intending pilgrims during the flag- off of the vaccination exercise at the premises of the state Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, State Government Secretariat, Abere, Osogbo, the Home Affairs Commissioner said the board had received enough doses to cater for the needs of the intending pilgrims.