Amidst fanfare, the family and friends of the Onikoyi of Ikoyi and Imoba land, Oba Patrick Ibikunle Fafunwa-Onikoyi, gathered to celebrate the influential monarch on the occasion of his 90th birthday. Adorned in all-white attires, as pertinent to royalty, relatives of the nonagenarian were seen in a rather joyous mood over what some described as “a rare occasion to remember and especially thank God for.” At the event held on Tuesday, the paramount ruler who could not hold his joy, was, however, thrilled to the dance floor by popular juju maestro, Yinka Ayefele, who serenade the atmosphere with birthday songs. Our correspondent gathered that the party which had less than 50 guests in attendances, however, still observed COVID-19 guidelines. Some dignitaries who graced the occasion included Brigadier-General and Mrs Raymond Ochei, Seyi Tinubu; Perm Sec., Ministry of Waterfronts LASG, Engr Olawale Agoro; Chairman, Lagos State Task Force, CSP Shola Jejeloye; AIG Zone 2, AIG Ahmed Iliyasu; General Gbenga Fahad Oladipo, Mr Abiodun Adebisi and Chairman, Executive Group and Board Member, Lagos State Security Trust Fund (LSSTF), Dr Ayo Ogunsan. Speaking with newsmen, Ogunsan heaped praises on the monarch who described as “an icon, a legend, a great mentor and a worthy father”. His words: “It feels so great to be here today to celebrate an icon, a legend, a great mentor and a worthy father which we have in the Onikoyi of Ikoyi, His Royal Majesty, Oba Patrick Ibikunle Fafunwa-Onikoyi.  “Under your rulership, giant strides have been achieved within a short period of time. We are not here to roll out all that today because they are seen everywhere around the Ikoyi and Imoba kingdom. We are only here to celebrate him and thank God for a 90th-year celebration while trusting God for more rewarding years ahead. “My birthday wish for Kabiyesi is that God, in His infinite mercy, continues to grant him more prosperous years and in sound health too.” Prince Ibikunle Onikoyi, who some described as highly instrumental to the success in the kingdom, was the host of the party to celebrate the renowned monarch.