 Having worked in various media houses as well as advertising agencies for many years, Managing Director, DLONG Media International Dayo Longe has revealed why he decided to float a media centre. At the inauguration and commissioning of DLONG media recently in Lagos, Longe said he decided to go into private practice to fill a void in the media industry, which his centre is capable of doing. Explaining how it all started for him, he said: “It was when I was in the advertising practice that I gathered so much experience because I saw a lot of lacuna from the school and the industry. I prayed to God for the wisdom to start a media firm and also a school that will be producing people that will fill in the gap in the media industry in general. Schools these days no longer operate at the same level during our time. “We were trained to do a lot of things, to fill the gaps in the industry but a lot of our graduates now are not industry inclined. You have to train and retrain them severally. The curriculum is 30 per cent theory while 70 is practical. Graduating from school is not enough without knowing what to do. Not only the young ones will learn here but also practitioners because if you are in the industry, you will need training which our centre is available for. “We specialise in the production and creation of value-driven media contents for national development, social awareness, growth, behavioral and attitudinal change for the purpose of entertainment, information and reformation. It was gathered that the centre boasts of such facilities as a functional multimedia studio, photography, music production, meeting rooms, filming studio, filming equipment. The DLONG School of Arts, Film and Communication has the ultimate goal to consciously promote knowledge through quality communication and the relevant intersection of theory and practical. Parts of their projects include The Learners Cut, which is a 30-minute show that offers a platform for short filmmakers to showcase their works and be seen. Being Teen: Is a community of teens by teens and for teens. The DACAT Show: It is a show that exposes and celebrates the Nigerian -African rich cultural heritage through festival celebration or visitations. There are many other projects underway. Creative Director and General Manager, DLONG, Busola Olugbemileke also known as Bukola Olu-Filmist said: “We are going to be bring a cutting-edge content, something unusual. Basically, we are a content creation company and we are going to be producing content that will fill the void existing in this nation either personal or things that affect everyone. “There has been absent of different kinds of spice to making of contents, a lot of content are being created without trying to understand the need for it, trying to understand what people truly crave for so, we are and will only create contents after researching on the importance.”