The National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) has cried out over alleged persecution of members by the Oyo and Ondo state governments. The union in a statement by the National Deputy General Secretary 2, Anthony Azogua and the state Chairman, Alhaji Abideen Olajide (Ejiogbe), warned Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde to rescind his plan on the purported move to arrest its members in the state. The statement advised Makinde to go after those causing trouble, instead of persecuting members. It said: “We are aware that the governor has ordered arrest of some of our members. “Some members of the union, namely Alhaji Abideen Olajide (Ejiogbe), Lekan Alesinloye, Kasali Lawal and Isiaka Ajetumobi, recently won a suit against the government. Instead of the government to obey the law, we learnt that plans have been perfected to arrest our members. The plan is needless and the least expected of a governor that swore to protect the lives and property of citizens.” In Ondo State, the union alleged that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu intentional planned to proscribe the union after controlling it for almost four years.  A statement said Jacob Adebo (aka Idajo), who was imposed by Akeredolu, has been there for almost four years. It alleged that Gbenga Ijalade from Owo, who is planning to take over from Adebo, is also the ‘son’ of Governor Akeredolu. “The governor is in the best position to settle the misunderstanding between Ijalade and Adebo since the leadership of the union has been prevented by the government from intervening. “Instead of using tricks to cause mayhem so as to proscribe the union, the government should allow the leadership of the union to intervene because we know how we settle our differences. “This is the governor that we have hired as our lawyer before his emergence as a governor. We are surprised that our former lawyer is now the same person persecuting us.” The union called on the Inspector General of Police to warn his men in Ondo and Oyo states against being used to intimidate and harass members of the union.