 On a first encounter, one would be forgiven to think Elizabeth Anyanacho cannot hurt a fly due to her fragile stature. But this 21-year-old gal is a fierce fighter with phenomenal progress in taekwondo under a short five-year spell that she embraced the sport. The 300 Level Statistics undergraduate of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) has fought her way to the Olympic Games with a handful of national and international laurels to her credit. Aside from dominating the sport in Nigeria, Anyanacho has taken her prowess to Africa where she won a bronze medal at her maiden outing at the 2019 African Games in Rabat, Morocco even despite her limited exposure to international competitions. She has been able to fight her way to the top and now as a medal contender at the postponed  Tokyo 202 Olympic Games. “Well I would say the first impression I got from taekwondo training made me want to learn more,” Anyanacho said of her trajectory with the Korean martial art that’s characterized by punching and kicking techniques.“ I never knew what taekwondo was but my first training session was enough to bring me back to wanting to know more about the sport. “I must thank my mentor for that. If not for him, I wouldn’t have known that I had a hidden talent for the sport and since I got to know about taekwondo, I found out I had passion for the sport,” Brought up by disciplinarian parents, Anyanacho admitted that the ideals of the sport were in tandem with her upbringing. “The uniqueness of taekwondo is the act of discipline and respect we have for each other on and off the court coupled with the fact that it also applies to our daily life. It’s not just about the fighting skills,” she explained. At first, Anyanacho set out without any high goal in taekwondo but as time went by, she began to nurture the dream of reaching the pinnacle of the sport. She said: “I had no specific goals when I started the sport because I never knew what taekwondo was and I was still learning all about it until my mentor and coach, Chika Chukwumerije, planted the seed of going to the Olympics in me; then I started seeing the target even though I still didn’t know that the Olympics was a big deal. But I just kept the focus.” Taekwondo is a contact sport fraught with risks but Anyanacho was never discouraged by the injuries common with the sport: “The love and passion I have for the sport kept me going despite the injuries sustained in the course of the training.” Apart from competing for laurels, Anyanacho does not underestimate the impact of the sport in her life, adding she was at home with the sport despite the fact that it attracts lesser attention amongst Nigerians. She volunteered: “Taekwondo has taught me how to control myself when I am angry; how to be fearless; how to relate with people. “It has given me the opportunity to learn about the cultures of other countries anytime we go outside for tournaments and lots more. “As an individual, you need to measure the passion or love for whatever you find yourself doing. You need to ask yourself if you really love what you are doing because that is what will keep you going when nothing seems to be working. “Taekwondo might not get all the attention it needs in Nigeria but I enjoy what I do and that has kept me going.” “Taekwondo might not get all the attention it needs in Nigeria but I enjoy what I do and that has kept me going.” In March 2017, Anyanacho won her second ever medal at a local tournament – the CCSF Prix Series, a quarterly tournament set up for upcoming taekwondo practitioners. Later that month, she bagged an international gold medal at the Dakar Opens and followed up with two more gold medals at the CCSF Prix Series held in June and September 2017. She then made her national debut later that year at the 2017 Korean Ambassador’s Cup, where she won a silver medal before ending her inaugural competitive year with a gold medal at the Nigeria Taekwondo International Open. She went on to win an inaugural medal for her university when she clinched a silver medal at the West African University Games but she is yet to taste honour at the National University Games (NUGA) since  none had been held  following her admission at the Federal University of Technology, Owerri. Prior to the 2019 African Games, she defied all odds to defeat established athletes to claim gold at the national trials to cement her number ranking which earned her an invitation to the national camp. She was unbeaten in all her trials at the end of the intensive training camp to clinch the ticket to represent Nigeria at the 2019 African Games in Rabat, which  was her first major continental tournament. At her debut African Games, Anyanacho won an impressive bronze medal for Nigeria after losing to former African Champion, Egypt’s Hedaya Malak, 14 – 6 in the semi-finals. Elizabeth had earlier defeated hosts, Morocco’s El Atri Wafae, 22 – 15, in the quarterfinals. After the 2019 African Games, Anyanacho went on to win a gold at the prestigious Best of the Best Taekwondo Championships, a special invitational national tournament that sees the top five ranked athletes in each weight category battle each other in an innovative round robin format. Anyanacho described the 2019 African Games experience as worthwhile as it fired up her resolve to make it to the Tokyo Olympics. Her words: “My experience in Morocco wasn’t so bad although I felt sad I came out with a bronze medal. I felt I could have done better. I allowed tension to get the best of me. “Also, I was competing against one of the top athletes in my weight category, Hedaya Malak. She is an African Champion and has won several continental medals so she had better experience than me. “Going to the Olympics was the goal right from when I took taekwondo seriously and I had to qualify to attain that goal. So I had to train harder and also see myself being qualified and then let God handle the rest. I have worked hard for it.” For Anyanacho there are lessons of life she picked up from taekwondo: “I have learnt that to be a team player is very essential in life. I have learnt to work with others to achieve goals and never to leave anyone behind.” Not unexpected, Anyanacho also attributed her continued rise in the sport to the huge support from her parents. “My parents have really been supportive, even though my dad had to ask me severally if it’s taekwondo I really wanted to do. And when he got the same answer from me all the time, he allowed me to do it. They have really played a big part in my sporting career,” she stated.