When one considers what Lagosians have experienced in the hands of cultists, one cannot but agree with the new law by the state government to tame the monsters. Indeed, the temptation is to want to support any action that government takes to rein in the criminals who hide under the veil of cultism to perpetrate evil, no matter how draconian that action may seem. It is an understatement to say that no one can sleep with his or her two eyes closed wherever cult groups attack one another or embark on revenge missions in the state. Cultism has now become the vogue among many of the youths in the state. As a matter of fact, many of them see cultism and its attendant hooliganism as a way of life. We still remember how the Badoo cultists held residents of Ikorodu spellbound with the gruesome manner of dispatching their victims to their untimely graves. Cultists have raped, maimed and even killed several people in Lagos, in addition to the arson and other destructive activities they have done. It is against this background that one welcomes the signing of the Bill for the Prohibition of Unlawful Societies and Cultism, 2021 into law by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on March 15. The new law provides for more stringent measures for convicted cultists; they are now liable to 21 years imprisonment. It also stipulates a 15-year jail term for anyone found guilty of abetting cultists. Of course there was the Cultism (Prohibition) Law of 2007, which has been replaced with the new law. However, unlike the 2007 law which addressed cultism in tertiary institutions alone, the new law applies to the general public. This is a good development. For decades, cultism was a problem only in our tertiary institutions and many institutions designed individual ways of dealing with the menace. These days, however, it seems not as pronounced a challenge in the higher institutions as it is out of the school campuses (or, is it under-reported?) especially in a place like Lagos. Secondary school students now get initiated into cult groups. As a matter of fact, the then commissioner of  police in Lagos State, Imohimi Edgal, alerted a stunned nation that primary school pupils are now being recruited into various cult groups in Lagos. This was far back as 2018, while receiving a group of youths who renounced cultism and surrendered their weapons in Badagry. He called for a state of emergency and even asked the house of assembly to enact stiffer legislation for cultism. Cult-related activities now occur, often in broad daylight on the streets, with some areas already identified as flash points in Lagos. These include Akala Street in Idioro, Idiaraba, Ebute-Metra, to mention just a few. The so-called cultists are even so audacious that they serve notices of reprisal attacks which they sometimes execute in spite of the presence of law enforcement agencies. In a sense, therefore, the new legislation is in tune with Imohimi’s wish as panacea to cultism. No responsible government would fold its arms and allow such miscreants seize power from it. This law, signed on March 15 would have been a very good birthday gift to me, that day being my birthday, but for the provision that places vicarious liability for the crime of children on their parents. That proviso naturally generated controversy last year when lawmakers deliberated on the bill. But the position of the lawmakers was that parents need to take proper care of their children and ensure that they comply with societal norms and values.”Parents of cultists found guilty of cultism in the state might be liable for punishment,” Speaker of the House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, said when the bill was passed last month. Without doubt, there is the need to make parents more responsible and show more interest in the upbringing of their wards, as the Lagos State House of Assembly and the governor rightly noted. Indeed, this is the only way to ensure that the children do not become a nuisance to the society in future, as most of the banditry challenges we are now facing are products of that lack of parental care. Many parents have abandoned this responsibility to teachers while in pursuit of their own means of survival, or to augment what their husbands bring to the table monthly as house-keeping allowance. Indeed, in the northern part of the country, alfas in whose custody many of the talakawa keep their children for upbringing have virtually taken over the role of parents. The result is what we see all over the country now. So, something is needed to whip such parents back into line. But then, the idea of vicarious liability on the part of the parents for sins or crimes committed by their children runs counter to the Yoruba saying that it is whoever sinned that should be punished (ika to ba se, l’oba nge). I also do not know how punishing parents for crimes committed by their wards can stand legal scrutiny. Again, as the Lagos State government must have been aware, there are two broad types of wayward children: abiiko and akoogba. Abiiko refers to children that were not trained by their parents while akoogba are those children who were trained but chose to ignore their parents’ admonitions. If any parent must suffer for the waywardness of their children, it must be established beyond reasonable doubt that such parents were negligent in their parental responsibility, and it was this negligence that led their children to join what Fela Anikulapo-Kuti of blessed memory called ‘bad society’ (egbe kegbe). Moreover, if parents must be punished for crimes committed by their children, such children must be minors, in which case it is clear that the parents have shirked their responsibility. But when adults commit crimes, they should be able to face the consequences since they are old enough to discern good from evil. For instance, with or without parental guidance, anybody who wants to steal knows instinctively that what he wants to do is bad. While the fear of being apprehended to face the law makes some people to flee from the act, some others would still go ahead to steal, even if they had been told severally by their parents, that stealing is bad. So, by still going ahead to commit the crime, they are simply taking a risk, and if they are caught, they should have themselves to blame. The fact of the matter is that civilisation and globalisation have taken the better part of us, and the result is the prevalent criminal tendencies that have seized the entire country. However, we should understand where Lagos State government is coming from. The state is home to many jobless youths who do all sorts of things to feed. Many of them used to sleep under the bridge at Oshodi, but that had been stopped since the Babatunde Fashola administration cleared up the place. The massive destruction that trailed the #EndSARS riots last year was enough indication that Lagos is home to too many miscreants. Unfortunately, not all of them are Lagosians. As a matter of fact, not all of them are Yoruba. It is not uncommon these days to find people with all kinds of tribal marks running after commercial vehicle drivers to collect money as ‘agbero’. Some have even said they have seen Igbo parading themselves as ‘omo onile’ in the state, and collecting illegal money in that regard. However, beyond crime and punishment, it is important that the state government looks into the sociological factors responsible for the increasing number of miscreants in the state. There are hidden talents in some of these youths-turned-area boys that can be deployed towards productive purposes. Some of those who joined cult gangs might have been forced into it by the harsh socio-economic conditions in the country. The Fashola administration tried to engage such youths, with some results. The incumbent government may wish to study this paradigm or come up with fresh ideas to mop up those talented youths from the lot, with a view to positively engaging them. But Lagos State alone cannot banish cultism in the country. It can only flush the criminals out of the state to where they consider safe havens. So, neighbouring states have to be ready to adopt tough anti-cultism measures for better result. One way of doing this is to see cultists not as cultists but by whatever crime they comit. When they rape, they should be arraigned for rape. When they commit battery and assault, they should be so charged. And when lives are lost in the course of their nefarious activities, they should be arraigned as murder suspects, pure and simple. Merely referring to them as cultists rather than by the crime they commit does not let them get the full import of the evil they are doing to society. In this wise, the media, traditional or social, must lead the campaign to change this erroneous narrative. When we call them cultists after committing grievous crimes, we give the impression that punishment for their crime can be mitigated by their being cultists or that cultism is permitted, at least to some extent, in the society. We should not fail to denounce cultism whenever the opportunity presents itself. However, having signed the new law, the government must ensure its enforcement. It seems the cultists are out to dare the government or test its resolve on the matter. For, barely 48 hours after Gov. Sanwo-Olu signed the law, cultists belonging to Aiye, Eiye and Bucaneer clashed at the Ikosi area of Ketu, during which they looted and burnt some shops. We all know that our problem in Nigeria is not necessarily about lack of laws but the will to enforce the laws and sustain the enforcement. Meanwhile, we will know what else to add or recommend for review when the full provisions of the law are made public.