Nigerian Comedienne Emmanuella has won the Nickelodeon’s Kids Choice Award 2021, for Favourite African Social Media Star. She posted this on her Instagram handle, and thanked her family and fans for their massive support. She wrote: “Congratulations to me as I won the Favourite African Social Media Star category at the Nickelodeon’s Kids’ Choice Awards 2021. I am so happy to be a winner, thank you! To all my fans out there, I say thank you. To all those who voted for me, I love you so much, this win would not have been possible without you.” She was nominated alongside Nigerian comedy group, Ikorodu Bois, South African Magician, Wian Van Den Berg; Ugandan Youth Dance Group, Ghetto Kids, Kenyan social media sensation, Elsa Majimbo, and South African media personality, Bonang Matheba. The Awards ceremony hosted by Kenan Thompson (Kenan, Saturday Night Live), the KCAs featured show-stopping performances by the talented Justin Bieber. He took the stage to sing hit songs “Intentions” with Quavo, “Anyone” and “Hold On.” He leads the pack with five nominations this year, winning two. Emmanuella was just five years old and on a family holiday when she partook in a comedy skit that would shoot her to stardom and win her four international awards. In the skit titled, “My Real Face,” she deformed her face to avoid the wrath of the headmistress and her daughter. Her catchphrase “This Is Not My Real Face Oh” quickly became household slang and a source of fascination for the kid whose actions and words defied her age. Emmanuella’s daring yet hilarious actions evoked laughter and curiosity as to who the little girl was. The Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards, also known as the KCAs or Kids’ Choice, is an annual American children’s awards ceremony show that is produced by Nickelodeon. The show honours the year’s biggest television, movie, and music acts as voted by viewers worldwide on Nickelodeon networks. Winners received a hollow orange blimp figurine, a logo outline for much of the network’s 1984–2009 era, which also functions as a kaleidoscope. (NAN)