Winners have emerged in a cooking competition organised by the West African Seasoning Company (WASCO), makers of Ajinomoto food seasoning, for caterers and decorators. The well-attended competition was put together by WASCO for caterers under the aegis of the Lagos State Caterers and Decorators Association (LSCDA) in commemoration of the 2021 International Women’s Day. Olubukola Folarin Okelola from Ikorodu zone emerged winner as her smokey ofada rice and Ayamase sauce was adjudged the best by the panel of judges led by a seasoned Home Economics specialist, Mrs. Catherine Ogunrinde. Oluwatosin Coker from Lagos Island zone came second while Josephine Nwasiwe from Alimosho zone came third. Each of the winners smiled home with mouth-watering gifts, including refrigerators while the other contestants were not left out as they were given consolation prizes. Speaking at the event, which was also used to introduce the company’s newest addition, ‘DeliDawa’ seasoning, Isah Hassan Shallangwa, WASCO’s Head of Marketing, reiterated that Ajinomoto food seasoning (also known as monosodium glutamate or MSG), is one hundred per cent safe for consumption. He assured consumers and caterers that the product has long been scientifically proven safe for consumption. Also educating the participants about the safety of their product, WASCO’S Corporate Communication Officer, Mrs. Francisca Ikediashi, noted that Ajinomoto seasoning is consumed in over 130 countries. AJI-NO-MOTO, according to her, has been safely used as food ingredient since 1908 after it was discovered by a Japanese scientist, Dr. Kikunae Ikeda, adding the product is registered in Nigeria by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). Brand ambassador of Ajinomoto and popular comedienne, Dr. Helen Paul, who thrilled the caterers at the event, also took time to educate them on how to use the seasoning in order to maximise its various benefits. While testifying that Ajinomoto enhances and promotes the taste of food, Mrs. Clementina Oladipo, President of LSCDA, thanked WASCO for educating her members about the safety of the seasoning and promoting ideas and practices that impact and strengthen the well-being of individuals and families.