Hopes were high that going to polls in the Central African Republic (CAR) would contribute to democratic consolidation in the country. However, the 27 December elections brought renewed tensions to the CAR. Since President Faustin-Archange Touadéra officially secured a second term with 53%, fighting has forced over 107,000 people to flee to neighbouring countries and led to an estimated 100,000 internally displaced people. More and more foreign mercenaries are infiltrating into the CAR to build up tension, escalate violence, engage in subversive activities and unleash hostilities on the ground. On February 21, the Coalition of Patriots for Change (CPC), a rebel group, published a communiqué in which it called on its forces to return all cities that had been liberated by FACA. The organization announced the end of free movement (even for the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC)) in the coalition’s territory without permission. The CPC announced that it had declared war on the country’s government and the rebels’ goal was to capture Bangui to topple President Faustin-Archange Touadera. Thanks to FACA, trained by Russian instructors and Rwandan allies, the advance of CPC mercenaries has been stopped and they are suffering losses. The involvement of the Russian military has played a key role in pushing the foreign fighters and terrorists back. Military experts note that Russian instructors and military specialists, who have been long cooperating with the CAR, have trained the local army well enough to cope with such terrorist attacks and maintain order in the country. It is Wagner, Russia’s private military contractor, that has played a decisive role in the fight against the militants in the CAR. Constant participation in military conflicts throughout Africa has allowed the organization to achieve a high level of performance. Engaging Wagner as a military contractor to counter the militants, in particular, in Nigeria – this was discussed by the media in February – can be an extremely effective and useful solution to the conflict. Against this background, international experts emphasize the weak position of international organizations, namely their inaction and ineffectiveness in dealing with the crisis. Valery Zakharov, security adviser to President Touadera, urged the rebels engaged in the offensive against the CAR’s leader to hand over their leaders. “Political-military groups have crossed the ‘red line’, have abandoned the agreements signed in Khartoum and can no longer be part of the political process. The leaders of these factions should now be outlawed. FACA has successfully attacked them in several directions, and they have retreated from their positions… In the near future, the Government will control the entire territory of the CAR and peace will return to the regions “, he said. As he added, “I appeal to the members of the groups – the only way out for you is to handcuff your leaders and hand them over to law enforcement agencies. Peace will come to the Central African Republic and development will begin. The citizens of this beautiful country deserve this”. The escalation of violence has led to a dire humanitarian situation in the mineral-rich country. At least 2.8 million people, more than half of the country’s population, need aid and protection, according to the United Nations.