Kelechi Iheanacho has dedicated Leicester City’s latest victory to the fans after they beat Manchester United 3-1 in the Emirates FA Cup Quarter-Finals on Sunday night. The Foxes booked their spot in the semi-finals of the prestigious competition for the first time in nearly four decades thanks to the Nigeria striker’s brace and a fine solo effort from Youri Tielemans. City, during Brendan Rodgers’ 100th game in charge, were excellent throughout the 90 minutes at King Power Stadium, and Iheanacho was thrilled to give the Club’s supporters a cause for celebration after scoring twice against the Red Devils. “It’s history, and it feels good,” he told LCFC TV at full-time. “We’re happy and I know the fans are happy as well. “We did it for them, and hopefully, we’ll look forward to the next game. We’ll get prepared and try to get to the final.” The Nigeria striker took his tally to an incredible seven goals in his last four outings across all competitions, but knows he must keep working hard if he is to maintain his performance levels. “I just need to focus and keep working hard every day,” he continued. “Hopefully, they will keep coming. “We prepared really well this week in training – how we’re going to press and trap them. That’s what we did, and it worked really well for us. We got the first goal, so it worked really well for us.” Meanwhile, Foxes manager Brendan Rodgers said Iheanacho now plays with a lot of confidence after the Nigerian netted a brace against Manchester United. “I would think he is playing the best football of his career,” Rodgers added. “He’s full of confidence. Any player, when you play with confidence, you play to a high level. It was great composure for the first goal, and the second, he’s there in the right spot and gets the finish.” Leicester City will face Southampton in the semi-finals at Wembley Stadium on the weekend of 17/18 April and Rodgers is keen to continue the Club’s journey in the competition. “I’d rather win and talk about it then,” the 48-year-old said. “It’s another step for us. I said to the players before the game: ‘You’re three games from making history’. Now we’re down to two. There’s a number of games in between, a lot of hard work, but this is a great moment for us. Now we’ve got a semi-final to look forward to.”