 The Benue State Government yesterday said Governor Samuel Ortom will cooperate with special investigators sent to probe weekend’s attempt on his life. It also clarified that the governor did not make up any story on the attack for political gain. It explained how Ortom ran for over one kilometre to escape the attack. The government said the security team did a good job of repelling the attacks to protect him from danger. The clarifications on the attack on the governor were made by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, following a dispute over the governor’s allegation of an assassination attempt. Some critics alleged that it was impossible for Ortom to be attacked because of the security wall around him. They alleged that Ortom was seeking attention for political gains. Following the allegations, The Nation sent enquiries to the CPS for more details on the incident. Akase said it was true that there was an assassination attempt on Ortom. Kaase said: “The governor is yet to meet with the investigators. We are expecting them. The governor has expressed willingness to meet with them. He gave assurance that the Benue State Government will fully support the investigation. Asked to respond to allegations that Ortom was only playing to the gallery, he said the governor was never seeking attention with the incident.  He added: “Governor Ortom didn’t make up the story. The attack indeed, occurred. Security agencies have also confirmed that there was an assassination attempt on the governor. Why will the governor use a matter involving life to seek attention? Which attention, by the way?” On the possibility of the governor running over one kilometre to safety with his security detail, Kaase said Ortom did. He said: “Yes, he ran over a kilometer back to the place where the vehicles were parked. “The area where the farm is located is towards River Benue and the terrain is not accessible by vehicles. So, they had to go by foot to the farm. On their way back, they ran into the ambush. “The security men with him did a wonderful job of repelling the attacks to protect him. “ Yes, it was the gallantry of the security around him that saved the day. We give God the glory. “The assailants did not overpower his security aides. So, the question of whether he went to the farm with limited security men answers the question.” He explained that being a governor does not mean that he should not go to his farm. He said: “Let me say that Governor Ortom is a farmer, and his being governor doesn’t stop him from visiting his farm often. “ Last weekend was one of those visits to his farm around Tyo-Mu near the banks of River Benue. The terrain there from the Makurdi-Gboko road to the farm is not good for vehicles to access. “He had to park his convoy vehicles and move to the area by foot accompanied by his personal assistant and security aides. “ It was while they were on their way from the farm that they ran into the ambush by the armed persons. His team of security men did a great job of repelling the attacks and safely guarding the governor back to where the vehicles were. This  was what happened.”