It happened last Monday on my way to work, but I can still feel some slight pains on my right hand and left knee. One moment I was on a motorcycle (Okada) with the rider, the next I was on the ground. My bag containing my laptop flung off, the phone I was holding thrown in another direction as I struggle to stand to on my feet to be sure I was not seriously injured. We were not hit by another motorcycle or car. It was a lone accident that initially left me wondering what must have gone wrong this time around for the first time since I have been taking Okada rides in recent week to avoid driving heavy traffic on my route. I remember the rider trying to drive carefully down a slope to avoid some on coming vehicles, but the moment he applied the brake, both of us were thrown off. Although I could not understand what explanation he was giving to his fellow riders who came to help him up with the machine, I could see that the problem was that the seat of the motorcycle might not have been properly screwed as it easily came off too. As I walked back home and aborted my journey since my clothes were already stained, I reflected  the danger Okadas have become, despite providing alternative means of transportation. My rider who is one of the many persons brought in on almost daily basis to Lagos from another part of the country struck me like someone who is still mastering how to ride the motorcycle. I see many of them in the neighbourhood I live been taught how to ride the motorcycle and without any official licence they start ridding and carrying passengers. Their ridding learning does not include knowing about traffic regulations. Their Okadas are not certified road worthy and yet they are allowed to endanger the lives of the people they carry. Some are also too new in Lagos that they don’t know the routes they carry passengers for. They have become very lawless and don’t care about being arrested by law enforcement agents. They violate every traffic regulations and endanger the lives of those they carry and other motorists. A colleague was crossing the road to enter his car and was knocked down by an Okada without a headlamp. The rider obviously did not see him because it was a bit dark, but the situation would been prevented if he had his lights on. Because of the rate many riders are arriving Lagos to join in the Okada business, they have become a nuisance in neighbourhood where they operate and when any attempt is made to call them to order they sometimes get violent. They assemble at the entrance of many streets and convert street corners to repair points. Why I and many others can afford to avoid ridding Okadas, too many Nigerians have no choice due to the inadequate transport facilities. The Lagos State Government and others have to really take steps to regulate motorcycle transportation to ensure that not only are the riders licenced, that their motorcycles are in good conditions to guarantee safety of the passengers. There are existing laws in most states, but the governments have to do everything possible to enforce the regulations if they really care about the sanctity of lives. More transportation options have to be provided to reduce the dangerous boom in the Okada business. Politicians should also stop empowering people with Okada.  There should be better things to empower them with. 