These are trying times for students of Abia State University (ABSU) and Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike (MOUAU), Umuahia. Tricycle operators (Keke riders) who ply the Umudike axis towards Abia State University’s extension (ABSU) and  (MOUAU)  campus gate have hiked fares.  Hike in fares non-negotiable In an interview with  CAMPUSLIFE, they lamented the activities of thugs masquerading as road transport workers known in local parlance as agbero. According to them, they pay for many tickets on a single trip. They expressed their displeasure over the harsh economic climate of the country. The tricycle operators noted that they spent over  N1,200 daily on different tickets besides the  compulsory National Union of Road Transportation Workers (NURTW) ticket. “Our major problem is those boys (agbero). They collect money from us on a daily basis. We pay for many tickets, especially at the MOUAU gate. We have no choice but to pay. If we don’t pay, we won’t be able to do our business. Daily, we spend over  N1,000 or N1,200 on  tickets. How are we expected to make our  gain? Hence, I use this medium to appeal to the governor and school authorities to look into the matter urgently,” said a tricycle operator who identified himself as Victor. Unfortunately, most of these riders are not the owners of the tricycle. They remit money to their bosses at the end of the week. It was gathered that some of the riders  are students seeing themselves through school. So, paying for the numerous tickets imposed on them by agberos who stay in front of the school’s gate, and attending to other needs had become pretty tough for them. Thus, they had to increase fares because, according to them, they are running at a loss. Students now have to pay through  the nose to get to their various campuses. Initially, they paid N50 from Umudike to ABSU and from ABSU to Umudike, which is a short distance; now they pay as high as N150 or even N200. Double trouble for students Apart from the increase in fares which is still causing tension, most students of  ABSU and MOUAU who live around Umudike axis lamented that the majority of tricycle operators did not like plying that route. They told CAMPUSLIFE that they missed tests and examination following the refusal of tricycle operators to ply the route despite their pleas. Most times, students appeal to the riders to convey them to school and, on such occasions, students would have to pay heavily to make up for the numerous tickets they (tricycle riders) pay for on the route. “I live around Umudike, very close to the school. I go to school from there every day and, most times, it is very hard to get a tricycle (Keke)going towards that direction because most of them have stopped plying that road. In fact, as a result of that, last week I missed my test, despite that I left my lodge  as early as 6:30am. Please, this is becoming unbearable for us students; the school management should look into this matter as soon as possible,” a student of MOUAU, Kizito Madumere, said.  Students want authorities to intervene Patra Onyeji, a 300-Level student of  ABSU, finds the situation unbearable. Hence, she wants school authorities to act before it leads to a protest. She said: “Honestly, I find it unbearable because just coming from my lodge in Umudike to ABSU recently I paid N100 instead of  the usual N50, yet, it is just a short   distance. I don’t know what the SUG Director of Transportation is doing. ‘’It will get to a point when students can no longer bear this and they will be forced to react. Maybe then authorities concerned  would swing into action.” Ifeoma Simeon, a 100-Level student of MOUAU, said: “This is eating deep into my purse. As a 100-Level  student  who lives off-campus, having to pay all the fresher dues and other necessities, you are left with little to nothing and then the little you have is spent on transportation. It is not fair on me and I believe I speak for other freshers. I have at least  three more years to go in this school, so I call on the management of the school to look into this matter because it is not a joke at all.” For Chimezirim Ugonma, a 400-Level student of  MOUAU, it is pretty difficult to cope with high transport expenses and feeding, especially for indigent students. “Look at most of us fending for ourselves in school, how do you expect us to cope and meet all the transportation expenses we get to pay in school? Then not all those boys (agbero) you see along the school axis are registered with the transport union. Please, the government should really look into this because it is becoming unbearable,” she said. Another 400-Level student, Joy Udoh, who studies Law at ABSU, while complaining of the economic situation of the country, said: “Most of us here in school do not receive much money from our parents. The whole pandemic thing has really affected  our parents and crippled their businesses.They are just  trying to come out of it. Now, the tricycle riders are extorting us. But I don’t blame them, I blame those boys  (agbero) who stand at the school gate extorting them. What is the SUG and, especially, the Student Union Director of Transportation doing to stop this? This has to be stopped if we don’t want students to cause trouble.” Ben Blaise, a 500-Level Agriculture Economics and Extension student of ABSU, said he was shocked when a tricycle operator told him fares had increased. He said:  “I was shocked  last week when I was about going to school and the tricycle rider told me that the price was now N100  and not N50 anymore. Quite annoying, if you argue with them, they will just drive off without explaining anything to you. It is  telling on us the students. Our parents do not give us much to come to school, so we have to struggle  to pay school fees and still battle with transportation. We are not in school to pay for only transport. There are many things to pay for. I am, therefore, calling on the SUG Director of Transportation to find a solution to this problem.” Ezioha Martins, a 300-Level student of MOUAU, noted that road transport workers or street urchins should not be within the precints of a school. She noted that an academic environment should not be open to rascals. Therefore, she urged authorities of the institutions to get rid of them. She said: “First of all, road transport workers or street boys are not supposed to be around academic environment. They ask for  money and sell tickets to all tricycle riders. This is illegal. The first thing that should be done by the SUG Director of Transport and the school management is to make sure those boys are taken away  from the school’s gate. That will ensure  the serenity and quietude of the academic environment are maintained. Even if it is compulsory to sell tickets, there should be only one recognised union, not different people selling tickets to riders.” The immediate past Director of Sports for the Faculty of Law in ABSU, Nwizu Ifeanyi, said students would be discouraged from attending classes when they think of transport expenses. He, however, urged SUG executives to proffer solution to the problem. A student of MOUAU who pleaded anonymity said: “Together with my fellow students I urge the SUG Director of Transportation, Nmachi Aboto, and the school management to come and look into this situation because it is becoming unbearable not only for the tricycle riders, but  the students and staff of both universities. Most of these students are the ones fending for themselves and sposoring their education.  The riders too are fending for themselves and family and remitting to their boss every week. We also have  students who  are riders because they have nobody to fund their studies. All relevant authorities should collaborate to find a lasting solution to the problem.” Working to resolve the issue The SUG director of transportation, Nmachi Aboto while reassuring students of a speedy resolution,said:”As regards the hike in price, I have already had a meeting with the tricycle riders and they pleaded with me that I should try and make things easier for them. I am also working with the Local Government Chairman because there are so many things causing the hike in price apart from ticket issue.For instance fuel price is another problem. I am trying to make sure the fares  are  slashed. My sincere apologies for the inconveniences experienced  the students. I assure you that  my executives  and I are working assiduously to correct the situation.” 