  Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has called for better working relations between the Executive and legislative arms of government to ensure good governance for the development of the country. Osinbajo, who spoke at a legislators’ evening of honour with the theme: The Role of Legislative Aides in Nation Building, organised by the Southwest Caucus of the National Assembly Legislative Forum (NASSLAF), said he was grateful for the current cordial relationship between both arms of government. “We acknowledge the fact that we nurture this relationship and it can only add to the development of Nigeria. Furthermore, the relationship between the Executive and Legislature in particular dispensation has shown that governance is all about maturity and that the Executive is willing to work with the Legislature to ensure good governance in Nigeria,” he said. The Vice-President, who was represented by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, Senator Babajide Omoworare, said there was no way the Legislature could be vibrant without a well-oiled legislative crew that would assist in research and other legislative functions. He urged the legislators and their aides to ensure synergy between them to engender good governance in Nigeria. Omoworare, who also was the keynote speaker at the event, stressed that the strength of the principal of a legislative aide is actually based on the capacity of those who work for him or her. Chairman of the event, Senator Robert Ajayi Boroffice said the legislature was struggling with a negative perception as many Nigerians ddid not understand the roles and workings of the National Assembly. He said NASSLAFF had done well from inception, having evolved into a very formidable organisation. Clerk of National Assembly, Ojo Olatunde Amos, urged the forum to engage in more capacity building programmes to always develop their skills in the overall interest of parliamentary representative democracy in Nigeria.  Represented by Austin Adesoro, the Clerk said legislative aides, as the real grease that oils the engine of ideas of their principals within the National Assembly, must always try to catch up with global best practices in service delivery. He promised the forum’s support for the Forum. National President NASSLAFF, Alhaji Salisu Zuru, promised they will continue to do their best in the interest of proper legislation for good governance of the country. He urged their principals and the leadership of the National Assembly to continue to make themselves accessible to resolve any issues they may have at any time. Chairman of the South West caucus of NASSLAF, Mr. Abiodun Akpantaku, who expressed gratitude for the success of the event, also assured they will continue to work hard to improve themselves and contribute meaningfully to the development of the country. There was also the presentation and launching of three books titled “The Legislators’ Series, Volume 1″, “Hallowed Chambers and Legislative Activity”, and “Understanding Insurgency, Strategies and Defeat”, written by Oladipo Duyile-Ibironke. The books were reviewed by Air Cdr Sam Zakari rtd, the Sergeant at Arms of the National Assembly. There was also a presentation of awards.  