 IN spite of the harsh moment of last year and covid19 situation, you had a joint exhibition in Lagos. What encouraged you to be so audacious? I think what made me to be more audacious during my last year exhibition and throughout 2020,  last year was an eye opener to everything that has been happening in our country and the world at large. It was quite a very serious year in which if any body tells me that he or she did not learn anything during the 2020 (Covid19/ hunger 19 plus pandemic = virus/hardship).  I don’t think the person is existing in this country, that person will not and cannot be a human being. For me I can say that the year 2020 created in me more boldness, struggle and patience. The last but not the least gave me an opportunity to stand on my right. My anger was not because covid came and we were all locked down and things were up and down “NO” my anger was because our own government refused to be part of us during this struggle. It was painful. So  this was my major problem and why I was so audacious in my speeches. You are known for what many see as bold and large strokes in your works. Why did you choose to be that different? Bold and large strokes are things I like to see as end result to my paintings. Seeing artist like Utuman Wahaab, Bob-nusa, Edgar Imomoh, Duke Asidere A lot of them who do strong works of arts gives me joy. In life you have to be different, you have to learn to create your own work, so when you do it people will know you as you not as anybody. But on my own research like it or not we all have a trench where we can trace our linage to, apart from that you are you. So I try as much as possible to create my own language much as I try push myself not to be anybody. That’s the only thing that can stand you out. So over the years I have tried to build myself to be me and not to be anybody. Being bold to our art should be what every artist should learn to be, we should be bold in our thinking because we are all thinkers. So being bold is a choice I chose to be, we should all be known in our different strokes. Your art has some semblance of the University of Port Harcourt, Is this deliberate and why? Semblance is every man’s/woman’s dream to their children need to show resemblance, actual or apparent. Showing in appearance, figure, seeming, exterior, form, aspect and  bearing, it’s a part of being a representative. So the fact I went to University of Port Harcourt and having the life of some of my lecturers like Dr. Ike Francis, Professor Frank Ugiomoh, Dr. Nicks Ugbogu, Dr. Mrs. Pamela and Dr. Mrs Ajiginietc. It is a very big privilege meeting this honourable Professors and Doctors as my lecturers. Dr. Ike Francis was not just my lecturer but my friend too, visiting him in the studio to work with him helped my art. What I am trying to say is subciously; I can still find myself doing some things I was taught by my teachers. So I think it is not a deliberate act, why because every institution has their identity. Tell us, what are you working on now? Any new experiment? Yes, I am working on some of my new research now, some things which are still not off from me. It’s quite new for me now because I have not really worked in that form. Working so strong because I have some things I am still putting up soon for everyone to see. So my experiment and research are still very much on. I believe it’s something my fans will like to feed their eyes with, within a short time from now so stay tuned. As an artist what lesson have you learnt about self isolation, pandemic, face mask? Well as an artist and the lessons I learnt from self isolation, pandemic and face masking is decision making and determination. Apart from making plans and provisions etc, decision making and determination are the things I learnt from all of these predicaments last year. And the next thing that has touched me from all of these predicaments to my work is, it opened my heart to so many stories to tell with my work. I really do not want to paint the man with face mask but the story was the part I learnt from this whole pandemic thing of which I use my grand as a story board to express my lessons, feelings and ideals which I picked from last year predicament. Who are the masters of visual art you always look up to and why? The masters of visual art I can talk about and look up to, why? because I like their strength and boldness. I love drawing, I can say I am a draft man, so when you talk about drawing looking at Mr. Ibe Ananaba,  I love him and what he does with his skills as a draft man. I like his approach to drawing. He is a fantastic artist, a friend and a boss.  Mr.Edosa Ogiugo is one of the artist I can look up to. I like his strokes and strength , the way he represents his works is fantastic. He is a gentle man, he is my boss and my friend. Mr. Duke Asidere I Like his energy. I like the experience he put in his works. One thing about him,  he is a outspoken, a motivational speaker, he is not just a boss I take him as a father, because he has done things that even my late father would not have done if he were still alive. One thing I have picked about him over the years is his speeches, his words. When you think you are weak, Walk up to him he has a way to strengthen you, uplift you with his words, fantastic one to go home with and he is a very bold man in his words and his strokes, disciplined and  a straigth forward person. Skillful and organized, I can call on Mr. Biodun Olaku, he is a gentle man too, he is fantastic . As a very young artist then , I would always say I want to paint like Olaku. Smiles, then in school everybody wanted to be a realist but over the years I know that part is not my way , not that I can’t do it but what matters  is your joy in Painting. He is a master in his work and a boss Mr. Bob-nosa is a great artist, he is a friend and a boss. Good artist, I love his mindset, sometimes I ask my self what is Bob thinking, fantastic child art, you need to go back to be a child before you can hit into Bob is kind of work. I love his energy too. The truth is there are lots of masters of visual art I can talk about and look up to. But this few are so dear to me and are the ones I can talk about at the moment.