 MBUOTIDEM Johnson and Ukpeme Uwakwe brought glory to Nigeria at the weekend, when they bested others to emerge winner at the best creative animation pitch at the Nigerian focus project scheduled for the 2021 edition of the renowned Annecy International Film Festival in France later this year. Also selected as top finalists in Nigeria includes Egbelughe Philip, Stanlee Ohikhuare, Oyikan Odunlami, Temidayo Odunlami, Brian Wilson, Eseme Joseph, Oluwayomi Oluwasegun Samson and Omotunde Akiode. Responding, Johnson who leads a 25-man team made of artists, designers, amongst others, said their pitch came tops because its theme commercial-inclined and its message universal. Annecy International Film Festival is the world’s top reference for animation films. It gathers every year in the city of Annecy, based in the French Alps with over 13, 000 industry professionals from all around the world in attendance. In the wake of its 2021 edition and its focus on Africa, Annecy and the MIFA (Annecy International Animation Market) expressed interest in Nigeria by offering young talents the opportunity to develop their projects. This focus on supporting creatives within Nigeria is hinged on the growing impact of the animation sector in the job market and the Nigerian economy. Justifying the support for the project, Géraldine Baché, responsible for MIFA Pitches said, “For several years now, we have been closely following what is happening in animation on the African continent and had noticed the energy that was particularly evident in Nigeria. The workshop co-constructed with local players confirms the presence of talented and promising directors on the territory, but also the need to accompany them in a demanding and competitive sector, so that their projects are strong enough to face the market. We therefore bring them to question themselves so that they can find aesthetic and narrative solutions themselves and come out of this experience stronger.”  Yoann Talhouarne, Regional Audiovisual Attaché at the French Embassy in Nigeria, reechoed similar sentiments.