The Federal Government is seeking international cooperation to facilitate faster recovery of Nigeria’s stolen wealth stashed abroad. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), made the call yesterday , while delivering, virtually, Nigeria’s Country Statement at the ongoing 14th United Nations Crime Congress taking place in  Kyoto, Japan. The minister called for international cooperation in facilitating Mutual Legal Assistance for tracing, freezing, seizing, confiscating and returning to Nigeria, proceeds of corruption stashed abroad. “There is the need for the international community to demonstrate political will in removing all barriers and obstacles to the full implementation of the provisions of United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) particularly Article 51 on Asset Recovery and Return, including cases that make use of settlements or other non-trial resolutions,” he said. The international community’s major objective, he stressed, should  be  narrowing the gap between confiscated assets and actual assets returned to their legitimate owners.”  He said Nigeria was hopeful that the adoption of the Political Declaration on crime prevention and criminal justice will spur greater action and efforts at fighting crime. He maintained that Nigeria remains committed to the 2030 Agenda and will take measures to fulfill her obligations under the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC), and the United Nations Convention Against Transnational Organised Crime (UNTOC), by improving domestic conditions through comprehensive Strategic Action Plan. He said:“Nigeria condemns cybercrimes and terrorism in all manifestations and calls on states to strengthen cooperation at all levels to combat the threat posed by terrorism. ”This can be achieved through enhancement of timely information sharing, logistical support and capacity-building activities to affected states. Combating the linkage between terrorism and corruption, illicit financial flows, cybercrime and trafficking in drugs.”