Tier III Constructed Facility Certified carrier neutral data centre, Rack Centre, has achieved the ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System (QMS) certification ensuring its commitment to the highest levels of governance and quality management in its delivery of quality data centre colocation services. Following an extensive internal and external audit of its systems and processes, the certification was issued by the British Standards Institution (BSI), the global management systems certification body. Managing Director, Rack Centre, Dr Ayotunde Coker, said the certification is a demonstration of the firm’s determination to redefine customers’ experience. He said:  “The ISO 9001:2015 accreditation demonstrates Rack Centre’s commitment to a virtuous cycle of continuous improvement, customer centred focus and excellent service that Rack Centre has demonstrated over the years.” The QMS certification was developed and published by the International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO), a worldwide standard for creating, implementing, and maintaining a company’s quality management system with a customer focused approach for delivering products and services. The ISO 9001 certification is a key addition to the Rack Centre Quality Management Governance Framework, which includes certification to ISO 27001 Information Security Management, ISO 22310 Business Continuity Management and Uptime Institute Tier III Constructed Facility Certifications. Founded in 2012, Rack Centre is the only carrier neutral Tier III Constructed Facility Certified data centre in Africa and focuses solely on providing best in class data centre co-location services and unrestricted interconnect between carriers and customers.  This gives customers a technically superior, physically more secure and lower cost environment for their information systems. Rack Centre’s carrier neutrality allows customers to manage traffic to get better value, lower latency and higher resilience, and creates an open market for partnerships between customers, networks, cloud and content providers, the Internet Exchange Point of Nigeria and managed service providers. Rack Centre clients include 40 telecommunication carriers, Internet Service Providers (ISPs), global Tier 1 networks and pan Africa international carriers, including direct connection to all five undersea cables serving the South Atlantic Coast of Africa and every country on the Atlantic coast of Africa.