 The Federal Government has started training civil servants on financial literacy. The training has become necessary as financial literacy has been identified as a major prerequisite for economic development in developing countries. To guarantee economic success, the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning has commenced a Service-Wide Sensitisation workshop for civil servants on financial literacy anchored by the Department of Economic Research Policy Management. At the programme on Monday in Abuja, the Director, Economic Research Policy Management (ERM), Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Ogbonna Grace noted that in most economies, particularly developing countries, “success or failure stems from the understanding of the concept of financial literacy”. According to Mrs Ogbonna Grace “financial literacy has continued to acquire operational significance within the global economic community”. The Director ERM further stated: “The success or failure of most economies particularly the developing nations has been traceable to the recognition or otherwise pivotal role of the knowledge or understanding of the concept of financial literacy.” The objective of the financial literacy workshop she said “would have been achieved especially in the area of building the capacity of the government officers working in the financial sector”. According to Ogbonna Grace, “mastering the management of personnel financing, enhancing trust in the financial system through consumer protection, acquiring skills for economic diversification, growing capacity to create multiple streams of income and knowledge of the national financial inclusions strategy” will be taught participants at the workshop. In her goodwill message, Temitope Akin-Fadeyi, representative of Financial Inclusion Secretariat of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), said the apex bank “is aware the recent pandemic has affected financial life of Nigerian citizens”. She highlighted three elements required for financial literacy to include: “financial knowledge, financial behavior and financial attitude.” According to Mrs. Akin-Fadeyi, the workshop is important in order to cross pollinate ideas that will enhance financial literacy among stakeholders. Mrs Akin-Fadeyi said the workshop has become necessary “to actually build capacity as an important aspect of managing personal finance and at the same time to also understand how to seek redress in resolving financial dispute.” She recalled that the National Financial Strategy in Nigeria was launched in 2012 following the commitment to increase access to finance to majority of the Nigerian population. The CBN representative pointed out the need for improvement in financial literacy following the last measurement of Financial Inclusion Rate which now stands at 63.2 per cent. She said “Financial Inclusion Rate as at the last measurement stood at 63.2 percent compared to 80 percent that has been targeted indicating that there is significant room for improvement in our country. Over the years she stated, “policies, schemes and interventions have been deployed to extend access to finance in various segments of our population. For example, the key policy segment of the agenda for this workshop is the national financial policy framework which was developed to provide a guide for the dissemination of financial education in the country.”