Here’s a list of five musicians who started impressively well but have since gone cold. · Kelechi Michael, popularly known as Kelly Handsome, started started musical career with Kennis Music Record label where he released his first song “Maga don pay.” Some other notable songs of the Imo-born are “Like play like play”, “True love”, “Give them”, “Yawa” and more recently a collaboration with 2Baba, “Open my way” etc. The CEO, Maga Music Group resides in the United States of America. · Olumide Adegbulu, popularly known as Olu Maintain, is a recording artist, songwriter and performer. The Lagos- born musician rose to prominence in 2007 with the release of his hit song “Yahooze” which earned him the alias Mr Yahooze However, his hit song gathered quite a lot of criticisms as it was alleged the song literarily was hailing internet fraud which we now call “Yahoo Yahoo” and extravagant spending. CEO, Kentro World Music label and “Yahooze” crooner other popular songs are “Nawti”, “Cinderella” and “Catch cold” etc. · Oluwadamilare Okujala, popularly known as Durella, is a recording artist, performer, songwriter and businessman. The Kaduna born R&B artist, who grew up in Lagos has a coupled of notable songs to his credit. Songs like “Enu Ose”, “Shayo”, “Wizkolo Wiska”, “Club Rock” and “GaGa” which featured Grammy Award winning Wizkid. In 2008, Durella was awarded “MTV Base Advance Warning Artist” of the year. · Sholanke Abiodun Joseph, popularly known as Klever Jay, is a Afro-pop singer and writer. The Ogun born talented artist rose to limelight with the smash hit single, “KoniKoni love,” one of the best love song that struck the music industry. Other songs include Igboro Ti Daru, others include “Kini level,” ” Legal tender” and “Sho wa sexy” etc. · Obinna Kelvin Anyanwu, popularly known as Waconzy, is a singer, songwriter, record producer and philanthropist. The founder of Dv8 Media and the Waconzy foundation rose to prominence in 2010 with his song “I Celebrate” which appeared on the “I Celebrate album”. The album’s top singles include “Too much money”, “Wedding day” and “Chuku Chuku”. Some notable collaborations of the Port Harcourt- born Waconzy include “Club on fire remix” featuring Truth Hurts, “Jagolova” featuring Banky W.