The global economic and financial system is being hampered  by the Covid-19 pandemic while recovery has remained an uphill task for the affected institutions and economies, the West African Union of Tax Institutes (WAUTI) President, Gladys Simplice has said. Speaking during the opening of the seventh WAUTI conference in Lagos, she said recovery is a herculean task even for the developed nations with uncertainty still widespread. Simplice, who spoke on the theme: Designing and Implementing Tax Measures for the COVID-19 Era and Beyond said across countries of the world, health care systems have collapsed while economies are on the precipice. She added that emerging market and developing economies will be buffeted by economic headwinds from multiple quarters: pressure on weak health care systems, loss of trade and tourism, dwindling remittances, subdued capital flows, and tight financial conditions amid mounting debt. “It is against this background, that we seek to use the platform of this conference to bring together policy experts, tax administrators, practitioners, to deepen an understanding of the consequences on taxpayers, tax administrations and contribute to the economic recovery of the countries in West Africa by recommending appropriate fiscal measures,” she told participants. Simplice said most countries have enunciated some measures to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on their economies. These measures range from rebates in tax payments, payroll support to small businesses, social safety nets to cater for low-income earners and the unemployed to mention but a few. “These notwithstanding, it is important that in fashioning appropriate fiscal measures for this era, we should also be futuristic and avoid policies and actions that would be counterproductive on the long run,” she said. The conference provided an opportunity for stakeholders to review policy initiatives in the past, the challenges encountered in the West African Countries, analyse the impact of the COVID-19 and explore the ways out for the growth of our countries and development of the economy. She said issues around the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement featured prominently and were discussed by stakeholders, including discussions around how well it has taken off and matters arising. She said the institute has consistently provided an avenue for discourse on fiscal and tax policy issues prevalent in member states of the Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS). She said the conference had been sustained in tandem with one of the objectives of the Union, which is, promoting discourse that would engender a better tax system that effectively supports revenue mobilisation efforts in the region. “We believe that in order to create the right fiscal dynamics and resilience for our countries, we must leverage on shared experiences, initiatives and policies bearing in mind the peculiar socio-economic circumstances in our countries,” she said. “Subject matter experts assessed the commencement of the AfCFTA since January1,  2021, and highlight the salient issues yet to be addressed and the possible measures to facilitate Africa’s regional integration, trade facilitation, investment promotion, movement of people, and elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers. President of the Confederation Fiscale Europeenee, (CFE) Tax Advisers Europe, Prof. Piergiogio Valente was in attendance on the virtual platform as a panelist and  is also the Chairman of the Global Tax Advisers Platform (GTAP) which WAUTI is one of the founding members. The Executive Governor of Kebbi State, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, presented the keynote address and declared the conference open. “The GTAP is a platform involving the Confederation Fiscale Europeenne (CFE Tax Advisers Europe, Asia Oceania Tax Consultants Association (AOTCA), WAUTI and some observers who have committed to cooperate to deepen the existing levels of co-operation for the better structuring and operation of the world’s tax systems, securing and maintaining the rights of taxpayers and ensuring the continuing role and rights of tax advisers throughout the world,” she said.