Two robbery suspects have been shot by police during a gunfire exchange in Anambra State. The gun battle took place in the Nkpor/Obosi area of the state. The suspects, Chiboy Ezike, 25, of Abagana in Njikoka LGA and Chiemere Ajuluchukwu, 23, of Awada area of the state were rounded up by policemen attached to the Command Special Anti-cult unit in conjunction with Scorpion vigilante group, Obosi. Police spokesman Haruna Mohammed who confirmed the incident, said the suspects confessed to be members of a secret cult group called “Supreme Vikings Confraternity”. He said suspects were taken to hospital for treatment after which they would be charged. He said, “On the 27/2/2021 at about 5:30pm, following a distress call that armed robbers were operating along Nkpor/Obosi axis, police operatives attached to the Command Special Anti-cult unit in conjunction with Scorpion vigilante group, Obosi quickly responded and moved to the scene. “On sighting the police, the hoodlums engaged them into a fierce gun battle. As a result, the two suspects sustained gunshot injuries in their hand and leg leading to their arrest. “Exhibits recovered in their possessions include two locally-made pistols and 10 live cartridges.” The state command also said a police firearm stolen from their formation during the EndSars protests have been recovered. Mohammed said the firearm was recovered from a 20-year-old suspect, Debelechukwu Mbanugo following his arrest near Onitsha. In Lagos , police arrested two fleeing armed robbery suspects alleged to have been accomplices in the sexual harassment of a commercial sex worker by one Peter Arinola alias Blood. The suspects, Sheriff Shonibare alias Stainless and Quadri Ayonuga alias Sugar, were arrested in Idimu during a stop and search operation on February 23 with arms, ammunition recovered from them. A statement by police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, last night, said their arrest followed intelligence gathered in the course of investigating Arinola’s case who was arrested with an English pistol he used to pressure his victim for sex at Surulere. Adejobi also said operatives of the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) apprehended three notorious leaders of gangs in Mushin. “The RRS operatives deployed to Mushin and other parts of the mainland at the weekend, arrested the kingpins and some suspected armed robbers. They also impounded 29 motorcycles as part of the onslaught against criminals and lawlessness in the state. “The operation, which was led by Commander RRS, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, was a follow up to earlier discreet investigations by the squad’s undercover team to Eko Boys High School, Showunmi Street and Itire Road, all in Mushin. “The seizure of 29 motorcycles during the operations was to reduce reported incidences of traffic robbery and ensure enforcement of the restriction order of the state government on the corridor for motorcyclists. “The motorcycles were impounded  on BRT lanes along Ikeja Along, Ile Zik and Allen Junction, which are restricted routes for motorcycles,” he said. Quoting the Police Commissioner, Hakeem Odumosu, Adejobi said the command would not relent on the enforcement of restriction on motorcycles from certain highways and routes in order to restore sanity and reduce cases of robbery. He disclosed that fourteen other armed robbery suspects and cultists were also arrested in separate operations, with firearms and ammunitions recovered from them. He said the suspects would be charged after investigations were concluded. He said, “On 19/2/2021 following an intelligence report, police operatives attached to Oko Division arrested one Blessing Ukogu (25) of Akabor Village, Osunmeyi in Nnewi South LGA of Anambra State but residing at Abo-Dutse, Abuja. “Suspect allegedly stole a Toyota Corolla model 2005 from Abuja. Suspect and exhibit handed over to FCT Command for further investigation. “On 21/2/2021 at about 11:30am, following also intelligence report, police operatives attached to 3-3 Division, in collaboration with the local vigilante group, arrested one Debelechukwu Mbanugo (20) of Nkwelle Ezunaka. “Exhibit recovered in his possession include one pump action rifle which he admitted to have stolen from 3-3 Police Station during the #Endsars protests. “On 21/2/2021, at about 8:am, following an intelligence report, police operatives attached to Okija Division, arrested one Chinaza Okoma (25) and Onyebuchi Maduka (24) both of 3-3 area, Onitsha. “Suspects were arrested inside a residential apartment at Oghalebu, Okija with two pump action rifles, and eleven cartridges which they could not give satisfactory account of. “On 22/2/2021, at about 9am, following an intelligence report, Puff Adder operatives, in conjunction with a police patrol team attached to Ogbaru Division, arrested one Ebuka Obaze (22) of Ochuche Village, Umuodo in Ogbaru LGA of Anambra State. Exhibit recovered in his possession include a cut to size locally made double barrel gun. “On the 23/2/2021, Puff Adder operatives, in conjunction with a patrol team attached to Otoucha Division, responded to a distress call around Igbariam and arrested one Paul Odowe (29) from Ebonyi State. “Suspect allegedly robbed a lady of her handset and other valuables at gunpoint. He voluntarily confessed and exhibits recovered in his possession include 3 phones, one pump action rifle, one cartridge and one unregistered motorcycle used in perpetrating the act. “On 26/2/2021, at 12:30am, following an intelligence report, a Police patrol team attached to Inland Town Division, arrested one Bright Blessed Nnakwe (27) of Umueze Village, Anam in Anambra West LGA. Exhibit recovered in his possession include one English made pistol and a magazine.” On the cultists, Mohammed said, Command Special Anti-Cult Unit, arrested suspects who confessed to be members of a secret cult group called, “PAYTON CONFRATERNITY”, while another group arrested at Ogidi claimed to be members of Vikings Confraternity. He listed the names of the suspected members of the Payton confraternity to include; Duru David (22) Ugochukwu Meniru (20) Nwaoba Chukwudi (20) Kalu Chukwudi (18) and Nyayelu Oputa (18). Those of Vikings confraternity include; Okpoto Chukwudi (20) Odo Arinze (22) Eze Izuchukwu (23), all natives of Izamgbo Town in Ohaumwu LGA of Ebonyi State.