After more than three decades of operating as a mutual, member-owned, not-for-profit entity, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) last week received final approvals to demutualise, and become a profit-making, public limited liability company with clearly defined shareholdings and shareholders. Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the apex corporate registry and regulator, Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) gave the final approvals for the conversion, otherwise known as demutualisation. The approvals brought to a momentous end a long journey of nearly two decades, which started in 2002 when the council of the NSE gave ‘approval-in-principle’ for demutualisation. In March 2017, members passed crucial resolutions that authorised the council and management to proceed with the process of demutualisation of the Exchange. The process, through twists and turns, slowly gathered momentum and picked up dramatically with the signing of the Demutualisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange Bill into law in August 2018. In December 2019, SEC in a “No Objection letter” gave consent to the NSE to hold the court-ordered meeting (COM) and extra-ordinary general meeting (EGM) in furtherance of the demutualisation. Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the NSE trudged on, sustaining market activities and the demutualisation process. In May 2020, the Federal High Court (FHC) sanctioned the scheme of arrangement for the conversion after shareholders had at the COM and EGM in March 2020 approved the scheme of arrangement and major changes in the organisational structures of the post-demutualisation NSE. In November 2020, at the 59th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the NSE, members voted for the listing of the NGX Group on the NGX Limited upon the completion of the demutualisation. The emergent NGX Group will be listed by way of introduction, paving the way for members of the Exchange to unlock values and for members of the general investing public to buy the shares and become co-owners of the Exchange. Meanwhile, pending the listing on NGX Limited, shareholders of NGX Group can trade their shares through bilateral trades in line with extant rules and regulations at the capital market. Past as the new compass The demutualisation literally brought the Exchange to the full cycle of its history. The NSE was established as the Lagos Stock Exchange (LSE) on September 15, 1960 under the provisions of the Companies Ordinance 1922, with a share capital of £5,000 divided into 500 ordinary shares of £10 each. At incorporation, each of the original subscribers subscribed to five shares in the Exchange. Subscribers at incorporation included C. T. Bowring & Co. (Nigeria) Limited, Senator  Theophilus Adebayo Doherty, John Holt Nigeria Limited, The Investment Company of Nigeria Limited, Sir Odumegwu Ojukwu,  Akintola Williams and Alhaji Shehu Bukar. The share capital of the Exchange was subsequently increased to N20,000 consisting of 1,000 ordinary shares of N20 each, pursuant to an ordinary resolution dated December 2, 1977. The name of the Exchange was then changed from the LSE to the Nigerian Stock Exchange on December 15, 1977. However, following the enactment of the Companies and Allied Matters Act (CAMA) 1990, companies limited by guarantee were prohibited from being registered with a share capital; and all such existing companies were mandated to re-register without a share capital. The NSE was re-registered on December 18, 1990 as a company limited by guarantee and the then existing share capital of N20,000 was cancelled; and the equity rights of the initial subscribers extinguished. Thus, from then till now, the NSE operated as a mutual company limited by guarantee with no issued or paid-up share capital; as such no individual or corporate entity had equity-based ownership rights. A holdco for the markets With last week’s approvals and the completion of the pre-demutualisation processes, the NSE will immediately commence the implementation of the scheme of arrangement for the demutualisation, including immediate recognition of prior decisions and appointments made in furtherance of the demutualisation. Under the scheme, a new non-operating holding company, the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc (NGX Group) has been created. It is the shares of the NGX Group that will be allotted to members of the NSE and which will be listed for public trading, similar to other publicly quoted companies. The NGX Group will have three operating subsidiaries, namely: Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX Limited), the operating exchange, which will take on the listing and trading function of the NSE; NGX Regulation Limited (NGX REGCO), the independent regulation company which will take on the self regulatory functions of the NSE; and NGX Real Estate Limited (NGX RELCO), the real estate company that will take ownership of real estate and other assets, including the iconic Stock Exchange building in Lagos. All the entities have been duly registered at the CAC.  Transition to new marketplace With the emergent companies come new management and directors. Chief Executive Officer of NSE, Mr Oscar Onyema, will lead the NGX Group as Group Chief Executive Officer. Temi Popoola, a Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) and Chief Executive Officer, West Africa, Renaissance Capital, will lead NGX Limited while Executive Director, Regulations, NSE, Tinuade Awe, has been appointed as Chief Executive Officer of NGX REGCO. At the EGM in March 2020, At the March 2020 EGM, President of NSE, Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo, was appointed as the first chairman of the board of directors of the NGX Group. Other non-executive members of the new board included Dr. Umaru Kwairanga, Mrs. Fatimah Bello-Ismail, Mr. Oluwole Adeosun, Mr. Chidi Agbapu, Mr. Patrick Ajayi, Dr. Okechukwu Itanyi, Mrs. Nimi Akinkugbe, Prof. Enase Okonedo, Mr. Ikpobe Oghooritsewarami and Mrs. Ojinika Olaghere. The conclusion of the pre-demutualisation  marked the beginning of the immediate transition plan, which will give birth to the new shapes, colours and faces of the Exchange. The transition plan, which will take NGX Group and its subsidiaries to full operational launch, includes legal and practical changes to enable the functioning of the new corporate structure, inauguration of board of directors for each of the new entities, staff reallocation to their functions within the operating subsidiaries, operationalisation of business plans and budgets, technology systems transfer, and the requisite arm’s length agreements between the entities. According to the scheme, NGX Group will have an authorised share capital of 2.5 billion ordinary shares. About two billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each will be issued in the immediate period of the conversion. The post-demutualisation shareholders’ base will consist of 255 institutional shareholders and 177 individual shareholders. This shareholding was arrived at by converting the existing dealing members of the Exchange to institutional shareholders and ordinary members to individual shareholders. Shareholdings will be on equal basis in the immediate conversion period with each institutional shareholder holding 6.01 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each while each individual shareholder will hold 2.44 million ordinary shares of 50 kobo each. Thus, each institutional shareholder will hold 0.3 per cent equity stake while each individual shareholder will hold 0.1 per cent equity stake, in line with the current membership-share conversion ratio of 78 per cent for dealing members and 22 per cent for ordinary members. Also, a total of 40.08 million ordinary shares, representing two per cent of the proposed issued shares of NGX will be set aside for allotment to parties that may lay claims to entitlement to shares in the demutualised Exchange. This was pursuant to the provisions of the Demutualisation Act 2018. However, each claimant will be expected to provide irrefutable evidence of membership or circumstance that confers such claim of ownership. In the event the claims review shares are insufficient to satisfy successful claims, additional shares will be allotted from the NGX Group’s share capital. Who owns the market? As agreed under the scheme, the Exchange will allocate shares to all members-institutional and individual, living and dead, with shares due to deceased ordinary members and expelled or liquidated dealing members being allocated to their legal representatives. The Federal Government, through the Bank of Industry (BOI), many state governments and several prominent Nigerian businessmen and policy experts are among 432 individuals and institutions that will hold shares of NGX Group in the immediate period. Shareholders include Mr Akintola Williams, late Senator Theophilus Adebayo Doherty, the late Sir Odumegwu Ojukwu, the late Alhaji Shehu Bukar, the late former President Umaru Yar’Adua, the late Bashorun MKO Abiola, the late Dr Abdul Lateef Adegbite and the late Mr Gamaliel Onosode. Other individual shareholders are Chief Ernest Shonekan, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Alhaji Abdul Rasaq, Alhaji Aminu Dantata, Mr Tony Elumelu, Mr. Oba Otudeko, Mr. Pascal Dozie, Chief Bayo Kuku, Chief Christopher Ogunbanjo, Dr Christopher Abebe, Mr  Goodie Ibru, Alhaji Isyaku Umar,   Otunba Adekunle Ojora, Mr  Phillip Asiodu, Rear Admiral Allison Madueke, Rabiu Gwadabe, Mr Raymond Obieri, Senator Udo Udoma and Senator David Dafinone. Institutional shareholders will include GTI Securities Limited, CSL Stockbrokers Limited, Capital Assets Limited, Cowry Asset Management Limited, Meristem Securities Limited and APT Securities and Funds Limited. Exciting future President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr. Olatunde Amolegbe, said the demutualisation would usher in a new vista in the growth trajectory of the Exchange. According to him, the conversion had enjoyed the support of market stakeholders because of the immense benefits that it will bring to investors and the economy at large. “We expect increased innovation and growth among market participants,” Amolegbe said.  Members of CIS, which regulates the securities trading profession, the main and largest trade group in the market, will own more than three-quarters of the emergent NGX Group. Chairman, Association of Securities Dealing Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Chief Onyewenchukwu Ezeagu, said demutualisation will enhance the effective transformation of not only the NSE but also the entire securities ecosystem. Ezeagu, who represents institutional corporate members of the Exchange, hailed the new dawn and commended stakeholders who had worked tirelessly to achieve the demutualisation. Former president of CIS and former council member of the NSE, Mr Ariyo Olushekun, said demutualisation would enhance the global competitiveness of the Exchange and in turn provide opportunities for greater values to shareholders and other stakeholders. He expressed confidence that the Exchange witness considerable improvement in the years ahead despite known transition challenges. Chief Executive Officer, World Federation of Exchanges (WFE), Nandini Sukumar said demutualisation would make the Exchange more efficient and dynamic, opening up many global opportunities for the advancement of the market. According to her, every member of a stock exchange embraces demutualisation because of its benefits which include realisation of the value of historical asset, improvement in market quality, liquidity, trading costs and price volatility. Ogunbanjo hailed the conversion as a milestone, noting that demutualisation further advances the cause of making the Exchange a multifaceted exchange that extends across various markets and geographical regions. Onyema said the NGX Group will not only become the premier exchange hub for Nigerian businesses but for the African economy. According to him, demutualisation of the NSE is pivotal in that it creates new strategic opportunities that will enable the Group realise its vision of becoming Africa’s leading capital market infrastructure provider. He pointed out that the creation of a holding company and a new capital structure will also enable NGX Group to form new dynamic relationships, drive strategic partnerships and gain capital raising flexibility. While Olushekun identified cultural adaptation as possible initial challenge, Ezeagu said stockbrokers would need to restructure their business models in the light of the demutualisation. Addressing securities dealers at a webinar themed “The future of Securities Dealing Business in Nigeria Post- Demutualisation of NSE “, Ezeagu said the changes that the conversion will bring in the business model of the Exchange may impact stockbroking firms’ operating models. “It is important for all securities dealers to understand the changes that may come along with the new market structure.  We need to prepare well in order not to be caught unaware,” Ezeagu said. Immediate past president of the NSE,  Mr Aigboje Aig- Imoukhuede  said demutualisation of the Exchange would bring new owners, customers and skills  for stockbroking firms and they must be prepared to face the new challenges and opportunities. Chief Consultant, Biodun Adedipe and Associates, Dr Biodun Adedipe said innovative capital market operators should be incentivised to create market products while business case be made for the government to utilize the market to raise funds for infrastructure. Many market pundits expressed concerns that demutualisation could lead to increase in minimum capital base for dealing member firms, a development that may trigger a wave of mergers and acquisitions among stockbroking firms. As the investing public awaits the listing of the shares of the Exchange, demutualisation no doubt is a redefining moment for the Nigerian financial markets.