Brickbats over Sen Binos Yaroe’s comment on who the villains of kidnapping are have taken a wider turn as a coalition of ethnic nationalities around Adamawa State engages a Fulani group which had earlier condemned Yeroe over his comment. Adamawa North Senator Yaroe had last month said that kidnappers are mostly Fulani herders, a remark which has attracted much criticism against him, with a Fulani group, Tabital Pulaaku International (TPI) last week issuing a lengthy press statement over the matter. In its own counter statement released to the media Tuesday, a coalition of 13 ethnic groups, said TPI should have talked to its own people to stop embarrassing them by their acts instead of isolating Sen Yeroe when he merely repeated a truth that had been expressed by many other people. The Coalition of Indigenous Ethnic Nationalities of Adamawa State said in the statement signed by chairmen of the ‘ethnic nationalities’, said Sen Yeroe, in contributing to a debate on the security situation in the country, had prefaced his remark by referring to a statement credited to the Sultan of Sokoto that seven out of every 10 kidnappers are Fulani, a background which the coalition said the TPI ‘mischievously ignored.’ “As things stand now, it is common knowledge that the Fulani are the kidnappers. Some of those apprehended for the crimes have said that they are the ones doing these things. And, yes, they said that their bigger kindred have been facilitating these acts. It is all over the media. Therefore, the Distinguished Senator did not start this,” the coalition asserted. The coalition, which comprises development associations respectively of Chamba, Bwaatiye Lunguda, Mbula, Kilba, Fali, Margi, Verre, among other ethnic nationalities, said Nigerians are being killed, kidnapped, impoverished, and that this increase in the nation’s insecurity occasioned a national discourse that included the need to define the threat and determine who is killing Nigerians. “For the Distinguished Senator to draw inferences from public discussions, including eminent persons in the society, and to focus on the threat to Nigeria, is his duty. Now the attempt to isolate and attack the person of the Senator is not only a distraction but an attack on the Senate and by extension the nation,'” the coalition stated. It said the members of Tabital Pulaaku International should be ashamed of themselves for defending their tribal people “who have turned banditry, kidnapping and terrorism into a major industry.” The coalition faulted TPI’s claim that Sen Yeroe was biting the finger that fed him after growing up in a Fulani man’s house and even adopting his name only to turn back and start insulting Fulani people, a charge to which the coalition responded, “Distinguished Senator Binos Dauda Yaroe did not spend his teenage years in the home of Alhaji Usman Hamman Yero Nyako. He, therefore, did not and never would have adopted the family name Hamman Yero.” According to the coalition, the surname Yaroe which the senator uses is his father’s name, as his father was baptised and given the name Dauda Yaroe.