 FOUNDER of Igbo Youth Movement (IYM) and Secretary of Eastern Consultative Assembly (ECA), Evang. Elliot Ugochukwu-Uko, has accused some leaders of shying away from the truth on the issue of resolving the national question. He told The Nation that restructuring is inevitable if we ever want to save Nigeria, wondering why some stakeholders in Nigeria chose to deny this truth. According to him, unlike what many seem to believe, “restructuring will not hurt the North. Instead, it will empower all the regions, including the North.” He said “no rational person believes Nigeria will survive without a new people’s constitution affirmed at a referendum. Delay to set the ball rolling is the big issue today. I wonder why some people are still humouring themselves, talking about constitutional amendment by the National Assembly; why are leaders and elders across board silent and reluctant to speak up”, he asked? On how Nigeria got to this stage, Uko said “Yes, there’s been clamour to restructure Nigeria for years, hence numerous national conferences. But the harsh economic situation, the hopelessness in the land, the horrific insecurity and the brazen impunity fearlessly exhibited by armed herdsmen, brought nightmares and the urgency to address this multi-faceted monster before it consumes us all. Armed bandits in love with abducting school children, confirmed to all that our government is overwhelmed. “It is important we do not forget that all hell was let loose when a certain pastoral and nomadic tribe, suddenly announced that they owned every inch of Nigerian soil. Things were bad enough before this, but this singular statement sent grave fear down the spine of Nigerians, who waited in vain for the government to reprimand those who made this frightening claim. Uko also said “structural defects of the 1999 Unitary Constitution and the erosion of trust in the land, as a result of nauseating nepotism in the leadership of security agencies, only fuel the distrust and frustration that governs the land today, leading to the expansion of secessionist clamour all over the country and recently, even from the usually pliant Southwest.” On the way forward, Uko said “the inevitable constitutional restructuring of Nigeria will give every region the impetus to boost agriculture, mine solid minerals and plan for infrastructural development and security arrangements. No region will remain stagnant and unproductive, as is the case today. Every region will plan with their resources.”