Oil industry experts from across the world, including Nigeria have launched the African Local Content Fund Initiative (ALCFI) in Luanda, the capital of Angola. The occasion was the 2021 Forum of African Finance, Economy and Compliance (FAFEC), chaired by a Nigerian, Wofai Samuel, who is the Director of Communication & External Affairs at the United Kingdom-Liberia Chamber of Commerce (UKLCC). FAFEC 2021 was the third in the series of what has become the premiere platform for financial solutions to elevate the development of Angola’s mineral resources and hydrocarbons. The finance and petroleum event with the theme, ‘Knowing the problems, presenting the solutions’’, featured experts, business leaders and other stakeholders from 10 countries. It held physically in Angola and virtually, on Monday, March 15 to Friday, March 19, 2021, at the Talatona Convention Centre, Luanda. Angola’s Minister of Justice, Friday Francisco Manuel Monteiro de Queiroz, expressed hope that ALCFI would provide solutions for sustainable legacy on management of revenues from oil and gas production in Africa, knowing that Angola is Africa’s second largest oil producer after Nigeria. Participants were from countries including the UK, Angola, the United Arab Emirates, Mexico, South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and Libya. The event provided the global community an opportunity to analyse the best formula to trust and invest in businesses, human capital and Africa’s oil/energy resources. Apart from Wofai, Monteiro de Queiroz, and Nahar, the roll call of speakers also included:
Executive Chairman – The Corporate Group United Arab Emirates – Adel Al Awadhi; President, LCF & Associates – Angola, Lourdes Caposso Fernandes; Co-Founder – M Aerospace Mexico – Juan Carlos Munguia; Employment Creation and Social Lead – MPAMOT South Africa – Thea Weeks; Auditing Strategic Controller – ATECH Dubai – Roberto Francisco and CEO – New DiScoveryBS South Africa – Ndzavi Derrick Others were the Managing Director – Western Bell Oil & Gas Nigeria – Aham Ndubuisi; CEO – Solar Taxi Ghana – Jorge Appiah; Director – Institution of African Natural Resources South Africa – Thoba Karl-Halla; Secretary General, Angola India Chamber of Commerce – Caetano Capitao and Managing Director of Angola Integrated Services – Emanuel Bo Dontoni. Also present were, President – Association of Contracting Companies of the Oil Industry of Angola – Braulio Brito; Managing Director – Cimel Oilfield Services – Marcia Pita and Founder – Inga Rose Angola – Berta Issa and Reverend Adilson De Almeida.