•Unveils new campaign on how to build lasting wealth  Meristem, a leading financial services group, has launched a new corporate campaign to encourage investors and entrepreneurs to partner experienced and trusted financial partners as part of efforts to deepen corporate success and sustainability. Meristem noted that as the global environment continues to struggle from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become imperative for investors to allocate scarce resources smartly and safeguard their investments with organisations who possess the knowledge and investment domain expertise to build lasting wealth. The new campaign message entitled: ‘Storm’, comes on the heels of the success of the previous campaign, ‘The Journey’, which showcased art doyen, Mrs Nike Okundaye-Davies still anchored on the campaign promise “Let’s take you farther” which made its debut last year. Group Managing Director, Meristem, Oluwole Abegunde said with ‘Storm’, Meristem seeks to intensify the essence of building lasting wealth that can withstand stormy days noting that while imploring existing and prospective clients to adopt a wide range of its diversified product and service offerings, Meristem is also making bold its ability to partner with people and businesses at any stage of their financial journey. “The economic and global business environment has been very tough because of the COVID-19 pandemic, many businesses have had a fair share of the accompanying challenges of the pandemic. Investors are now torn on how to allocate scarce resources smartly while pursuing the prospect of healthy financial returns. This can only be possible with the help of tested and trusted partners who have been able to withstand the downsides of the external environment,” Abegunde said. According to him, from inception, Meristem has operated a client-oriented business which helped it to create tailor-made financial solutions for its clients, some of which include retirement planning, mutual funds, foreign denominated products like meristem dollar investment portfolio, real estate advantage portfolio and more recently, probate management service. “We will continue to be proactive with product innovation as the investment landscape evolves. This is a signal of our readiness for partnership, to take our clients to their desired financial destination,” Abegunde said. He pointed out that to showcase its ideals of partnerships, the group partnered with art curator and connoisseur Nike Okundaye-Davies, to drive home the message of resilience and partnership. The choice of Nike Okundaye-Davies seeks to solidify the benefits of resilience and partnership while tapping into the potential of a shared story of growth as depicted in their different life endeavors. At its core, the campaign elaborates that life’s journey require partners who are resilient, capable and service-oriented to help you get to the desired financial destination. The ‘Storm’ message highlights a connection between Meristem and Nike Okundaye-Davies and the boldness that have elevated both institutions, with partners who have stayed true to their vision. Meristem for the past 16 years has been consistent in value creation and innovation within the capital market space. In 2018, the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) awarded Meristem as the best digital broker of the year. In 2018 also, Meristem became the first Nigerian asset management firm to attain compliance with the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) by the CFA Institute.