Women take the centre stage on Monday all over the world. It was on the occasion of this year’s International Women’s Day. The consensus was: without women, the society is doomed. President Muhammadu Buhari said any government that neglects women risks failure. The President, in his International Women’s Day celebration message, described women as the bedrock of society. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, Buhari restated his administration’s commitment to addressing the multifarious challenges confronting women at various levels of the society. “With seven female ministers, and two of them heading strategic Ministries of Finance, Budget and National Planning; and Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, in addition to scores more in charge of key parastatals and agencies, as well as serving as presidential aides, President Buhari applauds their contributions to the successes recorded by the administration,” the statement said. Buhari added:  “I am proud of our women who have shown by dint of hard work and capacity that they can perform creditably if given the opportunity at home and on the global stage.” First Lady Aisha Buhari marked the day lamenting the continuous mass abductions of women and girls. Aisha, in a statement on her Twitter handle @aishambuhari, said: “As a mother, I share the sorrow and agony of the victims and families. “I am also not unaware of the impact that these abductions could have in reverting many successes we have hitherto achieved, especially in terms of girl-child education and early marriages.” She urged stakeholders to end mass abductions. While appreciating the efforts of women and girls in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, she noted that the pandemic has had a huge impact on women, disrupted education, careers and increase domestic violence. ActionAid Nigeria, a social-justice Non-Government Organisation, has called on government at all levels to scale up investments in public services, including healthcare services. Mrs Ene Obi, Country Director, ActionAid Nigeria made this known in a statement in Abuja on Monday to commemorate the 2021 International Women’s Day Celebration. Obi said the scaled up investments would help to reduce and redistribute women’s unpaid care and domestic work. She said the commemoration of the 2021 International Women’s Day was a strong reminder of the unanticipated struggles of Nigerian women. “As the country re-strategises to rise above this current situation, we call for the adoption of a care-centred approach which recognises that care and well-being are critical to sustaining societies, economies, and the environment. “A care-centred approach also entails investing in gender-based violence prevention and response in all public and private spaces. “Care needs to be valued, redistributed and should be integral to humanitarian preparedness and response policies, ” Obi said. The African First Ladies Peace Mission (AFLPM) yesterday underscored the need to address brutality and conflict-related violence against the continent’s women and girls. Dr Mairo Al-Makura, Special Assistant to the President of Nigeria on African First Ladies Peace Mission, emphasised the need to do so at a news conference in Abuja to mark International Women’s Day. Al-Makura said that though women had always been instrumental to the peaceful resolution of conflicts in the continent, they had always been victim of violence in the society. “The African First Ladies Peace Mission celebrates African women and will continuously play a crucial role in furthering peace on the continent. “We must not lose sight that gender equality and women’s rights are fundamental to the continent’s progress on peace, security, and rights. “We recommit ourselves to advocate for the right to peace and protection for all women and girls across Africa,” she said. Mrs Toki Mabogunje, President, Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), says there is the need to remain committed to closing the gender divide in the public and private sectors of our economy. Mabogunje said ending all forms of discrimination and assault against women and girls was not only a basic human right, but crucial for sustainable development. According to her, the day serves to reflect on the multidimensional issues relating to gender equity, stereotypes, cultural barriers and the imperative of gender mainstreaming in all facets of life. “As we celebrate the 2021 International Women’s Day, we should remain committed to closing the gender divide in the public and private sectors of our economy. “Evidence has showed that empowering women and girls has considerable impact on economic growth and development. “The United Nations has made gender equality central to its work and we’ve seen remarkable progress in the past 20 years. “There are more girls in school now compared to 15 years ago, and most regions have reached gender parity in primary education. “However, we should underscore the risk that current security challenges pose to girl child education in some parts of our country. “The government needs to urgently put an end to the recurrent assault on girl child education by terrorists and bandits in some parts of the country,” she said. African Union Development Agency-New Partnership for Africa’s Development (AUDA-NEPAD), has congratulated Nigerian women for their immense contributions to societal growth. AUDA-NEPAD’s National Coordinator, Ms Gloria Akobundu, congratulated the womenfolk in a statement by her media Assistant, Mr Abolade Ogundimu, on Monday in Abuja, as the world celebrates Women’s Day. The Women’s Day is celebrated on every March 8, to appreciate the values, virtues, and the efforts of women in the society. AUDA-NEPAD’s boss paid glowing tribute, admiration, respect and gratitude to Nigerian women, their African and global counterparts for the great efforts exhumed beyond their limitations in establishing a more equal future for their societies. Akobundu, however, used the occasion to  reflect on contributions of women in the likes of Hajia Aisha Buhari, Dame Pauline Tallen, Minister of Women Affairs, Hajia Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General, UN, and other women serving in various capacities in the country and beyond. She cautioned the society against underestimating women’s values. According to Akobundu, women have always been part of successes achieved by humanity, having given birth and nurtured both men and women, but nature and society seem to have placed some limitations on the female gender. “The belief that there is limit to how women can advance or achieve greatness in life is a wrong notion that exists only in the minds of individuals or groups that subscribe to it and not a reality. “Interestingly, the world has witnessed more women contributing in different spheres of life, making changes, contribute their quota in peace building to the advancement of humanity and the world, ” she said. The Adamawa House of Assembly has called on the state government to ensure 35 per cent affirmative action for women while making appointment in the state. Aminu Abbas, Speaker of the House made the call yesterday to mark International Women’s Day in Yola. Abbas said the call became necessary because of the contribution of women to the development of the society. According to him, women are the backbone of any development in the society. The Speaker said the House would convene its intention to the Wife of Governor Ahmadu Fintiri and the Commissioner for Women Affairs for appropriate actions. In her contribution, Mrs Kate Mamuno, member representing Demsa Constituency and Chairperson, House Committee on Women Affairs, urged the state government to empower more women in the state. Mamuno called on the House to acknowledge the efforts of women in good governance and nation building. Abdullahi Yafak, member representing Vere Constituency, called on people of Adamawa to elect more women in decision-making positions come 2023 to enable them contribute more to nation building. Yafak said due to the House support for women development, it recently passed VAPP Act for assent and was currently working on a bill for the protection of children. He reiterated that the aim of the bills were to protect women against rape and other violence in the society. House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has said the House will explore legislative means to remove all obstacles militating against the development of women in the country. The Speaker, who spoke while declaring open the commemoration of the 2021 International Women’s Day, organised by the Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians, said the House would collaborate with critical local and international stakeholders to achieve the set goals which was a priority area on the Legislative Agenda of the 9th House. Gbajabiamila also said the House was determined to holistically address the issue of violence against, stressing that the House under his leadership will continue to take actions to address the challenges militating against the advancement of women in all spheres of human endeavour. He said: “I ask all of you here today to support the House in this regard so that together we can make the world a better place for all our mothers, sisters, daughters, friends and colleagues. “It is said that women hold up half the sky. This is intended to reflect the recognition that our world, imperfect as it may be, will be even less, were it not for the women whose presence and contribution has been the basis of much of human achievement. “At the same time, that statement stands as a judgment against a world where too often, it feels as if there is a concerted effort between the forces of culture and government to deny women the full expression of their rights and the achievement of their highest ambitions.” The Chairperson of the Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians, Hon. Zainab Gimba, said the day was dedicated to celebrating the socio-economic, cultural and political achievements of women and a platform to action for accelerating gender parity. “Women makes up half of the Africa populations, denying them opportunities is denying the continent a valuable contributions to its development as increased women participation in all facet of human endeavour can help improve social, economic, legal and cultural conditions for women in particular and the society at large. “To achieve this goal, we must take conscious and delibrate steps to ensure women involvement in every sphere of decision making process to usher in an inclusive development.  Gender inequality remains one of the greatest threats to Africa’s future,” she said. Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has said his administration will continue to give voice to women. Abdulrazaq congratulated women in the state on the 2021 commemoration of the International Women’s Day. The governor, in a statement by his media aide, Rafiu Ajakaye, said: “On this occasion of the 2021 International Women’s Day, we state that there is no turning back in our determination to giving voice to our women and empowering the girl child. Whether in the political decision making process or in the bureaucratic settings, we are setting a new standard of building a sustainable and brighter future by upholding affirmative action,” the Governor said in a statement commemorating the day. “Our agenda to empower Kwara women aligns with the theme of this year’s celebration which is ‘Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in a Covid-19 World’. The administration is committed to socioeconomic and political empowerment/inclusion of women because of their critical roles in building a stronger and healthier world where both genders work in harmony for the larger good of our communities. This commitment is glaring in our appointments, programmes, and policies just under the last two years.” Group calls for action on mental illness among women A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO), Mairo Maryam Aminu Waziri Tambuwal (MMAWT) Legacy Initiative, yesterday called for actions that will mitigate mental illness and other issues affecting women and girls. The NGO urged stakeholders to pay much attention to the surge in cases of mental illness, depression and trauma among women, girls and other victims of the vices. The founder of the Initiative, Hajya Mairo Maryam Tambuwal, said paying attention to mental illness, depression and different forms of trauma is a crucial part of their recovery from the prevailing challenges facing Nigerian women and girl child. Hajia Tambuwal said: “While the rest of the world is slowly recovering from the devastation of the pandemic, we in the North are grappling with a lot of vices, ranging from incessant kidnap of school children, with girls often being the target to communities losing their source of livelihoods because they do not have access to their farms.” The Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Dr. Ramatu Aliyu, has said encouraging more women into leadership positions remains critical in the development of any society. Dr. Aliyu said it would go a long way in addressing the challenges of the future. The minister stated this at the 2021 International Women’s Day (IWD) celebration organised by the Association of Women Town Planners, FCT Chapter with the theme: “Women in Leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-World” Aliyu, who was represented by the Director FCT Department of Urban and Regional Planning, Zalihau Ahmed, also stated that women in leadership positions must continue to push the boundaries of gender equality by utilising their strengths and leadership qualities in skill, knowledge, experience and emotion, adding that women must pursue the things they want from their job and their career, not waiting for them to come to them. The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has honoured the late Tolulope Arotile of the Nigerian Air Force for her selfless service and heroism to the nation. FRSC Lagos Sector Commander, Olusegun Ogungbemide, yesterday said along with the late Arotile, other women in the military and paramilitaries were also being celebrated through an event, tagged:  “Women-In-Uniform”. With the theme, “Women in Leadership: Achieving an Equal Future in COVID-19 World (Choose to Change), Ogungbemide said Arotile’s dedication while in service showed that what a man can do, a woman can do it better. The FRSC official added that until her death as a flying officer, Arotile contributed significantly to combat operations against insecurity in the Northern part of the country. He said: “I commend retired Corps Commander, Kadija Akinbote, who spent all her life in uniform ensuring that the Nigerian roadways are safe for Nigerian motorists as a trained first responder. To appreciate the contribution of women to nation building, let us go down memory lane to recognize the contributions of some of our amazons, both dead and living, who have left their marks. “One of such amazing women was late Mrs Funmilayo Ransome Kuti, Nigerian feminist and political leader; also Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, an economist affairs minister in Nigeria and presently first black Female Director General of the World Trade Organisation. Also Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, a prolific writer whose works range from novels to short stories and to non-fiction”. The First Lady of Mrs Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by Dr Grace Igbokwe, wife of the Special Adviser to the Governor on Drainage, said there was no gainsaying the fact that the world was still contending with the reality of COVID-19 pandemic, observing that the unexpected and anticipated pandemic brought about unprecedented health crisis and greatly affected global economy. “In Nigeria and in Lagos State particularly, we seriously felt and we are still feeling the heat from the pandemic, even though it is a lot better now. It is important to lay emphasis on the fact that officers, especially women in uniform, must strike a delicate balance and maintain acceptable equilibrium between their work and their home-front. Even as you work to safeguard residents, your home-from must not be neglected,” she said. The Secretary to the Lagos State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, who was represented by Director Political Affairs in the ministry, Mrs Olabisi Shonibare, urged women to do better in whatever they do and remain focused on their goals. Jaji said that women had played significant part in shaping the society. “We have proven our mettle be it as leaders of nations, heads of corporations, in the military, bureaucracy or other powerful positions. Our contributions to the economy, society or politics cannot be overlooked. As women, we must update our knowledge, network and help one another to bounce back and never to give up,” Jaji The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has assured women folks in the country of its resolve to continue to provide enabling environment for our women to reach their highest potentials. It also pledged to make the party a more women-inclusive political organisation. Secretary to the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, said President Muhamadu Buhari has held the ladder for women to soar. The party also said the APC-led government has shown commitment in the appointment of women into key positions in government. According to the Secretary, “No fewer than 50 women are currently serving in top positions such as ministers, head of service of the federation, special advisers and as heads of departments and agencies.”