 In Lagos, the authorities taught 172 defiant clubbers a lesson. Nightclubbing at this time is not only inappropriate but also unlawful, based on measures to curb the spread of COVID-19.  The state government demonstrated that it would not condone violation of COVID-19 protocols and moved against the violators arrested at Cubana Nightclub, Victoria Island, on February 27. The police said they were arrested at the club “around 2am,” and “were not observing social distancing.”  They were accused of “aiding the spread of COVID-19.” A mobile court sitting at the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental and Special Offences Enforcement Unit in Oshodi convicted them. The presiding judge ordered each of them to pay a fine of N40, 000, and also sentenced them to community service. The nightclub should not have been open for business at the time in the first place. The nightclub and the clubbers had flouted the 12am to 4am curfew. Evidently, the clubbers were at the nightclub because it was open. The police said the owner of the nightclub “will also be arrested and charged, because if he didn’t open the club, people won’t go there.” It is disturbing that some nightclubs in the state have continued to flout COVID-19 safety regulations, and thereby encouraging the spread of the deadly disease.  Under measures introduced by the Federal Government and the state government, nightclubs are to stay closed as the country struggles to control the spread of the coronavirus. The state government, based on economic considerations, had allowed bars and restaurants to open, provided they strictly observed COVID-19 protocols, but not nightclubs. The exclusion is understandable, considering that nightclubs are usually crowded and unsuitable for social distancing. The police raid on Cubana Nightclub, Victoria Island, showed that some nightclub owners are unwilling to obey COVID-19 regulations. In December 2020, Cubana Nightclub, Ikeja, in the same state, was sealed by the authorities for breaching the same protocols. The recurrence of recalcitrance should earn the owner of Cubana Nightclub a severe sanction. The onus is on nightclub owners to ensure that their businesses remain closed. Some of them have contempt for COVID-19 regulations, which was evident in January when the police and the Lagos Safety Commission sealed Lounge 38 in Surulere, and Victoria Club, Victoria Island, for flouting COVID-19 rules. At the time, the state government said it would severely sanction Victoria Club, claiming that the establishment had broken the government’s seal and reopened.  The task force had also arrested clubbers at Colombia Nightclub, Victoria Island. More than 200 clubbers were arrested in the January raids. Clubbers are encouraged by open nightclubs. But that does not exculpate them. They have a responsibility to comply with COVID-19 regulations, not only for reasons of personal safety but also social reasons. A lady arrested at Cubana Nightclub was reported saying, “We were on our own at the Cubana and that was where we were arrested.” She shouldn’t have been there at the time, and seemed not to understand that her presence at the nightclub was unlawful and unsafe. It is baffling that, despite scary news about COVID-19, some deluded people still behave as if they are somehow immune to the virus. Worse, some believe the virus is inexistent. Early this week, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) announced that 56,001 people had contracted COVID-19 in Lagos State, with 153 new cases; 53,805 had fully recovered and had been discharged. It said 410 COVID-19 patients in the state had died. The agency had also announced 479 new cases of COVID-19 across 21 states and the Federal Capital Territory, bringing the total number of infections in Nigeria to 156,496. The rising figures indicate that the disease is still spreading, and there is a need for caution.  The police raids and prosecution of violators are commendable. It is important to continue emphasising and enforcing safety regulations concerning COVID-19.