Governments at all levels across the country have been urged to develop an economic framework for vocational entrepreneurs as a way to fast track the economic development of the country. Executive Secretary, Millennium Village Vocational Centre, Lekki, Lagos Dr Olusegun Omisore said in a statement that vocational entrepreneurs have been breaking barriers and building small businesses since the beginning of the country’s existence. He stated that the government at the local level should buy into the growing trends in digitalisation and data capture and should have data in two folds going forward. “This includes a partnership with vocational centres in their locality with a desire to have a graduating list of students with potentials. Secondly, it would also ensure that business and entrepreneurial skills are taught with a particular focus on money and inter-people management courses. “Thirdly, is the setup of a financial-economic framework for these target audience, as a critical player in the technical, creative dynamics of service delivery in various forms with a daily effect on the financial spending of Nigerians,” he added. He said a crop of young men and women have earned big names in various fields, including fashion designing, garment construction, makeup and beauty therapy, brick construction, shoe designer, bakery and pastries, food and catering services, event planning, phone repair and computer engineering among others. Omisore noted that most of those who recorded breakthroughs in the vocations listed above are either not vocational students or are investors with other knowledge in these areas. Continuing, he said: “In most cases experienced, vocational grandaunts, after IT and completion of their programme, end up the brains to the success of the investing entrepreneur who would be paying peanuts due to finance at his or her fingertips or the grandaunt has financial support. “A classic case study is that of Funmi, who after graduating in Chemistry from a prominent university, enrolled with the Millennium Village Vocational Centre in Lekki in the catering department. “After graduation and IT duration, she became a vocational entrepreneur in food and catering services and has added event planning to her business due to adequate finance available to her. “As an employer of labour contributing to the GDP and tax uplifts of the state government, not many in Funmi’s shoes will be able to add such value across board,” he said. The vocational entrepreneurship trainer also disclosed that the regular, small hairdresser in Lekki, Bariga, Ikeja, Ajegunle, Agege and Badagry all pay one levy or the other to the government’s coffers. “These small scale entrepreneurs in other climes like Dubai UAE have a special place in the schemes of economic calculations in three-fold attachments to each staff in their employ. “A crash to a vocational entrepreneur’s business with a staff of three people leaves a crash in nine lives on the street in an economic dilemma. “One critical trend that these entrepreneurs endear is the Friday to Sunday gross financial revenue that is generated and recycled back to the government in the first two days of the new week. So a strategic framework should be harmonised to ensure the productivity and creativity of these dynamic Nigerians,” he added. Omisore however drew a critical line of distinction between vocational businesses (entrepreneurs) and small and medium scale businesses (entrepreneurs). According to him, the government needs to distinguish clearly between the different levels of small scale businesses, adding that two-thirds of the grandaunts of most vocational centres start as a solo business before the thought of employing at most three to seven people, depending on the type of vocation.