Amidst controversies generated by the report submitted by the Governor, Bala Mohammad led the committee for the Peoples Democratic Party ahead of the 2023 election, the Bauchi Governor was hosted by the Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade at the weekend where they both sent a warning to the party. Bala may have paid a visit to Ayade to further dissuade him from the remoured plans of his defection to the ruling APC. Governor Bala after hearing Ayade’s alleged catalogue of injustice against him by the party hierarchy, also warned, “An injustice to Ayade is an injustice to Bala. If you Cross, I will Cross”. Speaking at the Executive Chambers of the Cross River State Governor’s office, Ayade welcomed his Bauchi State counterpart saying, “I am happy that you have created the opportunity for a melodrama, so today I am seated and dancing on the fence. Indeed that is true. I speak with righteous anger for the continuous annoyance and nuisance orchestrated on our innocent state by external factors but I just hope that this ends today. “I have always played politics with ethics, but in the course of time, I have realized that ethical politics is mistaken for weakness. Time has come when we will put our foot down and make a decision on the basis of what would prosper the collective well-being of our people. For their trust in me, they have put their own future in my hands; I cannot blind myself to the challenges of PDP and decide not to know what to do at the right time for their sake. “So let me say here as a very clear warning, that I am a very smart person but I carry humility. I know you are somebody who doesn’t take injustice; one single injustice, they will see a new Cross River state. I say it as a warning because it does appear that your party seems to celebrate people who threaten and stressed them. All the councilors in Cross River State, are PDP, all the state house of assembly members- PDP, all the commissioners, PDP, all the National Assembly members except one- PDP; all of them under my leadership. So it is not now that somebody can discuss what structure or strategy I need. He added; “as I leave you with some holy whispers which will be very strong, firm and clear, it’s a harbinger of trouble; while I believe in the Ecclesiastes of peace; I believe in a Chartism of good faith and I also believe in the respect for the supremacy of an office. So if you take a catalytic combination of all I have said, it tells you that there is a need for a guided caution pushing forward as a people and as a party, I think the time has come for all of us to gather to say enough is enough.”