Anambra Governor Willie Obiano has finally returned 288 disputed hectares to Umueri in Anambra East local government of the state. The community has been at loggerheads with neighbouring Aguleri community over the hectares of land. Umueri community six days ago blocked the road leading to the Anambra Cargo Airport, protesting the forceful acquisition of 1,901 hectares of land by the government. The women from the community, especially widows, protested half nude, reigning curses on the government of Anambra for ‘trying to make them refugees in their land’ Chairman of one of the villages, Chief Uchenna Ndumanya, told reporters Umueri willingly gave out 729.66 hectares of their land for the Airport project only to discover additional 1,901 hectares had been illegally acquired by some ‘greedy government officials. He said lamented government was trying to make Umueri Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in their area, vowing that it would never happen. The leader of the protesting women, Mama Ugo Nwakonuche, said their children and grandchildren would not have where to build houses again. They protested with placards with different inscriptions like “Obiano and Aguleri leave our land alone; ‘What you are doing to Umueri is not why we voted for you‘ and Umueri are not cowards” among others. Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C Don Adinuba, told The Nation Governor Obiano would meet with the protesting community the following day for amicable settlement. He lamented it was irritating to hear people always talk about war when there was none, describing Obiano as a peace-loving and easy-going leader Adinuba denied government took land illegally, adding that the government did not trespass in any way. The NATION gathered Obiano met with the leadership of Umueri and returned 288 hectares of the land to Umueri. It was also gathered from one of the leaders in Umueri at the weekend the Governor, as part of the agreement, had named the Cargo Airport road as ‘Anambra Cargo Airport road, Umueri’ The source said they saw the sincerity of the Governor during the meeting, adding he had equally promised to return more land to the community. The source said: “Let’s wait until our further meetings with him. We’ve vacated the Airport road. At least, he has made us happy again. We have to wait until he comes up with what his government has in stock for Umueri,” he said.