The Governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday admonished citizens and residents not to compromise the safety protocols and guidelines put in place by government and health authorities against the spread of the dreaded Coronavirus pandemic. He called on the residents to be wary of the adverse effects of the second wave of the deadly virus which he said had caused untimely deaths across the globe. This is even as the governor urged parents and guardians to see the welfare of their children as topmost priority. Oyetola made these known while addressing the people at the special prayer session organised to commemorate the 10th years’ anniversary of his late mother, Alhaja Wulaimot Oyetola, held at the deceased’s residence, Iragbiji, Boripe Local Government Area of the state. Oyetola, who warned the residents to always comply strictly with all the protocols and guidelines of the COVID-19, said it is incumbent on all to have it in mind that the virus still lives vibrantly in Nigeria and other parts of the world. He advocated the frequent and consistent use of face masks and hand sanitisers as panacea for safety, warning that the virus is no respecter of persons, regardless of status and place in the society. Governor Oyetola who described his late mother as a woman of virtue and an epitome of womanhood, said he is what he is today because of all his parents inculcated in him and his siblings. He called on the parents to take good care of their children and always look after their welfare, saying, “This is the only way to justify why they are brought to life.” In her remarks, the wife of the governor, Mrs. Kafayat Oyetola, described the deceased as “a quintessential mother whose love and passion for the growth, success and progress of her children cannot be overemphasized. The occasion was attended by the governor’s father, Alhaji Hammed Oyetola; the Deputy Governor, Mr. Benedict Alabi; the Senator representing Osun Central, Ajibola Bashiru; the Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Olanipekun; Aragbiji of Iragbiji, Oba Abdul-Rasheed Olabomi led other traditional rulers; the Secretary to the State Government, Prince Wole Oyebamiji; members of the State Executive Council, Islamic clerics, among others.