A new insurance company, Enterprise Life Assurance Company Limited has opened in Nigeria, with a promise of a new life for Nigerians. Although the company, a subsidiary of Enterprise Group PLC, is new in the country, the company is not new in the life insurance business. The company’s pioneer management team made this known during the company’s unveiling in Lagos. The team, led by the Managing Director/CEO, Mrs Funmi Omo, said Enterprise Life has, in key West African markets, built decades of experience and expertise in delivering innovative Life Insurance solutions that support customers’ quest for a fulfilled and quality life across key West African markets. She said: “Enterprise Life understands that Nigerians are resourceful and ingenious people who need to be supported with the appropriate platforms, products and services that will enable them face the future with confidence. Thus, its business model focuses on the needs of the customer and delivering exceptional value that gives them advantage in the pursuit and fulfilment of their aspirations. “The company intends to reframe the way Nigerians see Life Insurance by making it an appealing proposition that is easy to accept, embrace and adopt as part of life’s necessities.  Enterprise Life is about people and its products are carefully designed to help people plan their lives and fulfil their dreams.” She said they would put the customer’ needs at the heart of their operations by delivering life insurance solutions in an unconventional manner. She said they have a team of trained field officers called life planners who just graduated from our Life Planner’s Academy after  months of intense training. She stated that the life planners will sit with customers, take time to understand and distil their needs, and then work together with each customer to develop bespoke solutions that suits their individual needs, lifestyle and aspirations. “Enterprise Life is a member of Enterprise Group PLC with headquarters in Ghana. With roots dating back to 1924, Enterprise Group PLC is a publicly listed, blue-chip, financial services company whose subsidiaries are each market leaders in their fields of Life Insurance, General Insurance, Pensions, Funeral Services and Real Estate. “After several decades as an industry leader in the Ghanaian market, Enterprise Life expanded into The Gambia where it has equally built a solid reputation for its innovative solutions and excellent customer relationships. ” Building on its footprints and vast experience, Enterprise Life has entered into the Nigerian market with a mission to deliver customer focused and needs-based Life Insurance services advantage over life’s situations,” she added.