Governments at all levels, the Organised Private sector (OPS) and other leading businesses have been advised to increase leadership and business opportunities for women. Speakers at a webinar organised by the VFD Group, with the theme: “Leave no woman behind: The 50 per cent rule”, said women should be empowered to realise their potential and create value for the society. The event was organised to mark the International Women’s Day tagged ‘#choosetochallenge’. The Managing Director, Everdon Bureau De Change, a subsidiary of the VFD Group, Theresa Ezeh, however, stressed that competence should be considered above every other thing. Responding to a question on if today’s workplace is a safer place for women than it was a decade ago, she said: “For me, it a yes and a no answer. The yes side is that, there is more and more awareness being put out. People are becoming more aware. “But on the no side is the fact that the issue of tokenism to a large extent exists and on that basis you cannot genuinely say that equal opportunities are provided as it were; we cannot say that equal opportunities are provided to both males and females and based on that, it is a no. “But what we can do is to create more awareness, do your bit in the circle you have influence in and ensure that women are not intimidated.” Ezeh said: “We should provide the same opportunities and the same level playing ground, and on the basis of those evaluations, pick the woman who is best fit for the job. “And it will be expected in such circumstances where a woman who is best fitted for the job is not unnecessarily discriminated against in terms of expectations about the long run.” The founder of Lighthouse Women’s Network as well as a corporate communications specialist, Nkiru Olumide-Ojo, stressed the need for increased opportunities for women. According to her, it is important to ensure that women are evenly represented and provided with the right equity. The Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications and CSR at Oando Plc, Alero Balogun, emphasised the need for education at all levels in the country, especially among women.