Lagos State government has eased restrictions on social and event centres with immediate effect. Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuff, and Director- General of the Lagos State Safety Commission, Lanre Mojola made the announcement on Friday. According to Mojola, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu gave the approval after due consultation and deliberations with relevant stakeholders and Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs). He said: “All event centres must hold a valid license of Ministry of Tourism, Arts, and Culture prior to operating; event centres must be duly registered and verified on safety commission’s website www.lasgsafetyreg.com – prior to holding any event. “An event safety clearance must be obtained from the state safety commission through the website for any proposed event or exhibition; safety marshals shall be deployed by an accredited event safety consultant from the safety commission for every social event with attendance exceeding over 200 people. “Occupancy limit at any event must not exceed 50 percent of the maximum design capacity of the hall, wherein occupancy limit stickers provided by the safety commission must be boldly pasted at the entrance of the event hall. Maximum allowable capacity for event centers, irrespective of occupancy limit, is 500 people. Deep cleaning must be carried out before and after every event. “Physical distancing shall be maintained between seated guests and a maximum number of seated guests should be six people on a table of 10 persons. Event duration should not exceed six hours. “Guests and service providers must wear a nose mask and use hand sanitisers; guests and service providers must endeavor to wash their hands before entering the venue or in the alternative use hand sanitisers.” Mojola warned that event center owners/ planners/vendors would be responsible for any breach of protocols by their staff, adding that any violation of the protocol shall attract fines and penalties in line with the Lagos State Infectious Diseases Control Regulation 2020.