Excerpts of a remark by former Nigeria’s Ambassador to Brazil, Dr. Jayeola Lewu during the celebration of Ambassador Oladapo Fafowora’s 80th birthday  It was a great honor and privilege that I was invited to be the Guest Speaker by THE IJESHA  SOCIETY in a virtual celebration of the 80th birthday anniversary of Ambassador Dr Oladapo Olusola Fafowora,  the  Otun Sebaloju of Ijesha. I did not have the good fortune of working under Ambassador Fafowora  from the period that I was recruited into the foreign service in 1972 until he was unjustly retired in 1984; so I had to rely mainly on his memoirs “Lest I Forget” and also on discussions with some former colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,  a few of his friends, and my personal interactions with him on many issues. Ambassador Fafowora merges from this process as a true son of Ijesha land who was well brought up by his Ijesha father and would always speak his mind, which sometimes got him into trouble with some powerful people who had despotic tendencies as expatiated in his memoir,  Lest I Forget. He is a kind gentleman who is truthful and will not change A and call it B. He is a very polished personality and an excellent representative of Nigeria as demonstrated by his success and immense contributions during his tours of duty in the Nigerian Foreign Service; particularly in the Nigeria High Commission in London; as Acting High Commissioner in Uganda during the Idi Amin regime; as Nigerian Charge d’affaires in Ankara, Turkey; as Secretary of the National Advisory Council on Foreign Policy; as Director, Africa Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Before his untimely retirement, he performed creditably well as Nigerian Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations. He made us proud when he was elected Chairman of the Second Committee (the most powerful Committee which deals with Economic and Financial matters) of the United Nations; and he succeeded, during a tense moment of the military coup against the Shagari government, in bringing the United Nations Secretary General, Perez de Cuellar on an official visit to Nigeria, an achievement  that could be accomplished only by a courageous person like him. Ambassador Fafowora’s life mirrors the socio-economic and political life of Nigeria between the 1960s and 2000s. It reflects a country that was eager to hit the ground running at independence with the aspiration of being counted among the developed world within the first twenty years of its life. Initially, Nigeria had patriotic leaders like Tafawa Balewa, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Ahmadu Bello, Sardauna of Sokoto, Zik of Africa and others like Ambassador Fafowora, and many members in the Ijesha Society, who had great dreams of making Nigeria the pride of the black race. Unfortunately, as rightly pointed out by Ambassador Fafowora in his book “Lest I Forget”, tribal politics, religion and corruption displayed by Nigerian leaders made the great dreams unrealizable. Nigeria in the 60s/70s was considered to be the rising star of the African continent as exemplified by the feat achieved by Chief Obafemi Awolowo who was living ahead of his contemporaries in Nigeria and Africa in giving free education to the people of Western Nigeria. In his quest for industrial development of the West, he turned the jungles of Ikeja and Agege into an industrial haven. A great modernizer, he established the first Television Station in Africa, exposing his people to the benefit of information technology, education, entertainment, awareness of the world beyond Nigeria, and the promotion of the cultural values and heritage of the people. It was under this environment created by Chief Obafemi  Awolowo that Ambassador Fafowora, his contemporaries and those before him, acquired the enviable knowledge and wisdom that propelled him to stardom, not only in the foreign service but in the “Organized Private Sector”  a term he coined  when he was the Director-General of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria. If other regions, especially the North, had emulated the West as regards provision of free primary education for all, the wide gap between the North and the South would not have existed. Unfortunately, this has now been exacerbated by the continuous attacks by bandits on schools and colleges, leading to their closure and also by the pillaging activities of cattle herders of farms and heinous destruction by Boko Haram that forbids Western education. The states concerned, working in concert with the Federal Government, should swiftly put an end to this tragedy; otherwise, the North will continue to be a drag on the country and a drain pipe on the resources used in fighting insecurity and rehabilitating its people and infrastructure, which should have rather been used for the socio-economic development of the region. Ambassador Fafowora is quite right in his assertion in his book that ‘political tribalism, religion, self- interest rather than ideological differences’ are the main factors that have drawn Nigeria backwards. Consequently, many countries in Asia and Latin America that were at par with Nigeria at independence in 1960 have left us miles and years behind. The first military coup in 1966 and subsequent coups, including the civil war, were based more or less on tribalism, and self-interest.  The concomitant civil service purges, depleted the Nigerian state of able-bodied personalities who would have been advancing the aspiration of Nigeria to be one of the ten most advanced economies before 2000. The two major purges by General Murtala Mohammad in 1975 and General Muhammadu Buhari in 1983/84 swept away the best and brightest in the civil service, which   invariably, was left with mediocrity rather than meritocracy in accordance with the whim and caprice of the military, who cared very little about  good governance, rule of law, equity, fairness and justice,- the values espoused by Amb Fafowora. The country ended up being governed by Heads of State from one region of the country at the expense and displeasure of the other parts. Also, personal vendetta among the military brought untold agony and instability to the country due to constant change of government by the rule of the gun. No wonder Ambassador Fafowora detests military rule where democratic principles are jettisoned and injustice is pervasive. Unfortunately,, despite the return of the country to democratic system of government since 1999, the values embraced by Ambassador Fafowora have not prevailed. For instance, under the Obasanjo regime, though some economic  benefits accrued to Nigeria through debts forgiveness, the military traits in the persona of Obasanjo led to the uncivil sacking and destruction of Odi in Bayelsa state; a total disregard for judicial order as exemplified by the non-payment of federal allocation due to Lagos state; and interpersonal squabbles between Obasanjo and his Vice-president, Atiku Abubakar, which distracted them from vital focus on infrastructural development of the country, leaving our schools, health services, water facilities, roads, bridges and electricity in a sorry state of disrepair. The Yar’adua era which succeeded them was short-lived; being a more civil personality, President Yar’adua helped Lagos state by releasing its federal allocation due to that state in accordance with the  Supreme  Court  judgement. He also brought some sanity to the Delta region through his amnesty program which also resulted in relative peace and flow of oil and gas. Perhaps, if he had lived longer, the country’s socio-economic development would have improved, although his tall order of getting Nigeria into the league of the 20 most developed countries of the world would not have been accomplished in 2020, and it could not be accomplished after his demise, as Nigeria did not plan nor have the infrastructure in place. The nation was chasing shadows rather than substance. It was a hope against hope. Then, 2020 came with covid-19 and left us behind. In the last UNDP Human Development Index, Nigeria placed 20th from the bottom of the 180 countries surveyed The regime of President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan could not lead Nigeria to the Promised Land despite the huge revenue from high priced oil. Unfortunately, corruption, mismanagement and ineptitude which are very repulsive to Ambassador Fafowora, kept Nigeria at the bottom of the Human Development lndex. Currently, under President Mohammadu Buhari, Nigeria has suffered series of recession; appointments and advancements in the civil service and public service are based more on political godfatherism, nepotism, without reflecting federal character and mediocrity than meritocracy. The result of which is a dysfunctional system, loss of trust and confidence in the leadership of this country at all levels, aggravated by the inability to conquer ceaseless insecurity especially in the northern parts of the country. From his relationship with politicians, Ambassador Fafowora became disillusioned with politics in Nigeria, including those of the so-called progressives, many of whom he discovered, I quote “were only interested in advancing their personal material interests. Any form of ideology, except that of self-interests had become irrelevant in the context of Nigerian politics which had assumed an increasingly violent character.” What I can deduce from this statement and from the comportment of the Nigerian political class is that the Nigerian state may not be allowed to breakup as long as there is a national cake to be shared among its members for their own benefits rather than for the overall good of the masses of the country. Thanks to the resources with which this country is endowed by God, there appears to be something to be shared most of the time among the politicians, even in some instance, before the cake is baked. Where do we go from here, when will the Nigeria of our dream be realized? Election year 2023 is around the corner. This is the time to start preparing and mobilizing the nation, particularly the patriotic, disciplined and incorruptible men and women and the youth in changing the fortunes of the country for the better. The recycling of the old guards should stop, while new blood that have the ideological content of aspiring to raise Nigeria, from the repugnant level of corruption, tribal politics and nepotism, insecurity and injustice,  to the highest innovation, scientific and technological level of the 21st century, should be encouraged and promoted to replace them. The gap between Nigeria and its contemporaries like Brazil, Malaysia, South Korea, India and China, is too wide. We need men and women of vision and discipline like Ambassador Fafowora  or Lee Kuan Yew, with abiding dedication, and the best patriotic zeal and character to create the enabling atmosphere to fill the gap soonest. In so doing, it is essential to embark on drafting a socio-economic development plan with achievable and quantifiable set targets/goals and with benchmarks or key performance indicators  for monitoring and evaluation. However, such a plan cannot be designed if there is no concensus on a true federalism, if we have no census or an idea of the state of the country’s resources, the collective interests of the people and country, the number, capacity, age and location of the populace that is sensitized and empowered; as it will be inappropriate to resort to another “planning without facts,” to borrow the title of economist Wolfgang Stolpher’s book on Nigeria’s experience in development planning. With a growing population projected to make Nigeria  the world’s 3rd largest country in the world by 2050 or so, the need to plan ahead to mitigate socio-economic, political and external demands of the country cannot be over-emphasized. The Nigeria of our dream, therefore, requires leaders like Lee Kuan Yew of Singapore who instilled discipline and patriotism in his people. He promoted and advanced country before individual self-interest, and he emphasized meritocracy rather than political mediocrity, nepotism or tribalism. He built solid institutions rather than individual mini gods who prefer to display blatant impunity in flouting the rule of law. He was Prime Minister in 1959-1990 and turned Singapore, which was at par with Nigeria in 1960, into a first world country of the 21st century. Ambassador Fafowora, in my view, has similar qualities of excellence, both in character and intellect, with Lee Kuan Yew.  The main difference between the two is that Amb. Fafowora was an astute and conscientious civil servant to the core before his unjustified abrupt retirement, while Lee Kuan Yew is a shrewd and disciplined politician who had a vision that he followed religiously as regards the path to greatness of his country to being among the most developed countries in the world. Perhaps, if Ambassador Fafowora had climbed the political rostrum in this country, he would have not been merely “seen” as a civil servant that he was, but would have been “heard” as a fearless and outstanding politician whose principles and philosophy of equity, fairness, accountability, transparency, meritocracy and social justice would have brought greater positive changes that would have led to the Nigeria of our dream. Nonetheless, and in spite of the frailties of our leaders who have led this country to the edge of a precipice, I am still very optimistic, and I hope Ambassador Fafowora is too, that the country of our dream will eventually be realized sooner than later when greater number of conscientious, disciplined well educated elites of integrity enter the political arena. However, to get there, Nigerians in general, especially the youth, will have to go through the crucible of the highest and best character and values extolled by Ambassador Oladapo Fafowora. They have to imbibe them in order to build a new Nigerian nation whose domestic and foreign policies will interface and be centered on Nigeria itself, which will have an enduring socio-political and economic development, stability and security of life, properties and investments; and which will be the envy of the rest of the world in the 21st century and beyond. And so, on this auspicious occasion it is appropriate to pour ecomiums  on our iconic leader, an illustrious and quintessential diplomat, an intellectual per excellence, whose doctoral dissertation on Nigerian Federalism was published by Spectrum Books. He had impressive stints as Visiting Member/Consultant to the Editorial Board of the Guardian and later The NATION. He was not required to maintain a regular column but he did so at both publications. His columns on politics, economics and international affairs, in addition to his six published books, were full of insight and attracted a wide appreciative readership. It is no surprise that he is an Honorary Fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Letters (FNAL). He is a man of enviable principles and admirable values, who, according to his friends, is a warm and amiable personality with a good sense of humour and who, as a typical diplomat, likes the good life, but being distinguished, he is not flamboyant. Happy Birthday to His Excellency Ambassador Dr. Oladapo Olusola Fafowora, The OTUN S0BALOJU OF IJESHA.  Also, my felicitations to Her Excellency, Chief Bose Fafowora, who has been a pillar of support during the twists and turns in the life of her spouse. Ambassador Fafowora, I understand, has been a devoted husband and an exemplary family man. May the couple continue to enjoy many more joyous, healthful and glorious years ahead. Congratulations to the IJESHA SOCIETY for honoring their great son and leader, a man who has done Ijesha and Nigeria proud; and who has left a legacy of making better wherever he goes and whatever position he holds as shown during his public life in the Foreign Service, in Chief Bisi Akande’s Administration in Osun State, and in rejuvenating and rebuilding the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, for which he coined that term “Organized Private Sector”.  