The Lagos State government on Tuesday said it built 51 roads within two years of the governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration with 43 more ongoing across the state. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Mrs Aramide Adeyoye, said this during the annual Ministerial Press Briefing to mark the second anniversary of the Sanwo-Olu administration. She said the road projects were undertaken to avert gridlock in major economic, commercial and residential areas to reduce travel time. “These projects will make commuting stress-free, life more meaningful for the people and ensure connectivity within the various communities in the state,” she said. According to her, the projects are in line with the THEMES agenda, especially the first pillar T, which stands for traffic management and transportation. She added that the THEMES agenda also underscored the commitment of the administration to execute projects that directly impacted on the quality of lives of residents. She listed the completed road projects to include Pen-Cinema flyover, ramp and road works, Lagos Ogun Boundary roads Phase II, Lekki Oniru Traffic Circulation projects, network of 31 roads in Ojokoro, Aradagun-Epeme-Iworo-Ajido and Somolu Road network among others. She also explained that several others were under construction and being upgraded to further ensure interconnectivity of different parts of the state. She listed the roads to include: Oba Sekunmade Road, Agric Isawo Road, St. Finbarrs and Iwaya Roads, Lekki-Epe Expressway, from Eleko Junction to Epe T junction and also Lekki Regional road project. She said other road projects recently awarded included: Hospital Road in Badagry, Construction of Muwo Jetty in Ojo, Abaranje road network in Alimosho, Reverend Braithwaite in Epe. Aramide said Sanwo-Olu would formally flag off the construction of a new ultramodern Massey Street Children’s hospital and the reconstruction/rehabilitation of Adeniji Adele Road under the Lagos Island Area North Action Plan on April 28. She said other newly awarded projects were: reconstruction of Moshalashi Street, Shomolu, rehabilitation/upgrading of Ademoye/Alake Lakonko Street in Alimosho, reconstruction of Onilegbale in Eti Osa, among others. She expressed the commitment of the Sanwo-Olu administration to ensuring speedy completion of all the ongoing projects. Adeyoye said the Lagos State Public Works Corporation had maintained 632 inner roads covering 192 kilometers in addition to over 24 public infrastructure to ensure the comfort of Lagos residents. She also said some road projects were undertaken by the Federal Government in harmony with the state government to ensure seamless motoring experience for residents. (NAN)