Rivers Angels crafty forward Vivian Ikechukwu is  a delight  not only on the pitch  but even more so outside  the hallowed turf of football grounds  while sharing her  soccer world  as well as  her love for Nigerian music sensations including Burna Boy, Davido and Simi, writes TAOFEEK BABALOLA.  Rivers Angels striker, Vivian Ikechukwu is still basking in the euphoria of her side’s success story at the just concluded Nigeria Women Premier League (NWPL) Super Six after trouncing Sunshine Queens 4-0 at the Otunba Dipo Dina International Stadium, Ijebu-Ode on Sunday evening to retain the league title. The victory on Sunday means the Port Harcourt-based side claimed a record seventh league title, out of which, Vivian has won two trophies with the team since joining the most successful women football club in the country in 2018. Apart from the two NWPL titles, Vivian who scored four goals in five matches during the Super Six, has also won Federation Cup (Aiteo Cup) and Super Cup with Rivers Angels in her flourishing career. “It’s not the first time I am winning trophy with Rivers Angels. I am very happy that we were able to defend and retain the trophy. I feel good to be a champion,” Vivian said in an interview with NationSport. The crafty forward was quick to acknowledge all her achievement as she treasure every single title won with the club. “The feeling of being a winner is top notch. It doesn’t matter which Cup it is but when you see your hard work yielding good success. You will always feel proud of yourself,” she said. What makes Vivian so special is her never-give -up attitude which has really helped her in his choosing career. She offered: “Nothing good comes easy though, I just want to give God all the glory. My passions for the game and determination keep me going against all odds. From the beginning, I never get my parents’ full support but as times go on and when they saw the zeal in me they gave in eventually and I am happy I made them proud.” Rivers finished on top with 11 points, followed by Delta Queens and Robo Queens with nine and eight points respectively while Bayelsa and Edo finished fifth and sixth with five and no points. But Vivian,  a member of NWFL Super 6 Team of the tournament , insisted that all the teams at the championship were good sides.  “No team is a pushover and all teams were better too. We were playing for pride and as a champion; a lot was expected from us. The welfare package of Rivers Angels FC is very good. Kudos to the government of Rivers State and to whom much is given, much more will be expected. No excuse,” She explained. She added: “We did well from the first game, in football you lose some, draw some and win some. If the results don’t go well that is why we have coaches to correct our mistakes and apply it in the next game.” The league triumph was Rivers Angels’ seventh overall following previous successes in 1994, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2016, and 2019, with five of them won under Okon’s regime. Vivian said that Coach Okon’s winning mentality makes him so special. “His winning mentality is very  high. He loves to win all games be it friendly or league game. He is a father, teacher to all. He gives players a very good conducive environment to play good football,” Vivian revealed. Having emerged the champions, Rivers become the country’s representatives at the maiden WAFU-B zonal event in May, where they will bid to qualify for the CAF Women’s Champions League. Vivian believes that the Jewel of Rivers has all it takes to do well at the tournament. “We will do it one step at a time. The team spirits is very high and I know with our current form, we will do better and also win the championship,” she added. As a player, the 23-year old forward adored Juventus striker, Cristiano Ronaldo and former Super falcons Perpetual Nkwocha as role models. “They are great players. They inspired me a lot to always want to do better and be a better version of me. Their goal scoring abilities triggers me a lot and I wish to be a very good goal poacher as well. I always go for the best that is why I choose her as my role model. I always go for the best that is why I choose her as my role model,” she noted. Vivian had played at the underage level for the national U-17 team (Flamingoes) at the FIFA Under 17 Women World Cup in 2014 while she is looking forward to play for the Super Falcons. Sharing her experience at the Under 17 level, she said: “It all happened in 2014 in Costa Rica. I was very young then and I didn’t get much playing time but getting an invitation and getting to the World Cup stage at that age, I was fulfilled and motivated. “It made me believe that there is something special about me. It upgraded my profile and changed everything about me because it was part of my growth and I am honored.” The Imo-state born star wishes to play on as long as she is fit to do so but her greatest fear is to have injuries that will take her out of the game totally. Besides playing football, the lanky forward have passion for dancing and she loves songs. Although, she doesn’t have favorite songs but she is inspired by Burna Boy, Davido and Simi. She explained reasons for her likeness for the three artists: ”Burna Boy never gave up even when his career was failing and he came back strongly to be among the best artists in the world of music. “Davido is a rich kid but he still worked hard to be where he is today without depending on his family status, he worked his way to the top. “Simi has a unique voice and songs full of inspirations; most times I listened to her songs to get inspired and calm away pressure.” Vivian is the last born in the family of nine, her dad is late while her mum is doing well. She was born on July 10th 1997 and stopped her education at high school level before she chooses football as a profession. She started her football career at the defunct City of David Amazons FC of Lagos and move to Abia Angels FC of Aba before outstanding performances took her to Rivers Angels in 2018.