Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has asked Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Dr. Isa Pantami to resign immediately irrespective of his recent volte-face. The Governor said in an ideal society, the allegation that the United States of America placed a serving Minister on its watch list was enough to propel the government into action. A statement signed by Wike’s Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said the Governor spoke on Tuesday during an interview with the African Independent Television (AIT) in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. He described as worrisome the decision of the Federal Government to remain mute amidst the raging controversy about the Minister’s sympathy for global terrorist groups. “I don’t understand why a reasonable government will allow such a person to be in the cabinet,” he said. The Governor said the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government was known for its proclivity to shield persons of questionable characters even when the country’s secret service presented overwhelming evidence against such individuals. He said: “But you were here when DSS wrote a report against (Ibrahim) Magu. What happened? Look, I have never seen a country that your secret service wrote a report about the nominee of Mr President, questioning his character and the rest, and that he is not appointable. What happened? So, what are you talking about. What removed Magu is a power play.” Wike also took a swipe on the National Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for not taking stern disciplinary action against former Niger Governor, Dr. Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu, who recently claimed he conspired with others to ensure that President Goodluck Jonathan lost the 2015 presidential election. He said: “If I was the leadership of the party I would have suspended Aliyu for that comment he made. But, you see nothing will happen. The National Working Committee will not do anything. Why? They need Aliyu to support them. “I cannot understand why you are a leader, so to speak, you come out and tell the world why you fought your party. I have never seen a thing like in my life. Assuming you did it, you now want to rub it on them and that nothing will happen. “If I was the leadership of the party, I would have suspended Aliyu and heavens will not fall. What does he want to achieve. This was 2015, we have done 2019 election. Jonathan had lost in 2015, why do you come out now to say how you fought him. Look at where we are today. So, you are telling us you made us to be in this position where we are. “You are telling Nigerians that you are one of those who have kept Nigeria in this state that we are. And then the National Working Committee will not do anything because Aliyu Babangida is one of the untouchables.”