It is embarrassing that more than three months after the kick-off, on January 5, 2021, of the Federal Government’s Special Works Programme (SWP), the 774,000 participants in the first phase of the scheme are yet to be paid their stipends.  Conceived as a poverty alleviation measure to address the challenge of poverty among the growing number of unemployed youths in the country, particularly in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic that worsened the plight of the most vulnerable segments of the population, the SWP was designed to provide stop-gap three months jobs targeted at artisans who would earn N20,000.00 each, carrying out assigned tasks. With 1,000 youths engaged under the programme from each of the 774 local government areas in the country, the initiative was widely applauded as having the potential of significantly stimulating the grassroots economy through the N52 billion budgeted for its implementation. Unfortunately, just like many other otherwise laudable programmes in Nigeria, initially supposedly driven by compassion for the poor and the public good, the smooth take-off of the SWP was soon impeded by distracting ego clashes and bureaucratic politics. Thus, the programme could not commence on October 1, 2020, as originally scheduled, due to internal wrangling between the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Mr. Festus Keyamo, and the former Director- General of the National Directorate of Employment (NDE), Mr. Nasir Ladan, over modalities for its implementation. Not even the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari, who ordered the removal of Mr. Ladan, could guarantee that the SWP could then take off without delay.  For, there erupted, thereafter, a huge row between the National Assembly and Mr. Keyamo over the allocation of slots for the hiring of beneficiaries to the extent that the legislators directed that the implementation of the scheme be suspended. With the apparent resolution of the differences between the minister and the National Assembly, the programme kicked off on January 5, after N26 billion had been released for the procurement of equipment as well as for logistics. At this point, the potential beneficiaries, who were the proverbial grass that suffered while the elephants engaged in turf battles, must have heaved a sigh of relief that they could do some work and earn some money in these hard times. Alas, after fulfilling their own part of the three-month contract, the first batch participants are practically begging to be paid their entitlement. This is clearly inexcusable and an indication, once again, of the cavalier approach of many who are entrusted with onerous public responsibilities to their duties. For, had there been detailed and proper planning and methodical implementation modes in place, participants in the programme should have seamlessly collected their stipends as and when due. Indeed, on March 20, President Buhari directed that funds be released to pay the stipends and hours after this presidential directive, Mr. Keyamo not only ordered the NDE to start processing the payment plan, he assured the participants on his official Twitter handle that they would soon receive alerts of payment. No such alerts have been received over three weeks later. Of course, we do not expect the minister to carry out processing of documents and effecting payments. There are officials down the line who are paid to perform these functions and if they have been remiss in this regard, there must be sanctions to serve as future deterrence. Now that participants in the first phase of the programme have not been paid so long after completing their part of the contract, will this not affect the implementation of the next phase? Since the scheme is planned to be undertaken during the dry season, we urge that the first phase participants be urgently paid so that the next phase can commence and much impact can be made before the onset of the rains.