Traditional rulers in Ondo State on Tuesday backed the push for power shift. They said the Southwest should produce the next President. Also, Afenifere elder, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, is eminently qualified to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023. But he said the organisation looked forward to the emergency of a President who will address the push for federalism and restructuring. Fasoranti, who hosted SWAGA at his home in Akure, the Ondo State capital, said all prayers of Afenifere would be answered when Asiwaju Tinubu becomes President. “Tinubu has my total support. From his activities and track record, he deserves to be there. Someone told me about his ambition five days ago. “May his prayers be answered. When he gets there, he will do all we want,” he said. SWAGA leader, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, assured the elder statesman that Asiwaju Tinubu would listen to the yearnings of Afenifere. He added: “If it must come to the Southwest, the best person that fits the race is Asiwaju Tinubu; hence, the need for everyone in the region to support him and avoid division. “With Tinubu in the race, the Southeast and Southsouth will have no option than to support him.” The royal fathers spoke yesterday when a delegation of SWAGA 23 visited them in their palaces. SWAGA comprises former elected lawmakers, politicians, loyalists and supporters of the six Southwest states. At the palace of the Abodi of Ikale, Oba George Faduyile, the monarch said the former Lagos State governor is the most qualified person to become President in 2023. He noted that Asiwaju Tinubu’s track records stood him out among likely contenders. Oba Faduyile said: “We have the best materials in the Southwest to become President. But the best of the best is Asiwaju Tinubu. “He is only interested in fixing Nigeria, and nothing more. The Yoruba is the only ethnic nationality that has the ultimate unity of the country at heart. “Without even telling us, we know that Asiwaju Tinubu has all the needed capacity to become President. When he was governor, Asiwaju Tinubu performed so well and he lifted many people up across board. That’s the kind of person that can lead a country like Nigeria.”