 The intention behind President Muhammadu Buhari’s Executive Order 10, which seeks to establish the financial autonomy of the legislature and judiciary at the state level, is simple and straight forward — to stop state chief executive officers from having unimpeded access to public funds that belong to the two other arms of government in the state. Whether he has overreached himself is another matter. The president’s executive order authorizes the Accountant-General of the Federation to deduct from source, the money due to the legislatures and judiciaries of states from the monthly allocations of states whose executives fail to grant financial autonomies to the other two arms of government. The order also directed every state government to set up a committee comprising the Commissioner of Finance, the Accountant-General of the State, a representative of the state’s Budget Office, the Chief Registrar of the High Court, Sharia Court of Appeal and Customary Court of Appeal as applicable, the Clerk of the House of Assembly and the Secretary of the State Judicial Service Committee or Commission. This committee is to be accorded legal recognition in the appropriation laws of the states. The committee’s main task is to, where applicable, determine based on the revenue profile of the state, a workable budget for each arm of the state government. The order also provides that each state judiciary is to set up a state judiciary budget committee, which would be responsible for preparing, administering and implementing the budget of the judiciary. The committee would comprise of the state’s Chief Judge as Chairman, the Grand Kadi of Sharia Court of Appeal or President of Customary Court of Appeal as applicable, and two members of the Judicial Service Committee/Commission to be appointed by the Chief Judge. The Chief Registrar is to serve as Secretary of the committee. But, it has raised a lot of dust in its wake. State governors, who wield enormous power and influence under the current Nigerian political set up, have raised their voices against the President Buhari’s executive order. The governors insist they are not against financial autonomy for the legislative and judicial arms of government at the state level. Their grouse is the constitutional basis for the president’s action. Based on the provisions of the constitution, they argue, each state of the federation is autonomous. As a result, only the governor has executive powers over the state, except in specific matters otherwise provided in the constitution. As a corollary to the above, neither the president nor the Accountant-General of the Federation has powers over the consolidated revenue funds of any state. Thus, the president cannot give directive as to what laws are to be enacted by the state legislatures. The ding dong affair is likely to continue until the Supreme Court wades in to restore order. In a federation, disputes between states and the Federal Government are usually settled by a Supreme Court pronouncement on the matter. It is the apex court that has the power to determine whether the president has acted within the ambits of the law or not. If there is a lacuna that will hamper the relationship between the two levels of government, the National Assembly can always take it up as a matter of national emergency. It is just that, to use the words of Chief Chekwas Okorie, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State, “we have a National Assembly that is so lethargic in doing their job”. Okorie added: “Nigerians are yet to see an important issue that the National Assembly will take up as one of national importance or an emergency that needs to be urgently addresssed. They usually take their holidays, to go on a jamboree. They have never given up their vacation to be able to address an important national issue such as the current one.” But, one thing is certain: the impunity of state governors in Nigeria is well known. They are in the habit of misappropriating public funds under their care. Some of them have control of budgets larger than those of many neighbouring countries. The size of the country creates a huge power base for governors at an economic level. In terms of actual delivery of projects, they play a huge role. In some ways, observers believe that governors are more powerful than the president himself, especially when it comes to issues that directly impacts on the daily lives of citizens, such as infrastructure development and service delivery. Since they are the ones that relate directly with the people, governors are primarily responsible for the implementation of policies. This gives them a huge leeway to develop and interpret it as they wish. In conclusion, the lack of financial autonomy for the legislative and judicial arms of government has been a long-standing issue, especially with respect to the judiciary. Funmilayo Odude, a legal practitioner, said it was the desire to uphold judicial financial autonomy that led prominent Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Olisa Agbakoba, to file a suit against the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), the National Judicial Council (NJC) and the National Assembly in February 2013. She said: “His suit challenged the extant methods of appropriating the judiciary’s budget in the Appropriation Bills, as opposed to being a first-line charge paid directly to the judiciary. He contended that this was contrary to the constitutional provisions of Section 81(3) of the 1999 Constitution. “The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) instituted a similar action against the NJC, AGF and the Attorneys-General of the states in the same year, and also claimed reliefs for the implementation of the financial autonomy of the judiciary at both the federal and state levels in accordance with the provisions of Sections 81(3) and 121(3) of the 1999 Constitution. Both suits were decided in favour of the financial autonomy of the judiciary. However, more than five years later, major parts of the judgments are still being disobeyed as state governments continue to breach the Constitution. “The interim report of the Presidential Implementation Committee on the Autonomy of the State Legislature and State Judiciary states that no state of the federation, apart from the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), has complied with the provisions of Section 121(3) of the constitution. The committee’s report ties the non-compliance to the non-availability of uniform modalities for full compliance as obtainable at the federal level. Thus, the report posits that a template, modelled after the framework at the federal level, should be developed to serve as a uniform standard for implementation by the states. This position is what eventually led to Executive Order 10 of 2020.” Experts also believe it is the continued dependence of the judiciary on the executive arm of government for its budgeting and funds release that is directly responsible for the present state of underfunding of the judiciary, poor and inadequate judicial infrastructure, low morale among judicial personnel, alleged corruption in the judiciary, delays in the administration of justice and judicial service delivery, and generally low quality and poor out-put by the judiciary. Another outcome of the state executive’s control of the purse strings is the notion that state Houses of Assembly are rubber-stamps of state governors. Odude added: “Indeed, the efficiency of the judiciary hinges on its independence, which is inextricably tied to its financial autonomy. The ability of state legislatures to truly provide checks and balances for the state executives is reduced to nothing when the lawmakers have to lobby and practice “eye service” for the purpose of accessing funds that legitimately belong to them.” 