Grammy award-winning artist, Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu popularly known as Burna Boy or Odogwu has set the social media space on a spin trip with his tweet. The self-acclaimed “African giant” recently took to his Twitter handle to liken himself to a gorilla. He explained people should not consider beating of his chest a show of pride as that isn’t what it is. They should rather just see it that he is a gorilla and that’s why he does it. He tweeted: “If I dey beat my chest, no misunderstand/ No be Pride, I be GORILLA.” Most persons will interpret the gorilla chest beat as a show of pride. They may not be too far from the truth as research has shown that chest beating among male gorillas is an important mode of communication. Research has shown that body size is reliably conveyed to other gorillas through chest beats. Larger male gorillas emitted chest beats with lower peak frequencies than smaller male gorillas. And being large is really key for male gorillas. That way, rival males will use this information to assess the size of the gorilla chest-beating. This will help them decide whether to initiate, escalate, or retreat in contests. Because, no one wants to pick a fight with a larger male, as you will likely lose. Furthermore, chest beats play an important role in these conflicts such that most contests are resolved without the need of physical fighting. Females, on the other hand, are likely to use the body size information transmitted in chest beats in their choice of mates. Thus, Odogwu’s tweet regardless of the explanation he gave has elicited quite a number of reactions as most social media users have interpreted it to mean pride and have trolled him. Others have warned him not to term it racism when referred that way by a white. While some others have eulogized him. @Da15boss tweeted: “You for Dey talk all these things before u win Grammy na.” @Luckyflows said: “If Gorilla like make e beat him chest that one no mean say Godzilla no go beat am.ijs.” @Spend0Gustav0 tweeted: “Wahala for who them catch put for zoo o.” @ShoffiQuizZ stated: “Burna Boy is not only an artist, he’s an angel, an inspiration, a king, and of course a legend. I realized how talented, passionate and loving he was. I just laugh whenever I remember people used to overlook him in the past.” @dami_mastermind tweeted: “But if Oyinbo call u “GORILLA” then go say na racists oo.” @alte_native wrote: “In other words ” no vex say I dey shine, e dey come naturally because I be SUN.” @tontytroy tweeted: “Even if na pride you deserve am.” @dejimolee tweeted: “Until them mistakenly put you for zoo.” JosephTofunmi1 said: “One thing I learnt from you, it pays to be your real self ! A lot of people don’t even love who they are yet looking for who to love em ! Think about it.”