Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Muhammad, has met with some officials of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) on how to mitigate the impact of the current strike on the Judiciary. This happened as the union’s strike led to the shutting down of courts across the country. At the meeting, which held in the CJN’s office within the Supreme Court complex in Abuja, Justice Muhammad urge the union members to end the strike. He assured the striking workers that the Federal Government would ensure that state governments obey Executive Order 10 and the various court judgments affirming financial autonomy of the Judiciary. The CJN’s media aide, Ahuraka Isah, announced Justice Muhammad’s intervention in a statement yesterday in Abuja. According to the statement, JUSUN’s delegation to the meeting was led by its National Treasurer, Jimoh Musa. JUSUN President Marwan Adamu was reportedly absent from the meeting, following his involvement in an auto crash while travelling from Kano to attend the meeting in Abuja. The statement said Musa promised the CJN that his suggestions would be tabled before JUSUN’s 19-members National Executive Council (NEC) for its decision. Musa, he added, said the delegation needed to report to JUSUN’s NEC because only three of the council’s members attended the meeting with the CJN. He quoted the union leader as saying: “We have to table the CJN’s fatherly advice before our NEC meeting and consequently get back to his lordship.” The union officials yesterday sealed all Federal and state courts in Lagos State to enforce f its indefinite nationwide strike. Justices of the Court of Appeal, judges of Federal and State High Courts, Magistrates, registrars, litigants and other court users were prevented from entering courtrooms and chambers. But the strike was peaceful at the Ikeja, Lagos, Ikorodu, Badagry and Epe Divisions. Similar scenarios played out in courts across the country. The union leaders went round courts to ensure its members complied with the action.