 Taraba State Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku has urged the state’s residents to step up prayers for the actualisation of the proposed Mambilla Power Project in Sarduana Local Government Area, saying it could transform the state. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ishaku spoke on Tuesday when over 1,000 Mambilla people visited at the Government House, Jalingo. He said the project was not only the hope for stable electricity generation in the country, but also a source of hope for the state economic transformation. “If the Mambilla power project is executed, Taraba and the Mambilla will never be the same again.The social and economic lives of the people will be transformed,”‘ Ishaku said. He advised them not to forget to pray for the project, adding that he was encouraged by their for show of appreciation for his administration’s projects in their towns and communities. Mambilla, he stated, occupied a special place in his heart, adding that everything he had done for the area was because of his love for the people. The governor recalled the numerous communal crises that occurred in the area in the past and noted that the peace being enjoyed there at the moment had vindicated his administration as fair-minded and committed to the welfare of the people.  He said against all odds and protests by other sections of the state, he doled out over N300 million to compensate those who lost their lives and properties to the crises in Mambilla. According to him, this was part of the reason peace had endured in the area. He expressed happiness over the role being played in the economic lives of the Mambilla people by the tea industry revived by his administration. He said the company had become the source of financial dependence for over 4000 people in Sardauna LGA, and, being profitably managed, has been able to pay dividends for the first time in 40 years. Ishaku noted that one of his happiest days as governor was when he inaugurated new production machines for the tea firm. Also, the group’s spokesperson Dr Abubakar Zubairu, said the visit was in appreciation of the special attention Mambilla had received under the Ishaku administration.  