The Federal Government has been urged to grow the country’s aquaculture sector particularly fish farming because of its enormous benefits to  the tourism sector in the area of culinary experience for  both local and international tourists. The acclaimed father of Nigerian Tourism, Chief Mike Amachree made this call in a recent chat with journalists. According to the tourism mogul, Nigeria is well placed to grow fish production from the country’s huge rivers, lakes and streams. Explaining further, Amachree said Nigeria consists of both upland and riverine communities. The upland communities produce beef while the riverine communities produce fish. He noted that with the abundant rivers in the South-South, South West and parts of the North, the need for fish production becomes imperative. The tourism guru observed that every part of the country practices animal husbandry while fish farming which is supposed to be the occupation of the riverine communities, is lagging behind.  He also blamed oil drillings and the resultant water pollution as a part of the cause of poor yield in the riverine communities. Relating it to tourism, the hospitality guru said the culinary experience for most tourists in Nigeria leans toward beef. He said: “Most international and domestic tourists are fed with beef and they sometimes complain of lack of availability of fish meals, and where fish meals are served, they are more expensive due to the fact it is not commonly available like beef.” He urged the Federal Government to assist fish farmers in the riverine areas of Bayelsa, Rivers, Cross Rivers, Akwa Ibom, and Argungu in Kebbi States respectively. Other riverine areas he mentioned include those in Kaduna State (river), Imo State (Oguta Lake) Ondo State (Okitipupa and Ilaje communities), Enugu (Nike Lake), communities around the River Niger and Benue, and Lagos State (Badagry and Epe). Amachree also used the opportunity to call on government to help stimulate activities within the tourism industry by offering industry practitioners financial palliatives to restart their business after the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. According to him, without tourism movement, there will be nothing like industrialisation as business men and entrepreneurs have to travel and visit a place before seeing business opportunities to invest.