The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has set an ambitious target for itself. In four years, the apex bank   pledged to increase the number of bank customers enrolled on the Bank Verification Number (BVN) system from over 47.54 million to 100 million. In its CBN Update released recently, the apex bank said an increase in BVN enrolment would address the constraint that poor identification has on the availability of credit to prospective banking customers, particularly those in the informal sector. According to figures released by Nigeria Interbank Settlement Systems (NIBSS), over 47.54 million active banks accounts are linked with BVN  at April 11, this year. The apex bank has pledged to increase the figures within the next four years through its proactive measures. The BVN project, which captures the uniqueness of every bank customer, is one of the most-innovative projects introduced into the financial system in 2014. With 47.54 million bank accounts already linked to the BVN, the Bankers’ Committee has also unveiled a new plan that required classification of BVN into two – BVN Premium and BVN Lite. The CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, said BVN Premium will cover customers that can provide the 18 basic requirements for a BVN enrolment, while the BVN Lite will require minimal documentation like name and phone number for bank customers, especially those in the rural areas that do not meet the full requirements. This, he said, would enable such grassroots’ customers, mainly the poor, conduct minimal financial services and reduce financial exclusion rate. The BVN scheme, which gives each bank customer unique identification, is to revolutionise the banking and payment systems while ensuring safety of depositors’ funds. The CBN boss said the Bankers’Committee was collaborating with the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) and Mobile Money Operators (MMOs) to ensure that the project succeeds and more Nigerians brought into the financial system. Emefiele said the Know Your Customer (KYC) scheme would be migrated into the BVN Lite. “However, there are people who are financially excluded, like people in our rural communities that carry phones, but not having financial services. With the collaboration of NCC, we are putting this BVN arrangement to allow them conduct minimal financial services.” Analysts have seen the new BVN policy as key to bringing more people into the financial services net. The CBN’s policies on mobile money, agency banking, Know Your Customer (KYC),  insurance, and, recently, Payment Service Banks (PSBs) expected to take off this year, have helped to bring 2.6 million new customers to the financial system. Emefiele has continued to take steps to deepen banking. The hope for Nigeria to achieve 80 per cent financial inclusion rate in 2020 received a major boost with the Enhancing Financial Innovation.