A report by the United States (U.S.) Department of State on the reported killings of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate has elicited widespread reactions. The Nation had reported a 2020 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices United States (US) Department of States explained there is no verifiable evidence on the reported killings of #EndSARS protesters at the Lekki tollgate on October 20, last year. The US, in its report, stated that accurate information on fatalities resulting from the shooting was not available. Although the army says nobody was fatally injured as blank bullets were shot into the air, Amnesty International insisted that people died of gunshot injuries. Reacting to the latest report by the US Department of States, Nigerians with diverse opinions, took to social media to trend the hashtag — #LekkiLies. The hashtag, trending as number one on Twitter trendsmap according to checks by The Nation, has over 19,000 tweets as at the time of this report. Chief Press Secretary to the Governor of Lagos State, Gboyega Akosile tweeted: “A trying time. An opportunity to know true friends, family, colleagues etc. My daughter stood up to me, to ask a direct question, “dad, tell me the truth! Painfully, I told her “if I lie to other ppl in the world, I won’t lie to you.” She believed me. That was enough. #LEKKILIES.” Kemisola Adekunle said: “They want to register a #massacre that never happened on our minds, we asked for evidences they give us lies and try to blackmail us emotionally. The devastating wrecks of their original plan are still there for us to see.” Steve Elijah said: “Before you go about shouting #LEKKILIES, I hope you’ve read the entire report, particularly where it says that “…security forces fired at protesters at the Lekki Toll Gate on October 20…” The report doesn’t make any conclusion on the #LekkiMassacre.” Dr. Ben Gbenro said: “There is nothing shameful in believing a wrong notion, it’s only becomes an issue if you still hold on to it after all evidence has shown that you are wrong. Apologize for being misled on #lekkilies, mend the broken fences & move on” Christopher Ogbe said: “We really don’t need the US validation to be vindicated on #Lekkilies. The world hasn’t been whitewashed to a pedestal of making 78 murdered persons unknown, unidentified and unassociated. It has always been fake right from its onset. Bless!” @Sacrfizal tweeted: “Nobody died at the Lekki toll gate on 20th 10 2020 , DJ switch (witch) should be arrested and locked up and the keys thrown into the ocean for trying to incite with lies #LekkiLies. Ayodeji Olalekan said: “Since US have been sending reports, of worst country, most poverty etc, our idiots in politics will never agree, now they said “No Evidence Of Massacre In Lekki” they begin to display their stupidity in joy. A blind man shows them the path #LEKKILIES #EndSARS #RevolutionNow.”