The safety of clients’pension funds is our priority at Stanbic IBTC Pensions as we expertly grow the funds to deliver sustainable long-term returns using our access to in-depth market research. We also ensure that they have easy access to their retirement benefits. Since inception, we have paid N900 billion to about than 65,000 retirees. However, there are many pension fund administrators. The question is: why should an employee sign up with Stanbic IBTC Pensions? There are several reasons employees should choose Stanbic IBTC Pensions as their PFA. One key factor that singles us out is our rich heritage. As a member of the Standard Bank group – which is the largest bank in Africa – you can bank on our over 155-year expertise and track record of excellence. Also we have a dedicated team working to ensure that our clients receive excellent service delivery at all times. Transparency is also very important to us and we ensure that our clients have details on the status of their Retirement Savings Account (RSA) at all times. Our clients are able to reach us anytime and anywhere via our various channels such as our multilingual call centre, our PensionSolution mailbox, the Stanbic IBTC Super app, our 30388 shortcode, our live chat and MyPension Portal on our website. We also have 41 service locations nationwide. In addition to these, we offer free financial advisory through our Financial Fitness Academy and New School Money programme, which provides our clients and their children with helpful tips to manage their savings and expenses, especially at this unprecedented time. Stanbic IBTC Pensions is no doubt the largest PFA in the industry. We have close to two million RSA holders. We have about 1.8 million RSA holders registered with Stanbic IBTC Pensions. However, eight per cent representing 147,929 clients of the population of RSA holders in Stanbic IBTC Pensions are retirees. Currently, a total of 33 per cent (55,225 clients) of the retirees signed on for Programmed Withdrawal. We hold regular engagements with employers and individuals to provide clarity on areas of concern with regards to the CPS. We also publish quarterly pension notes on our website which seeks to address specific topics around the CPS. In addition, our online series called “Blue Talks” serves as a platform to educate our online community on the contributory pension scheme.  Transfer Window The transfer window is a positive development for the industry; as finally, RSA holders can exercise the option to change their initial selection of a PFA to their preferred service provider based on attributes that are important to them. For us as a company, the transfer window has given us the opportunity to welcome new sets of clients and continually improve our technology and services to meet not only their needs, but the needs of our existing clients as well at every point in time. The transfer window gives us an opportunity to serve the over nine million pension contributors in the market as well as provide them comfort at retirement. Leveraging our various educative programmes, the transfer window also gives us the opportunity to enlighten a wider audience, thereby boosting confidence in the pension industry. In preparation for these opportunities, we’ve carried out a significant number of upgrades across our digital self-service channels as well as online platforms to provide transactional ease and a personalised experience for both existing clients and new joiners. Within the organisation, we have also conducted in-house evaluations and re-training for staff to equip them with the required skills to take on the opportunities presented by the transfer window Investments PFAs are rational investors and will allocate assets to securities that are considered attractive relative to the inherent risk of the investment. Due to the macroeconomic environment, we have in recent times witnessed a situation where risk adjusted returns have been higher on sovereign debt notes (bonds and treasury bills) than from the more volatile assets like equities. For context, the yearly performance of the equity market has been positive only four times out of the last 10 years while the 10-year CAGR is 9.65 per cent following the 50 per cent return recorded in 2020. Thus, one can understand the natural preference for safer instruments with higher returns potential. Furthermore, pension funds, being contributory, have grown at an average yearly rate of 18 per cent over the last seven years whereas there has been only a handful of new listings on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) over the same period. This disproportionate growth has significantly constrained the ability of pension funds to increase allocation to the equities markets whereas the issuance of sovereign and corporate debt instruments continues to grow steadily. Many have argued that PFAs have significant headroom to increase their allocation to equities, within the regulatory limit. While it is true that there is significant room for PFAs to increase allocation to equities, the absolute investment in equities by PFAs stand was in excess of N850 billion as at December 31, 2020, which is an all-time high. This confirms that pension funds will continue to be major players in this market as we continue to seek opportunities to enhance investment returns. To move your RSA account to Stanbic IBTC Pension, visit The Nation website and click on Stanbic IBTC Pension advert or https://standardbank.eu.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1NEbSDDfqQBg16J. Our Main Office Contact is 01 2716000 