Insecurity has continued to spread across the states with rampant killings, banditry and kidnapping. Eight people were killed and no fewer than 32 were abducted in various incidents. In Kaduna, bandits killed eight and abducted 25, including four women members of the Anglican Church. A family of five – father, mother and their three children – travelling from Ondo State to Abuja, were kidnapped in Ayere, Kogi State. The abductors have asked for N10 million ransom. In Osun State, two Chinese were abducted by gunmen who invaded a miming site in Ifewara, Atakunmosa West local government. Three women, all farmers were attacked on their farm by herders Ibrahim Olusa was returning to Abuja with his family after spending the Easter holiday when he was abducted with his family. He was travelling between Ajowa Akoko in Ondo State and Ayere in Kogi State. A source said the kidnappers have contacted the family and made the N10million ransom demand. A former local government chairman Mr. Ajayi Bakare, said kidnapping and armed robbery were on the increase along that route because of the bad road especially in the Kogi axis. Bakare urged the government to rehabilitate the road to enable free flow movement. A police source said the abduction took place in Kogi State where the Ondo Police Command has no jurisdiction. The spokesperson of Osun State Police Command, Yemisi Opalola, in a statement said a gang of criminals attacked and abducted two Chinese namely: Messrs Zhao Jian ‘m’ 33yrs, and Wen ‘m’ 50yrs at Okepa/Itikan Village, the gold mining site in Ifewara, in which two private guards were shot. “Commissioner of Police Olawale Olokode has drafted a strong combined reinforcement of Police Tactical units, JTF, and other security outfits on search/rescue operation of the two abducted Chinese and possible arrest of the fleeing criminals.” In Ekiti, arm-wielding attackers suspected to be herders yesterday unleashed terror on three women in a farm settlement in Irele-Ekiti, in Ikole Local Council Area. The incident came less than a month after two farmers were killed by herdsmen in Isaba-Ekiti, in the same local government area. An eye-witness told our correspodent that six gunmen invaded the farmstead around 4am, demanding money. They also attempted to rape the female farmers. The source explained that the gunmen matcheted them for refusing their request. He added the victims who sustained varying degrees of injury were taken to Ikole General Hospital, where they have been receiving treatment. Police spokesman Sunday Abutu confirmed the incident, saying investigations had started. Eight persons have been confirmed killed by bandits along Kaduna-Kachia road and other locations in Kajuru and Kachia Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. 25 passengers, including women members of the Anglican Church were attacked during attack on the road in the early hours of yesterday. Four of the women were abducted. Kaduna state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan who confirmed the killings in a statement, did not mention the abduction. Aruwan said: “Five people were killed in the attack. They are: Alfred Makinde (the driver of the bus), Abdulrahman Dela, Dauda Adamu, Umar Dauda and Abdulrasheed Musa. “Three persons were injured, and are currently receiving treatment in hospital. They are: Murtala Ibrahim, Ali Manager and Abdullahi (full name unknown) . “Similarly, armed bandits barricaded the Kaduna-Kachia road at the Doka axis of Kajuru LGA and shot at a truck, killing the driver. “Any further details received on casualties will be communicated to the citizenry. “Furthermore, in Kachia LGA, armed bandits invaded a herders settlement in Inlowo village, and killed one Ibrahim Alhaji Haruna, before carting away 180 cows. “At Akilbu village in Kachia LGA, armed bandits shot at a vehicle, injuring two persons, Mansur Ibrahim and Muhammadu Aminu. Mansur Ibrahim later died in hospital while Muhammadu Aminu continues to receive treatment. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai noted the reports with sadness, and sent condolences to the families of the deceased, while praying for the repose of their souls. He also wished the injured a quick recovery. “ The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Kaduna State Chapter Chairman, Rev. John Joseph Hayab, confirmed the abduction of the Anglican Church women members. He said they had demanded N100,000 million ransom. Rev. Hayab clarified that, of the 15 members of the Church on the journey, only four were whisked away by the kidnappers. He said other occupants of the bus fled into the bush during the attack and some of them sustained injuries.