The CEO of Fruitful Juice and Services, Dr. Onyekachi Onubogu has tasked marketing leaders on the need to give priority to corporate social investment. Onubogu who made this known while presenting a paper entitled: ‘Addressing the Balance Question in the Management of Corporate Social Investment Portfolio during crisis,” argued that, nearly every CEO or marketing leader is being forced to consider three key questions in the last 12 months. According to him, “the first is what do I cut in this lockdown period and often the answer the CEO will get will be ‘cut the marketing spend and any non-essential spend’. The non-essential spend often includes Corporate Social Investments.” Raising some posers, he said, “The second question is how will I remain relevant to my customers and ensure they believe we are giving them great value during this crisis, while the third is how do I even know what portion of my marketing investment we get returns from?” While arguing that those questions typify the challenges marketing and business leaders face during crisis, Onubogu however stressed the importance of CSR/Marketing investments and the delicate balancing act that must be made to ensure organisations and people remain true to who they are and showcase what they stand for in good or tough times. “The real question should not be around balancing CS investment in a crisis, but on how to increase CS investment. “The challenge isn’t that we should cut CSI or marketing costs to improve profitability in times of crisis but for organisations and business leaders to ensure that the Corporate Social Investment becomes a part of their business continuity and sustainability plans especially during a crisis,” he noted. He noted that customers and stakeholders would always remember brands that stood by them at tough times. “A man with a vehicle that runs out of fuel in the middle of the night will remember you for stopping to give him 2 liters of fuel at night than giving him the same two liters of fuel the next day at the petrol station,” he added.