The Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), Col. Milland Dixon Dikio (retd), has challenged youths in the Niger Delta to shun violence. Dikio advised the youths to devote their strength and creative energy to technology and acquisition of digital skills to become dominant forces in the world. Dikio said violence should not in any way be associated with the region at this point. He spoke over the weekend at Agadagba Obon, Arogbo, Ondo State during the graduation ceremony of PAP delegates trained by Bradama International Skill Works Ltd in Pipeline Welding/Fabrication, Quality Assurance/Quality Control, Sandblasting, General Safety, Electrical Installation and Maintenance etc. He said further those in the digital technology industry are occupying a prime place in global economy, because their resourcefulness is in high demand. While congratulating the delegates on successful completion of their training, Dikio urged them to take maximum advantage of the various skills they have acquired to create wealth for themselves, their families, and the society in general. “The struggle Niger-Deltans are embarking on is no longer an armed struggle, but dominance in the intellectual space, science and technology driven by skill acquisition,” he said. He also encouraged the graduands to display the spirit of excellence as demonstrated by the Managing Director of Bradama International Skill Works, High Chief Bibopere Ajube aka Gen. “Shoot – At – Sight.” Ajube charged the delegates to use the skills obtained from the training institution to work, survive and build their different communities and the Niger Delta region. He lauded Dikio for his style of leadership and called for more support from all stakeholders to enable the PAP to achieve the purpose for which it was set up. Agadagba of Arogbo Ijaw Kingdom, His Imperial Majesty Pere (Barr.) Zacchaeus Doubra Egbundu commended Dikio for his achievements so far and enjoined him not to relent until enduring peace in the region is achieved. A member of the House of Representatives, representing Ilaje/Ese-Odo Federal Constituency of Ondo State, Hon. Kolade Akinjo, also lauded Dikio for his passion in giving a new direction to the Amnesty Office. He noted that since his appointment, Dikio has made the PAP to be more alive to its responsibilities because of his leadership style, which he said is centered on the beneficiaries and not strangers.