Pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, on Tuesday commiserated with the family of its departed Publicity Secretary, Yinka Odumakin. It said the deceased pro-democracy activist served the organisation for 17 years. Its General Secretary, Sola Ebiseni, said in a statement that Odumakin was an embodiment of loyalty, adding that he deployed his intellect into the service of the Yoruba race. Lagos State Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat described the late Odumakin as “a genuine and patriotic Nigerian”. Hamzat, who led the state government’s delegation to the family of the deceased in Lagos, was received by the widow, Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin. The deputy governor expressed shock and sadness over the demise of the Afenifere’s spokesman, saying the late activist would be greatly missed. Hamzat was accompanied by the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Tayo Ayinde. Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa described the late Afenifere spokesman as someone who fought endlessly for a great Nigeria and a better Yoruba race. Obasa, who led a delegation of lawmakers, said: “It is an opportunity to urge others, particularly the civil society, to continue from where he has stopped and put more efforts beyond what he achieved.” Members of the delegation included Rotimi Olowo, Adewale Temitope, Hakeem Sokunle, Olumuyiwa Jimoh, Mustaino Tobun, Setonji David, Saka Solaja, Victor Akande, Mojeed Fatai, Adedamola Kasunmu, and Nureni Akinsanya. Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, said he felt devastated by Odumakin’s death. Omotoso spoke yesterday during his condolence visit to the family of the deceased at Omole Phase 1 Estate in Ikeja, the state capital. “He was a promising young man and an active activist. He was well respected. His death is shocking to all of us,” he said. Widow of the late activist, Dr. Joe Okei-Odumakin, on Tuesday said her husband died on Friday, and not Saturday, as earlier reported. Okei-Odumakin, in another tribute, said it was important to put the record straight in the spirit of the truth that her husband stood for. In the tribute, titled: “Yinka: Basking in the Shadow that You Cast,” she wrote: “…Now that I am in possession of your death certificate, I can see you passed on at exactly 10.40 p.m on Good Friday and not in the morning of Saturday, as initially communicated. “The medics said his oxygen level was running low but my husband was reaching out for his tab to type out his column. Since no one is permitted in the Intensive Care Unit, we had committed you to the care of the best qualified medics at Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) and the hand of God, hoping to see you next morning. “The medics said they could not fathom how to immediately relay the message of your passage to me directly.”