 Troops yesterday resisted an attempt by the Islamic State of West African Province/Boko Haram to take over Kumuya Military Base in Yobe State. The insurgents however succeeded in razing a part of the base, leading to the destruction of some vital military equipment. It was not clear at press time whether there were casualty figures on both sides. Following the attack, the military has restricted movements on Damaturu-Damboa-Biu Road to enable it to trail the fleeing insurgents. A reliable military source, who spoke in confidence, said: “Disturbed by the setbacks they have been recording, Boko Haram insurgents are now targeting military locations. “They have attacked Kumuya Military Base, especially the sophisticated military equipment in the place. “But troops, with reinforcement, succeeded in resisting the insurgents. “We believe the insurgents, who have become frustrated, are getting desperate, but troops are up to the task of curtailing them.” Giving the details, PRNigeria, an independent but authoritative military covert media outlet, gave more insight into the attack.  It said: “It was gathered that the terrorists struck when some special forces of the 27 Task Force Brigade deployed at Buni Gari had gone out on clearing patrol in the axis. “The terrorists, aided by local informants and sympathizers, stormed Kumuya community, attacked ‘harmless’ villagers, the military base and destroyed heavy military equipment. “During the attack, the terrorists used heavy weapons in destroying military equipment and patrolled the community to prevent the reinforcement of soldiers. “Yet the troops that were already on ground still came out and engaged them. “The insurgents were eventually overpowered by Nigerian troops mobilised to reinforce those initially at the base. “Though it was learnt that a section of the military base at Kumuya was razed down during the attack, PRNigeria could not confirm the number of casualties recorded by troops, at press time.” Meanwhile, it was learnt that the military was mopping up the area with troops on the trail of the fleeing insurgents. The military has also restricted movement along Damaturu-Damboa-Biu Road. “The Nigerian troops have restricted movement along Damaturu-Damboa-Biu Road following attacks by members of ISWAP/Boko Haram on a Kumuya military base in Yobe State,” PRNigeria said. 