Ahead of the April 7, Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT) elections in 16 local government areas of Kwara State, some teachers have blamed successive leaders of the union for not prioritising their welfare. The teachers also urged members at the local government branches to resist attempt by any principal or headmaster to impose delegates on them. A Coordinator of Concerned Teachers from Moro Local Government Area, Abbas Muritala, told our correspondent that he had been in the trenches fighting for the right of teachers for a very long time. Muritala added: “We have been in the struggle for the betterment of teachers for more than five years. And what we have been agitating for is the teachers’ welfare. We want to change the method they have been using in electing executives of the state NUT. “This time around, we want every teacher in the state to know his or her right; that no principal or headmaster has power to choose delegates that will elect the NUT executives at all levels. “The delegates should be chosen in the schools democratically. The teachers are to choose their representatives at local government level. “That is why we are sensitising our people to know their rights. NUT  eletion    at the local government level slated for April 7, 2021 will take place during the holiday. We want teachers to come out en-masse and vote for the candidates of their choice. Those that have hitherto been representing us had failed us. They failed to protect our interests that border on paying of salary arrears, promotion and others.” Another Coordinator from Ilorin West Mallam Abubakar AbdulWahab, hailed the NUT executives in the state for promising to ensure free and fair election under his watch. “I want to appreciate the NUT chair in the state Chief Olu Adewara. He promised free and fair election. We believe he is a man of his words who wants to write his name in gold,’’ he said. Within the shortest period in office, he has given NUT secretariat a good shape. He deserves a big commendation for that. Having said that, we are urging teachers to come out and vote for the candidates of their choice on election day,” he said. 