While we all know that all the cryptocurrencies created after the revolutionary invention of Bitcoin had subsequently followed the footprints of Bitcoin. Either you take Ethereum, Ripple, XRP, or any other crypto coin, it’s always a debatable question about who will dominate the rest. The bitcoin prices are today surging more than ever before. It has recently reached the peak of $55,000 price value and a whopping trillion-dollar market capitalization which is not easy to beat. Being the first largest decentralized platform with minimal to zero transaction fees and no third-party influence has been bitcoin’s biggest strength. That is why we’re a bit hesitant if there is any existing cryptocurrency that can actually beat bitcoin. Among the 500+ cryptocurrencies present, let’s dive deep to know the creation, progress, and success of all the main cryptocurrencies that have possibilities to beat bitcoin in the future. Ethereum has taken things to the next level by its smart contracts and D’apps technology. Founded in 2015 after Vitalik Buterin, it is a decentralized software platform that is a lot more efficient, independent, and safe than the rest of the cryptocurrencies. As per Oil Profit, Ethereum has the highest price value and market capitalization after bitcoin which is $2,161 and $40.6 billion respectively. By directly connecting buyers to the seller, ethereum greatly reduces the risk of fraud, lack of inefficiency, error in transactions, etc. An incredible invention by a co-former Google engineer in 2011, Litecoin is a silver bitcoin that works pretty well than the actual bitcoin. It has the maximum chances to take bitcoin’s place only if its value goes up. The reason for that is Litecoin is fast, efficient, and easy-to-make global payments. Also, it has quite a higher supply and is easily accessible at lower prices than the trillion-dollar bitcoin. However, litecoin has acquired immense popularity in the crypto world as it is globally proved as a safe, easy and effective bitcoin alternative. Here comes another crypto that has captured the spotlight as the safest cryptocurrency present yet. It is also well-known as ouroboros-proof-of-stake that works on a decentralized blockchain given after the release of 90 research papers. Founded by Cardano, this crypto coin has offered an extremely easy, secure, and effective global financial operating system. It became a major help in making transactions and building financial products with respecting the government rules & regulations. Following the success of bitcoin, Cardono has a market cap of $9.8 billion and the lowest price value of $0.30. Polka dot has a special fanbase among beginner crypto investors who are hesitant to take risks on huge capitals. It currently achieves to be on 6th rank in terms of market capitalization that is $34.3 billion. It solely works on advanced cryptocurrency software that ensures the complete security of all the permissioned and permission less blockchains. The system on which polka dot works allows the cryptocurrency exchange and their feasible use. This interoperability of blockchain excels it from bitcoin in terms of privacy that is only used by Polkadot. One coin of polka dot today trades at an average price value of $12.54. One of the most anticipated and credible altcoins we have on the list. Bitcoin cash was founded in 2017 and considered an outcome of the split happening between different digital currencies. The idea that backed the creation of bitcoin cash was to introduce crypto that is both profitable and scalable. The greater the scaling of a crypto more the blocks attached in any blockchain technology. Bitcoin cash is also one of the other effective alternatives of bitcoin with a market cap of $8.9 billion and a price value of $513.45. Conclusion: Bitcoin is one of the leading cryptocurrency at the moment and its market value has exceeded $55,000, which is insane. However, other cryptocurrencies have the potential to beat bitcoin and become top currency.