 The Community Health Practitioners Registration Board of Nigeria (CHPRBN) has urged community health practitioners to avoid embarking on industrial action for the sake of patients. It stressed that the use of  strike as a tool for negotiation should be the last resort to the healthcare officers. Acting CHPRBN Registrar, Alhaji Ajimi Mustapha, spoke while addressing 915 fresh community health graduates during their induction in Abuja on Tuesday. He advised the health workers to close ranks and work together for the development of the health sector. The inductees, who were sworn in by the board during the ceremony, graduated  from 15 teaching hospitals, including  the Lagos University Teaching Hospital; University College Hospital, Ibadan; Obafemi Awolowo University Hospital, Ile-Ife; University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital; Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital and others. Speaking on the use of strike for negotiation by health workers in the country, Mustapha said: “May I advise that the use of strike actions as a tool for negotiation should be as a last resort. “Community Health Practitioners practice work in remote areas and in difficult terrain, where in some cases, they are the only health professionals available to take care of patients. Hence, strike actions are to be avoided for the sake of the patient.” The registrar,  who noted that community health has developed since its early days in the late 70’s, paid homage to late Prof Olikoye Ransome Kuti, whom he described as the father of the community health profession and primary health care in the country. He said the board was working to digitise its core services, including indexing, examination, registration, licensing and verification activities, all of which would be done online. Mustapha appealed to members who instuted legal cases against their colleagues to withdraw them and opt for out-of-court settlement. He added: “We should all embrace the time-honoured saying that ‘a house divided against itself cannot stand.’ Consequenty, we should avoid having factions or frictions in the National Association of Community Health Practitioners of Nigeria.” A former CHPRBN registrar, Bashir Umar, advised the inductees to continue learning and improving on their knowledge and skills while adhering strictly to the code of ethics and values of the profession.