 A middle-aged woman has stabbed a 14-year-old boy Joseph Thomas to death in Yenagoa, the Bayelsa State capital. The incident which reportedly occurred yesterday along Genesis Street, off Okaka Road, caused an uproar in the state capital. A mob comprising neighbours of the deceased were said to have descended on the accused woman and nearly lynched her. It was gathered that the quick arrival of a patrol police team  saved the woman from the mob. Some eyewitnesses said the accused woman was deranged and had allegedly attempted to stab another boy a few meters away from where he killed Thomas. The suspect allegedly stabbed her first victim in the arm before proceeding to kill Thomas. One of the residents of Genesis Street,  identified simply as Panebi, said the woman, believed to be an indigene of Enugu State, was popularly known to be preaching the gospel of Christ in the early hours of the morning along Okaka Road. Panebi said, “But on this particular day, she was carrying a Bible and started displaying strange behaviour by displaying a dagger. She chased everyone that came across her until she reached the victims’s house and broke the door.  “She dragged the boy to the middle of the road and stabbed him three times. Angry youths on the street started retaliating by attacking her with stones and planks until she fell down. The police came to her rescue.” Grandmother of the deceased, identified only as Maudlyn, said Thomas was in the house when he was accosted and killed by the woman. She said: “I went to buy something. I was still at the place when someone told me that a mad woman was looking for me and wanted to kill me. I wondered why a mad woman would be looking for me. I ran into my neighbour’s house to seek refuge. While at the neighbour’s house, I heard a noise from neighbours that she had stabbed my grandson to death.” Also speaking, a neighbour, who craved anonymity, said she was preparing her children for school when the incident occurred. President, DO Foundation, Dise Ogbise, a group involved in the civil advocacy against domestic violence and violence against children in the state, expressed anger against the killing of the teenager. She stated:  “We are interested in this case and it must be further investigated. A woman just lost her son and relations to the accused woman are already raising the defence of insanity. We are not convinced that she is insane. Police spokesman Asinim Butswat confirmed the development, saying that the woman was in custody. 