  Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Rev.Fr Ejike Mbaka has slammed Nigerian leaders, including President Muhammadu Buhari, over insecurity in the country. Specifically, Mbaka advised  Buhari to resign or be impeached because “God is angry with him.” Mbaka,  a staunch supporter of Buhari in the build-up to the 2015 elections, spoke at the Adoration Ministry in Enugu on Wednesday. The cleric said it was wrong for the President to “maintain grave silence” in the face of widespread killings in the country. His words: “I know people will say, Mbaka did you not pray for Buhari. But, I ask: did Samuel not anoint Saul? What are you talking about? Am I the creator of Buhari? God created him, Nigerians trusted him because he had done well sometimes ago, but now how can people just be dying? “God will ask Nigerians: ‘Nigerians why are you crying?’ and we answer: ‘we are crying because our leaders have failed us woefully.’ If it is in a sane country, by now, President Buhari will resign. Quote me anywhere and let the whole world hear it. By now, with what is happening, President Buhari should honourably resign. “We are crying because we don’t have a shepherd. All those that will fight, what I am saying now, will eventually suffer. If you(Buhari) can’t do it, either you resign or you are changed. A good coach cannot watch his team defeated when he has players sitting and watching from the bench. Either Buhari resigns by himself or he will be impeached. “This statement is too mysterious and supernatural. I know that people will begin to fight it. The chief security officer of a country will not just be sitting down and not making any comment. “Gunmen are attacking everybody. Why are you crying Nigerian youths? As I said, foreign nations have become a dumping ground for our ingenious youths. Young doctors and lawyers are running away from Nigeria to countries we used to be better than. “What is the matter? Nigerians are crying, why? Because there is no security in this country.” Mbaka, therefore, called on the  House of Representatives  and the Senate to “impeach the President, if he doesn’t want to resign.” He said: “If the members of these two houses do not want to impeach him and they want to begin to fight Fr. Mbaka, something worse than what they ever imagined will happen to them. Disaster is coming.” Mbaka also warned that “if those in   the government fail to    find something useful for our youths, they are going to face disaster.” He  added: “A time is coming when, if you are asked to be a governor, senator or House of a representatives member, you will begin to run because I’m trying to tell you that we cannot continue like this.”   “The leaders have made our youths suffer; it is time for civilians to make the leaders suffer too. Enough of this rubbish. “Now, to feed, pay house rent, pay tax, and even to import products have doubled.  The international community cannot come to Nigeria to invest anymore. Are we living or dying? “God is asking what is the matter. I am telling God now, let him change our leaders for us… “God is angry with our leaders, from Buhari to the last person in power. God’s anger is upon you, you have failed God.”