A chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Salihu Lukman, has warned the governing party to be mindful of enemies from within as the 2023 general elections get closer. He said the electoral prospects of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and other opposition parties are dependent on the outcome of internal contests in the ruling APC. Lukman, who is also the Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum in a statement titled: “Determining factors for 2023 contests in APC” in Abuja on Monday warned the ruling party against self destruction. He recalled how internal wrangling and disagreement among leaders of the party led to the defeat in Rivers, Zamfara, Bauchi, Adamawa, Oyo States and many other states during the 2019 general elections. He warned: “If anything, the lesson from the 2019 elections, which every APC leader and member should be reminded is that APC was defeated in Rivers, Zamfara, Bauchi, Adamawa, Oyo and many other places by aggrieved APC leaders who worked against candidates or leaders of the party as a result of internal disagreements around candidate selections for Governorship of these states. “Such internal disagreement almost cost the party the loss of Imo State until the Supreme Court confirmed the victory of the APC. “In Ogun, it was a traumatic victory. Kano State Governorship election certainly had its baggage of painful experiences. Lagos State was a shocking narrow victory, no thanks to avoidable challenges. Rambo political contest led to the loss of Edo State in the 2020 Governorship election.” He however said once the party can manage the process of internal contest for the emergence of candidates of the party for 2023 elections such that all those who contested with the winners can accept the outcomes as well as support the candidates, it is possible for the party to continue to enjoy all the electoral advantages associated with President Buhari. “How the party is able to manage the process of internal contest is now the challenge. “The biggest problem in politics, which compromises both leaders and members and weaken capacity to provide generic support to candidates irrespective of who emerges is the personal ambitions of leaders for elective and appointive positions,” he stated.