There is the need for the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to create a special window for domestic carriers to access foreign exchange (forex) in procuring spares for their aircraft,the Chairman, United Nigeria Airlines, Obiora Oknkwo, has said. Okonkwo said the bi-weekly window for bidding by banks on behalf of airlines was not yielding the right results as airlines had to seek an alternative window to secure forex to meet their needs. At a briefing in Lagos, Okonkwo said the carrier is open to various options of collaboration, including pooling of aircraft, spares, tools and expertise to deliver stronger airlines that will contribute to the growth of the air transport industry. Besides, delivering strong carriers, the United Nigeria Airlines boss said cooperation among airlines would drive down costs, creating economies of scale. He unveiled plans by the airline to set up an aircraft Maintenance Repair and Overhaul Centre (MRO) in Enugu. The MRO, he said, will serve not only his airline, but also other operators who utilise the Enbraer regional jets. The chairman said United Nigeria Airlines was in talks with foreign partners. “We are in a process of acquiring land from FAAN to set up our MRO and since our base is in Enugu, we wanted to establish it there. We gave ourselves 24 months to start doing  C-Check in our facility,” he said. United Nigeria Airlines,  he  said, is negotiating an additional two Embraer ERJ145 aircraft to help its consolidation plans on the domestic route with plans  to procure a bigger aircraft as it consolidates its flights on designated routes. Okonkwo said the Embraer 145 aircraft chosen by the carrier was  thought through because of its attendant fuel economy and efficiency, a factor he affirmed accounts for significant reduction in operating costs. He said: “The ERJ 145 is a good fuel efficient aircraft and we are negotiating an additional two  Embraers and we would use that to consolidate on our entire routes. As you know after we do that, we go for a bigger aircraft. As you know the Embraer is a good fuel efficient aircraft but we need a bigger aircraft for baggage. “We have gone through due diligence before we earmarked the ERJ as the choice of aircraft and the fuel utilisation is a huge advantage. It might surprise you to know that the evening we got our Air Operators Certificate (AOC) we opened our portal and the first flight within 12 hours we have full passenger load,” the chairman said. He said the carrier eight weeks after commencing operations, has flown over 25,000 passengers, with an average of 3,200 passengers weekly. 