The Itsekiri nation was engulfed in jubilation when Prince Tsola Emiko, son of the 19thOlu of Warri, was unveiled as the Olu-designate two weeks ago. But there are still concerns over the manner he emerged and the fear that a 41-year-oldcustomary law could cut short his dream – and those of his supporters – of becoming the 21stOlu of the 600-year-old kingdom. SHOLA O’NEIL, South-south Regional Editor, reviews the issues at stake, explaining why the odds are still stacked against the Olu-designate in the face of the 1979 Edict, as well as the tribe’s leaders’effort to avoid an implosion resulting from the myriad of other issues.  On Easter Monday, April 5, 2021, a day that Christians all over the world were regaling in the rising of Jesus Christ, the Itsekiri people converged on their ancestral home of Ode-Itsekiri to receive the news of the transition of Ogiame Ikenwoli. The monarch’s passage occurred since December 2020, despite denials by traditionalists. As it is the norm, the occasion was used to unveil the next Olu. It was just 2,022 days since September 2015 when they received the news of Ogiame Atuwatse II’s passage. Both the aged and superstitious youths murmured about the manner of the latest royal departure and expressed sadness at the number of Alejefun they had seen in just half a decade. Some of those who spoke to this reporter hinted that the ebura (ancestral spirit) could be telling them something through the recent happenings in the kingdom. The poignancy of the occasion was mellowed by the high expectation on the announcement of the people’s choice, 37-year-old Prince Utienyinoritsetsola Emiko, as the successor to the 20th Ogiame. The young prince holds the hope of the Itsekiri people, and like his uncle before him, he is touted as the god-chosen and one that would catalyse changes in the kingdom. The event of that sunny Monday was a stark contrast with the September 2015 ceremony when Chief Tesiginweno Yahya Pessu, the Ojomo of Warri Kingdom, surrounded by the full complement of the Warri Traditional Council of Chiefs, broke two earthen pots adorned with red garlands and filled with white chalk (efun) to signify Alejefun (the transition of an Olu). As the oldest member of the Olu Advisory Council, Ojoye-Isan, Chief Pessu was at the right place at the right time. His role and position in the kingdom was uncontested. Months after the transition of the Ogiame Atuwatse II, he led the kingdom’s search for a new monarch with a dignifying sense of purpose and total support of the Itsekiri people. The outcome of that exercise was mostly calm and unchallenged. The Easter Monday ceremony was fraught with uncertainty and a scintilla of fear. Prior to the occasion, the kingdom was divided, tense with controversies from the manner of Ogiame Ikenwoli’s passage to the search for his successor. There were clear signals that all was not well in Iwere Land (Warri Kingdom).  The Iyatsere, Chief Johnson Atserunleghe, was the conductor. He headed the Olu Advisory Council, even though there is a living Ologbotsere. He and members of the reconstituted OAC unceremoniously went into Ode-Itsekiri on Sunday, rather than wait till Monday morning to make the short boat ride. The move was because of ill-omened police invitations to members of the council. Although the summons was purportedly based on a petition that the ceremony could cause a breach of the peace, there was fear that the aim was to stymie the chiefs and stop the ceremony. Only Chief Isaac Jemide (Oshodi) and Mene Brown reported at the state police headquarters Asaba on the fateful day. It was against this backdrop that a collective sigh of relief spread through the Itsekiri Nation Assembly when Prince Tsola Emiko was presented as the Olu-designate. It was clear that the people were determined to put behind them the ugly incident of nearly four months since rumour broke out that the 20th Olu had joined his ancestors after just five years and eight days on the throne. For Omoba Tsola Emiko, the Olu-designate of Warri Kingdom, the wait to ascend the revered throne, which his father exited in 2015, has been a long, patient journey. He was bypassed in the 2015 selection process when he was naturally the first in line because his mother is Yoruba. The legal instrument regulating the process -‘DECLARATION MADE UNDER SECTION 8 OF THE TRADITIONAL RULERS AND CHIEFS EDICT STATING THE CUSTOMARY LAW REGULATING SUCCESSION TO THE TITLE OF OLU OF WARRI’ excludes princes not born by Itsekiri or Bini mothers from ascending the throne. Many wondered then why his father, the 19th Olu, OgiameAtuwatse II, throughout his 28 years reign failed to instigate a review of the Edict, which he knew would knock his first son and heir apparent to the throne out of the contest to succeed him. For eight of those years, an Itsekiri son, Dr Emmanuel Uduaghan, was the governor, yet the contentious edict stood. Destiny has smiled on him six years later as he emerged the popular and ‘oracle’s choice’. At the time of this report, he was on the last lap of his quest to assume a role he was born into and groomed for 37 years ago. He enjoys immense support from a broad spectrum of the Itsekiri people, especially the youth, who canvassed, coaxed and coerced others to join the movement. The campaign was everywhere, on the streets of the kingdom and pages of social media. The slogan was folefun (speak out) and it soon became a hash-tag that went beyond selection of a monarch – it signaled a potential revolution against some elements in the kingdom. The Omoba has commenced his Ideniken- a process where he takes the final tutorials, performs the rituals towards becoming the traditional leader of the Itsekiri nation in body, mind, spirit and soul.  Aoiri Obaigbo, a journalist and author of ‘The Wretched Billionaire’ said the Ideniken is meant for him to “shed his ‘ordinariness’ and ritually transform to a being worthy of the Itsekiri crown.”  Still unclear path to the throne Omoba Tsola Emiko’s seclusion (Ideniken) is for three lunar months, but the path to the throne remains curvaceous, thorny and may take much longer. In fact, our findings show that in spite of the buzz over the coming installation there are fears that his feet could be as far from the royal stool today as it was six years ago. He faces a cocktail of legal and official acceptability hurdles, which the Itsekiri nation must meander through and come out unscathed.  It will be recalled that The Nation had in its widely acclaimed report titled “TROUBLE IN THE KINGDOM’, predicted that all was not well in the kingdom, and the events of the latest happenings in the kingdom confirms that position. Congratulatory messages have poured in from everywhere: from President Muhammadu Buhari, APC National leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and leaders from other kingdoms far and wide, including Bini and Yoruba lands. Buhari, who was away in London, United Kingdom, speaking through his media aide, Mr Femi Adesina, acknowledged that all was not well and admonished the Itsekiri people to resolve their internal issues. Adesina said the President “counsels love and reconciliation after a pulsating race for the throne, noting that peradventure dissensions exists, such should be resolved through due process.” The State Governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa, who holds the final approval (official recognition and staff of office), has maintained a very deafening silence that echoes from Government House Asaba to Ode-Itsekiri and beyond. The Governor told our reporter that he was not in a hurry to offer congratulations, maintaining that contentions around the Omoba’s emergence must be “sorted out”. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olisa Ifeajika in a telephone chat on Tuesday morning, he said: “We are aware of issues on it. There is the Ologbotsere who is supposed to be the one performing some roles… Until those issues are cleared, the state government will continue to sue for peace. The most the government can do is to plead that all concerned should give peace a chance.” Ifeajika said the governor was watching events closely to ensure that they do not degenerate into a crisis that could threaten lives and property in the area. The governor’s aide was apparently referring to the face-off between Ginuwa Ruling House and the Ologbotsere. To clear the path to that Monday’s Alejefun and the unveiling of Prince Tsola as the Olu-designate, the Ologbotsere, Chief Ayirimi Emami, was suspended and his office handed to another. The Ologbotsere courted trouble when he allegedly ‘singlehandedly’ rejected Prince Tsola Emiko as the family’s candidate. Although the decision was collectively taken by the council of chiefs, based on their interpretation of the 1979 Edict, the same instrument that was used to sideline the now Omoba in 2015, the Ologbotsere was accused of pursuing a personal agenda. He told The Nation that he was merely following the Edict and guiding the Itsekiri stool. Paragraph 5 of the declaration states: “The Oldest man in the Ruling House presents a candidate selected to the Ologbotsere, who in turn presents him to the Olu Advisory Council…” When Prince Tsola was presented to the Ologbotsere, it was learnt that the Ojoye-Isan met and asked the family to present another candidate. The decision was conveyed to the family by the Ologbotsere, who asked for another candidate, but the Ruling House insisted on Prince Tsola as its sole candidate. The Olori-Ebi (administrative head) of Ginuwa I Ruling House, Prince Emmanuel Okotie-Eboh, as was the norm, further sent a letter to the Ologbotsere informing him of their decision as well as directing him to kick start the process towards Alejefun, and ultimately installation of the candidate. The Ologbotsere publicly tore the letter and returned its shred in an envelope to the House; an action that was widely condemned by the Itsekiri, including those who did not support the emergence of Prince Tsola. Chief Omolubi Newuwumi described Emami’s action as “not mature of his (Ologbotsere’s) position or any civilised and educated person.” It was however learnt that the rash act was the manifestation of a no-love-lost relationship between the Ologbotsere and some members of the royal family. A source close to Emami accused the family head of treating the former without the respect befitting his position in the kingdom. In response, the Ruling House held a press conference and announced the suspension of the Ologbotsere and dissolution of the Ojoye-Isan. A new Ojoye-Isan was constituted with the Iyatsere, Chief Johnson Amatserunleghe (also Atserunleghe) saddled with the role of Ologbotsere and the task of completing the succession process. The text of the statement read by Prince Toju Emiko stated: “Chief Ayiri Emami, having exhibited actions and tendencies unbecoming of the position he occupies, and having proven himself unworthy of the Ologbotsere stool, is hereby suspended from Warri Council of Chiefs.” These actions triggered a chain of events that have now pushed the kingdom even closer to the precipice. The Itsekiri nation has been a divided house for years, the influence of oil wealth and quest for patronages from oil companies and control of the commonwealth of the people by key players who are also very visible in this issue had created a very delicate balance that is now being threatened by the latest debacle. Some players behind the scene are believed to be aligning with sides that guarantee their interests and align with their bias Supporters of the Ologbotsere question the Ruling House’s power to unseat him and replace him in the process, while others query the power of the Ologbotsere and Ojoye-Isanto to disqualify a candidate chosen by the House.  The Olu designate and dilemma of 1979 edict Okotie-Eboh, who signed the statement to sack the Ologbotsere, dismissed the 1979 Edict relied upon by Emami and the OAC. He described the simple, one-page document as one “hurriedly put together by a handful of leaders to meet the exigencies of that time”, hinting that the document has outlived its usefulness. His position was greeted by thunderous applauses by backers of the Olu-designate, while others commended the Olori-Ebi for invoking the ‘doctrine of necessity’ – an ‘illegal’ action taken to prevent a greater harm or prevent injustice. Okotie-Eboh is being hailed as the messiah whose action has unshackled the tribe from the grip of the Ologbotesere. The Iyatsere, who was appointed as acting head of the OAC, unsurprisingly agreed with the family. In a statement made available to The Nation last week, he said: “I, as the Iyatsere, I am the original Prime Minister of the Warri Kingdom.” While downplaying the influence of the Ologbotsere, Chief Amatserunleghe explained that from 1480 when the kingdom was founded to 1760, “there was nothing like Ologbotsere in Warri Kingdom… After the first Ologbotsere in 1760 there was no Ologbotsere till 1951. Then we have others like Ayiri who came in 2017.” He said: “Contrary to Ayiri’s claim, the Itsekiri nation is happy and supported the emergence of the Olu-designate. Chief Ayiri is allowing the material of the world to cloud his possible sense of value judgment.” The Edict and legal experts disagree. Our findings revealed that the ‘hurriedly-put-together’ document is the only known legal instrument guiding the selection of an Olu, and its perceived flouting could create credibility and legal challenges for the 21st Olu of Warri. Our findings showed that the document, in spite of the Iyatsere’s assertion, confers enormous power on the Ologbotsere in all processes from the selection to the crowning of an Olu. The Edict, which our reporter obtained in 2015, is replete with roles that only the Ologbotsere must perform and contains phrases like “the Ologbotsere summons….” “…in the opinion of the Ologbotsere”. The Olu Advisory Council (Ojoye-Isan), which is recognised in the Edict, consists of “the Ologbotsere, Iyatsere, the Uwangue, the Ojomo, Oshodi and two Ojoyes (titled noblemen) whose presence in the opinion of the Ologbotsere is essential”. Paragraph 7 of the Edict is unambiguous that it is the responsibility of the Ologbotsere to present the new Olu: “After the approval of the candidate by the Olu Advisory Council and the oracles, the Ologbotsere summons at his residence meeting of the Ojoyes (noblemen) and there he announces the passing away of the demised Olu and appointment of a successor who then is presented to the Ojoyes by the Ologbotsere.” The Nation recalls that the Ologbotsere title was highly contested in 2017 when Olu Ikenwoli decided to fill the vacant position in the Olu Advisory Council. Very prominent Itsekiri leaders, including Chief Oma Eyewuoma, openly indicated their interests. Critics of Ogiame Atuwatse II’s 28 years without the highest ranking member of the OAC believe it was meant to avoid conflict and whittle the powers of the council. Although Mr Amorighoye Sunny Mene, Scribe of the Itsekiri Leaders of Thought, told our reporter that the Ologbotsere, contrary to popular belief, is not the Prime Minster, other sources told our reporter that the title grew in significance and influence when Chief Ogbemi Rewane held it, during which time the edict was drafted. “The Ologbotsere of that era, Chief Ogbemi Rewane, elder brother of the industrialist and NADECO Chieftain, Chief Alfred Rewani, was a very influential man and he remains one of the most powerful Ologbotseres in our history. So, it is not impossible that men like that could have influenced the edict and given tremendous powers to the title,” one of those opposed to the powers of the Ologbotsere said. It was against this fear of the tremendous power an Ologbotsere wields that there was a loud outcry when Chief Emami was announced as the Ologbotsere in October 2017, just five years after he became a member of the traditional council. His rise to the position was astronomical -five years after he was conferred with Ajuwaoyiboyemi on 28th April 2012 (two days after his 37th birthday). Some Itsekiri leaders believed that he was inexperienced and unprepared for the responsibilities and challenges of the stool. Those who fought, in vain, to stop the conferment of the title on Emami in 2017 are now unanimous in support for the Ruling House’s decision to suspend the Ologbotsere, in a move that is seen as part of a bigger plan for his deposition and expulsion from the council of chiefs. “Some of the people involved in this crisis are biased. The battle is beyond who sits on the throne of the Olu but about interests and influence.  “We are one of the richest in the Niger Delta region with hundreds of communities like Ugborodo, Abiteye, Otumara and others hosting multi-billion dollar oil and gas installations. The $9 billion EGTL and Chevron Nigeria Limited tank farm is located in Ugborodo and a few of the key players in the power play are long time friends and adversaries whose sides have hardly changed,” a Sapele-based Itsekiri youth said on condition that he would not be named. “There are also other external forces, which are reportedly sponsoring a faction for both economic and other strategic reasons. “Some much money is involved in everything you see happening today. Who is funding them? Who are pumping out the money and what are their interests?”  Tsola Emiko illegal omoba—Prince Bernard, Jemide Expectedly, Ologbotsere Emami is contesting his suspension and the Easter Monday event at Ode-Itsekiri. He told our reporter on the telephone that Okotie-Eboh and the ruling house “are joking,” adding that whatever action on the succession taken without him is bound to fall flat in the face of legal scrutiny. A number of princes and sons of Olu Erejuwa II, including Prince Benjamin Emiko, Jaiye, and those of Ikenwoli, Oyowoli and Omatsuli, side with the Ologbotsere. Prince Bernard Emiko told our reporter that the processes leading to the emergence of Omoba Tsola Emiko were illegal. “It (unveiling of Prince Tsola) is an illegal process that will come to nothing,” he said in an SMS response to our inquiry. Benjamin had earlier called for an independent, transparent process in the selection process, insisting that the consultation of the oracle must be done in the open to convince all aspirant to the throne of its sincerity. Chief Isaac Jemide, the Oshodi, and one of the oldest members of the Ojoye-Isan, also cautioned against perceived illegality of the Ruling House’s action. He particularly faulted the suspension of the Ologbotsere. The lawyer and former Chair of the Itsekiri Leaders of Thought opined that the ruling house cannot give what it does not have, buttressing its point with the Latin phrase “Nemodat quod non habet. Similarly, an aged Itsekiri community leader from Ubeji said the position of an Ologbotsere “is not one that can be given and taken at will. We have had occasions where the Olu and Ologbotsere do not agree – they do not have to always agree – but that does not mean that the Ologbotsere can be removed.” Chiefs Thomas Ereyitomi (National Assembly member representing Warri Federal Constituency), Francis Omatseyi, and Newuwumi, Hon Michael Diden, a former member of the Delta State House of Assembly, Prince Akoma Dudu, and his son Mode, are also among opponents of not necessarily the emergence of the Omoba but how he was chosen. Speaking with newsmen on the crisis for the first time on Sunday, April 11, 2021, Prof Itse Sagay, carefully skirted the issue: “Certainly, he (Tsola) is the choice of the people and he is to be congratulated. My hope is that there will be a peaceful resolution which will fully confirm his emergence as Olu-elect of Warri.” Unlike Chiefs Jemide and Sagay, our investigations showed, other Itsekiri leaders who opposed the House’s action are unwilling to swim against the tide of popular opinion in the kingdom, but remain apprehensive on the sideline. Our reporter was privy to a telephone exchange between one of the known opponents and a very highly placed political office holder in the present administration in the state. The political office holder was heard saying he supports the use of the edict but that ‘position’ makes it difficult (for him) to speak out about the anomaly”.  Peace shuttles on full throttle A usually reliable source said the ILOT is working round the clock to find a peaceful resolution of the crisis. “Everybody knows that a prolonged legal tussle will do nobody nogood, and certainly not the kingdom. So the way out is to look for an amicable resolution that is acceptable to all parties.” The ILOT, our finding shows, has covered a lot of ground in frantic meeting with all stakeholders at the home of Chief Jemide. A source said the group understood “that this is a dangerous situation and the Ologbotsere is an integral part of it.” Even though the Ologbotsere told our reporter that he was holding consultations but is not against the Omoba. “My point is that they must follow the due process,” he said. Chief Otimeyin Adams countered, saying Prince Tsola’s election followed due process and urged Chief Emami and others to accept the offer of peace by the Ruling House.  “The chiefs followed due process. Everything was strictly followed and in line with what the Itsekiris want and not what one man’s view,” he said. On Article 4 of the Edict, Adams said it contradicts the Nigerian Constitution. “The Nigerian constitution says nobody should be disqualified as a result of his birth, religion, or where he comes from.” At the time of this report on Thursday, several high-powered stakeholders’ meetings were ongoing, not only in Warri, but outside the state, including Benin City and the Southwest, from where the Olori Gladys Durorike Atuwatse, the Omoba’s mother, hails. The Ooni of Ife was very unequivocal in his determination to have the issues resolved – in favour of the Omoba. The Ologbotsere has also met with the Benin monarch, Oba Ewuare II. Even though what was discussed at the Thursday meeting in Benin was not revealed, it was believed to be part of efforts to resolve the impasse. On Wednesday, ILOT held a meeting with Ayiri at the home of Chief Jemide, where discussions were said to be robust and fruitful. “The Ologbotsere is like a bull in a china shop. He has to be handled with care so that you do not end up destroying everything in the shop while trying to tie it down,” one of the peace advocates said of their effort. Nevertheless, The Nation gathered that one of the sticking points in the search for peace is the role for the Ologbotsere. It was gathered that Chief Emami would demand for a restoration of his duties as a condition for peace. Conversely, the ruling house is said to be unwilling to make the concession, especially on crowning the new Olu, as was done by Ologbotsere O.N Rewane in 1986. The crowning of Ikenwoli was done by Pa Ajofotan Oparokun in 2015, as there was no Ologbotsere at that time. It was learnt that Prince Okotie-Eboh and the ruling house would rather have a similar arrangement than bring back Chief Emami to the process. Despite all the knotty issues, ILOT Chairman, Chief Edward Ekpoko, expressed confidence that the ethnic group would get past them and come out stronger.  He said the group was working assiduously behind the scene and urged all external interests to allow the group resolve its issues. Ekpoko’s position and antecedents of some of the leaders involved reinforced confidence that the issues would be resolved as “a family affair”, but the cost and extent which some of the dramatic personae could go could get clearer in the weeks ahead.  The conundrum of missing crown If ILOT and other peace advocates manage to resolve the logjam, they still have to unravel the puzzle surrounding two missing crowns. The epaulets have been an ever-present feature of the throne since the 17th Century when the 7th Olu, Ogiame Atuwatse, received it as a parting gift from Portugal where he studied from 1600-1611 before returning home with a Portuguese wife, and became the first graduate in sub-Saharan Africa. The whereabouts of the coveted pair of crowns, comprising the King’s that is made of diamond and the queen’s (hewn from silver), remain unknown. Our reporter learnt that the search for the crown is being handled at the Zone 5 Command of the Nigerian Police Force in Benin City, Edo State. The mystery of how the crowns were whisked out of the Aghofen (palace) in the Warri metropolis has remained unsolved nearly one month after the invasion of the palace. But security operatives hinted our reporter that the disappearance could be part of the intrigues over the emergence of a new Olu in the Kingdom. “The crowns are too heavy to be stolen. It has a cultural, spiritual and heritage connotations. Anyone who steals it would invite a curse to themselves. We believe that they would be found eventually,” an Itsekiri leader said.