The President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Revd Dr Supo Ayokunle, has applauded the humility and sense of dedication of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, to the attainment of a greater Nigeria. According to the CAN president, through the exemplary dedication to the service of humanity, humility and the godly disposition to leadership of Osinbajo, Nigeria will find solutions to its challenges. Ayokunle, who is also the President of the Nigerian Baptist Convention, stated this at the 108th annual convention of the church held at its Conference Centre along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway over the weekend. The Vice-President attended the joint evening worship programme of the ongoing annual convention of the Baptist congregation in Nigeria. While praying for the Vice-President and other persons in positions of authority, the CAN President said the church was aware that “you have on your shoulders, very intimidating assignments at this trying time, I have never seen a time so trying in the history of this country than this one.”  “Evil men are just rising everywhere. Up till now, we don’t know who really offended them. They are just rising in the spirit of wickedness, killing, maiming, vandalizing and troubling the entire nation. “I pray for everyone in leadership here, I pray for the Vice President of this country, may you finish well in Jesus name. Thank you Lord because you continue to put your honour on him. And through him, Nigeria shall find solutions to all its challenges,” Dr Ayokunle added. Extolling the exemplary qualities of Osinbajo in his message themed ‘Moving Forward: Finishing the Race with Joy’, the CAN President said many leaders of faith across Nigeria were fascinated by Osinbajo’s disposition to leadership and were learning from it. According to him, “Though his Excellency is a Vice President to all of us, but by humility, whenever he sees me, he still calls me ‘My President’. To me, that is more than humility. It is a way of identifying with the body of Christ in Nigeria.”