 Nigeria today faces twin-challenges: securing vaccines to checkmate the COVID-19 pandemic; and waging winning battles against rampant insecurity. To roll back the two requires fresh and urgent investment of public funds.  But to get value from fresh cash requires probity, accountability and transparency, especially on previous investments, as a precondition for releasing fresh funds.  Transparency is, therefore, vital for public confidence. On the security front, however, the public perception of transparency appears rather low, especially after National Security Adviser, retired Major-Gen. Babagana Monguno’s interview on BBC Hausa service, suggested some opacity in the management of hefty arms money, earlier released for materiel, to combat terrorism. The media interpreted that to mean the money was “missing”.  But Garba Shehu, presidential spokesperson, rolled all that back, to claim that missing arms money, under President Muhammadu Buhari, was “impossible”; though he proffered no proof to back up his claim.  The NSA himself would soon recant, claiming his interview was taken out of context. Therefore, even without the proverbial “smoking gun” either way, this controversy does transparency, and public confidence over the matter, little good. But Senate President Ahmad Lawan appears to have little dissonance on approving fresh funds for the executive, either for vaccines and allied infrastructure or to procure more ammo, hardware and platforms, to battle insecurity. “Today, I’m sure in Nigeria, there are no more grave issues than COVID-19 and security situation in the country,” he told The Nation. “And I’m sure that when we give more resources to our security agencies, we will see an even faster recovery of our situation.” The Senate President appears little bothered about the controversy swirling around military purchases: “We have already approved so much.  And that’s why we are expecting Tucano jet fighters to be here.  We are expecting some APC [armoured personnel carriers] from China and we believe we have not had enough.” The National Assembly would, therefore, appear not averse to approving more military purchases, so long as there are clear-cut patterns of purchase: “We want to see how the funds will be utilised.  But it is mandatory that we provide more resources for our armed forces.” Since the Senate President seems not worried about misappropriation of military funds, he should partner with the executive to release, to the public, the present state of those Defence spendings. Such a comprehensive statement stating what is in, what is expected and the balance in the accounts and why more funds are needed for more platforms, would help to boost public confidence and support.  It’s good to assure the public.  But it’s even better to “show” the public the state of things. On COVID-19, it’s cheery that the Senate President sounded supportive, of further public investment.  The cold fact is you cannot fully recharge the economy, to deliver growth and development, without first defeating COVID-19, the greatest global public health emergency in a century. It’s heart-warming that as at May 30, 638, 291 Nigerians had received their first jab of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine.  That figure could be modest, for an estimated population of 206 million.  But the stats are critical first steps, to inoculate Nigerians against the pandemic. But the sad fact is that, with vaccine nationalism and regionalism, which have seen basic inventors and producers hoarding vaccines for their own peoples, steady vaccine  supplies are no way guaranteed.  Yet, for the globe to reclaim its soul, everyone must be vaccinated. Again, Senator Lawan put it in excellent perspective: “The US is not allowing vaccines to go out of US, EU is not allowing AstraZeneca vaccine produced in the UK to be sent out of EU.  India is not allowing AstraZeneca vaccine they produced to be exported out.” But that is hardly surprising, and frankly not unfair: those who flog their brains reserve the right to first savour the sweetness of their sweat.  Again Nigeria, because of inadequate investment in scientific research, is missing out on the begging vaccine market, in a post-COVID-19 globe.  The lesson is to ensure we put things right, so that we don’t miss out on future opportunities. Meanwhile, it is good the National Assembly is well disposed to making fresh COVID-19 vaccine public investments.  While Nigeria should take full advantage of international collaboration to supply Africa with vaccines, such investments should consider creating situations to facilitate producing vaccines here, under licence. That way, the vaccine supply side would be taken care of, aside from providing skilled job opportunities for the requisite health professionals and technicians.