Festac Town is a housing estate located along the Lagos-Badagry Expressway in Lagos State, Nigeria. The acronym FESTAC was derived  from the  Festival of Arts and Culture which  the second edition was held in Lagos in 1977- the first edition  was  at Dakar in 1966. Once a sleepy estate, Festac Town has in the past few years attracted varied forms of businesses within the estate and its environs but today, there is a growing number of commercial banks, and shopping complexes that cater to the residents. There are also several hotels and hangout spots within the estate which have contributed to the vibrant night life .Festac Town is fast becoming the new home of some Nigeria  legends and  here is a list of some players who have erected  their  multi million naira houses in the Lagos  precinct, writes EPHRAIM NWOSU  VICTOR AGALI The former Olympic Marseille man has an eye-popping mansion located in Festac Town. The beautiful ultra-modern marble mansion built by a German Construction firm while he was plying his trade with Schalke 04 is equipped with a massive garden, gymnastic room and an Olympic size swimming pool. The building is arguably believed to be one of the most expensive and beautiful houses in Festac Town and is estimated to have gulped about N200 million as at the time it was built in 2003. Agali owns another duplex on 5th Avenue but we gathered he sold it in order to keep body and soul together.  IFEANYI UDEZE The former all action Super Eagles wing back has his duplex in Festac. He is a close neighbour of ex-Nigeria skippers, Segun Odegbami, Henry Nwosu and Sylvanus Okpala.  OSAZE ODEMWINGIE Not too long ago, Osaze joined the growing lists of Super Eagles stars who own multi-million naira mansions in Festac Town. The 39-year-old former Stoke City forward has just completed his latest home in the outskirt of Festac Town. The Nation gathered that the tastefully furnished Pent House twin duplex with boys quarters set Osaze back to the tune of N200 million. He is expected to move into the house later in the year. TAYE TAIWO Taye joined the league of Nigerian footballers who own houses in Festac Town, when he bought a duplex belonging to ex Green Eagles striker, Ifeanyi Onyedika some couple of years ago. The house was bought for an undisclosed amount. Few years after acquiring Onyedika’s house, he went on to buy a bigger house where he is currently living with his family. The house is a master piece as the interior decoration and other items were all imported from Europe.  EMMANUEL AMUNEKE The Nigeria football legend palatial home is a beauty to behold. The multi million naira house, sources close to the former African Footballer of the Year was bought during his Barcelona days.   DELE AIYENUGBA Dele is one of the new generation of Nigerian players who have fallen in love with the Festival Town. The unassuming one time Eagles goalkeeper bought a fabulous and classy home on F Close on 21 Road and has been quietly residing there with his family since the past two years. The house is said to have cost him a whopping sum of N100 million.  NNAMDI ODUAMADI The erstwhile AC Milan whiz-kid is better described as a Festac Boy having spent a greater part of his childhood in Festac Town. Though Odu as he is affectionately called by friends and admirers already has a comfortable home in the area. Family sources disclosed that he has concluded plans to acquire one of Seyi Olofinjana’s houses that has been put for sale at Festac extension befitting his new status as a Super Eagles star.  AUSTIN EJIDE The Israel based goalkeeper has a property in Festac, just a stone throw to his best friend’s house (Osaze Odemwingie ).Though the building is still under construction but it is valued around N150 million. The six bed room all marble apartment with an expensive lawn is complemented by a swimming pool and gym. The sprawling edifice is said to have two living rooms and two kitchens.  YUSUF AYILA Ayila’s house in Festac Town is another beauty to behold. Information at our disposal revealed that the former FC Dynamo Kyiv defensive midfielder is happy with his Festac home which is said to be his latest acquisition. Sources have it that he bought the house from a billionaire politician and businessman for over N100 million.  SEYI OLOFINJANA The ex-Wolverhampton Wanderers midfielder is the last but not the least. Olofin’s imposing property is cynosure of all eyes in the festival city. Close pals say he bought the house from a former senator and it could have gone for nothing less than N100 million.