THE Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) plans to hold a nationwide peaceful protest tomorrow in furtherance of their demand for the 36 states to implement financial autonomy for the judiciary. It is a symbolic exercise to give teeth to their strike which began on April 6. JUSUN’s cause is right, in fact unimpeachable. For decades, despite constitutional provisions guaranteeing financial autonomy to the judiciary, autonomy granted since the First Republic, state governments had found increasingly innovative and pernicious ways of subjugating and emasculating the judiciary. Years of financial strangulation, to all intents and purposes a brazen subversion of the constitution, have driven the judiciary to impotence, incapacitation and impoverishment. With the exception of governors who now find themselves prevaricating over unambiguous constitutional provisions, no Nigerian is opposed to JUSUN or their strike. So far, the strike has been tremendously effective, totally grounding the country’s groggy justice system, and is more effective than any the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has organized in the past two decades or so. The Buhari presidency is not opposed to the financial emancipation of the judiciary, having issued Executive Order 10 of 2020 to compel the states to obey the constitution. Instead, alarmed and distraught that their quarry was being set free, governors coaxed the president to tarry a little on gazetting the order, thus stymieing the immediate implementation of the order. It is not clear why that anomalous stricture of gazettes had to be introduced, nor why it is needed especially in clear constitutional cases, but the governors seized upon that hiatus to go to court to litigate and forestall the Executive Order, as if the order was the issue, and not their violation of the constitution. The case is now before the Supreme Court. Pondering recently about the order and the governors’ stonewalling, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Tanko Muhammad, told JUSUN leadership in his office last week that he could not beg the governors to give effect to the law. But it was not a case of begging anybody. Even if he must say something on the dispute – and it was totally inappropriate to do so – the CJN ought to have sounded unequivocal. What wearies the governors is perhaps the concomitant amendment in the same Section 121 (3) of the 1999 constitution, which also gives the states legislature financial autonomy. Unprincipled, dictatorial and anti-democratic, governors see the autonomies granted the judiciary and legislature as a complete castration of their powers and imperial persons. For decades they had subjugated the other two arms of government. They fear that if the other arms no longer had to make recourse to the executives for their financial needs, they would look the governors in the eyes and check their excesses with great daring and gusto. The governors may have reservations about judicial (financial) autonomy, but what ails them more is the freedom which that financial autonomy would give the state lawmakers, freedoms that might conceivably include impeaching idiot, lawless governors. JUSUN and state lawmakers may repose confidence in Section 121 (3) of the constitution and its eventual implementation, but as the Buhari administration has shown by its awkward and prejudiced appointments into the bench in recent years, not to say its wholesale subversion of the entire judiciary after months of grumbling and badmouthing the third arm, there are obviously many ways to skin a judicial cat. With full panoply of anti-graft agencies at their beck and call, the executive knows how to transform the judiciary into puppets. Likewise, the governors know how to turn the heat on state lawmakers during election and reelection. There are obviously so many things still wrong with Nigerian democracy. However, once JUSUN forces the hands of the governors, and lawmakers and judges get their freedom — for with financial autonomy comes liberty — Nigeria may begin to incrementally advance in the practice of democracy. The tragedy, unfortunately, is that foot-dragging governors, some of whom may yet find their way into the National Assembly on a fortuitous tomorrow, have not embraced Section 121 (3) — as if they have a choice.