Social media users have reacted to a viral video where comedienne Ada Jesus was seen in the church of Prophet Chukwuemeka Ohanaemere aka Odumeje or Indaboski Bahose seeking for healing from stroke. The Nation had reported the comedienne claimed the Anambra-based prophet connived with Rita Edochie to stage fake miracles. However, months after she made the allegations, Ada Jesus was diagnosed with a kidney problem that left her incapacitated. Indaboski was seen in the video, refusing to pray for the sick Ada Jesus, vowing her generations will suffer for the insults and lies against her. His position made many social users wonder if he is a true man of God. Many berated him as a making a mockery of Christianity. But some social media users insisted the comedienne’s condition is completely medical. @OdogwuAchina tweeted: “Odumeje knows that once he forgives Ada Jesus, people will expect him to heal her and we all know the truth……. he would rather save his ego. Most of the people who suffer and die from stroke are not bad people. Stroke is a medical emergency, don’t let people demonize stroke.” @General_Oluchi said: “Is it that Odumeje doesn’t want to “forgive” Ada Jesus or that her illness is too complex for him? I doubt that he’s responsible for her condition. Admitting that he’s forgiven her means that he has to heal her. What if he can’t and this is his only strategy to getaway from it?” @scad_official wrote: “Rita Edochie, Odumeje & Ada Jesus are all entertainers. All I see is a campaign to promote Indaboski’s ministry. True Christianity left Nigeria long before I was born. If humans have the powers to cast sickness upon others, the earth would be empty by now.” @stgorzhye tweeted: “So I’m seeing this video of this Ada Jesus, who had an issue with Odumeje and Rita Edochie, it’s just a show of shame on Christianity. If they really left it to God, do you think God would make her bed ridden?” @chammy_vic said: “They have reduced Christianity to comedy. The clip about this Odumeje and Rita Edochie with Ada Jesus just ruined my day. GOD is so patient. What a shame.” @futurestephany tweeted: “Just saw that Rita Edochie, Odumeje and Ada Jesus video and I just want to say please let’s not confuse Christianity with witchcraft. That was not a display of Christianity.” @DoctorEmto said: “Stroke has nothing to do with juju… It’s a medical condition. The lady’s BP hit the roof and did damages. All these jumping from pillar to post, going to Odumeje and Rita Edochie is a waste of time. She should go to the hospital where she’d get care… Stop the drama biko.”