Mohammed Adamu was relieved of his job as Inspector-General of Police on a dramatic note on Tuesday. He was in Owerri, the Imo State capital, on assignment when his removal was announced at the State House in Abuja. His retirement was “with immediate effect.” On Easter Monday, gunmen, who the former IG described as members of the outlawed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra (IPOB), attacked the Imo State Police Command headquarters close to the Government House and the Correctional Service, looting the armoury, burning 38 vehicles and setting free 1,844 inmates. It was the height of attacks on police station, and killing of policemen in the region. The ex-IG was due to retire on February 1, but President Muhammadu Buhari extend his tenure by three months  – to end on May 1. There was outcry over the action. But, since then, the police, its assets and men have come under relentless assault. The ex-IG was helpless. Sources said the embarrassing situation might have been responsible for the decision to ask him to go before his new end of tenure. Police Affairs Minister Muhammadu  Dingyadi named Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Usman Baba as acting Inspector-General. The minister said: “After a thorough check of a shortlist of suitably qualified police officers from the rank of DIGs and AIGs, who are eligible police officers, eligible for appointment as IGP, in line with Section 7, subsection 2 of the Nigeria Police Act (2020), and having regards to seniority, professionalism, record of service, and competence, Mr. President has approved the appointment of an acting IGP, in the person of Usman Alkali Baba, with immediate effect. “These changes are in line with the determination of Mr. President to rejig the security architecture of the country, to ensure that the security challenges bedeviling the nation are brought to an end. “Mr. President has therefore charged the new appointee to rise to the challenge to ensure policing reform policy of this administration is fully prioritised and implemented to enable the police perform most effectively for the peace and security of lives and property of all Nigerians. “Mr. President thanks the outgoing IGP, Mohammed Abubakar Adamu, for his professionalism and dedication to duty during the period of his tenure. He wished him all the best in his future endeavour.” Asked why the President did not allow Adamu to last the three months of extension, Dingyadi said: “Mr. President is aware of this and you cannot take away that responsibility from him; he’s the one who is in charge of appointing or extending tenures. “He has now decided to appoint a new person. So, please allow him that responsibility, and we cannot do anything about it.” Baba was born in 1963. He joined the Police in March 1988. He has a Masters in Public Administration from University of Maiduguri (UNIMAID), Borno State and BA (ED) Political Science from Bayero University, Kano (BUK) in Kano State. The Yobe State-born Police boss will retire on March 1, 2023. Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni thanked President Buhari for finding Alkali worthy of the appointment as IGP. He also congratulated the new police boss.