Residents of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, may no longer have to be physically present at a pharmacy to get their drugs or consult a pharmacy or even see a doctor. Aligs Pharmacy & Stores located in the highbrow Gwarimpa Estate, Abuja, is set to change the way clients receive medications. The Managing Director of Aligs Pharmacy and Stores, Mrs. Ngozi James, said the innovation is to expand the role of the pharmacy as a primary care provider by giving Abuja residents easy access to drugs through online shopping and online drug information services. Aligs Pharmacy is availing customers the opportunity to shop for all sorts of medications and interact with medical consultants via its website. The reorganisation became necessary as more and more people are searching for exclusivity. Also, some sick people tend to avoid visiting drugstores in order to limit their exposure to other sick people. While maintaining its physical stores, Aligs Pharmacy, like many drugstores in advanced countries, seeks to take advantage of opportunities in e-Health. On why Aligs Pharmacy is making the shift, James, a pharmacist, said: “I didn’t just want the idea of dispensing drugs to those who are ill but more like a community pharmacy where we reach out to each other; go beyond the regular pharmacy to patient relation to actually building a strong bond, follow up on people to find out if they have adverse reactions, find out if the drugs are actually working for them and change it if possible. “We have a doctor who is on standby to consult for patients. We also have a clinic where people can rest till they are strong enough to talk to us. We have certified nurses and laboratory scientists on ground. So, we incorporate these things into our services, and we pride ourselves in having that all-encompassing community health outfit”. Resident pharmacist of the drug store, Pham Karen Okereke, said with Aligs Pharmacy now digital, clients will not only chat with readily available experts in real-time, but the pharmacy’s website will also avail them the opportunity to get prescriptions online and get doorstep delivery anywhere in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja.