 Chief ‘Folake Solanke SAN clocked 89 on March 29, to a flurry of well-wishes from the country’s legal community. But it was not just her enviable age that elicited the honour and felicitations. In 2007, Chief Solanke published her autobiography, ‘Reaching for the Stars.’ In it, she described herself as a “Lady of many firsts”. The author could not have chosen a better description. Last month, apart from her birthday, Solanke also attained a remarkable 40 years as a SAN – a member of the Nigerian legal profession’s Inner Bar. Even more astonishing is that this is the 59th year since she was called to the English Bar. Early life Solanke was born on March 29, 1932 in Abeokuta, to the family of the late Jacob Odulate (founder of Alabukun Medicine). She attended Ago Oko Primary School, Abeokuta from 1937-1939, Emo Girls School, Abeokuta from 1940-1944 and Methodist Girls High School, Yaba Lagos, from 1945-1949, where she consistently took the first prize in English and Mathematics. She soon left for England and in 1951, she entered the King’s College in the University of Durham, now the University of Newcastle in England where she obtained her BA (2nd Division) in Latin and Mathematics in 1954. In 1955, Solanke received a Diploma Certificate in Education. She taught Latin and Mathematics at Pipers Corner School, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire between 1957 and 1958, and in 1960, Law story Solanke gained admission into Gray’s Inn, London to read for a degree in law. She was called to the English Bar in 1962. On her return to Nigeria in 1962, she joined the chambers of M.A. Odesanya, who later became Honourable Justice Odesanya, in Lagos from August 1962 – May 1963 from which she moved to the chambers of Chief FRA Williams in Ibadan as Junior counsel in 1963. She married the late Emeritus Professor Toriola Solanke, and they are blessed with three children: Dr (Mrs) Oluyemi Koya who is both a Medical Doctor and a Lawyer, Engr. B.A Solanke and Miss Busola Solanke, a Mathematician. In 1972, Chief Solanke was appointed as the first Commissioner of the then Western State of Nigeria; as well as Chairman, Western Nigeria Television Broadcasting Corporation (WNTBC). Among her numerous awards is the National Honour of the Commander of the Order of the Niger. On March 5, 1981, Chief Solanke got the rare privilege of being the first female lawyer to be conferred with the highly coveted and prestigious rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria. In 2012, Solanke received the International Bar Association’s Outstanding International Woman Lawyer Award at the Association’s 5th World Women Lawyers’ Conference held in London, in recognition of her professional excellence and immense contribution to the advancement of women within the legal profession. Also in 2012, Solanke released her second book, A Compendium of Selected Lectures and Papers, Volume 1. She is the first African to be named 42nd President of Zonta International, an international service organisation that focuses primarily on advancing women’s status.  Memorable quotes “Lawyers are paid by their clients, so, lawyers in pupillage should be paid. New lawyers incur expenses during pupillage, to wit: for rent, food, transportation, books, apparel, etc. In defence of lawyers in pupillage, I declare that lawyers are not slaves. Only slaves work for no pay because a slave is the legal property of the slaver. A lawyer is certainly not the property of a learned senior or any other person.” Solanke defending the rights of lawyers in pupillage at the 35th anniversary of the call to Bar of Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN) in February 2018. “Good governance embraces the participation of capable men and women who work for the good of the people.” Solanke urging the government to encourage gender equality in governance in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on January 31, 2020 at the inaugural book launch in Lagos in honour of Justice Chinwe Iyizoba. “Speak up against those who cannot speak for themselves. Let’s speak in the language of the youths. Visit schools, visit hospitals. What assistance do we offer those who cannot help themselves? We should assist rape victims. We should be the voice of the society.” Solanke charging the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA)-Women Forum to speak out against societal ills at the International Women’s Day Conference organised by the NBA-Women Forum, last month. “I make bold to say that offenders are impostors, not lawyers, I can declare whether or not on oath, that I am not corrupt. The country needs an instantaneous paradigm swift shift from gross iniquity with impunity being perpetrated on the nation by fraudsters.” Solanke calling for a review of the Rules of Professional conduct to tackle corruption in the Bar and Bench, when she chaired the Colloquium organised by Kenna Partners in 2018 to mark its 25th anniversary. “Something must be done so that they weed the political parties to a minimum. In the United States of America, there are two political parties but in Nigeria, 91 political parties; out of the 91, 80 of them want to be President. So, something is wrong with our Electoral Act; we must go and look at Section 222 and do something about it.” Solanke canvassing a review of the Electoral Act at the Colloquium to mark Kenna Partners’ 25th anniversary “Currently, there is unanimity on the poor standard of professional practice, particularly of some new wigs. Recently, I discovered one of the reasons for the poor quality of some graduates in our beloved country. This is it – Educational authorities now descend to the low, sub-standard of the indolent students in the universities and the Law School, by fixing the pass marks in examination below 50 per cent. Last century, I taught Latin and Mathematics in England and Nigeria, and I am resolute in my conviction that any percentage below 50 per cent is a failure. I understand that the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) itself scores 120 out of 400. That is 30 per cent! “Infandum” (Unspeakable). Woe upon woe, our institutions in their discretion, erroneously accept 40 per cent, 45 per cent and 48 per cent as pass marks. No wonder, employers now say that some Nigerian graduates are unemployable. I appeal to the Federal Minister and State Commissioners of Education, Nigerian University Commission, JAMB, Dean of Faculties of Law, Vice Chancellors, Principal of Schools and Colleges, parents, grandparents, the Media organizations, NGOs, the great and the good here present, and the public to protest vociferously that the policy of a pass mark below 50 per cent must end NOW in order to the end the unacceptable deterioration of educational standard.” Solanke demanding a paradigm shift to save education in Nigeria at the Kenna Partners’ event.