 After 25 blind auditions with four weeks, the Voice Nigeria season three promises to be filled with thrills and frills. The music reality TV show’s four coaches, Yemi Alade, Falz, Waje, and Darey Art Alade, have been locked in battle as they lobby successful contestants to their team in the last four weeks. Just as the coaches battle for team members, the contestants strive to give a stellar performance for a possibility of joining any of the four teams. As the show kicked off with blind auditions on March 27, 2021, 16 contestants have identified with at least one of the four coaches in the four episodes of the blind auditions. Each of the coaches is expected to have six talents in their teams. As of the fourth week, Yemi Alade and Waje lead the pace with five contestants each in their respective teams. Darey Art Alade follows closely with four contestants in his team while Falz looks at increasing the numbers of the contestants in his team from two to the required six in episode five. Week One The first week had six performances from contestants but only four of the talents made it into a team. Darey blazed the trail with 31-year-old Rachel Ogonodi picking him as her choice coach. Yemi Alade followed suit when 28-years-old Ewaoluwa, who melted the coaches’ heart with her rendition of Alicia Keys’ Girl on fire, chose her to be her coach. 25-year-old Oluwatosin Emehinola also joined the Yemi Alade’s team while 20-year-old Peace Amaefula gave Falz the first contestant in his team. Week Two Having got the full grip of what to expect, week two kicked off with the Ayo brothers rooting for each other and contesting against each other for the star prize. While 21-year-old Nuel Ayo opted for Waje’s team after his rendition of Fix You by Coldplay, his older brother, Tim Ayo, settled for Yemi Alade’s team to become the third contestant. Falz got another addition to his team when 28-year-old Okemdiya Chimomeze serenaded viewers with her rendition of Memories by Maroon 5. 32-year-old Vanilla Chinagoro concluded the performances when she wowed the coaches but opted for Yemi Alade’s team to become the fourth member. Though 25-year-old Dotun Deloye’s rendition of Jay-Z’s Forever young didn’t make it, Waje broke the protocol to request a second performance from him before giving him some professional advice.  Week Three Viewers collectively agreed that the third week was Waje’s week even as Falz battled hard in convincing contestants to join his team to no avail. Out of the seven performances for the week, three contestants namely Elizabeth Osesiameh, Inioluwa Adeyemi, and Teslim Avwerosuo chose the velvety-voiced Waje’s team while three others failed to wow any of the coaches for a possibility of joining any of their teams. The week didn’t end without addition to Darey Art Alade’s growing team by 23-year-old Esther Benyeoho, who got Waje and Darey all teary after her rendition of Andra Day’s Rise up. Week Four Week four began with Loven Akinloye serenading viewers and coaches with his rendition of Fireboy’s Need you. While Falz, Yemi Alade, and Waje tried canvassing the 24-year-old to their teams, he opted for Yemi Alade’s team as the fifth member. Deep-voiced Jeremiah Ranti-Akerele got Darey Art Alade swooned as he performed Sam Smith’s hit single, I’m not the only one. 21-year-old Ifunnaya Nwangene got a bow from Yemi and Waje with her powerful rendition of Rihanna’s hit song, Take a bow but chose to join Waje’s team. 20-year-old Ayomikun Ojoade wrapped up the week by joining Darey’s team to become the fourth member after serenading coaches and viewers with his rendition of Nosa’s pray for you. The week also had some contestants leaving dejectedly after performing what they felt was convincing enough for the coaches to offer them a spot in their teams. Sponsored by FirstBank and produced by Un1ty, The Voice Nigeria further showcases the bank’s role -through partnership – in enabling Nigerians by passionately empowering and investing in youths while giving voice to everyone. FirstBank’s Corporate Communications Group Head Folake Ani-Mumuney reiterated the bank’s commitment to strengthening the creative industry which is fast growing into a multibillion-dollar business, with the potential to be a leading contributor to Nigeria’s GDP soon.