Following announcement by Buckingham palace of the death of Prince Philip, Queen Elizabeth II’s husband, social media users, particularly on twitter have begun tweeting about Meghan Markel, the wife of Prince Harry. Most social media users have implied that some notable personalities and even the fourth estate of the realm will blame Meghan for Prince Philip’s death. They argued this will be because he was hospitalised yet they granted an exclusive interview to Oprah Winfrey, a month ago where they revealed secrets about the royal family. However, some others have said Prince Philip was old besides he was sick and as such no one should blame Meghan for his demise. @TheLondonHughes tweeted: “The uk papers today: ‘Rest in peace Prince Phillip” The uk papers tomorrow: “Meghan Markle contributes to prince Phillips death? Was that interview the last straw?” @kelechnekoff said: “Countdown to the press blaming Phil’s death on the fallout of the Meghan and Harry interview…” @decedant99 wrote: “Piers Morgan trying to make this about Meghan Markle.” @timelinetBACKUP commented: “The Daily Mail headline tomorrow: ‘Meghan Markle Killed Prince Philip.” @berktimebabe tweeted: “the british press trying to figure out how to blame meghan for prince philip’s death..” @revrrlewis: “Brian Kilmeade connects the death of 99-year-old Prince Philip to Meghan Markle & Prince Harry’s Oprah interview: “If you factor in this, there are reports that he was enraged after the interview … Here he is trying to recover, and then he gets hit with that.” @SholaMos1 tweeted: “… the haters out with sharp knives. Prince Phillip died from old age not by #HarryandMeghan. Just stop the nonsense – ENOUGH. You can wish him #RIP, support #Meghan from blood hungry media & haters and still hold Monarchy accountable when wrong. It really isn’t difficult.” @SussexPrincess said:: “Look at all the people already blaming Meghan for Prince Phillips death. Get new material England, this game is boring now, the guy was fucking 99.”