 Governor Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State has been commended over his silent revolution and infrastructural development. An aspirant for the Chairmanship of Odogbolu Local Government, Alhaji Obafemi Aiyelabowo, made the commendation yesterday during a chat with correspondents in Kirby Ode. Aiyelabowo commended   Abiodun for fulfilling  his promise to make life easier for all with the recent payment of N500million gratuity to retirees in the state. He also lauded the governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun for remaining focused on taking good governance to the next level in the state. Aiyelabowo reviewed the 20 months administration of Governor Abiodun and concluded that there had been silent revolution to make the state great again. He said: “I am of a strong opinion that payment of N500million as gratuity to our retirees who have toiled so hard to make Ogun State what it is today is indeed a bold statement that defines the government of Prince Dapo Abiodun as one that is committed to wiping away tears of the people and addressing the injustice of the past”. He also lauded the governor of Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun for remaining focused on taking good governance to the next level in the state.  He described Prince Dapo Abiodun as a selfless and highly resourceful politician  who has never left anybody in doubt of his passion to return the state to her glorious past since assumption of office Alhaji Ayelabowo  further stated: “I am equally marveled at what the governor has been doing in the area of infrastructure development despite the COVID-19 pandemic. “He has not only been completing those ones abandoned by the past administration but had equally initiated new ones across the state like the ongoing construction of Epe-Ijebu Ode ten lane expressway among several completed and ongoing projects both in Ijebu-Ode and other parts of the state” According to him,  ” Governor Abiodun has also shown serious courage in tackling the rot in education system with the construction of over 200 blocks of classrooms in different parts of the state, same is also said of health sector and of important note is the hard work being put into the agricultural sector which has taken many youths off the labour market and improve our food security”. He contended that the sterling performance of Prince Abiodun has no doubt remain the centre of attraction for many people in the opposition, most of who are now trooping in on daily basis into the ruling party in the state. Alhaji Aiyelabowo stated  that his  aspiration to  govern Odogbolu Local Government was hinged on his intention to replicate the style and purposeful leadership of Gov Abiodun at the grassroots saying  “time to change the narrative of poor leadership at the local government is now.” 