The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of CRC Credit Bureau Limited, Dr. Tunde Popoola has resumed as the Chairman of Credit Bureau Association of Nigeria (CBAN). His tenure will run for one year and renewable after two years. He was chairman of the association in 2015 and 2018. The Nation learnt the leadership of the association rotates among the Managing Directors/Chief Executive Officers of the three licensed Credit Bureaus and runs for a period of one year. Credit Bureau of Nigeria (CBAN) – CRC Credit Bureau Limited, CreditRegistry and FirstCentral Credit Bureau – is an incorporated not-for-profit and non-governmental business management organisation formed to promote a credit reporting culture towards the expansion of economy through its values. Popoola, a banker, accountant, economist, entrepreneur and business executive has over thirty years cumulative work experience spanning the public and the private sectors of the Nigerian economy. He has been the Managing Director/CEO of CRC Credit Bureau Limited since its establishment in 2008. Prior to this, he was also the pioneer CEO of the Abuja Enterprise Agency (AEA). Before then, he was in the banking industry where he rose to the position of the Chief Finance Officer (CFO) and General Manager of a publicly listed bank. Speaking on the agenda for his new tenure, he said he would focus on creating more awareness of the Credit Bureau industry with several initiatives specifically designed to fulfill this purpose. “We have received significant support from the World Bank Group and the CBN. “The support includes promoting the on-boarding of all categories of financial institutions under the supervision of the CBN as credit information suppliers and users; building the capacity of credit information suppliers and users; creating awareness about the services and products of credit bureaus to the public and providing the strategic input towards the enactment of the National Credit Reporting Act. “We realised that there is still a lot to do in this regard and we would focus more on this. Awareness creation to other stakeholders is also key and we will do a lot more in this area as well,” he said. Alao Abiodun