A 47-year-old suspected drug trafficker, Chigbogu Ernest Obiora, has excreted 97 wraps of substance that tested positive to cocaine in Lagos State. The substance weighed 1.55kilogramme and has a street value of N360million. Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA Headquarters, Abuja, Femi Babafemi, made these known in a statement on Friday. Babafemi said Obiora was arrested by operatives of the Agency at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Ikeja, Lagos, after which he was put under observation and excreted the substances. The statement reads: “He was arrested at about 1:16pm on Sunday 25th April, 2021 during the inward clearance of Ethiopian Airline. He had arrived Lagos on board the airline from Entebbe, Uganda via Addis-Ababa, Ethiopia. “According to the Commander, MMIA Command of the anti-drug law enforcement agency, Ahmadu Garba, Obiora was intercepted in the E-arrival hall of the airport by the operatives of NDLEA on the suspicion that he ingested drug substance. “The suspect was taken for body machine scan and the result was positive for ingestion of substance suspected to be illicit drug. The suspect was promptly moved to the NDLEA excretion/ observation facility. “Barely an hour after he was arrested, Obiora excreted 31 wraps of cocaine weighing 500grammes and another 47 wraps (750grammes) in the evening of same day while 19 warps (300grammes) were excreted the following day, Monday 26th April, bringing the total to 97 wraps, that is, 1.55kg.” Babafemi said under interrogation, Obiora claimed he does not know the real owner of the drug was promised $1,500 if he successfully trafficked it. “I don’t know him, they contacted me on phone and asked if I can do the business. I did it so that I will be capable of feeding my family. I was living in Madagascar but due to the COVID-19 and the lockdown in the country, I couldn’t go back to my place of work. “There was a time I started lacking money to feed my family and to pay my children’s school fees and the worst part of it is to pay my rent. So, I decided to take the option to do it,” the statement quoted the suspect,” he was quoted to have said.