Since Brig Gen Buba Marwa assumed office as the new chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), about three months ago, it is starkly clear there is something different about the agency. From headlines across various news outlets on a string of major drug busts and arrests to a surge in activities at their Gimbiya Street Headquarters in Abuja, it is easy to tell there is more verve. Activities seemed to have picked up with a frenzy that sharply contrasted with a lethargy that seemed to have enveloped the essence of the anti-drug agency before now. Things are not as they used to be at the NDLEA. On his first day in office on January 18, 2021, Marwa had already started wielding the big stick. It would no longer be business as usual he had warned everyone involved in the illicit drug business. He had said the agency would be overhauled and expanded, in line with the recommendations of the Presidential Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Drug Abuse (PACEDA). The new chairman, who had served as chairman of PACEDA, said it will also be within existing financial constraints, and the authorization of the appropriate superior authorities. Marwa had said the number of drug users in Nigeria today is over 15 million people, across all ages, adding that the problem has eaten very deeply into the social fabric as every community in Nigeria is affected. He said as a lead agency in the drug war in Nigeria, they were familiar with the extent of the devastation that drug use has caused the nation, and vowed to resuscitate and reposition NDLEA to full active life, to be effective, respected and feared by concerned criminals. Many stakeholders had upon Marwa’s assumption of office stakeholders had welcomed the development, describing him as a square peg in a square hole. For instance, the African Council on Narcotics has lauded the appointment, describing it as “one of the best national appointments that has been made by the present administration.” President of the Council, Rekpene Bassey, in a statement in Abuja said it was an appointment well deserved given Marwa’s known track record of excellent performance in previous national appointments. “While we feel certain that your present position will not be an  exception, we note here the assurances of our prayers, trusting God will help you succeed in the massive task ahead considering the frightening increase in the illicit drug problem in our country. Needless to say, we will be more than delighted to work with your good self on this onerous task in the hope that you will leave the NDLEA better than you met it,” Bassey had said. Marwa, it appeared, hit the ground running by summoning Commanders of the agency in all the states of the federation and special commands with marching orders to mop up illicit drugs across the country. He went ahead to distribute operational vehicles that had been lying fallow at the agency’s headquarters for a long time, to some states that needed them. A flurry of drug busts and arrests on a scale hitherto absent had followed in the first month of his assumption of office. Seeming to want to identify with a more proactive spirit, various international organizations had already pledged their cooperation to the agency to achieve its mandate. Various alliances – national and international -have also been pursued by the Agency towards fighting the battle against drugs. Still in the spirit of building alliances towards the ultimate aim of ridding the country of the menace of drug abuse, Marwa recently visited the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in Abuja, to explore areas of collaboration. In the meeting, the NDLEA Boss pointed out that as much as the agency’s efforts were disrupting the drug supply chain through law enforcement, they also needed to be more proactive and work hard on drug demand reduction through advocacy programmes, which are mostly publicity driven. The visit, he said, was to leverage on the Minister’s position to drive their advocacy programmes at little or no cost because it is well known that the NDLEA has over the years been left behind in terms of funding among other law enforcement agencies including those established years after them. Marwa however noted that despite their constraints, the Agency has in less than three months with him on the saddle, been able to seize drugs and cash worth over N75 billion. Within the period 2,175 drug traffickers had been arrested while 2,050,766.33 kilogrammes of assorted illicit drugs had been seized. Also 2,000 drug cases had been filed in court with 329 convictions and 1,549 pending cases, he revealed. “These figures are less than what could have been on the streets destroying the lives of innocent youths, our women and men. With the support of your office and those of your agencies, we’ll be able to save millions of Nigerians from being afflicted with the menace of drug abuse,” Marwa said. The NDLEA boss acknowledged the efforts of the Minister and leading agencies under him, in promoting the good work of the federal government and the country as a whole. “No doubt, the Minister’s current role is central to all key activities of government and the agenda of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration, especially with key information dissemination media outlets like the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA), the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), the Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), the Voice of Nigeria (VON) and more under the supervision of the Honourable Minister,” he said. He acknowledged that even without any prompting from the Minister, these agencies have been of tremendous support since he came on board. He said Nigeria is faced with a major drug crisis that is in no small way fueling most of the security challenges being faced in the North East, North West, North Central and indeed across the country. He noted that recently, through intelligence based operations, they were able to arrest some drug traffickers – one a Nigerien and another a Chadian in Niger state and Taraba state respectively – who supplied illicit drugs to insurgents and bandits. He again stressed the need to proactively combat the problem not just through enforcement but through advocacy. “For instance, we need to run a weekly 30mins network programme on NTA and Radio Nigeria to reach Nigerians on the dangers of drug abuse; we need to reach those at the grassroots with our messages in various Nigerian languages packaged in jingles; we need coverage of our programmes to promote the coming World Drug Day on June 26 and others. “We don’t have the resources to pay for all of these and this is why we need partnership with the Ministry of Information and its Agencies to be able to reach millions of Nigerians and save them from the drug scourge,” Marwa appealed. The Minister, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, who assured the agency of support, commended Marwa for his impressive string of achievements, in less than three months of assuming office. “These achievements, I am reliably informed, include restoring the visibility of the NDLEA for local and international partnership; boosting the morale and confidence of staffers; attracting international support and ‘offensive action’ against drug cartels that has led to the arrest of 2,175 drug traffickers, seizure of 2,050,765.33 kilogrammes of illicit drugs as well as cash and drug seizures worth N75 billion,” Mohammed said. Mohammed said the war against illicit drugs and tackling drug trafficking is one of the most important tasks in the country. This he said is because drug trafficking, money laundering by traffickers and the use of illicit drugs are closely linked to the nation’s security, well being of the citizens, the moral fabric of our society and even governance. “It is common knowledge that drug money can be used to finance insurgency and terrorism. A successful fight against drug trafficking will therefore help to deny or reduce funding for insurgency. “The kind of vicious banditry and kidnapping for ransom that our country has witnessed in recent times cannot be totally separated from illicit drug use and their effects on users who take to crime “Drug trafficking proceeds are sometimes invested into legitimate businesses, making hard working and honest people look indolent. “What about the effect of drug trafficking on the moral fabric of the society. This society rarely questions the source or sources of people’s wealth. That’s why drug traffickers end up becoming role models in the society, with devastating consequences for our young ones. “Even governance is not spared. Drug traffickers and money launderers contest and win elections into high offices, where they help shape policy. Just imagine the damage this can do to governance and indeed to any nation. “This is why I want to once again commend Gen. Marwa for raising the bar in the fight against drug cartels and the use of illicit drugs with the new maxim, ‘offensive action’. “The Federal Ministry of Information and Culture will work with you to give maximum publicity to your activities, especially in the area of advocacy. To date, we have launched a number of national campaigns. It will not be a bad idea for the Ministry, working with the NDLEA, to launch a national campaign against drug trafficking and use of illicit drugs. “I will also encourage the NDLEA to work with the National Orientation Agency (NOA), which has set up Integrity Clubs in Secondary Schools nationwide, to reach the young ones with its campaign against drug use,” he said. 