Tension has heightened in Anambra State, following the kidnap of the Commissioner for Public Utilities, Emeka Ezenwanne, and killing of three policemen attached to a former Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria CBN, Prof. Charles Soludo, by suspected gunmen. The incident happened about 5.30 pm on Wednesday during a political gathering organised by Soludo, at a civic centre in his hometown, Isuofia,  Aguata Local Government Area. Soludo, an All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) chieftain and  frontline aspirant in the November 6 governorship poll in the state, was whisked away unhurt but some participants of the event were injured in the process. A government official, who pleaded not to be named, said the gunmen arrived in a commando-like style in three vehicles. He added that Soludo left the state immediately after the incident, adding, “nobody is safe here again. ” Another eyewitness told The Nation that one of the three slain policemen was a member of the disbanded   Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in the state. He said: “A couple of minutes back,  gunmen disrupted an interactive session between Isuofia youths and a former CBN governor, Prof. Soludo, at the town’s civic center. “Three policemen, including a former member of SARS, were  shot dead at meeting.” An aide  to the former CBN boss, said he could not explain the whereabouts  of his boss because of confusion that erupted when the gunmen struck. “There was a stampede, I don’t know where Prof. Soludo is now,” he explained but added that he gathered that  the “Commissioner for Public Utilities,   Ezenwanne, was taken away by the gunmen.” The state Police Command Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, confirmed the incident, but said he was not aware of the number of casualties He said,” The incident happened at a political gathering in  Isuofia. But as of now (yesterday night), I’m still gathering information about the incident.” The  Police of Commissioner, Monday Kuryas, visited the community last night with his men. Kuryas appealed to the people of and other residents of the state to remain calm He said that the command had already launched manhunt for the gunmen, adding that hoodlums would not be allowed to overrun the state