 Senators from the Southeast yesterday urged the Federal Government to urgently address rising insecurity in the region. They deplored the “devastation of communities” and “wanton destruction of lives and livelihoods”. The Senate urged security agencies to fish out those behind the attacks, especially in Ebonyi State. The resolution followed the consideration of a motion on the killings in Ebonyi, sponsored by Senator Sam Egwu (Ebonyi North). Senators Chukwuka Utazi (Enugu North) and Micheal Nnachi (Ebonyi South) supported the motion. Many Ebonyi communities have been sacked and residents killed in recent attacks. The lawmakers condemned the attacks in which properties were destroyed and observed a minute’s silence in honour of the victims. The Senate directed the police and other security agencies to “carry out a comprehensive investigation into the dastardly attacks and to promptly arrest and prosecute the perpetrators as well as rescue kidnapped victims that are still held captive.” It urged the Federal Government and Ebonyi State government to put appropriate measures in place to forestall further attacks.  The Senate also requested the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to immediately intervene through the provision of relief materials to the families of the victims and displaced persons in the affected communities. Egwu said: “The Senate notes with sadness the general state of insecurity in Nigeria which has now spread to most parts of the country, devastating communities and wantonly destroying lives and livelihoods unabated. “Killings, maiming, kidnapping and wanton destruction of lives and property have now become the daily experience of innocent and peaceful people of Ebonyi State who are murdered in their numbers almost daily. “On the 20th of March 2021, over 18 indigenes of Egedege, Obegu and Amuzu communities in Ishielu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, including a priest, were gruesomely murdered in cold blood by rampaging herdsmen. “Just two days ago – 12th of April 2021, herdsmen killed over 12 innocent indigenes, burnt and destroyed over 26 houses and kidnapped five people in Ebonyi State. “If the Federal Government does not intervene urgently, these wicked and senseless killings, kidnapping and destruction of property may continue, thereby subjecting innocent citizens of my state to severe hardship and terrific fear.” Senators approved the prayers of the motion when they were put to a voice vote by Senate President Ahmad Lawan.