 We can never say enough about leadership because the lives of each nation or group of people even if they are ‘stateless’ according to UN terms, depend on the leadership in that environment. If we reference past kings and queens in all empires, even the biblical ones are today and will always be referenced for good or for bad. In essence, each leader deliberately or inadvertently writes his or her history. However, more often than not, a people define the leadership that emerges because leaders emerge from the people and the values of a people can most often be gleaned from the leadership that emerges from them and through their actions in a democracy. So most times when people complain about bad leadership they often forget that they have a hand either through actions or inactions about the leadership that emerges. Political philosophers like Plato succinctly described this when he posited that, “One of the penalties for refusing to participate in politics is that you end up being governed by your inferiors”. Very often especially in a developing nation like Nigeria, the elite often shy away from partisan engagement and involuntarily cede political leadership to the incompetent and people without the gravitas to drive productive leadership. The result of poor leadership is that like a relay race, the baton is passed from one group to the other and sometimes dropped in ways that development is delayed and everyone suffers and post failure analysis fill the air. The RoundTable Conversation sat with Dr. Otive Igbuzor, Executive Director African Center for Leadership, Strategy and Development (LSD) a civil society veteran who has spent his life fighting under different local and international agencies for justice, gender equity and good governance, an author, researcher,  lecturer  and gender advocate who was appointed by the immediate past United Nations Secretary-General, Ban Ki-Moon into the Global Network of Men Leaders to End Violence Against Women. Asked about each nation getting the leadership it deserves, he said that there is some element of truth therein because leadership is about influence. People can influence others in different ways. In Nigeria for instance, we talk about transactional and transformational leadership. You notice this in the ways the people often venerate leaders that dispense material and financial favors. The electoral process and the roles money play are all indicators of what one can say are the people getting what they deserve. When a people choose instant gratifications over planned nationhood and good policy drivers, they surreptitiously choose their leaders good or bad. When the people with questionable character use money to win elections and their religious houses organize endorsements and thanksgiving services, their communities give them titles and the people call them excellences, honourables and distinguished in very adulating ways, you find that such leaders would remain deified without being held accountable. Yes, to some extent you can say that a people get the leadership they deserve. However, there are leaders who emerge and are able to change the followership through who they are,  what they do, how they lead, their practices and soon, so it is not a one-way traffic of a people getting the leadership they deserve.  However, there are transformative leaders. We have equally learnt that leadership according to Amandla, the cultural wing of ANC once said that leaders are not born but pro duced during the course of the struggle. Leaders can make the difference and that is why people say that everything rises and falls with leadership. In those days there used to be discourse about the fact that the people are the makers of history. But let’s take a trip back into history for instance the fact that Gorbachev sat over the disintegration of the former USSR and a Trump emerged in the last five years. We know the outcomes so scholars know that leadership matters. We must be concerned with the type of democracy that can deliver dividends of development. There has been a lot of discourse about the democracy that is functional. May be thirty to fifty years ago, policies were almost analogue but the dynamics have changed in ways that democracy and development are now closer than ever. Policy science has developed in ways economic policies are more exact and somewhat inclusive, each leadership in making policies can now tell what outcomes to expect in terms of the different demographics. We all can calculate which policies can increase or reduce poverty, which ones can enhance gender, minority and youth inclusiveness. Today we know what kind of policies can improve health, deliver progressive education enhance infrastructural provisions for  better productivity. So in essence, we all know what to do. We must match theory with practice because there is always a nexus. Many years ago, there were no mobile phones on a global scale, today we have it and the internet and leadership comes easier. All Nigerians, including media people must understand that ideas rule the world today especially now that knowledge economy is so huge and there are projections into the future where artificial intelligence and robotics  will take over. We must move with the times but we must retain the core values that drive leadership and followership. The merchandizing of politics and erosion of our value system must be checked if development must come. We must all have to patriotically own the society at all levels. But we also acknowledge that leadership has changed due to a multitude of things, our colonial history, the military interruptions that changed the ways leadership selection  processes where most politicians owe allegiance to an Abuja power hierarchy is not good enough for our democratic growth. We must remember the effects of the truncated transition periods by Ibrahim Babangida the former military President.  When he was done and Abdulsallam Abubakar came, the people were exhausted and only ‘professional’ politicians took over government when activists, socialists, patriots and intellectuals refused to participate in a post military era  Nigeria in 1999. Before they realized what was happening the professional politicians had their tap roots rooted on ground and the policies over the years like Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) pauperized the people. The most important solutions must be ‘organizing and not agonizing’ because there are enough patriotic people who are good and as Burke advised, evil triumph when good men do nothing. In Nigeria the only leadership problems are in the political field. You do not have many problems at the traditional, religious, academic or even corporate levels. It is always the political field. We have global leaders in all other sectors even at UN level. The way forward must be for committed and patriotic and educated Nigerians to stop showing apathy for politics but go out there and get involved to run away from what Plato said about the good people and inferior leadership. Again the middle class must get involved at party levels. They must stop and we must think seriously about integrating women into leadership seeing that globally, continentally and sub-regionally, Nigeria is far below in gender parity in the political space. Over the past twenty years, there has been progress in the world in terms of gender inclusiveness and all the world can see the progress being made by the Scandinavian and other countries where women seem to have access in the political space. There must be a constitutional quota for women and luckily there is an opportunity for a constitutional review in ways that there must be implementable affirmative action for women. Everyone concerned about this must reach out to their legislators to facilitate action because it has been confirmed that when women are in positions of authority, they make better policies and programmes that touch on the lives of citizens and that is why the countries on top of the human development index across the world have many women at the political field providing various levels of leadership. You see countries like Denmark, New Zealand, Finland, Estonia, Iceland, Norway etc. doing really well. To Igbuzor,  women movement must prioritize women participation in politics to help the country develop. The RoundTable Conversation has equally identified governors that have been sensitive enough to integrate more women into their cabinets and is carrying out research on their progress in comparative terms. The Nigerian global percentage of women in parliament stands at less than ten percent while countries across Africa are all at thirty percent and above with Rwanda with the global highest of 61.3%. There are no surprises about Nigeria being the poverty capital of the world when some of her best and brightest are forced out of the country by even less brilliant and less educated men whose only qualification is their gender. An Amina Mohammed faced hostility when she was nominated for a ministerial post, today she is at the United Nations as Assistant Secretary General. Arunma Oteh is now at the World Bank but was hounded by some legislators when she was the Director General of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Nigerians must, if they wish to face the task of development productively be more involved in the leadership evolution processes to select leaders with the necessary pedigree and qualifications that can make the democracy we all cherish more functional and development oriented. Transactional leaderships leave both the leaders and the beneficiaries of such formless transactions poorer and more disoriented in the long run. Clutching unto some mundane and parochial socio-cultural and religious practices and views just so as to favour patriarchal longings would always hurt everyone at the end. Nigeria is too blessed to continue to fail its population. Good and functional leadership benefits everyone ultimately in ways that the future of the country remains assured. All stake holders in the media, civil society and governments must work together to birth more functional leadership that benefits everyone and chats a better path to the future. The dialogue continues…