Sequel to the visit of Twitter’s CEO, Jack Dorsey, to Ghana, Nigeria, Ethiopia, and South Africa in November 2019 at which he had conversations with industry leaders, the global social media company last week Monday announced Ghana as the company’s headquarters for Africa. Confirming the choice of Ghana, Twitter addressed the economic and social benefits of its company’s social responsibility for Ghana: “Whenever we enter new markets, we work hard to ensure we are not just investing in the talent that we hire, but also investing in local communities and the social fabric that supports them.”  He added, “As a champion for democracy, Ghana is a supporter of free speech, online freedom, and the Open Internet, of which Twitter is also an advocate. Furthermore, Ghana’s recent appointment to host The Secretariat of the African Continental Free Trade Area aligns with our overarching goal to establish a presence in the region that will support our efforts to improve and tailor our service across Africa.” And President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana said, “The choice of Ghana as HQ for Twitter’s Africa operations is excellent news. Government and Ghanaians welcome very much this announcement and the confidence reposed in our country.” We congratulate Ghana and Twitter for the siting of Twitter headquarters in West Africa, believing that such location will be of benefit to the region. Locating this modern technology company in Ghana has a great potential for a win-win venture not only between Twitter and Ghana, but also for Ghana’s neighbours on the continent. We are, however, surprised by the comments of some political observers on Twitter’s choice. In the first place, it does not make for even development for all technology companies to be sited in the same country, especially after Google and Facebook have already been established in Nigeria. We, therefore, find unwise and untrue the following comments by Nigeria’s information minister, Lai Mohammed, on why Twitter opted for Ghana and not Nigeria: “The media is more to blame for this [Twitter’s choice of Ghana] which most times exaggerate the challenges in the country. At no time was this worse than during the #EndSARS protest when Nigerian journalists, both traditional and new media, were trying to outdo themselves in painting Nigeria as a hell where nobody should live.” The minister went further: “You can imagine the kind of job opportunities that citing that headquarters in Nigeria would have generated, the kind of visibility it would have given Nigeria, but we destroyed it. It is what the insiders say about their country that the outsider will use to judge and condemn the country.” Such observations miss the significance of why foreign investors should not concentrate all or most of their investments in Nigeria or in any other country. It is not strategic for Nigeria as headquarters of ECOWAS to expect that all foreign investors concentrate on the continent’s largest economy and market. There are other important factors for choosing destinations for foreign investments. It is obvious that Nigeria has a bigger clientele for Twitter than Ghana, with already 39 million customers in contrast to Ghana’s population of 32 million. But Ghana has many other things that can nourish foreign investment that Nigeria does not or may not have for growing a technology company eager for success. But to tell the truth, there is nothing that Ghana has that Nigeria with its resources—human and material—cannot have, but the reality in the last two years is that Nigeria is not as safe for people and property as Ghana, and Nigeria is not currently as peaceful for business development as Ghana. For example, ease of doing business and physical movement in Ghana is more visible than in Nigeria. Moreover, the recognition of the right of the investor explains why Nigerian parents send their children to Ghana for education while many wealthy Nigerians acquire real estate in Ghana. We urge Twitter and the government of Ghana to be mindful of free movement of citizens within the region in planning recruitment of technical staff for Twitter’s headquarters for Africa.