For nearly six years, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has  been under pressure to close gaps between the official and parallel market exchange rates. Foreign investors, multilateral institutions – World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) – have continually asked the apex bank to close the gap between official and parallel market exchange rates to quicken growth and save the naira. The CBN has, however, implemented several measures to harmonise diverse rates to promote exchange rates stability, writes COLLINS NWEZE.  The naira has for decades  come under pressure sending shockwaves to the people and economy. With crude oil still the mainstay of the nation’s economy, oil price volatility always translates to exchange crisis for the country. For those in search of dollars for imports, payment of school fees or medical bills abroad, the pressure of sourcing the greenback persists. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has, however, assured that it will continue to meet all ‘legitimate’ foreign exchange (forex) demands. With over $2 billion forex backlog and new demands increasing by the day, keeping the naira stable would require extra-ordinary measures. But the apex regulator said it has kept its eyes on the local currency, taking several steps to keep it stable. The battle to save the naira has led to several devaluations by the apex bank, some announced and others implemented at the official market, without a word from the regulator. The exchange rate in the Investors and Exporters Window (I&E Window) also called the Nigerian Autonomous Foreign Exchange -NAFEX has remained at N411/US$1 since February. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, gave credence to the new NAFEX rate when he said at a meeting in Lagos that the rate has moved to N410/$1. Over three weeks ago, the CBN introduced a ‘’Five Naira for Dollar Scheme”, for remittances from the diaspora, in what is being seen by markets forces as effectively a further official devaluation of the naira. In a circular to deposit money banks and International Money Transfer Operators (IMTOs), the CBN said recipients of diaspora remittances through approved IMTOs and commercial banks will receive an extra N5 for every dollar received as a remittance inflow. This means that a dollar fetching N410 at the official rate will now pay N416. But the unannounced devaluation was not always the case with Nigeria. Last year,  the CBN devalued the naira by N6, a move announced through a weekly exchange rate for disbursement of proceeds of IMTOs released on November 30. The CBN had directed authorised dealers, Bureau De Change (BDC) operators and service providers were advised to add N6 across all rates. The regulator pegged IMTOs sale of dollar to banks at N388/$1 from the previous N382/$1; banks sale of dollar to CBN was at N389/$1, as against previous rate of N383/$1 while CBN sale of dollar to BDCs was pegged at N390/$1, as against previous rate of N384/$1. Head of Research at Coronation Asset Management, Guy Czartoryski, observed the new trend and declared that unscheduled crawling-peg devaluations may be the norm this year and could eventually close the gap between the NAFEX and parallel market rates, which are approximately 20 per cent apart. Likewise, Forex Trading Associate (AZA), a global forex dealer, Oghenefejiro Eduviere, said since February 26, that the official exchange rate has stood around N411/$1, a 7.6 per cent devaluation from N379/$1 previously published on the CBN’s website. For him, further devaluation leading to a convergence of the official and parallel market exchange rates could encourage the World Bank in its discussions with the Federal Government over withheld loan disbursement. The World Bank is withholding a $1.5 billion loan until the Federal Government implements currency reforms, that included exchange rate harmonisation. Eduviere said a liquidity crisis in the foreign exchange (forex)market was highlighted by a $1.86 billion decline in external reserves over the past seven weeks to $34.66 billion on March 10. The reduction in reserves occurred despite the rising trend in the crude oil prices, with Nigeria’s Bonny Light jumping to $63.96 per barrel on March 19 from $46.67 per barrel on November 30. IMF’s views on the naira The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is also seeking further devaluation of the naira, which it said was overvalued by  18.5 per cent. The IMF, therefore, called on the CBN to establish a more transparent and market-based exchange rate policy to instill confidence in the market. The advice was contained in IMF Article IV Consultation with Nigeria which was released in February. The IMF Executive Board recommended establishing a market-clearing unified exchange rate with the near-term focus on allowing greater flexibility and removing the backlog of requests for foreign exchange. For the Fund, Nigeria’s  long-running policy of a stable exchange rate has produced limited benefits. “Staff’s latest estimates suggest an overvaluation of the real effective exchange rate (applied on the current level of the official exchange rate) of 18.5 per cent, with the external position assessed as substantially weaker than what is consistent with fundamentals and desirable policy settings,” it said. The Fund said clear exchange rate policy is needed to instill near-term confidence and bring long- term gains.  WTO DG speaks World Trade Organisation (WTO) Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala said the organisation was concerned about how Nigeria was managing its foreign exchange. “The WTO is concerned about foreign exchange, the way we manage it and how we use it to support manufacturing, export and import in our economy, “ Okonjo-Iweala said after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari in Abuja. She called for exchange rate harmonisation to boost Nigeria’s foreign trade. Several foreign exchange rules were introduced recently by the CBN to attract foreign capital and keep the naira stable. The CBN, in February 2020, introduced new domiciliary account rules in which it directed that customers can deposit dollar into their domiciliary accounts but are not allowed to transfer it to another party. Another policy encourages foreign portfolio investors to invest in high-yielding Open Market Operation (OMO) bills at 14 per cent while local investors are restricted. The OMO Bills are now being phased out, after the CBN complained that investors were taking huge returns in dollars at the expense of the economy. Besides, the apex bank restricted importers of milk from accessing foreign exchange from the official market. It reduced the importation of milk and other dairy products to six firms- FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria; Chi Limited; TG Arla Dairy Products Limited; Promasidor Nigeria Limited; Nestle Nigeria PLC (MSK only), and Integrated Dairies Limited. This WTO is also working on reversing this policy, which it said, does not give room for fair trade. For Czartoryski and other market analysts, rate convergence might unlock some multilateral budget support from the World Bank and others that was said to be conditional upon unspecified movement on exchange-rate policy. On the macro side, the adjustment gives a boost to non-oil exports and to inflows converted into naira at the NAFEX window. Czartoryski said: “We do not expect to see a crawling peg regime announced, but we do expect the CBN to continue with such step-changes in Naira/$ exchange rates during 2021. This way the CBN would be able to gradually narrow the gap between, say, the NAFEX Window at N410/$1 and the cash parallel exchange rate, reported at N485.00/US$)”. Reserves respond to ‘Naira for Dollar’ policy The ‘Naira for Dollar’ policy has also led to positive accretion to the foreign reserves one month after take off. The foreign reserves, on April 1, stood at $34.85 billion, representing $404 million increase compared to $34.41 billion on March 11. The uptick in reserves has been attributed to CBN’s ‘Naira for Dollar’ policy, which has seen dollar inflows pass through commercial banks, instead of unofficial channels. Also helping reserves accretion is the continued rise in benchmark Brent crude oil price, which stood at $63.29 per barrel as at April 8, representing about $23.29 above the $40 per barrel benchmark for 2021 budget. According to Emefiele, the ‘Naira for Dollar’ policy, gives N5 rebate for every $1 sent in by Nigerians in diaspora, which is paid to the account of the beneficiaries, following receipt of the remittance inflows. The CBN had promised that the new policy would provide Nigerians in the Diaspora with cheaper and more convenient ways of sending remittances in. Defending the dollar policy, Emefiele said the move was also to increase the transparency of remittance inflows and reducing rent-seeking activities. He expressed optimism that the new policy measure will encourage banks and financial institutions to develop products and investments vehicles, geared towards attracting investments from Nigerians in the diaspora. Reiterating the provision a new circular on remittances, the CBN boss said the bank introduced the rebate of N5 for every $1 of fund remitted to Nigeria, through IMTOs licensed by the Central Bank to incentivise the process of remittance. He emphasised that the new measure would help to make the process of sending remittance through formal bank channels cheaper and more convenient for Nigerians in the diaspora. Eduviere said naira would remain stable on the parallel market, hovering around the N480 to N490 level, as the Central Bank of Nigeria’s ’N5 for $1′ incentive scheme encourages forex flows to go through banks. “We see trading on the Investors and Exporters (I&E) Forex window extending depreciation towards N435 in the short term,” he said in emailed notes to investors. On the foreign reserves, Fitch Ratings, a global rating agency  predicted that Nigeria’s external reserves would rise to $42 billion by year-end. In a report entitled, “Depreciatory pressures on key Sub-Saharan African currencies to lessen,” Fitch Ratings had hinged the forecast on its expectation that Brent crude would average $53 per barrel, compared to the $43.1 per barrel recorded last year. Moreover, the agency anticipated that the CBN would allow the official naira exchange rate to depreciate further in 2021, notwithstanding improved terms of trade and foreign exchange reserves. “Given rising oil prices in 2021, we expect forex reserves to rise to an average of around $42 billion in 2021 (around eight months of import cover), compared to $36 billion in 2020. “However, this will not negate the impact of persistent depreciatory pressures on the naira, notably as a result of rising dollar demand driven by the domestic economic recovery,” it stated. 