For centuries, people have continued to ask a critical question: what makes a successful entrepreneur? Is it the start-up capital, the operating environment, understanding government policy, size of business, cost of funds or use of technology? The FirstGem 4.0 conference organised by First Bank of Nigeria Limited with theme: the ‘Art of Negotiation’ provided answers to these questions and gave women entrepreneurs the compass to navigate the troubled business world. From investment in bonds market, adapting a resilient and seamless technology, raising seed capital to negotiating the best buys in a complex business world, the FirstGem was a delight to participants given the calibre of facilitators that attended the programme. First Bank Nigeria Limited Chairman Mrs. Ibukun Awosika tutored women entrepreneurs on what makes entrepreneurs tick in today’s digital age. According to Awosika, women should create advantage for themselves by being informed about their environment, including having understanding of government policies. She said the bank chose the ‘Art of Negotiation’ as the theme because it realised that although women are not less smarter, less competent, less able than their male counterparts, they are disadvantaged. She said women have incredible ability to compete and deliver value, but the system is structurally disadvantaged towards them. Awosika challenged the women to throw ignorance out of the door, seek to be empowered with education,  information and be open-minded enough to learn from a child. “I challenge you to seek to engage with technology because it is not about what you think, it is about what will happen. Even if you do not like technology, it is going to affect your life. So, it is your reality and you must rise up and take up the challenge on how you will engage technology. You must go to learn what you do not know. Be a child. There is nothing I love more than remaining a child all of the time. It means you are open to learning from everyone and anyone,” she advised. Awosika said there was no need to be afraid to confront the things one does not know. “So, I challenge you to be liberated from things you do not know by learning them; rise up to the challenges of this generation and season; seek to understand the entirety of the value chain of your business; try to understand the trend within your market to enable you know where you fit in and define your own portion of that value chain. That will make you the master of it, and enable you rule in your own space. I challenge you to understand that the market of today is open to you no matter where it is,” she advised.  For her, technology has closed the gap, bringing about one world, whether one likes it or not. “I know there is a possibility of people trying to move away from globalisation due to sense of national protection post Covid-19, but that is an impossible task. You have to understand how your product can sell, and how it will be useful to both your local market and global market,” she said. “When we say, global market, we do not mean everybody in the globe, we mean everybody in the globe who needs what you sell wherever they are,” she stated. Government policies and women-led businesses. For Awosika, understanding government policies is key to business success. She said: “If you do not know the direction of government policy, you cannot know if you are working against the direction of such policy and that will leave you in the dark.  It is important you create advantage for yourself, so that you can compete. And part of that advantage is in you educating yourself, so that you will be able to compete.” According to her, the way the world is structured makes room for small businesses that understand the power of connectivity to thrive. “It does not matter how little your business is, or the products you are dealing with, there is a global reference point, that affects what you do, at the corner of your room. Because every action somewhere has a ripple effect that will eventually land at your doorstep, your ability to survive situations like that gives you an edge,” she said. Continuing, she said: “No matter how little your business is, the connectivity across the whole world will affect it. It is important that you pay attention to what is going on around the world. Pay attention to political issues, because political issues from around the world and local environment impact the economy of your country and your business,” she said. FirstBank Nigeria Limited Chief Executive Officer Dr. Adesola Adeduntan said the bank would continue to support women-led businesses which, he said, have accessed of N58 billion from the bank. He also said the bank remains committed to supporting women-owned businesses and the economy generally with its expanding retail lending as well as its drive for financial inclusion. He said: “FirstBank, through the FirstGem initiative, is committed to supporting the contemporary woman’s financial services needs across the various stages of her life. “Our FirstGem value proposition provides real solutions to challenges faced by female entrepreneurs and working professionals. “Today, our work is more important and impactful than ever! A review of the performance of the FirstGem initiative shows the effectiveness of our efforts to elevate and empower the Nigerian woman. “In 2020, we gave out loans of N58 billion to over 81,000 female entrepreneurs and professionals.” Furthermore, he added: “Empowering women via agent banking proposition is one of the outcomes of the FirstGem initiative. Across our agent banking network, the largest verified bank-led agent banking network in Nigeria, we have about 24,500 female agents representing 28 per cent of the agents in our network. It gives us much joy to see that more women are embracing this proposition and getting empowered.” He noted that the FirstGem Initiative takes an inclusive approach to empowering women with respect to their business, family and future. FirstGem has since inception helped FirstBank of Nigeria to emerge as a foremost player and leader in promoting women empowerment whilst enabling them to contribute to the national economy. In the FirstGem community, enables like-minded women irrespective of where they are in Nigeria and abroad, gather to connect, grow and share knowledge on everything about lifestyle, motherhood, career development, entrepreneurship, health, work and family. Analysis of MSMEs borrowers showed that 81,000 female MSME borrowers got N58 billion, with the spread across the six geo-political zones showing that North Central, has 8,139 FirstGem customers representing nine per cent; Northwest, 4,008 FirstGem customers representing four per cent; North East,   3,809 FirstGem  customers representing four per cent; South West, with 32,477 FirstGem  customers representing 35 per cent. Others are Southeast, 6,919 FirstGem customers representing eight per cent; Southsouth, 36,390 FirstGem customers representing 40 per cent and private banking, three customers, bringing the total number to 91,745 FirstGem customers. Also speaking, a Professor of Economics at IESE Business School, Pedro Videla gave a global view of the business world, which he said affects every entrepreneur despite where he or she operates. He said emerging markets such as China, India, Vietnam, among others are likely to have sustained economic growth, adding that they are evolving much more quickly than traditional markets. This, he said, would affect the pattern of outsourcing and production. Videla said shifting demographics such as the aging population in many countries will shape demand preferences hence the need for women to innovative and develop their businesses along the demographic growth pattern. He said sustainability will be a major in influencing future supply chain, because of increasing global awareness of environmental issues. “Besides, new technologies will promote new business models and platforms and affect the design of the supply chain. Still, protectionism, which has resumed in many countries could be big barriers for trade,” Videla said. Agusto Consulting Head Consulting Prof. Jimi Ogbobine said commercial banks, International Oil Companies (IOCs), multinational companies, leaders in Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) and financial technology (Fintech) firms are expected to issue over N1 trillion corporate debts before year-end. For him, women should not just sit idly and watch, as investing in the bond market could bring bountiful returns. The corporate debt market in Nigeria is still in its infancy stage and has only begun to pick up in the last two to three years. Prior to now must corporates have favoured private placement transactions when raising debt outside of bank loans. He said over N1 trillion will be raised in corporate debt instruments in 2021, representing a 10 per cent increase from the N910 billion raised in the previous year. He explained that with risk free yields of Treasury Bills  currently below three per cent, there would be a significant growth in debt market offerings by corporates at both the short end of the market (in commercial papers) and in long-term maturities through corporate bonds. He said: “e-Transactions in Nigeria are now larger than the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of Nigeria even without the telcos putting full hug into it. “So as a business, if you do not have an e-payment system, you are missing out in a major growth area in the country and by 2022 to 2023, it could grow double the size of the GDP nearing the N250 trillion mark.”  Understanding FirstGem  The product, FirstGem, is an account designed specifically to meet the needs of women, aged 18 years and above. The product is targeted at a broad spectrum of women, working professionals, entrepreneurs, or market women to promote their business through an array of benefits, from free business advisory services on business funding, specialised training on Business Development initiatives (online and physical), regular information or insights on business opportunities or openings in various sectors and industries. Speaking on the event, FirstBank Deputy Managing Director Francis Shobo said: “The FirstGem 4.0 is the icing on the cake in the streams of initiatives and activities we have organised and participated in March as we join the world to celebrate women for the indelible roles they play in our society.” “Through these activities, we spearhead the call on the need to promote women inclusiveness in the country as the role they play towards the continued socio-economic growth and development of any given society cannot be overemphasized.”