Gunmen have murdered a popular hotelier in Atan – Ota in Ado – Odo/Ota Local Government Area of Ogun State, Kehinde Ibidunni, and his wife, Elizabeth, in a pre-dawn attack. The Nation learnt the 63-year-old man and wife, 54, were killed during an invasion of their residence at No 15 Tella Ojo Crescent, Atan – Ota around 3 am on Tuesday. It was learnt moves by the gunmen to gain access to the house through a burglary proof caught the attention of a little girl living with the couple. As she dashed to the hotelier’s room to inform him of the strange movement, the hotelier was said to have asked who the intruders were. He was reportedly shot and died immediately. The assailants then gained entry into the building, seized his wife and shot her dead after beating her thoroughly, it was further learnt. Their son, Olayinka, told reporters what happened was a case of “assassination.” The grieving Olayinka lamented his parents were murdered less than a month after attending his wedding in Abuja. He said: “They (couple) stayed alone in the house. They have a little girl staying with them in the house for support. “At about 3 am on April 27, the girl heard some people trying to gain access into the house through the burglary proof. “She immediately stood up, went to my dad’s room and called him that some people were trying to gain entrance. “When my dad showed up to ask about the people, they shot him in the heart straight up. So, he died instantly. “After they killed him, they gained access into the house. They went into the room, they met my mum, they beat her, they stabbed her and finally, they shot her. “They killed the two of them and after that, they scattered the whole house, they took the little money they could lay their hands on and they left. When asked if it was a case of armed robbery or assassination, he responded: “From what we know and what the police are saying, it is a case of assassination. “We can’t tell what type of robbery that led to killing husband and wife. I think it is an assassination case.” He claimed the police have taken the remains of his parents to the morgue and arrests have been made in connection with the case. Ogun Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, did not pick up several calls from our correspondent. He was also yet to respond to text messages at the time of filing this report.