The easiest route to grassroots empowerment and poverty reduction is improved access to financial services especially at the informal sector dominated by grassroots savers. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is taking major steps to ensure that  95 per cent of adult population have access to financial services from current 63 per cent. COLLINS NWEZE writes on challenges  making it  difficult for banks, regulators and governments to bring financial services closer to the people.  The grassroots population is the biggest target in banks, governments and multilateral institutions drives to bring financial services closer to the people. Hence, the benefits of improved access to financial services  to the population and economy cannot be underestimated. The Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA) says an inclusive financial sector is characterised by the diversity of financial services providers, the level of competition between them, and the legal and regulatory environments that ensure the integrity of the financial sector and access to financial services for all. Also, evidence worldwide shows that access to financial services contributes both to economic growth and wealth creation and is therefore key to tackling the ‘poverty’ trap in Nigeria. “It is critical for regulators and policy makers to create an enabling policy environment to actively promote both the demand for and the supply of financial services to the unbanked and under-banked,” it said. The impact of having more people save their funds in banks or other financial services  or have more access to credit on the population and  businesses especially at the informal sector cannot be overemphasised. For instance, Nigeria’s informal sector is a sleeping giant. The potential of the sector, estimated at $240 billion, is largely untapped. The billions of naira that circulate through the informal sector  has a negative impact on the country’s economic growth and development. The Enhancing Financial Innovation and Access (EFInA), a financial sector development organisation that promotes financial inclusion in Nigeria survey revealed that 23 million adults save at home. If 50 per cent of these people were to save N1,000 per month with a bank, then up to N138 billion could be incorporated into the formal financial sector every year. Also,  34.9 million adults representing 39.7 per cent of the adult population were financially excluded. Only 28.6 million adults were banked, representing 32.5 per cent of the adult population. The CBN through its National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS) plans to ensure that 95 percent of Nigerian adults are included in the financial net by the year 2025. The 2018 data by EFInA put Nigeria’s financial inclusion rate at 63.2 percent, meaning that as much as 36.8 percent  or about 40 million adults still lack access to financial services. Unlike the formal economy, the informal economy  has grown faster in size at an annual average rate of about 8.5 per cent between 2015 and 2019. This growth seen in the informal sector and an increase in employment  it provides implies higher household income and lower poverty. This underground economy is particularly large in Nigeria, with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) estimating it to constitute about 60 per cent of the entire Nigerian economy, representing about $240 billion. To capture the underground economy the CBN, National Pension Commission, other financial institutions and government agencies are providing financial products and services to the low income population represents a large business opportunity for the private sector. The Shared Agent Network Expansion Facilities (SANEF) report showed that despite the campaign to get more people into the financial system, Northeast and Southeast regions have the least access to banking based on financial access touch-points data. With about five per cent financial access touch-points for the Northeast and seven per cent for the Southeast, both regions remain disadvantaged in access to financial services despite efforts by the CBN, Bankers’ Committee and commercial banks to take banking to the grassroots. Southwest is leading on financial access touch-points with 54 per cent; Southsouth 12 per cent; Northcentral 11 per cent and Northwest 10 per cent. The CBN’s policies on mobile money, agency banking, Know Your Customer (KYC),  insurance, and recently, Payment Service Banks (PSBs) have helped to bring new customers to the financial system. The National Pension Commission (PenCom) identified with this informal sector with the launch of the Micro Pension Plan (MPP), which has enabled artisans such as  photographers, caterers, hairdressers, motorcycle service operators, tailors, fashion designers, carpenters, painters among others to embrace Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and protect their future and businesses. The CBN, in furtherance of its mandate to promote a sound financial system in Nigeria and the need to enhance access to financial services for low income earners and unbanked segments of the society instituted the PSBs. The PSBs are to accept deposits from individuals and small businesses, which shall be covered by the deposit insurance scheme and carry out payments and remittances (including inbound cross-border personal remittances) services through various channels within Nigeria. 