Many police stations have come under attack in the Southeast this year, with several officers killed. Three policemen were attacked at Onueke Police Station in Ezza South Local Government Area (LGA) in Ebonyi State on January 8. On January 23, two policemen were killed after gunmen invaded a police station in Aba, Abia State. On February 1, hoodlums, numbering about 20, razed the divisional police station at Omoba, headquarters of Isiala Ngwa South in Abia, killing a policeman and looting the armoury. A police station was burnt at Isu, Onicha LGA in Ebonyi on February 4. On February 5, two policemen were killed at the Umulowo police division in Obowo LGA in Imo State. Gunmen attacked the Abayi police station in Osisioma Ngwa LGA in Abia on February 23. They killed a policeman, looted arms and set the station ablaze. On February 24, hoodlums killed a police officer and razed a patrol vehicle in Ekwulobia, Anambra State. A policewoman was shot when suspected hoodlums attacked a police station in Aboh Mbaise LGA in Imo on February 25. On March 1, a police station was attacked at Iboko divisional police station in Izzi, Ebonyi. A police station was burnt at Ihitte-Uboma LGA in Abia on March 9. On March 18, an unknown number of policemen were killed in Ekwulobia, when gunmen attacked various locations. Two staff members of the Nigeria Correctional Service (NCS), Awka, who were escorting inmates to court in Ekwulobia, were gunned down. Hoodlums attacked the divisional police headquarters at Isiala Mbano in Imo on March 20. Nobody died. Three police officers attached to the Abiriba police division were killed in Ohafia LGA in Abia on March 22. Their rifles were taken away. On March 31, three policemen attached to the former Central Bank of Nigeria governor, Prof Charles Soludo, were killed in Isuofia, Anambra. On April 5, gunmen attacked the Imo police command headquarters and the Correctional Centre in Owerri. They looted the armoury, burnt vehicles and freed no fewer than 600 detainees and 1,844 inmates. Gunmen razed the Divisional Police Headquarters in Ehime Mbano LGA in Imo on April 6. At least four vehicles were burnt. The same day, the Police in Ebonyi repelled an attack by gunmen on the Ugbodo Police Station in Ebonyi LGA. One of the assailants was killed. On April 8, gunmen attacked the Mbieri Divisional Police Headquarters in Mbaitoli LGA in Imo, freeing suspects. Three policemen attached to the Safer Highway Patrol team in Ebonyi were killed in an attack at Ogoja/ Abakaliki Express road by Nwaezenyi junction on April 14. The attackers, who disguised as a burial party, opened fire when stopped for a check. On April 19, gunmen killed two policemen during an attack on the Zone 13 Police Headquarters in Ukpo, Dunukfia LGA in Anambra. In Abia, gunmen burnt a police station in Uzoakoli, Bende LGA in a 3 am attack the same day.