The Nigeria Police has come under attacks after a viral picture of ex- BBNaija housemate, Kiddwaya with four escorts surfaced online. Kiddwaya on Wednesday shared pictures on his Instagram and Twitter pages. He was seen surrounded by four armed police officers. He captioned post; “Oya. It’s round 2. Let’s move out.”
This did not go down well with Nigerians who called out the Police for giving such security to a celebrity while insecurity heightens in many parts of the country. However, some hailed the billionaire’s son, explaining the level of kidnapping in the country was enough reason for him to have such security. This is coming at a time when new acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba ordered the withdrawal of senior police officers from EFCC. @ValarMuurghulis tweeted: “I thought they said the new IG withdrew all policemen attached to VIPs, everything is just audio in this Nigeria.” @tfx47 said: “See how men of the police deliberately make themselves ready snacks for EndSARS roasting and bystander casualties like those killed together the young Prince in Anambra 3 weeks ago. Didn’t the IGP order withdrawal of policemen from such duties just this last Sunday?” sonoflov_ wrote: “So why are we not gonna have security issue in Nigeria.” dave_monie_ said: “Are these not id!0t that are supposed to secure the Nigerian citizens now follow do boy boy about mtcheeew misplaced priority.” cashclothin said: “This absolutely nonsense and a disgrace to @nigeriapoliceforce when we go wise as a nation.” momolistic_baby argued: “Is this what our security agents have been reduced to??? No wonder we lack personnels to mand even their stations. SMH.” Realmistermaxvic wrote: “Nigeria police is been ridiculed at all levels… how is it that our officers who are not even enough to carry out their primary duties have suddenly become models?? used to showcase/display what anybody wants the world to see?? i feel so ashamed of somethings that happen in Nigeria. @nigeriapoliceforce.” @negromaniacs tweeted: “Not his fault tho, the system that made this possible is to be blamed. NPF has no respect. Now imagine the number of personnel across the entire country doing same thing to protect dt he rich. Thousands that ought to combating crime. Even Miyetti Allah has too.” @Ladeepee said: “ “Do you know how much he is worth if he gets kidnapped? Abeg let him use 100 of them if he needs too. Prevention is better.” @Martolerix argued: “If kidnappers lay hands on him, do you know how much in dollars they will demand for? Abeg leave him to secure himself and his life in a country wey even police station use chain to lockdown their generator from thieves.”