Kano Pillars Head Coach Ibrahim Musa is undoubtedly one of the longest serving coaches with a club side in the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) after spending some 16 years with the four-time league champions. The Kano State-born gaffer has spent 12 years as assistant coach with additional four years as the  substantive coach and his impact on the team is on the upward swing lately. At the end of the first round of 2020/2021 season, Kano Pillars and  Kwara United  emerged as joint leaders with 36 points each after 19  round of matches with six goals distinguishing both sides.  Though Kwara United maintained leadership position on the log with superior goal difference  , Kano Pillars occupy second position  with pride as well. With the  second stanza set for a restart on Wednesday April 28, 2021, Musa and his team has since resumed training session on Monday after a four-day break in preparation for the task ahead. Yet Musa  believes that Sai Masu Gida have more work to do to emerge league champions at the end of the season. “Coming first, second or third in the NPFL league is very easy but to maintain that position till the end of the league is very difficult” Musa told NationSport. “That is why we worked very hard in the first round and we want to continue with the same zeal in the second stanza. “We know that we have a lot to do and we are not ready to rest on our oars. Everybody resumed on Monday for the challenges ahead and we will try to improve on our performance.” On the motivation for their excellent performance, he added: “What I did was to carry everybody along and give everyone a sense of belonging; and see that that there was no division in the team. I don’t give preference to any player but I treated all of them equally. “I treat all my players as brothers and relative, including my coaching crew everybody is involved in the day-to-day activities in the team. “If we discovered any problem, we solved it among ourselves and if it is something beyond our control we take it to the management level.” Musa has won Federation Cup with Pillars as a coach and three league titles as assistant coach, the only thing that is missing in his profile is league title and he has vowed to do everything to achieve it this season. He stressed that the team has quality players that can make the dream achievable, adding that the team would be fortified with additional four players. “We are working toward winning the league title at the end of the season. My target is to win the league; that’s what is remaining for me as a coach. I have won it three times as an assistant coach. I won Federation Cup as a coach and winning league title will boost my coaching career “I know it is achievable because we have quality players in all departments. All we have to do is to be focus and work very hard. Again, we are trying to fortify the team with additional four quality players; two strikers and two midfielders,” he added. He qualified Kano Pillars for the continental assignment last season but was denied the chance to lead the team following CAF insistence that only coaches with its A License will be allowed to handle clubs in both the CAF Champions League and CAF Confederation Cup. Since Musa only possess CAF B and C, the management of the team went to engage the services of a French coach Lionel Soccoia who incidentally  resigned his appointment in March after spending  just five months . “I don’t have any hard feelings with what happened then because it was done at the request of both CAF and  NFF,” Musa explained. “The NFF sent a circular that all the coaches leading the continental teams should have CAF A License but  I have B and C Licenses.  I have applied for my A license and whenever the course is available I will definitely be  going for it.” Musa has been part and parcel of Kano Pillars for years and he reckoned his experiences over the years have helped in tinkering  with the side this term. He offered: “It was not my first time because I know this team very well, even when Kadiri Ikhana left the club, the team was not in the better position but when I took over, we finished in the best position. “The following season, we came second and in the third season I won FA Cup with the team. I know the team in and out and staying in a team for 16 years is not a small thing. “I was an assistant coach for almost 12 years before I become the head coach. This has given me the opportunity to understand the club very well.” Speaking about the race for the NPFL title this season, Musa has tipped the top five teams (Kwara United, Kano Pillars, Akwa United, Enyimba and Rangers) as strong contenders: “All the clubs at the top are good and have a chance to win the title; it only deepens on who use their strength and chances very well.” Musa has, however, appealed to the state government to come to the team’s rescue by providing them luxury bus and cars for the players and technical crew respectively. “I am appealing to our sport loving Governor to give us the buses and car the government promised us because this is really affecting our program and as for the fans, they should keep believing in us and pray for us,” Musa noted.