 Recklessness and impunity have always guided Nigerian public servants. They hardly pay attention to laws, rules and morality. This was evident in the relationship between Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State and his erstwhile deputy, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, who was forced out of the ruling political party by the frosty relationship between both men. It was expected that the 2019 governorship election that saw Mr. Ajayi flying the flag of the Zenith Labour Party against Akeredolu who was again presented by the All Progressives Congress (APC) would settle the matter since the governor was returned to the office. However, in the past weeks, the governor had announced that Mr. Ajayi illegally left office with his official cars and vowed to retrieve them. At last, the governor won as the former deputy governor bowed to reason and logic by returning three official cars. We commend Governor Akeredolu for insisting on propriety in the matter. It is about time that public officers realised that the country and her finances are bleeding and cannot cater to their excesses. As the Ondo State governor pointed out, the state does not have enough resources to provide for the greed of public officers, whether in office or retired. This is a path we expect all states and the Federal Government to toe. The tradition of simply allowing officials to retain government property at retirement is unsustainable at a time the economy is in the doldrums. There was a time when official vehicles were parked on official premises and driven only by official drivers. We have to return to such times. As Governor Akeredolu pointed out, many states have passed laws that enable officials of certain categories to leave office with their cars and houses as well as literally live on the state for life. There were even attempts in some states to extend such privileges to legislators. All such laws should be repealed as the Lagos State Government has done at the instance of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Perhaps the most absurd example was former Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Solomon Arase who retired in 2016 and allegedly left with 24 vehicles, including an Armoured BMW. Deputy Inspectors-General who left with him also followed the example of their boss to make away with eight vehicles each. As former IGP Ibrahim Idris noted, that act depleted the fleet and nearly incapacitated those who took over from them. If they could exhibit such wantonness while leaving office, it is best imagined what that frame of mind would have caused them to do while in office, especially when we recall what another former IGP, Mr Tafa Balogun was convicted of while still in office. We agree with those who suggest that the action of the Ondo State governor could have been informed by vendetta, but it need not be. All those holding positions of honour and responsibility in the country should realise that the mandate is to serve, not feast on the people. We hope Mr. Akeredolu would extend the searchlight to others who have served under him as commissioners and special advisers. Had that been so before now, perhaps Mr. Ajayi would not have the audacity to take away private property handed him to perform his duties. All public officers should realise that privileges are not rights. At the moment, they should only use what is committed to them as privileges of office while in office; they have no right to cart them away at retirement.