By Ogechukwu Egwuatu SIR: Concerns have trailed the statement made by Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki that the federal government printed an additional N50 –N60 billion to fund federal allocation to states for March. While this has been denied by the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Federal Ministry of Finance, the government’s fiscal policies is something that ought to worry Nigerians a great deal. The country’s economy is stretched on all fronts with incessant borrowing, massive deficits, inflation and currency depreciation. More so, the government, as it appears has used up every option available for funding. This time is by no means the first time the government’s resort to printing of money has raised concerns. In January this year, CBN governor had dismissed such concerns on the grounds that the CBN is the last funding source for the national budget. Now, it seems to have become first. Between 2015 and 2020, a total of about  ¦ 19.03 trillion was printed. In 2017, the volume of money that was printed was already worrying. In 2020, the CBN printed a total of ¦ 2.86 trillion to fund the federal government’s deficit. If the government’s so-called last resort is now the norm, this becomes problematic. One of the significant worries of reckless printing of money is inflation. An increase in the amount of money available without a corresponding increase in the resources available shoots up the prices of goods by the time the two factors have adjusted. Inflation rates in Nigeria have been alarming at an average of 12.93% year-on-year since 2015. Inflation can primarily be attributed to such policies like border closure, food insecurity and a ban on importation of certain goods. Still, an underlying reason that fewer people may have been paying attention to is the amount of money printed. Inflation and, in the worst-case scenario, hyperinflation would lead to several economic and humanitarian issues. The value of a weakened currency and government bonds, another one of the country’s funding sources in its recent borrowing streak, would lose even more weight. The little being earned by Nigerians would fetch even less. Saving would be an even less viable option. The already high level of poverty and worsening standard of living would become even worse. The government is at a point that it needs to be practical. It is essential to cut down expenses. The country’s finances are in a dire straits. There is a need to encourage private sector contribution to the country’s development and relax crippling policies. In the end, the rising cost of living would affect primarily the average Nigerian who is finding it hard to make a living because of an unfriendly business environment. At this critical point in time, what Nigerians need more than government spending and projects is the freedom and enabling environment to create wealth.