 Police in Lagos have arrested two women over the death of one Osita Anwuanwu, 64. The deceased was said to have slumped and died during an altercation with a lady friend Juliet Eguebor, 35. The squabble took place at a bar owned by Eguebor’s friend Ngozi Emezue, 38. Police said the incident occurred on April 8, around 8:45pm, at Arida area of Ikotun. A statement by police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the man’s daughter, Linda Anwuanwu, a resident of Temitope street, off Governor Road, Ikotun, reported to the police at Ikotun Division that she was informed that her father was lying down in a bar at Arida after he had a misunderstanding with the women. “The police operatives at Ikotun Division raced to the scene and rescued the deceased to the General Hospital, Igando where he was certified dead. “According to preliminary investigation by the police, the deceased had gone to check his lady friend, Juliet, who he had not seen for some time, at Ngozi’s bar, where he engaged the duo in a hot argument and physical assault before he slumped. “The two suspects have been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba for proper investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of Mr Osita Anwuanwu,” he said.  Adejobi said detectives at Ikorodu Division also arrested a 50-year-old man, Wisdom Okoro, over the sudden death of his lover, Enobong Udoh, 38. He said the incident occurred on Sunday around 10am, opposite Meras Hotel, along Igbogbo Road, Ikorodu. “One Blessing Pius, of 46, Adegboruwa Street, Igbogbo, Ikorodu, reported to the police that the deceased was found dead in her house, opposite Meras Hotel, along Igbogbo Road, Ikorodu, on April 11, at about 10am.” “The police operatives swung into action and invited her boyfriend for interrogation where he, Wisdom Okoro, confessed that the deceased informed him that she was pregnant in February and he was in her house to check on her on April 10, at about 5:14pm when the deceased informed him that she had terminated her pregnancy. “The statements and utterances of Wisdom revealed that he has some questions to answer. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu has ordered that he should be transferred to the  Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba for further investigation. “The Commissioner of Police therefore assured the general public, especially Lagosians, of thorough investigation into the cases for justice to prevail,” said Adejobi. 