Officials of the Federal Government and some states have held an interactive session in Adamawa capital, Yola where they charted fresh moves to arrest what they described as alarming rate of deforestation across the country. At a two-day National Review Session on Climate Resilience in Nigeria, representatives of Federal Ministry of Environment and Federal Ministry of Agriculture & Rural Development as well as representatives of similar ministries from Taraba, Kaduna and host Adamawa State agreed deliberate actions were needed to address declining forest cover. At the session organised by European Union and Oxfam Nigeria, Federal and State officials were joined by leaders of related civil society groups based in Taraba, Kaduna, Adamawa, Abuja and Lagos who jointly resolved that while the Federal Government should intensify afforestation drive, the various state governments which own and control what remains of Nigeria’s forest cover, need to up their game. A communiqué after the session at the weekend identified ignorance among Nigerians about climate change and the needs for tree planting as a major challenge against tree planting efforts. Federal Government representatives resolved to revive National Tree Planting Campaign, which includes the National Tree Planting Day. According to the communiqué, Adamawa representatives, “resolved to work on the planting of one million trees annually.” The communiqué added Adamawa would equally collaborate with security agencies to enforce an afforestation law of the state which requires that for every tree felled, three fresh ones should be planted. The representative of the Federal Ministry of Environment, Mrs. Olukoni Bosede, who is a director in the Federal Department of Forestry, told newsmen the rate of deforestation in Nigeria is alarming. “In the 1950s, we had 10 million hectares of forestry, approximately 10% of the Nigerian land mass, which was very good for us but now forest size has dropped to less than 6% of the country’s land size,” she said. She disclosed already the Federal Government had started a nationwide tree planting awareness creation because, at present, “lots of us are cutting down trees as if we feel that no matter how we cut them down, trees will always grow by themselves.” Resident and Private Sector Engagement Programme Manager of Oxfam Nigeria, Olunide Ojo, told reporters the session was organised to recommit stakeholders to climate change impact reduction efforts. He said the states participating at the workshop were brought together for peer review, to learn innovation from each other and then to connect with the Federal government which designs the national policy on the subject matter.