As part of its activities marking the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) ‘World Day for Health and Safety of Workers at Work. Invest now in resilient OSH system.’, the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), Lagos Island branch, organised a Coronavirus awareness walk around the Lagos Central Business, Marina on Wednesday. This year’s theme, Anticipate Prepare and Respond to Crises, was chosen as the result of the on-going pandemic, which has had a profound impact on nearly every aspect of the world of work – from the immediate threat of acquiring the virus to widespread job losses in key sectors, the closure of businesses, restrictions on mobility and air travel, lockdowns, school closures and impacts on global supply chains. The Fund provides compensation for any death, disability injury or occupational disease arising out of or in the course of employment. It also covers medical expenses, refunds, rehabilitations and prosthetics support. Speaking on the occasion, the Assistant General Manager of the Branch, Erebi Kia, said the pandemic has exposed all workers and people in the world of work to the risk of infection with the novel coronavirus. She added that in addition to the risk of acquiring the novel coronavirus, workers in all sectors have faced other hazards that have emerged during the pandemic, including increased work-related stress and violence and harassment. New work practices and procedures adopted to mitigate the spread of the virus can also create new OSH risks, including chemical, ergonomic and psychosocial hazards. “On the course of this walk, if you noticed we were distributing  nose masks,” She continued. “The nose mask is the most elementary of protection. If and foremost you protect yourself. So we are telling people Covid-19 is real and also sensitizing employers to be safety conscious in the work environment.” She said informatory brochures and banners with key messages about coronavirus disease as well as the preventive measures were also distributed among people at the public places. The Health Safety Environment Manager, NSITF, Sunday Oluferan on his part encouraged people to get vaccinated in order to curtail the spread of the virus.”As we are all aware the vaccine is out and readily available in all health centers,” Oluferan said. “Let’s ensure we get vaccinated to prevent the spread and to put an end to this pandemic.” 