Some unidentified gunmen reportedly killed eight persons and beheaded one when they attacked a mining site at (Kapitex), Shawalan Kuru at Jos South Local Government Area of Plateau State last Friday. Reacting to the development on Saturday, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State described the attack as another desperate attempt by criminals to destabilise the state and create fear among the people. He said the government will not condone such attacks on innocent citizens, and directed security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of this dastardly act which is capable of disrupting the substantial peace prevailing in the state. While commiserating with the families of dead and other victims who sustained injuries, Lalong reiterated his charge to security agencies to resolve such attacks as excuses of “unknown gunmen” will no longer be tolerated. Dr. Makut Simon Macham, spokesman of Governor Lalong in a statement, advised the citizens to assist law enforcement agencies with useful intelligence, leveraging on structures such as the Traditional Institutions, Community Police Constabulary, vigilante groups and other associations. Also, Hon Dachung Yohanna Choji, Management Committee Chairman, Jos South LGA together with the security operatives  in the LGA yesterday went on a condolence visit to the Kuru community following the unfortunate  attack and killings. Hon Choji and the Councilor, Jos South House, Hon Emmanuel Jang, who had been on ground went to where the corpses were deposited to condole with the respective families and relatives of the victims. They later visited the mining site at Kapitex Shawalan Kuru District where the ugly incident happened. There, they commiserate with Gwom Rwei Kuru (The royal father) Kuru Da Patrick Mandung and the Dagwom Kushe Da Pius Jugu and the Kuru Development Association (KUDA) President, Mr. Justin kwon. At the Gwom Kuru’s palace, he appealed for calm among the people. He also urged the people to be on alert always and promised to carry out a detailed investigation on the attack. Also, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, Plateau, A.S Tafida, who represented the Commissioner of Police, commiserated with the entire Jos South people, especially the Kuru community. He appealed for calm and cooperation amongst them and advised them not to take laws into their hands as they promised to work with their leaders to carry out discreet investigations and bring the culprits to book. In his response, the Gwom Rwei Kuru Da Patrick Mandung appreciated the chairman and the security operatives for commiserating with his people over the sad incident.