The Senator Magnus Abe- led Committee on Compensatory Contracts and other incentives for Kaztec Engineering Limited has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to reverse and not to abandon the $1billion project on which Addax Petroleum Limited declared a Force Majure. Abe made the call while speaking with reporters after presenting report of the committee to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva in Abuja. The Minister promised “we will ensure that there is justice for our investors, and justice also for Nigeria”. Sylva added: “I am going to go through the report and ensure that the recommendations are forwarded to the President and implemented”. Abe said the recommendations, of course, “the most important thing is that the project should not be abandoned, and that the facilities must be used”. The committee had submitted an interim report to the minister but only decided to make a formal presentation of the report, said Abe. According to the committee chairman, the project was targeted at extracting 19 million barrel of crude oil to boost the country’s reserve. But since Addax Petroleum Limited abandoned the contract for unrelated matters, according to Abe, it has rendered over 3,000 Nigerians jobless. He said: “It is important Nigerians realize what happened from this project. First of all, as we speak, this was project that was to extract over 19 million barrel and add over 19 million barrel to our existing reserve. It should have been part of the daily national production of this country”. He explained to the reporters it was “a well project that was given to Adax Petroleum and they gave the contract to a Nigeria company called Kaztec and the company invested over $650million on facilities where the project would be carried out. “After investing that $650million, Addax which was the company that was in charge of the project had issues with Nigeria government . “So, they (Addax) declared a Force Majure that they could no longer go on with the project. So as a result of that, the entire investment of the Nigerian company went to wast and more that 3,000 workers were off”. Describing the pitiable situations which the force Majure has plunged Nigeria into, he told the Minister that an analysis of the action provokes tears.