The only female aspirant among 17 males gunning for the Vice Chancellor’s seat of University of Jos, Professor Patricia Lar has expressed confidence of clinching the coveted seat. “Being the only woman contesting the exalted VC seat in UniJos is enough signal that victory is sure for me, “ Lar declared The aspirant, while speaking in an event tagged: “Women in Leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world” organised by the Plateau State Chapter, Women4Women Community, as part of celebration to commemorate this year’s International Women’s Day, said she is eminently qualified for the top seat. Lar, who was guest speaker, noted that wrong beliefs and stereotypes have hindered the exploitation of the good leadership qualities of women. She challenged women seeking leadership position in all spheres of human endeavours not to be deterred by undue criticisms that may arise from any quarters. She urged them to remain resolute and firm by working hard to achieve their dreams because they have the capacity to reform the society for the better. Lar, a Professor of microbiology maintained that women have capacity for growth and development that has been locked up based on prejudices and religious motives hence the need for them to use their talents to better the lot of the society. Her words: “Women have good leadership qualities that need to be exploited. A woman has capacity to give the society all embracing leadership and that is what I discovered having worked in the university for many years. “So, there is need to create more room in leadership for women if we want the next 60 years to be better than the one we have experienced as a nation.” She thanked the missionaries for schools that were created for females, noting that those schools have helped by allowing many women to develop. According to her, “I have worked for over 30 years in the University of Jos and feel it is not wrong to aspire for the number one position in the university.I draw from strength within me and colleagues and I confronted the fear that could have been a stumbling block.” State Coordinator of the group, Dr. Jophia Gupar expressed delight at the strides women are taking but asked that more women aspire and attain the position of leadership especially as the general elections approach. He said: “The entire month of March is dedicated to women and we chose to celebrate ours on March 29 because of other women engagements. I challenge women to be part of developmental activities going on in their respective communities by joining women groups. “The world identifies serious groups that are into development, empowerment and building of capacity of women. I encourage women to identify with groups that can support them in whatever good thing they are doing.” Chairman, Central Planning Committee for the event, Mrs. Helen Dabup, added that the topic of the celebration “choose to challenge” is apt and stressed that women should choose to challenge discrimination in the society, choose to challenge stereotypical ideas which are against women and speak up for the right of women and the girl-child. She further advised women to look out for leaders and support only male contestants that have compassion for women.