Advocators of the scrapping of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) scheme over growing wave of insecurity as well as those who argue that the scheme had outlived its relevance especially in recent times may likely have a change of mind, particularly after visiting the garment factory of the scheme in Anambra State. The factory located inside the State Polytechnics in Mgbakwu, Awka North Local Government Area of the state which boasts of over 15,000 production capacity of khaki suits, plain vests and shorts each, have continued to contribute to the economic growth of not only the state but that of the nation at large. With the engagement of no fewer than 100 workforces, comprising corps members, NYSC staff and other skilled workers, mostly drawn from within the community, the factory has also increased the standard of living of the people of the area, as well as boosted the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of both the state and federal governments. Commissioned in July 2002, the garment factory, which is one of the two factories in the country, is not only into the production of corps members attires but also serves as a training centre for Skills Acquisition and Entrepreneurial Development (SAED) where both corps members and unemployed youths are empowered with different skills. The factory, regrettably, had not fully maximised its potentials party due to lack of adequate machines and manpower. The facility had reportedly suffered this under-utilisation challenge until the recent deployment of one of the Assistant Inspectors from the NYSC Directorate, Mr Joshua Onifade to resuscitate it. Onifade said his deployment followed the decision of the Director-General of the scheme, Brig.-Gen. Ibrahim Shuaibu to ensure the factory was resuscitated in line with his fifth policy thrust of reinvigorating the NYSC ventures, skills acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme in the scheme for greater achievements. He expressed joy over the unprecedented positive change the factory had recorded since his assumption of office barely five months ago, attributing it to the injection of both machines and manpower. He said: “The DG said he had to scout for a long time for who would assist him actualise his policy thrust. I could remember the time he sent me on an inspection of the activities here. I also went to Mina, Niger state and later sent him my report. I didn’t know he observed all I did. So one day he called and said I’ll be going to work in the factory. He said I’m in the best position for the job, in addition to my experience as a procurement officer. So who am I to say no to my DG? “The production level of the factory was nothing to write home about when I took over. I met 18 sewing machines, 12 functional but old. I decided to ensure the 7 in critical condition were repaired. Again, I said, if actually, we’re to achieve the mandate of the DG, I must go out of my way to do more. I had to get back to him for support. That he did and still doing. “Within a space of 5 months, I was able to increase the number of machines from 18 to 41. We have two types: interlocks and straight sewing machines. We bought more of them. Those that were down, including the buttonhole machine, I fixed all. Our production capacity was boasted. “Before my resumption, they were majorly outsourcing from existing contractors. When I came, I saw it as an aberration because it’s more or less working for the contractors. We were running at deficits after making statutory deductions from the government. That was why we decided to make use of what we have. “The production was about 2000. But presently, we have 15,000 capacity of khaki suits, 15,000 plain vests, 15,000 PE shorts. The only item I didn’t want to involve myself in is the crested vest because it’s done manually and it’s costlier to produce. “Until I get a screen printing machine with the capacity of producing 1,200 per day, we will not commence the production. Then, it will be massive. For now, we’re concentrating on the plain vest. We’re not also producing jungle boots, caps, belts and tennis because we don’t have the machines. But all of that are in the pipeline. By the time these become stabilised, we’ll go into that. “Initially, our members of staff in government payroll were just 10. We relied on tailors from outside. We employed them whenever we needed their services because there was no job. But on assumption, I requested the State Coordinator to give me corps members with fair knowledge of fashion designing and painting who we could train. “He posted 11 of them, six female and five male and I rented an apartment for them within the neighbourhood. He just posted another corps member to me yesterday, making it 12. Besides, I said if we must increase our production capacity, we needed more tailors. So I had to engage more than 41 tailors who we pay wages to boost their morale to handle the 41 machines on the ground. “We have a cutter who is a professional. We also have a staff assisting him. But we need more cutters who we can train because their work is very important. The one on government payroll is getting old and will soon retire. So we need to have a succession plan. Presently, I’m talking with the people in the community, especially those with school certificate to join us so they can eke their living here. “I’ve also met with the Rector of the State Polytechnics who’s coincidentally our neighbour, appealing to her that we would like to engage her students. She obliged to give us some indigent students who we can engage and assist to pay their fees from the proceeds they make. They’re here with us. All in line with the policy thrust of the NYSC.” On how long it takes to produce the 15,000, Onifade said: “Within 6weeks, we produce the 15,000 each of the 3 items simultaneously. If it’s replicated, we’re expecting to have over 60,000 production capacity of the 3 items, khaki suits, plain white and PE each in a year. That will come to a total of 180,000 pieces annually. “We supply the items directly to the central store at the headquarters from where they would be distributed to corps members across the country. Presently we have corps members in camp. Another batch is expected to be deployed in May, July and November/December. “I’m working for NYSC which is invariably working for the government. Whatever profit accruable from the proceeds is paid into TSA, thereby boosting the IGR of the scheme and economy of government. “The community where the factory is located is already feeling the impact. Over 40 women working with us fall back to the community and you can imagine the multiplier effect, directly or indirectly. The same goes with the 41 tailors. If you put all the manpower together, we have close to 100 workers on our payroll. All these increase the standard of living of the people. That’s what NYSC is doing over 47 years ago of its existence, particularly under the able leadership of the current DG. “Some of the corps members we engaged decided to stay back after service. You know leaving service without anything to do is a fundamental problem in the country which can be frustrating. That’s why NYSC is going further to engage youths to ensure they can live anywhere in the country. For example, I have a corps member from Edo state and another from Nasarawa state. They’re all working here. They’ve mingled with the community so much that it’s likely they may decide to stay back. By large, the unemployment rate is drastically reduced. The skills we’re teaching them here are what they convert to employment.” The Manager listed the various sections of the factory to include the store where the finished products, as well as raw materials, were packed, the SAED training section, printing section, among others. He further revealed that all materials in the factory were locally sourced in line with the local content of the federal government to boost the economy and create employment for the teeming youths. “You can imagine the impact on the local manufacturers of the fabrics, as well as button and tread. There are already made market for them. No material here is imported. All are locally sourced from Lagos, Onitsha, Aba and other parts of the country. The money still circulates. You can imagine the millions being invested in the production of these materials,” he added. Reacting to the challenges facing the factory, Onifade highlighted funds, power and roof leakage as major impediments confronting the growth of the factory. He said, “Our challenges are enormous, finance is a major one. But God has been faithful. We’re approaching it in various ways. But we don’t want to take the loan, which I see as killing, with due apologies to the bankers. We rather collaborate with spirited individuals, corporate bodies. I’ve approached some into garment factories. Most of them have shown willingness to support. “This collaboration doesn’t necessarily involve money. For me, all I want are materials, fabrics and other sewing materials. We just agree on the formula for profit sharing. All these definitely will be approved by the headquarters. But at our local level, some of our colleagues have keyed in to what we’re doing as they see it as saving against their retirement. “Another major challenge here is power supply. When I came here, we were not connected to the national grid. I had to insist on our being connected and made the EEDC management and we got it connected. So far, we enjoy their services within the period they provide light. But you know how epileptic it can be. But we make sure we maximize those few periods they give us light, including midnights. Like last night, they worked till 4 am when the light went off before they went back home. Yet, they’re back this morning. In the interim, we make use of two domestic generating sets at a time, to be able to substitute power. But we need a 35 KVA soundproof generating set, will to power all of our machines and other gadgets. Though I have also informed the DG and he promised to help.” Comparing the factory with that of Minna, Niger state, the Manager said: “I’m making them wake up from their slumber and run. Thank God my colleague there is not only understanding but well experienced. I brief him from time to time and he takes our advice seriously. He’s doing well. For me, it’s a healthy competition.” He also described his transition from Abuja to the state as divine, saying he had found joy and fulfilment working in the state. The NYSC Coordinator in the state, Kehinde Aremu, had during a recent visit to the factory, expressed satisfaction with the level of transformation going on at the factory. He commended the Factory Manager for the proactive measures he took which has resulted in an increase in production output.