At a valedictory in his honour last week, retired Mr. Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour of the Supreme Court reaffirmed what many Nigerians already know. He said there is deep rooted corruption in Nigeria, and he urged that efforts should be made to reduce it to the barest minimum. We agree with the observation of the retired jurist, and hope that he bore that ugly fact in mind while dispensing justice at the Supreme Court. At that valedictory, the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, described his former colleague in glowing terms. The CJN said: “We are all here today to felicitate with an accomplished jurisprudential iconoclast that has offered the best of his intellect to the advancement of the legal profession through his several years of inimitable adjudications.” He went on: “His Lordship is a rare gem and unblemished symbol of humility and piety. His proficiency in the dispensation of justice, which is anchored on his mastery of law, presents him as a man of honour and scholarship.” The CJN further said: “His judgments are not only incisive but also analytical and opulent by all standards. His robust contributions to the development of our jurisprudence are inviolable and fascinating.” Interestingly, Justice Rhodes-Vivour made profound suggestions at his valedictory, and we wish he had pronounced on them while at the apex court. Amongst other things, he urged that in electoral matters, the law should be amended to shift the burden of proof to the electoral umpire, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), that it conducted a fair and reasonable election. Of note, retired Justice Rhodes-Vivour modified his controversial judgement in Dokubo Asari vs FRN, that where the national security is threatened, human rights can be suspended. At his valedictory, he argued that national security must be visibly threatened before the fundamental right can be suspended. He also urged the apex court not to be a slave to precedents, particularly those that are no longer reasonable.  Justice Rhodes-Vivour reiterated his judicial position that dissolving democratically elected local governments amounted to executive lawlessness. So, Justice Rhodes-Vivour has a strong view, in and out of the bench, and we commend him for that. But, we wish he had used his position on the bench to project those points. Again, it needs to be emphasised that the judiciary has not fought corruption with the vigour expected by the general public. In many cases, the judges rely on technicality or undue delays, to defeat the ends of justice, for the benefit of the privileged class. So, we hope that the colleagues of the retired Justice Rhodes-Vivour would take the bull by the horn, and fight corruption in our country while they are still on the bench. For many judges, election petition remains their waterloo. As recent events have shown, another major challenge faced by the judiciary is the cronyism associated with the appointment or promotion of judges. The recent complaint by the leader of the Nigerian bar, Mr Olumide Akpata, with regards to the appointment of Judges of the Court of Appeal, is a case in point. Where the appointment of judges is tainted, the likelihood of the appointee engaging in corrupt practices is high. Justice Rhodes-Vivour no doubt has a rich pedigree. His father was Justice Akinwumi Rhodes-Vivour, while his great uncle was Justice Bankole Rhodes called to the English Bar in 1923. On his part Mr. Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour JSC, CFR, Life Bencher, was called to the Nigeria Bar in 1975. At 70 years, and with 11 years at the Supreme Court in his belt, Mr. Justice Olabode Rhodes-Vivour deserves a rest, and we wish him well.