A US-based Mechanical Engineer, Godswill Nwankwo, has declared his intention to contest for President in 2023. Nwankwo made his intention known in a telephone interview with newsmen in Abuja. He said his intention was borne out of concerns to build on existing structures and improve the standard of living in the country. According to him, the country needs to be repositioned economically to retain its status of Africa’s best economy and ‘Giant of Africa.’ Nwankwo, who hails from Ukwa East Local Government Area of Abia, also said he would review the constitution and positively review the command structure of the police among others. He said: “When I am elected, my first line of action will be to review the constitution. Also, the command structure of the police will be reviewed. “There is what we call community policing where you allow people that belong to that community to police or protect the communities that they are serving. “For example, you don’t expect an Igbo man to go to Sokoto State and police a community; language will be his or her number one barrier in that kind of structure because he doesn’t understand Hausa-Fulani language. “We will want a situation whereby for instance, people of Sokoto are responsible for their police, Abia communities policed by their people, and in the end you have a state and local government police. “This structure must not be influenced by the Federal Government. “So, my first assignment will be to begin to address the issue of the constitution and come up with recommendations that will work for Nigerians.” He said that though he had yet to decide on which political platform to contest, his main obligation would be to the citizenry. “I have been contacted by several political parties. In the end, my sole commitment will be the manifesto, agenda and what I promised Nigerians before the election. “I will not let anything get in the way of my promise when elected and there will be no shackles holding me down from executing my promises. “The 2023 election will be a decision for Nigerians electing a constitutional value that will affect the core values, and the lives of their children and grandchildren.