The uncertainty surrounding the 20th National Sports Festival has reportedly been resolved following re-assurance by the Federal Government to support the Edo State Government over the hosting of the games. Speaking in Benin yesterday the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development Nebeolisa Anako explained that the financial assistance from the Federal Government was in its final stages of getting released and that there was no time the festival has been under threat of suffering a postponement. He stated inter alia:”Following the news making the rounds that the Edo State Government will shut down the National sports Festival if the Federal Government support does not come through. The Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development is the organiser of the National Sports festival while the Edo State Government is the host. “I wish to announce that the Athletes are in their various game villages and games are ongoing following the intervention of the Presidency assuring that the financial support to the Edo State Government is in its final processing stage. “Given this situation the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development earlier this morning once we got wind of that breaking news issued a statement to dispel that news of halting the games. As we speak the various games are on-going at different venues. “It must be stated that the Edo Government due to cost implications of earlier postponement of the games on account of the COVID-19 pandemic requested for financial assistance from the federal government through the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports and following recommendation form the ministry, Mr. President assented to this assistance to the Edo Government. This assistance is receiving attention in line with due process. “The Honourable Minister, chief Sunday Dare met with the governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki on this news that we heard and he fully briefed him on the developments. The presidency also called and spoke with the Governor to confirm that the process of getting this financial assistance is at its final stages,” he noted.