President Muhammadu Buhari has said his administration would do all that is required to tackle the debilitating security crisis besetting it from all fronts. The President’s assurance was expressed in a statement by the National Security Adviser (NSA) Major-General Babagana Monguno (Rtd) after Friday’s crucial National Security Council meeting. According to Monguno, Buhari convened the crucial meeting because of his concerns for the persistent and escalating violent and bloody activities of terrorists, bandits and other shades of criminals, assuring Nigerians the country will overcome the current myriad of crises. While informing the meeting would reconvene on Tuesday for further briefing of the President by the service chiefs and other security and intelligence chiefs, Monguno said the President has vowed there shall be no relenting in the current search for peace and security until the target is achieved. “Concerned about the persisting security challenges in parts of the country, Mr. President summoned a crucial meeting of the National Security Council today as he continues to frontally confront the situation in the country. “At today’s meeting the President made it abundantly clear that while the insurgents, bandits and criminals are still at it, he has no doubt that the Nigerian security agencies and all of us as a nation will certainly overcome all the current security problems and defeat the forces of evil marauding about in different parts of the country. “While the criminals continue to test the will of the Nigerian government, the President and the Council, which adjourned today’s critical meeting until Tuesday morning, to receive further briefings from the Security Chiefs, are set and determined to decisively end the assault on the nation and will do all that it takes. “Mr. President is very prepared to take profound measures in the wider interest of the people and the Nigerian nation. There shall be no relenting until peace and security is significantly restored in our communities,” he said. Various stakeholders have been tasking Buhari to take all steps to reverse the trend of violent events across the country. While the National Assembly and the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) asked the President to declare a state of emergency on security, others have called for convocation of a National Conference to galvanise ideas and options on how to tackle the security challenges. The meeting came on the heels of escalating insecurity in different parts of the country and general outcry by various stakeholders calling for an urgent action from the President. Those who attended the meeting were: Vice President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha; the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari and Monguno. Others were the Chief of Defense Staff, including General Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant-General Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu; and the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Ishiaka Oladayo Amoo. The acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba; Director-General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi; Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ahmed Rufai Abubakar and Chief of Defence Intelligence, Major-General Samuel Adebayo, were also in attendance.