Nigeria’s leading malt brand – Maltina is set to take its series of activations tagged #MyhoodMyMaltina to several states around the country, having started in Enugu State during Easter celebration. The event, according to the organisers, is poised to be a wholesome experience for all. The essence of the event, according to Nigeria Breweries Plc., is to share happiness with Nigerians in an atmosphere of fun and entertainment. For instance, it was a day of fun at the Coal City of Enugu recently as Maltina packaged a world-class entertainment for families marking the Easter celebration. The side attractions included Maltina Happy corner, where a lot of games for adults and kids were made available; the Maltina flavour bar that showcased different brands of Maltina, especially the recent brands of Maltina Pineapple and Maltina Vanilla flavours. Speaking on #MyhoodMyMaltina event, Senior Brand Manager – Elohor Olumide-Awe said, “For us at Maltina, we have always been a brand that is centred around sharing moments of happiness with loved ones and those around us. We want to give Nigerians the opportunity to experience our exciting Maltina Brand in an atmosphere that is packed with fun for every member of the family. Through these activations, Maltina seeks to remind Nigerians of the need to create fun family moments in a relaxing environment with a refreshing mix of flavours while amplifying its message of sharing happiness.’’ Speaking, the Portfolio Manager, non-alcoholic drinks, Nigerian Breweries, Kehinde Kadiri, said, “We want to show Nigerians that you do not have to be stereotyped into one thing. You are free to be different versions of yourself.” Maltina has partnered three brand ambassadors who embodied the campaign and showcased freedom of expression in their own industries. The ambassadors include the iconic Kannywood actress, Rahama Sadau, the multi-talented actress, producer and humanitarian, Osas Ighodaro, and the media personality award-winning actress and entrepreneur, Tomike Adeoye.