It was celebration galore in three schools in Anambra State following donation of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) facilities by former Minister of Defence, General Theophilus Y. Danjuma, through his humanitarian organisation, Victims Support Fund (VSF) Taskforce on COVID-19. The three schools, Community Secondary School, Mbaukwu; Boys High School, Nteje and Community Secondary School, Igbakwu, Anyamelum, are drawn from the three Senatorial zones of the state. Among the facilities donated to the schools included a 4,000-litre solar-powered borehole, four hand washing stations, 2,000 pieces of reusable facemasks, five packs of four litre hand sanitisers, 120 bottles of hand wash and five cartons of bleach. Chairperson, VSF Taskforce on COVID-19, Mrs Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji said the initiative was part of the foundation’s contributions to the fight against COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria. She said: “This project is one of the extensions of solidarity to the good people and government of Anambra State as well as the students and teachers and non-teaching staff in Mbaukwu, Nteje, Igbakwu and Anambra State as a whole. “The Victims Support Fund COVID-19 Taskforce was set up in March 2020 by General Danjuma as a rapid response initiative of the VSF which is the first private sector-led humanitarian initiative in Nigeria. And we kicked off our interventions on April 14 in an IDP camp in Abuja. “We have travelled through the length and breadth of Nigeria providing food, personal protective equipment, medical items in support of indigent communities and households across all the six geo-political zones of Nigeria. We did that between April and December 2020. “In the third phase of the project where we are now , we decided to move on from just distributing food, PPEs and others to more enduring interventions that will even outlive the COVID-19 pandemic. “And we decided, based on our needs assessment of our Monitoring and Evaluation and Programmes Department at the VSF, we realised that water is one of the most urgent needs of many communities across Nigeria. “We make bold to say that since the beginning of COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 in Nigeria, the VSF is the first and perhaps, the most impactful private sector-led organisation in the whole of Nigeria. “You will see our projects in communities most people will not really go to. Today, we are here for the official commissioning and handover of this 4,000 litres solar powered borehole facility which has been situated here in Community Secondary School, Mbaukwu.” Responding on behalf of the benefiting schools, the principal of Community Secondary School, Mbaukwu, Mrs Anizoba Catherine, expressed appreciation to the benefactor, promising proper maintenance of the facilities.