The Nigerian Electricity System Operator (SO), a department of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), said it recorded 2,933 megawatts (Mw) as lowest energy generation for yesterday. According to its performance for the day under review, there was a record of 4,587Mw peak generation. The data noted that the SO recorded a generation of 3,992Mw and sent out 3,928Mw. Asked in a telephone interview why the production fell, TCN’s General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, said it was because of gas shortage. “Generally, there is gas constraint now,” she said. For some days, customers of distribution companies have been grappling with load shedding. They take turn to have electricity supply. Last Thursday, the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI)  recorded a dip in its power supply from 3,387Mw at 1:00am to 2,805Mw in day time. The cause, according to the source, who broke the news to The Nation in confidence, was gas constraint. Meanwhile, the Nigerian System Operator System Performance for Wednesday 07/04/2021 had reflected that the lowest generation was 3,723Mw. The System Operator that is a section of the TCN said the peak generation for the period under review was 4,427Mw. On the day under review, the data indicated that the total energy that was generated was 4,078.7Mw. The document also revealed that the  System Operator sent out a total was 3,997Mw on Wednesday. While seeking the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) part of the story, its General Manager, Public Affairs, Mrs Ndidi Mbah, did not receive our Abuja correspondent telephone call. Similarly, the Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Executive Secretary, Dr. Joy Ogaji, did not receive our correspondent’s phone call. But owing to the situation, the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) shedded its load allocation to customers, it was also learnt. The power generator, according to a message one of its customer share with The Nation, said: “As a result of the drop in generation, we are constrained to undertake massive loadshedding of the underlisted locations within our franchise. The locations are Gwarinpa, Gishiri, Jabi, Utako, Jahi, Wuye, Dawaki,  Katampe, Kaduna Road, Jiwa, Suleja Town, parts of Lifecamp, Kado, Wuse zone 1 to 7, parts of central area, Garki, Asokoro, Lokogoma,  Apo resettlement,  Apo Mechanic village, Shoprite, Obasanjo space center, National Biotechnology, FHA lugbe, Mararaba and Environs. “While we apologise for the inconveniences this will bring to customers in the affected areas, we promise that as generation improves, power supply to the affected areas will be restored. It is very important to add that the bulk of the  interruptions our customers have experienced in the last few days has been as a result of low generation. “We do hope that in the coming days, more power will be available at the grid to enable us serve our customers”. On Thursday, AEDC that used to receive about 400 to 500MW got 322 Mw. A source from the technical department noted that our “Present allocation is less than 330 Mw. We used to get up to 400 to 500 Mw”. She added that: “Our own percent 11.5 but we have usually taken around 13 per cent. Our MYTO allocation is 11.5 per cent but we used to have as much as 13 per cent of the total sent power”.