  The Pan African Lawyers Union (PALU) has expressed support for the ongoing strike of Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) and called for the amendment of the constitution to guarantee total independence for the Judiciary and the Legislature as provided in the constitution and other laws. In a statement, PALU president Emeka Obegolu said the union was aware of the JUSUN strike that shut down all courts in Nigeria  since, April 6, 2021, and thus crippled court proceedings across the federation. It noted that the reason for the indefinite strike of JUSUN is to press home the demand for financial autonomy for the Nigeria’s judicial arm of government. Palu regretted that state courts (Judiciary) have over the years relied on the Executive for their funding especially in the area of capital projects. This is clearly antithetical to the principle of separation of powers as guaranteed under the Nigerian Constitution. PALU emphasised the need for complete financial independence of all arms of government, noting that the Constitution acknowledges the importance of financial autonomy for the Judiciary and the Legislature as it made provisions for same in of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended). “We note that the Federal High Court in Nigeria’s capital, Abuja, had on January  13, 2014 held that financial autonomy for the judiciary is a constitutional provision that must be complied with by the executive branch of government thus unequivocally confirming the autonomy of the Judiciary in line with the spirit and letters of the Constitution. “We also note that the Nigerian President, Muhammadu Buhari signed into law Executive Order No. 10 of 2020, granting financial autonomy to the legislature and the judiciary across the 36 states of the federation, requiring all states to include the allocations of both the legislature and the judiciary in the first-line charge of their budget; and also ordered the Accountant-General of the Federation to deduct from source amount due to the state legislatures and judiciaries from the monthly allocation to each state that refuses to grant such autonomy”, the group noted. PALU expressed regret that despite the clear provisions of the law, the state Governments in Nigeria have refused to give full implementation to the express provisions of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria as amended. “PALU is of the opinion that for the judiciary in Nigeria to be totally financially independent, the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria should be amended, or an Act of the National Assembly enacted to provide for the allocation of percentage of income of the state or Federal Government to the Judiciary, Executive and Legislature, to wit: “That there be inserted in the 1999 Constitution, the exact percentage of money accruing to the judiciary and legislature for each state of the federation and the federal Government. 