 Last week we lost one member the boisterous human rights community in Nigeria would not forget for a long time. First, on April 2, death came calling for Yinka Odumakin whose advocacy was mainly on the political plane. Then, the following day, it was the turn of Innocent Chukwuma, for whom tributes have not stopped flowing. He was largely quiet, but hardworking and assertive.  Chukwuma had, for more than three decades, been involved in the struggle for reform of the Nigerian system to make the country better for those coming behind. In the 55 short years that he lived, Chukwuma had made his impact on the system felt at the national and international levels. Starting as a student leader at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, where he studied Religion, his voice was heard above the din; marked out as one to watch in the future. As an intern at the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO)  in the mid-80s, he so distinguished himself that the President, Mr. Olisa Agbakoba, held the job for him at the completion of his studies. He took charge of the Police Reform sector, liaising with the Police Force, compiling the report on law enforcement in Nigeria to the admiration of all. For years that he held the unit together, the CLO did not fail to impress. That was the foundation of the Centre for Law Enforcement and Education in Nigeria (CLEEN) that he founded and gave life later. He later became the Regional Director of the Ford Foundation in West Africa- an attestation to his honesty, adroitness and commitment to the development of humanity. The Ford Foundation at his death lauded him for performing to expectation. Innocent Chukwuma was so committed to reforming the Law enforcement sector that the government found his CLEEN useful in preparing for the reform of the sector, despite belonging to civil society groups critical of governance model and performance of the administration. The organisation is also one of those considered credible enough by the Federal Government and the United States Government to monitor the spending of the $311 million Abacha loot returned to Nigeria. Although he obtained a first degree in Religion, he was later to study Government and Political Science, to the point that he lectured at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government, taking courses on subjects close to his advocacy interests. Innocent Chukwuma was so engrossed in his assignment that he obviously neglected his health. He did not know that as he was moving about, apparently so healthy, a lot was going on inside. It was too late by the time he was diagnosed with end stage leukaemia. He was reportedly managing it well until a relapse that he succumbed to within a week. All those who came across him had good words for him- from President Muhammadu Buhari to Governor Kayode Fayemi, Mr. Olisa Agbakoba, SAN, the Board of Trustees of the Ford Foundation and prominent members of Nigerian Human Rights Community. His exit has created a vacuum that would be difficult to fill. He was one man difficult to know his ethnic origin but for his name that gives him away on that score. He had no room for inanities; he could not be defined by ethnicity or religion. Material acquisition meant nothing to him as he concentrated on working for humanity. This is a lesson for those claiming to be fighting for human rights and good governance in Nigeria today as many went into the sector to line their pockets. They should realise that people are watching and can easily separate heroes from charlatans. History is so patient that it takes note of the role each person is playing. Innocent Chukwuma has sailed on. Other conscientious sailors on the high sea should take note and continue from where he stopped. The struggle to save the nation on all angles is one that must be won in the memory of Innocent Chukwuma and in the interest of generations yet unborn. Chukwuma wanted and worked for realisation of a new and better Nigeria. The ideal must be kept on. Those eulogising him now have a duty to sustain his legacy.