Peaceful and enduring leadership succession will remain a huge challenge in Nigeria till strong viable institutions are put in place to withstand pressures from political officeholders. There also cannot be a sustainable push towards nation-building without genuine efforts at eradicating poverty and ignorance. A former Senate President, Chief Anyim Pius Anyim, stated these during the Faculty of Social Sciences’ Distinguished Annual Public Lecture, University Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu State. A copy of the lecture, titled: “Political succession and nation-building in Nigeria: Problems and challenges”, was made available to The Nation at the weekend. Tracing the challenges of political succession and nation-building in Nigeria largely to the military, Anyim argued that under the civilian dispensation, the country is yet to fare any better. He, therefore, canvassed building strong institutions, promotion of rule of law, power separation, and emergence of a politically-active populace as primary steps to peaceful transition processes that would “lead to a nation of our dream”. Using the principle of power separation, strong institutions and rule of law to drive home some of his points, the former Senate President and lawyer argued that there is a wide gulf in their applicability in Nigeria and the United States (U.S.). In Nigeria, he said:  “Sections 4, 5 and 6 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) clearly defines the powers of the Legislature, the Executive, and the Judiciary. However, these structures as far as this country is concerned, is in most cases, observed in the breach. “For instance, in the Fourth Republic, there were attempts by the Executive branch of government to meddle in the affairs of the Legislature by seeking to influence the leadership succession process of the Legislature against the collective interest of the nation. “These attempts destabilised the Senate and led to the removal of two presidents of the Senate in less than two years. The implication, therefore, is that such attempts undermine the fundamental pillars of nation-building, creates division, chaos and reduces the ability of the Legislature to function optimally for the general interest of the nation.”