The Minister of Women Affairs, Pauline Tallen, has said that the released Chibok School girls are excelling in schools as some are already in the University and others set to write the forthcoming Senior Secondary Certificate Examination (SSCE). Tallen disclosed this in Abuja on Thursday at the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), saying that she had personally visited the girls in school. Speaking on the 7th-year anniversary since the girls were kidnapped, she reiterated that the Federal Government had not forgotten those that are yet to be released. She assured that government will do all within its power to secure their release and rehabilitate them and their families. “Yesterday marked seven years since the kidnap of the Chibok School Girls. We have been in touch with the parents of those released as well as those still in captivity. “The Federal Government of Nigeria has not given up on ensuring that the others are safely reunited with their parents. “I am happy to inform you all that those that were released are doing very well in school. I just went to visit them in the American University of Nigeria, Yola. “I visited them and spent a day with them four weeks ago, we are closely in touch with the management of the school. “They are doing well in school, some of them have gained admission into the University, some of them are preparing to write their WAEC. Tallen said that with support from President Muhammadu Buhari, she led a high-powered delegation to Chibok in 2020 where she met with the parents of the girls still in captivity. She said that during the visit, she conveyed the assurance of the Federal Government that the girls yet to be released had not been forgotten. “We are working with the representatives of Chibok community to give the young women and their families a new lease of life. “We are also working with the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social development to ensure that the girls and their families are fully rehabilitated and their dignity restored,” she said. (NAN)