The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has described the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a party with poor understanding of governance. The PDP is reacting to a statement by the leadership of the APC, which described the siting of Twitter’s African headquarters in Ghana as a “non-issue”. The APC had also stated the PDP lacked the credentials to be considered a party for governance option. But in a statement on Thursday by spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the main opposition party accused the ruling party of trying to justify its manifest misrule and abuse of human rights. It added the APC and Buhari administration were not ready to end their policy inconsistency and the fettering of Nigerian youths through suppression of free speech, stifling of online freedom and open internet, for which Twitter shunned Nigeria for Ghana. The statement said: “This disposition by the APC and the Buhari Presidency has further strengthened the widespread view among Nigerians that this administration suppresses every vocation in which our youth demography has shown interest. “Their statement also validates apprehensions in the public space that the APC deliberately worked against the siting of Twitter headquarters in Nigeria because of their plot to forcefully regulate the use of internet in our country. “A more responsive government and political party, who have the interest of the people at heart, ought to devise all means possible to attract the Africa Headquarters of Twitter to our country given the huge benefits such would have served in the face of grinding unemployment which the APC administration has imposed on our nation. “It is indeed saddening that rather than devise means such as this opportunity to create wealth and revamp our economy, the APC and the Buhari Presidency are mortgaging the future of our nation through all manner of foreign loans which they cannot account for. “Now that they have borrowed from all corners of the world and turning our country into a debtor nation, with nothing to show for it, the APC and the Buhari administration have resorted to primitive printing of naira notes not minding the huge inflation as well as devastation such would trigger in our economy. “From the arrogant disposition of the APC, it is clear that it has no regard for Nigerians and as such has no business being in governance”.