A humanitarian group, the Ebele & Anyichuks Foundation, has called on all tiers of government to “ramp up their security architecture in order to curb the floodgate of violence and bloodshed in the country.” The foundation, in a statement to The Nation by its co-founder, Dr. Ifeanyi Odii, specifically made reference to the carnage in Ebonyi State, saying the Ezza-Effium lingering crisis and last week’s killings in Ishielu Local Government Area, called for sober reflection and proactive actions by stakeholders, especially the government and security agencies. Odii, a United Nations POLAC ambassador, however, lauded the Federal and Ebonyi State governments’ efforts to restore peace to the crisis-torn communities in the state but was quick to add that a lot needed to be done. His words: “While we commend the governor of Ebonyi State(Dave Umahi) for the many efforts by his government towards securing lives and properties in the state, we call on the government to do more towards providing a lasting solution to the needless pogrom and making insecurity a thing of the past in the state. “The foundation is not unaware that the government of the federation and that of Ebonyi State are not folding their arms and watching but have been up and doing to clear the nation and the state of elements intent on making life miserable for Nigerians, including Ebonyians.” He therefore admonished the perpetrators of violence, their sponsors and governments to make Costa Robin’s quote: “at the end of the day, we are all human,” their watchword. Stressing that “we must relentlessly pursue, maintain and preserve the sanctity of our humanity,” Odii quoted a verse in the Koran(Surat Alma-idah 5:32) that says: “Whoever kills an innocent life is as if he has killed all humanity.” Odii, who is also a member of the Lagos State University(LASU) Governing Council, said the foundation would always align itself with Greenspoon’s view that “the hallmark of the human species is great adaptability.” The philanthropist, therefore, appealed to all Nigerians, irrespective of their tribe and religion to realise that “one of the greatest attributes humans is our ability to adapt, bear, tolerate and accommodate the imperfections of one another in the interest of peace, happiness, and prosperity.”