 Fish producers are confronting  the high price of fishmeal and oil. Fishmeal and fish oil are rich in nutrients and provide essential nutrition in aqua feeds in a manner that is most efficiently utilised by farmed fish.  Fish feed represents 50 to 70 percent of fish farmers’ production costs. For instance, the price of one kilo of fish meal, which stood at N120 last September, is selling for N320. Chief Executive, Eny Keen Multinational Limited, Eniola Abiodun said prices had been on an upward spiral due to the booming fishing industry. Fish feeds with high proteins are mostly needed for better fish production but they are costly. The rise in prices has meant fish producers and feed companies have cut the use of fish oil.  Furthermore, the upward price trend has continued as the livestock farming sector begins to recover from the COVID-19 outbreak. With health-conscious consumers embracing seafood, securing supplies of fish oil, a source of omega-3 fatty acids has been a challenge. Locally, there have been increased efforts to replace proteins from fish meal with grains and oilseeds, such as soya bean and sunflower seeds.   Few   aquaculture feed producers are trying to minimize the use of fishmeal and fish oil while maintaining performance and that utilizing novel ingredients such as algae-derived proteins and oils. Before now, foreign fish feeds hitherto dominated the segment because of what many considered their quality but that is no longer the case; the market has been significantly altered by the entry of local fish feed manufacturers. Stakeholders adduce the reason for the rise of local players to the exorbitant price of imported fish feeds. Aquaculture relies on a basket of common ingredients such as soybean, corn, fishmeal, fish oil, rice and wheat to produce feed. The International Fishmeal and Fish Oil Organisation (IFFO) represent about 60 per cent of global fishmeal production and 80 per cent of related trades throughout the world. According to IFFO, demand for fishmeal has increased, despite partial substitution of fishmeal with agricultural raw materials. IFFO predicted that  by 2030, total world aquatic fish production (capture fisheries and aquaculture, excluding aquatic plants) is expected to reach 201 million tonnes. 