SKLD Integrated Services will be rewarding six back-to-school shoppers with N30,000 SKIT shopping vouchers every Friday for five weeks in its promo, it has been learnt. A draw will be held every Friday in-store and online (skit.ng) to select the winners who will be announced on the firm’s social media platforms. The first draw will hold on Friday. Customers can also win several gift items at the store’s locations in Ikeja, Lekki, Ikota, Lagos and Wuse II, Abuja. Primary and secondary school owners will also get up to 20 per cent discount on school uniforms in the Marcel Hughes early bird campaign. General Manager (Commercials) Seun Ogunjimi, who reiterated the company’s value proposition to customers, said: “Over and above our determination to build value for all of our stakeholders, such as ensuring that our consumers have one less thing to think about when it comes to their children’s education, we are aware of their difficulties, especially as a result of the pandemic, and we want to help alleviate them. The SKLD reward promo was created for this. For five weeks, we will be rewarding 30 skit customers with over N1 million in discount, vouchers and gift items. “We also identify with the challenges of running a business in this environment, and so we are rewarding school owners with 20 per cent discount on school uniform purchase in our Marcel Hughes early bird campaign.” Brands and Marketing Manager Wale Disu said the promo represents one of the firm’s core values of being ‘customer focused’. “At the core of our operations is our dedication to our customers, be it wholesale or retail. Regardless of the economic challenges, we will remain committed to being customer-focused by ensuring that we are a seamless one-stop solution for our customers’ needs.” To qualify for the promo, customers are expected spend at least N40,000 at any of skit’s store in Ikeja, Lekki, Ikota, Wuse II, or online at skit.ng, on back-to-school items such as bags, school uniforms and shoes, stationeries, food flask, calculators, books, art supplies, etc.