It was deja vu for Osun State phone dealer Gbenga Siyanbola who has twice faced the same gang of robbers. On his way to Lagos, four robbers attacked him at gunpoint. It turned out that the assailants were those who once burgled his shop in Ile-Ife, Osun State. On April 21, some detectives in Ogun State arrested four suspects Nura Bashir, 20, Awalu Aliyu, 38, Shuaibu Abdul Rasheed, 25, and Abdullah Usman, 23, following a report by Gbenga Siyanbola at Mowe police station that while he was going to Lagos from Osun State,  his vehicle developed a fault in Mowe and he had to park to rectify it. But while trying to work on the car, the quartet emerged suddenly from the surrounding and robbed him of his Samsung phone, prompting the Divisional Police Officer for Mowe division, Marvis Jayeola, to despatch detectives to go after the hoodlums. Police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this in a statement yesterday, explaining that after weeks of painstaking investigation, detectives traced one of the suspects to Ikire in Osun where he was apprehended. Abimbola said the arrest of one suspect led to the arrest of three other accomplices. “Surprisingly, in the course of investigation, some other phones and accessories which had earlier been stolen from the complainant’s factory were also recovered from the suspects. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspects had earlier burgled the shop of the same complainant at Ile-Ife in and that the case was reported at A Division Moore Ile-Ife. “Unfortunately for the hoodlums, their recent victim in Ogun State happened to be their earlier victim.” In Bayelsa, the state Vigilante Security Service (BSVSC) has apprehended four suspects, including a popular phone repairer, for buying a phone that was allegedly stolen at gunpoint in Yenagoa. The chairman, BSVSC, Doubiye Alagba, in a statement yesterday, gave the names of the suspects as Audu John, Dominic Diezibe, James Believe and David Emmanuel. Acting on a tip-off that one Mr. Lawrence Oworodo was robbed of his phone and other items, Alagba said the vigilance group traced the mobile phone to Audu John in Biogbolo area of the state capital.