As parts of activities marking International Women’s Day, a coalition of women group have called on the three tiers of government to eliminate gender discrimination in all its appointments. Speaking to The Nation, the ED, Gender Perspective in Development, Tammie Edet Kammonke, noted that women and girls in Nigeria stand to benefit immensely from an enabling policy environment, saying that gender-responsive legislations constitute a key determinant of progression towards gender equality. Kammonke commended the Nigerian Senate for its intention to amend the Nigerian Constitution to ensure gender parity, stressing its resolve to improve the fortunes of women and girls, as well as expunging provisions of the law that infringes on the rights of women and girls. “It is very heartwarming to know that the Dr. Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan-led Nigerian Senate has made such an important resolution given the significant influence the Senate wields over the legislative process. Women and girls in Nigeria stand to benefit immensely from an enabling policy environment because gender-responsive legislations constitute a key determinant of progression towards gender equality. “This singular act will serve as a great tribute to Margaret Ekpo who played a pivotal role in the actualisation of universal adult suffrage for Nigeria women and other foremost women rights activists like Gambo Sawaba, Fumilayo Ransome Kuti and Janet Mokelu who played pioneering roles in the emancipation of Nigerian women. Also speaking, the Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Cedar Seed Foundation, Lois Auta, stated that women have not achieved 5 percent, not to talk of achieving 35 percent. Auta said, “I want to see women being supported and encouraged to run for offices without any barrier or hindrances that will stop them. I want to see women being carried along in every government agenda, policies and programmes; when the president is a man, the vice should be a woman; when governors of Nigeria states are men, the deputies should be women; when local government chairman are men, vice should be women, our counsellors should be 50 percent of female candidates, doing that will ensure the achievement of the 35 percent.” In her submission, Barr Rhoda Tyoden stated that the world is a global village, adding that for any nation to develop and be healthy; there must be gender parity in public life. Stressing the need for constitutional amendment, she said, “We must continue to demand for accountability in all ramifications. That is why the Nigerian women are demanding for the amendment of the constitution to address the continuous discrimination and violation of women’s rights both in private and in public life.”