A 23-acre estate christened Sapphire Courts has berthed in Mowe,  Ogun State. General Manager MeritAbode  Properties, Owners of the estate, Ofure Oseni, said the bungalows, which are two and three-bedrooms, are dubbed affordable luxury as they come with full complements – a global Certificate of Occcupancy (Cof O), paved walk-in ways, solar light system, pipe borne  water, recreation area and security. Oseni said every buyer would get a contract of sale, deed of assignment upon completion of payment. On the challenges facing developers, Oseni said: ” There are too many bottlenecks in documentation with the government, access to funding is a major issue, as banks and financial institutions seem to have developed thick skin to funding real estate development. We appeal to the government to make the process of land acquisition easier and less cumbersome.” The firm’s Sales Manager, Victor lgbenoba said it was developing the estate to target the influx of people as a result of the envisaged  massive Federal Government presence in no distant time. He said: “The government alone cannot provide all the housing need of the population with a gap of over 20 million. With our intervention in this important sector through our various schemes after nine years in the sector, we want to help the government to take off this important need in every man’s life”. Igbenoba said the estate is about 20 minutes’ drive to Ikeja, the capital of Lagos State. He added that the first 50 subscribers would get a bonus of free plot in their estate of choice  in either Shimawa in Ogun State or Agbara in Lagos State. The firm also unveiled its brand ambassadors. Nollywood star, Jide Kosoko, who spoke on behalf of the ambassadors, said if the company was not real and it’s not known to deliver on promise, he and other artists wouldn’t have agreed to be signed on. He said: “For nine years, the firm has been meeting the housing need of Nigerians, incorporating the right ethics in business. The government alone cannot provide the needed house for the public that is why they have our full support.If the organisation is not real we will not be here today.”