The 2021 VBank Open Snooker and Billiards Tournament held in partnership with the Lagos Country Club, Ikeja, closed in grand style  with Gideon John emerging the biggest winner of the night after defeating Shehu Bamidele, 3-0. Wale Akintola took the billiards game in an exciting 150 to 135 win. The tournament which kicked off April 6  had 32 initial players before whittling down to the top four  who played their hearts out in the finale event. Victor Ukueku bested Abiodun Christopher in a match of five frames to clinch the third-place prize of N80,000 and consolation prizes. At the  colourful closing ceremony, Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications, VFD Group, Efeturi Doghudje thanked the management of Lagos Country Club for a successful competition and all the players for conducting themselves professionally. “I thank the president of LCC, the patrons, captain and members of the Snooker and Billiards section and the guests that are here to witness and cheer the players. Your presence shows the importance you attach to this championship. On behalf of Vbank, I congratulate the winners and hope that you continue to represent the sports at all levels “ Meanwhile, John walked away with the highest cash prize of N150,000 and an extra sum of N20,000 being prize money for the Highest Break of the Snookers tournament, which he set at 38. First runner up  Bamidele won N100,000 in cash prize as well as branded gifts. Similarly, for the Billiards Championship which held simultaneously, top 3 winners emerged Friday. First-place winner, Wale Akinola, received N100,000 cash while Edafe Agbah came third winning N50,000 only. Snooker’s Victor Ukueku took second place in the billiards tourney winning another N80,000. It was a night of pleasant surprises and upsets. VBank, the digital banking app and product of VFD Microfinance bank, continues to blaze the trail in its identification with Snooker games as this is its second Snooker tournament in six months, each time giving away fabulous prizes and cash gift. In closing this tourney, the section captain at LCC, Osasogie Osazuwa, was grateful for a successful hosting.   