 To curb the high rate of malnutrition in the country, Nigerians should start producing soybeans on commercial scale because it is a nutritious food source. That was the consensus of nutrition and agricultural experts during the recent Protein Challenge Webinar Series 8, with the theme: The Nigerian Protein Deficiency Report 2020: Unpacking the Numbers, Exploring the Issues. Speaking at the webinar, Prof Adetunji Kehinde, provost, College of Agriculture, Osun State University, stressed that the Nigerian Protein Deficiency Report 2020 indicates that the poor status of protein consumption in Nigeria is the leading cause of protein deficiency in the country. According to him, what the report revealed is obvious: affordability and availability are key factors that determine the quantity of dietary proteins consumed by Nigerians. “Widespread and aggressive production of soybeans across the country will contribute to efforts to curb the incidence of protein deficiency in the country. Soybeans is a rich source of protein and other valuable nutrients. It promotes growth, repairs worn-out cells in the body and improves general health.” The professor of agricultural economics posited that if more people plant soybeans, not just farmers alone, it would directly boost the availability of high protein foods to the citizenry. Increased production of soybeans will not only alleviate protein deficiency, but it will also aid the agricultural and livestock industries as well, he stated. Prof Kehinde pointed out that the recent scarcity of soybeans in Nigeria has led to an increase in prices of animal protein foods like poultry, cows and fishes, which are important food sources for a balanced diet. While insisting that increasing the productivity of small-scale farmers will enhance soybean production in different communities and states in the country, he also urged the agro-allied industry to actively assist farmers in planting soybeans by providing quality seedlings and fertilisers. Also speaking during the webinar, Dr. Beatrice Oganah-Ikujenyo, nutritionist and chief lecturer at Adeniran Ogunsanya College of  Education, Lagos, contended that continued reliance on a diet of staple foodstuffs that lack protein will undoubtedly result in protein deficiency. While stating that the cost of food is a problem that makes people underfeed, she added that many Nigerians eat food just to get satisfied without taking into consideration the nutritional content. Ultimately, this makes food consumption patterns to lean heavily towards carbohydrates in many homes, thus worsening protein deficiency crisis in the country. She advised that a way to curb this is by consuming protein-rich foods like soaybeans, eggs, beans, groundnuts and so on, stressing that children should be prioritised in protein consumption in every home. Oganah-Ikujenyo, therefore, called on governments at all levels to work to increase awareness on various sources of protein available and affordable to the people. In the same vein, Dr. Adepeju Adeniran, a public health expert and national co-chairperson, Women in Global Health, Nigeria, maintained that increasing the amount of plant protein-rich foods is imperative to reducing the level of protein deficiency in the nation. She said that eating soybeans, groundnuts, and other legumes will be largely beneficial to low-income earners who cannot afford animal protein food sources. She said the Nigerian Protein Deficiency Report 2020 was a follow-up research to a previous survey carried out in 2019 to assess and gather empirical data on the level of protein deficiency in Nigeria. The Nigerian Protein Deficiency Report 2020, which was unveiled at the webinar, was a recent research survey that indicated that Nigeria’s protein deficiency crisis is nearing alarming proportions. In presenting the report, Obaro Agalabri, the Service Line Lead (West Africa), IPSOS Channel Performance, revealed that 45 per cent of respondents do not consume protein daily and this is more prevalent in the North-east and amongst the lower socioeconomic class. The survey was conducted by IPSOS, a leading market research company that carries out in-depth analyses of various issues, such as health statistics, population demographics and other related fields. “Nigerians are consuming a minimal amount of protein daily due to the poverty level in the country. The recent report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) indicates that less than half of the working population is unemployed, a situation that no doubt reduces the purchasing power of households and general food purchases. Poverty, unemployment and lack of awareness is majorly the cause of protein deficiency in Nigeria. In fact, cost and household income levels remain the major deterrent to adequate protein intake in Nigeria. This is more prevalent in the North and lowers social classes. Need to drive deliberate efforts that are targeted towards affordable protein sources for a household to boost daily intake,” he said.