  Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, has expressed delight at winning his first world title and thanked sponsors of GOtv Boxing Night for providing a platform for him to exhibit his skills. Oladosu won the World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental super featherweight champion, defeating Emmanuel ‘Akufo Addo’ Quartey of Ghana with a ninth round knockout at GOtv Boxing Night 22, which was held at the Rowe Park Sports Centre, Yaba in Lagos on Friday. Quartey, who drops to 23-3 (20), tried his best to get on the inside of the much taller Oladosu to land a knockout punch, but the local favorite, now 15-0 (7), controlled things nicely before the visitor suffered a shoulder injury and could not continue. Time of stoppage was 1:09 of round eight. Oladosu also picked up a cash prize of N1 million alongside the Mojisola Ogunsanya Memorial trophy after emerging the best boxer of the Night. Tanzania’s Mkalekwa Salehe Omari was defeated via a 12th round knockout by Baby Face, who emerged the WBF international welterweight champion. Speaking to NationSport after the fight, the flamboyant boxer said winning the title has spurred him to aim higher. He revealed that he wants to fight the best in the division, hoping one day to fight for the vacant world title later in the year. “I’m very happy to win the WBF super featherweight title. I hope that very soon, I will be able to add the world title to my belts and take on some of the best in the division along the way. I am very ambitious and I am confident in my ability to stop anyone that comes between my dreams and I,” he noted. The 29-year-old later praised his wily opponent for his toughness and  commended the sponsors for providing him and other boxers the opportunity to get fights under the belts. “Emmanuel was a tough opponent, but my team and I had a game plan which we followed and succeeded.” “GOtv has given us one of the best platforms to fight and gather fight experiences, he added. “I am happy for what they are doing for Nigerian boxing and giving us opportunities to fight and we are being watched all over Africa. This can only make us improve.” 