Smoothies are thick, creamy beverages usually blended from puréed fruits, vegetables, juices, yogurt, nuts, seeds and/or dairy or nondairy milk. Smoothies are made by blending fruits, vegetables, yogurt and other ingredients to make a thick creamy beverage. Wikipedia defines smoothie as a drink made from puréed (blended) raw fruit or vegetables, using a blender. A smoothie often has a liquid base such as fruit juice, dairy products, such as milk, yogurt, ice cream or cottage cheese. Protein powders, sweeteners or ice cream contributes to the flavor of the smoothie. Smoothies can be classified into one or two of the following categories; fruit smoothies, green smoothies and protein smoothies. 1. WEIGHT LOSS: If you are looking to lose weight, smoothies can help you lose excess body weight without you having to skip any of your meals. The fruits and berries that are used in preparing smoothies keep you healthy. The enzymes present in several fruits help dissolve body fat and clear up your circulatory system. It can help you reach your ideal weight. It will also help reduce and over time, eliminate your junk food cravings. 2. IMPROVES SKIN: Our skin is the outer reflection of our inner health, so you should follow a healthy lifestyle if you want beautiful and healthy skin. For example fruits like mango and pumpkin are highly beneficial for the skin as they contain carotenoids. Carotenoids are present in most foods that we consume. 3. AIDS DIGESTION: Raw fruits and vegetables speed up transit time and are much easier to digest than many of the foods we usually eat. If your digestion improves, you will have more energy. Fruits like carrots, strawberries and blueberries and vegetables like kale, celery and spinach, for example, helps to aid digestion. 4. SINCE ITS IN LIQUID FORM, IT MAKES TAKING FRUITS EASIER: It helps to boost fruit and vegetable intake. The World Health Organization(WHO) recommends that adults eat at least five(5) servings (around 400grams) of fruits and vegetables per day. So drinking smoothies increase your consumption of fruits and vegetable. 5. REGULATES THE EXCRETORY SYSTEM: Upset bowels is a common problem people suffer from. A good amount of fibrous food is essential for regulating the excretory system. Smoothies with lots of fruits and vegetables help keep your bowels functioning smoothly. 6. BOOSTS IMMUNITY: immunity refers to the ability of your body to fight against pathogens and diseases. Fruits and vegetables are a great source of nutrients and antioxidants for good health but some are proven to increase your immunity. For example, fruits like grapes, berries and sweet potatoes are natural sources of antioxidants. 7. DETOXIFIES THE BODY: smoothies contain so many nutritious ingredients, they can be a great way to detox your system and get rid of toxins. And because you won’t be snacking, you won’t be putting lots of toxins into your body either. Fruits such as garlic, papaya and beets help to detox. They can help to cleanse your blood and help the liver to get rid of toxins more efficiently. 8. BETTER SLEEP: With the right ingredients, smoothies can help you to get a good night’s sleep. Fruits that aids sleep include kiwis and bananas. You can include oats as well in your smoothies as they contain magnesium and calcium, which studies have shown to be beneficial for superior sleep. 9. BOOSTS YOUR BRAIN: The nutrients in fruit and vegetable smoothies are often said to boost your brain function and make your mind feel clearer and studies have shown that there is some scientific basis for this. Smoothies are a great way to easily get lots of fruit and vegetables into your day-to-day routine and if you’re including things like coconut, you’ll be benefitting from the omega-3 fatty acids to help your brain to work at its best. 10. LOWER RISK OF DIABETES: Consuming smoothies can make you less likely to develop Type 2 diabetes. Studies have suggested that consuming lots of different types of fruit and vegetables can reduce your risk factor for diabetes – particularly dark leafy green vegetables.