 The Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre and Specialist Hospital (MRCC), the country’s first fully-equipped private oncology centre, has been inaugurated in Victoria Island, Lagos. Founded by renowned physician Dr. Modupe Elebute-Odunsi and her financier husband, Bolaji Odunsi, MRCC combines the highest standard of care with the latest treatments and technology in comfortable surroundings designed to promote healing. Dr. Elebute-Odunsi said MRCC is out to help Nigeria close the gaps in cancer diagnosis and treatment services. “We built the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital to help address the gap in the treatment and diagnosis of cancer in Nigeria. Patients, who previously would have had to travel abroad to receive world-class treatment, are now able to get the critical care they need here at home.  Early detection is vital to the diagnosis and treatment of this disease.” The co-founder,  Odunsi, commented: “We are delighted to see our vision of the MRCC finally come to life.  Our mission was simple:  bring together an exceptional team of Nigerian medical professionals with international training and experience to deliver the highest quality care to patients here in Nigeria. This expertise supported by new technology now makes world-class treatment here in Nigeria possible and affordable.” General Manager of GE Healthcare in Sub-Saharan Africa, Eyong Ebai, said: “We are proud to continue supporting the development of Nigeria’s healthcare infrastructure.  Our partnership with the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital is a true landmark as it underlines the role that the private sector can play in delivering world-class healthcare delivery in the country. These new solutions are designed to expand capacity and improve quality for diagnosis and treatment at MRCC and help meet the needs of community within the country and region.” According to a study by the World Health Organisation, it is possible to prevent a third of cancer cases and treat many other cases with early diagnosis and treatment. The latest statistics revealed that cancer accounts for 18.2 per cent of premature deaths attributable to non-communicable diseases (NCDs), and in 2018, of the 115,950 cancer cases reported, 70,327 patients did not survive. MRCC has advanced radiology and radio pharmacy equipment. Supporting its planning, development, building and equipping of the oncology diagnostic and treatment facility, GE Healthcare is providing the suite of solutions such as the award-winning Senographe Pristina 3D, the first patient-assisted compression device in mammography; the advanced LOGIQ F8 ultrasound, the comprehensive radiation therapy solution Discovery RT; and the BRIVO XR575 X-Ray and OEC 785-C Arm, two easy-to-use systems that deliver superior image quality. All of MRCC’s medical professionals have completed advanced training on the machines.