Wema Bank is celebrating its 76th anniversary with a showcase of its decades of operations as the oldest indigenous banker and its growing profile as a leader in digital banking. The bank is also illustrating its successful turnaround with the records of consistent returns to shareholders. At an interactive session with senior finance and investment journalists, the management of the bank gave insights on the continuous cycle of reinvention that keeps Wema Bank on the pundits’ chat, despite the changes in industry and macroeconomic dynamics. At the media session  were top management staff  led by Chief Financial Officer, Tunde Mabawonku; Head, Corporate Strategy and Planning, Femi Akinfolarin; Head, Brands Corporate Communications and  Investor Relations, Funmilayo Falola; Head, Public Relations, Morolake Philip-Ladipo and Representative of the Legal Adviser, Hillary Ajodo. They all agreed that Wema Bank at 76 years has come of age and can thump its chest that it is prepared to play in the big league and literally rule the roost! “From a position where we could not pay dividends some years back, we have consistently delivered on our promise to our stakeholders consecutively in recent years by paying dividends. Indeed this year won’t be an exception,” said Mabawonku. While noting that the bank is indeed proud of its heritage and legacy, Mabawonku was however quick to add that the bank is already serving other diverse markets across the country with its cutting-edge services, riding on the back of innovative technology. “With a proud heritage of resilience and value, Wema Bank is the longest surviving indigenous Nigerian bank, thriving on a foundation of customer-centric and innovative approach to financial service delivery. We have been audacious with a pioneering spirit, and been able to build a legacy of leadership by blazing the trail to what banking could, and should be for the Nigerian stakeholder,” Mabawonku said. Going down memory lane, he went back in time to the early days of the bank as a regional bank with offices in majorly southwest Nigeria, but it has since grown from a regional bank to a national bank with footprints across major cities of the federation. The bank’s growing Abuja and Port Harcourt zones are currently under the supervision of Mr. Chukwuemeka Obiagwu as an Executive Director, effective from April 1, 2021. “We have 150 branches but we have been able to leverage on the deployment of technology to deliver topnotch services across different frontiers of the markets,” Mabawonku said. He outlined that Wema was among the first financial institutions to introduce mobile banking in Nigeria in 2011, and took it several notches higher in 2017 with the launch of ALAT, Africa’s first fully digital bank. Leading with innovation, Wema Bank is today the quintessence of excellence in products and platforms, as well as customer service delivery. “Our position is testament to our resilience, vision, audacity, commitment to ethical corporate governance, a best-in-class workforce, visionary leadership, and excellent customer service. Our steadfast commitment to innovation-led service delivery, brightens the path of our customers and stakeholders to an assured, enabled, and exciting future,” Mabawonku said. As to be expected, though considered an old generation bank, it is not resting on its oars at all as it keeps reinventing itself. ”Our purpose statement of making life and lifestyles easier for you is therefore, an expression of our enduring commitment to enabling a glorious day, every day, in every way by leveraging our strength, resources, expertise and unrivaled passion for innovative and digital solutions, to clear the path to the lifestyle aspirations of our esteemed customers, staff, partners and communities,” Mabawonku added. According to him, the bank is always on its toes setting and resetting targets for itself. ”Our short term goal is to become a thought leader and the most dominating digital banking platform in Nigeria and to become a one-stop lifestyle partner to our customers,” Mabawonku said. Akinfolarin pointed out that the bank has achieved some milestones unmatched by others, successes that can be attributed to the bank’s consistency and excellent service delivery over the years. Citing several financial indices, Akinfolarin said credit rating and auditing firms which covered the books of the bank didn’t find any qualms scoring the bank high above other bigger banks as it ranked second in retail banking and earned the sixth place in service delivery to small businesses. The management of the bank said Wema Bank is making gradual strides into areas hitherto uncharted, and will not foreclose any opportunities for mergers and acquisitions in the not too distant future if such measures would be in the overall interest of the bank. Some of the unique and custom-made solutions deployed by the bank include ALAT by Wema, which disrupted and transformed banking experience in Nigeria from physical to vapour-based, *945#: USSD service for sending money, buying airtime and data, paying bills and even making payments on POS terminals without a Wema or ALAT card. Besides, the ALAT for Business is tailored made for corporate internet banking platform with elastic features that help business owners get more time efficient and productive just as SME Solutions, which is an assortment of Retail management suites, agent banking solutions, and special SME Loan packages. Also in tow is the Wema Hackathon-an exhibition of innovative solutions and inventions with excellent market potential, capable of solving essential, everyday business across – Agritech, Healthtech, Edutech, Fintech and Gaming, Sara by Wema, which reduces unequitable gender access to growth opportunities in Nigeria via access to finance supports, capacity building, deals and discounts, and women wellness. For all these, the bank has earned many laurels for its efforts. Among such awards and recognitions includes being winner of the 2017 Best Digital Bank, 2017 Nigeria and Best Mobile App, 2018 Best Digital Bank in Africa, 2020 BusinessDay SME Bank of the Year and second in the Retail segment of the 2020 KPMG Banking Industry Customer Experience Survey, and BICXM top mention among others. While many analysts who have been following the growth trajectory of the bank said not much of its success stories have been highlighted in full public glare, Falola said the bank is ready to change the narratives in the period ahead. According to her, the bank plans to showcase its past and present as part of celebration of its 76th anniversary as well as a renewed engagement with its stakeholders.