A governorship aspirant of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the November 6 election in Anambra state, Nze Akachukwu Nwankpo, has dismissed speculations of Governor Willie Obiano’s endorsement of former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Prof. Chukwuma Soludo as the sole candidate of the party. He said he was aware of the speculation but stated he was convinced the Governor he knew would not want to play God with his successor. Addressing newsmen on Friday in his office in Awka, Nwankpo said the name, Maduaburochukwu (man is not God) given to the Governor at birth and the party’s constitution would not allow him (Obiano) to impose a sole candidate on APGA. He said: “The governor has the right to promote a successor. If you make me a governor today, I’ll take interest in promoting a successor of my liking. So there’s nothing absolutely wrong in what our governor is doing. Every governor does that. “In the case of Soludo, I don’t know how true is it but there’s a general impression that there was even a commitment before now made by the governor to Soludo. “For me, I have no controversies around the matter. If they had a deal, Soludo had the right to demand for it, and Obiano should keep his own part to retain his honor. “The Governor as a public officer, one with good disposition and a person of character, if he made a promise to Soludo, he’ll make effort to keep it. If I’m in Soludo’s shoes, I’ll demand that he keeps it. Same with Obiano. “So why am I in the race after all? I’m here because what the Governor is trying to do for Soludo is something that is not totally in his control. It’s a matter you can’t handle privately.” The aspirant added: “So I’m sure there’s no time in the history of this state that the governor confuses himself with governor and God. Besides, the bible is clear. “For me, that’s the first principle. I know that the governor is not playing God and people shouldn’t accuse him of that. He’s a good man just trying to look for his successor in order to keep to the promise he made. I admire him for that because it’s what a man of character should do. But God is still there.”