Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has requested to draw from the Natural Resources Development Fund for the development of tourism, agriculture and mining (solid mineral development). The governor, yesterday in Alausa, Ikeja, while receiving members of the Fiscal Efficiency and Budget Committee (FE&BC) of the Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), who were in Lagos on physical verification of the issues raised by the state government, said the uncontrollable population growth in the state, due to its status as the economic nerve centre of the entire sub-Saharan Africa, had put pressure on the state’s infrastructure. This, he said, necessitated the need for the government to seek assistance for the funding of its strategic developmental projects that would create jobs and improve the standard of living of the citizens. He said his administration would work hard to provide for the infrastructural needs of the residents, irrespective of their state of origin, language, tribal grouping or religion. Sanwo-Olu appealed to the committee members to be fair and objective when writing their reports after their visits to some of the state’s sites that need Federal Government’s interventions for sustainable development. The Chairman of the committee, Adamu Dibal, said the team is in Lagos to verify the claims submitted to the RMAFC by the state government, by visiting some of the priority projects listed for execution if the state gets financial support. Conducting the team round some of the projects listed for execution by the government, Finance Commissioner Dr. Rabiu Olowo said most of the projects have huge socio-economic impact in terms of employment generation, capacity building, entrepreneurship and vocational training. Some of the projects visited by the committee include: Imota Rice Mill and Farmland, Limestone/Clay/Ceramic Production site, Erikorodo Poultry Estate in Ikorodu, Badagry Lagoon Front, Ajara Farm Settlement, Rice Fields in Badagry, Igbonla Hot Water Well, Eko Cassava Factory, Araga, Ejirin proposed Greenhouse Estate, Itoikin Rice Field, Glover Memorial hall and J. K. Randle hall on Lagos Island. 