Nigerians have expressed worries over the deteriorating security challenges, stating the country is ‘sitting on a keg of gunpowder.’ The Nation has reported about several cases of insecurity across Nigeria with killings and kidnapping at alarming rate. Apart from the activities of the terrorist group Boko Haram in the Northeast, armed bandits routinely attack communities in Northwest, killing and kidnapping residents. Kidnapping for ransom, gunmen attacks, attacking policemen, military and police formation/checkpoints, burning of police stations and attacks by armed herdsmen have become commonplaces in many other parts of Nigeria. Nigerians expressed concerns on social media that killings, kidnapping and other nefarious activities have become daily occurrences in the country. They called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do more to stop Boko Haram terrorists, bandits and other criminal elements threatening national security. Some others sued for peaceful co-existence among Nigerians. Popular Comedian, DeboMacaroni said: “It’s no longer a question of whether people die daily in Nigeria due to the high rate of insecurity emboldened by a very unresponsive and reprehensible Government. The question is how many will continue to die daily?” Social Commentator Tosin Olugbenga lamented: “In all my life as a Nigerian, this nation has never been this unsecured. “When incompetent Buhari took over insecurity was largely concentrated in the north east but now it has spread like wildfire to every part of the nation. This is the change APC brought upon the nation.” Public Affairs commentator Hamma Hayatu tweeted: “Nigeria has never been this unsecured. When Buhari took over insecurity was largely concentrated in the north east but now almost every region is battling with some sort of insecurity. We are now worse off under APC.” Francis Adeboye argued: “Buhari knew the solutions to Nigeria’s insecurity when he wasn’t President. El-Rufai complained about their security recommendations not being adopted. APC clamored about knowing how to tackle insecurity. Then, they came into power & suddenly forgot the solutions & approaches.” Popular On-Air personality Osi Suave noted: “This govt came into power on the back of solving the insecurity mess. And it’s even worse now. The President and his govt cannot continue to bury its head in the sand as people are killed and properties destroyed day in day out.” Another social commentator Dr. Ayo Sogunro lampooned the Federal Government saying: “The stages of fighting Boko Haram: 1 – Boko Haram kills, destroys, and seizes territory. 2 – Buhari’s govt claims to have defeated Boko Haram. 3 – Boko Haram transfers a few ‘captured’ men to Buhari’s govt for ‘rehab’ and stops for a while.”