Instagram is one of the most popular social platforms in the world. Aside from just sharing photos and pictures, it is a means by which brands and potential business partners contact celebrities to strike deals with them. Fans also get to keep track of the activities of their favourite stars on the platform. A celebrity’s popularity on social platforms is one of the factors fans consider when judging success and achievement. Topping this list with a wide margin is Nigerian-American singer, songwriter, and record producer David Adedeji Adeleke, popularly known as Davido. The multi-award winning singer is one of the most influential artists in Africa. For the fourth year in a roll, the DMW record label boss, Davido has remained the most followed Nigerian celebrity in the country. And currently the most followed artist in Africa. Davido currently enjoys a followership base of over 20million plus on Instagram. Nigerian Afro pop singer, songwriter, actress and activist Yemi Eberechi Alade, popularly known as Yemi Alade is the second on the list. Yemi Alade was mentioned among the forefront artists/musicians from across the world to perform at The Global Goal: Unite for our future sponsored by the Global Citizen aimed to deliver COVID-19 tests and treatments especially in the most remote places in Africa and across the world. The singer who hijacked the second position from the former holder currently enjoys a followership base of 13.8million on Instagram. Actress and producer Akindele-Bello Olufunke Ayotunde, popularly known as Funke Akindele-Bello is third on the list as the most followed actress. The multi-award winning actress who came into the limelight after starring in popular United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) sponsored sitcom “I Need to Know” and has continuously strived on top of her game in the entertainment industry enjoys a followership base of 13million on Instagram. Singer, songwriter and actress Tiwatope Savage, popularly known as Tiwa Savage is fourth on the list. In 2018, the singer, songwriter, philanthropist and fashion icon was crowned Best African Act by the MTV European Music Awards and made history as the first female to win the accolade. In the same year also, she became the first African female to sell out London’s IndigO2 and she was handpicked by Coldplay’s lead singer Chris Martin to perform alongside Beyonce, Ed Sheeran and Jay Z live at the Global Citizen Festival in Johannesburg to an 70,000 strong audience and millions across the globe. The number 1 African bad girl enjoys a followership base of 12.4million on Instagram. Singer and songwriter Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun, popularly known as Wizkid, Wizzy or Starboy is fifth on the list. Wizkid is the most decorated Nigerian artist ever (the most decorated African artist internationally), and one of the most revolutionary Afro-pop artists of the modern era. The Grammy award winning Starboy enjoys a followership base of 12.1million on Instagram. Popular award-winning actress and entrepreneur Iniobong Edo Ekim, popularly known as Ini Edo is sixth on the list. The award winning actress and was appointed as the Special Assistant to the Akwa Ibom Governor on Culture and Tourism by Udom Gabriel Emmanuel in 2016. The fashionista par excellence who has proved that hard work can get one to the top in the Nollywood industry enjoys a followership base of 11.2million on Instagram. Record producer, audio engineer, record executive, singer, songwriter, entrepreneur and philanthropist Michael Collins Ajereh, popularly known as Don Jazzy, has moved a step upward to make the seventh position on the list. The award winning CEO of Mavin Record Label who funny and philanthropic nature has earned him love from social media users enjoys a followership base of 10.9million on Instagram. Singer/songwriter, dancer, record producer and multi-instrumentalist Peter Okoye, popularly known as Mr. P moved a step downward to be the eighth on the list. The talented artiste, who jumps on every opportunity to display his wealth on social media and who recently released his album ”The Prodigal” where he featured several remarkable artistes, enjoys a followership base of 10.9million followers on Instagram. Actor, comedian, TV presenter, writer, producer and movie director Ayodeji Richard Makun, popularly known as AY is ninth on the list. AY is one of the biggest names in the comedy business for the past two decades. The highly fashionable comedian who has several awards to his name enjoys a followership of 10.6million on Instagram. Actress and entrepreneur Mercy Johnson Okojie, popularly known as Mercy Johnson, is tenth on the list. The super hilarious actress shares precious and exciting moments with family on her Instagram page. The award- winning actress, who has featured in countless number of movies, is the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Kogi State Governor on Entertainment, Arts and Culture enjoys a followership base of 10.1 million on Instagram. Actress, director, fashionista and businesswoman Mercy Aigbe is eleventh on the list. The talented award winning actress is known for her unique style and dressing. At the 2016 Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards, her dress earned great applause from fashion stakeholders, and she trended on social media even after ceremony. The mother of two who also refers to self as “Aya the Owner” currently enjoys a followership base of 9.6million on Instagram. Singer and songwriter Augustine Miles Kelechi, popularly known as Tekno is twelfth on the list. The hit-maker behind “Duro” and “Pana” finally releases his debut album “Old Romance” proving his absolute readiness for the spotlight. Alhaji Tekno, as he is also called, currently enjoys a followership base of 8.6million on Instagram. Actress, producer and director Genevieve Nnaji is thirteenth on the list. She won the Africa Movie Academy Award for Best Actress in a leading role in 2005, making her the first actor to win the award. In 2011, she was honoured as a Member of the Order of the Federal Republic by the Nigerian government for her contributions to Nollywood. The director of the Oscar Award nominated Netflix movie “Lion Heart” currently enjoys a followership base of 8.1million on Instagram. Rapper, songwriter and actor Folarin Falana, popularly known as Falz or Falz the Bahd Guy is fourteenth on the list. Falz, who currently owns an independent record label called Bahd Guys Records, describes his style of music as “Wahzup music”, the fusion of comic lyrics with contemporary hip-hop in a faux Yoruba accent. Bahd Guys Records boss who is constantly vocal about issues bordering on social justice across the country currently enjoys a followership base of 8million on Instagram. Hip hop recording artist Olamide Gbenga Adedeji, popularly known as Olamide moved three steps upward to make fifteenth on the list. “Baddest Guy Ever Liveth” crooner and YBNL boss who records songs in both Yoruba and English currently enjoys a followership base of 7.7million on Instagram.