Former Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu has stated Nigeria is redeemable though the conditions of things are frightening. He spoke on Thursday at the 10th Synod of the Anglican Diocese of Umuahia with the theme: “Let us rebuild and end this reproach” according to a statement by his media aide, Uche Anichukwu, in Abuja. Delivering the synod lecture entitled “The role of the Christian politician in nation-building,” the Senator, who was represented by the National Publicity Secretary of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Hon. Alex Chiedozie Ogbonnia, said the country was at crossroads and it was high time leaders urgently rescued the nation. “Nigeria is burning, literally and figuratively. Put even more appropriately, we are at that juncture where we must rebuild or risk perishing. But God forbids that we perish,” he stressed. Ekweremadu regretted reports of bloodletting, mass killing, and kidnap for ransom had become the daily realities of Nigerians, adding hunger was on the increase because insecurity had dislodged Nigerians from their legitimate businesses and farms. He advised only socio-economic and political justice could effectively address the frustrations and separatist tendencies and rhetoric across the nation. “The country is as divided and disjointed as never in our history. Ethno-religious conflagrations and killings at the slightest provocations have become a norm rather than an exception. “Agitations fuelled by palpable social and political injustice pervade the land, as many parts now want out of the union than be slaves and second class citizens in a place that is supposed to be their fatherland. “We cannot build or rebuild a nation in the absence of social, political, and economic justice. How do you describe a situation where palpable double standard and open marginalisation of the South East has been raised to a state policy? “We must show every part of the country a sense of justice because the truth is that a man, who is unjustly treated, will never be genuinely interested in peace. The shortest path to peace is justice,” he stated. The lawmaker said the situation was not irredeemable and urged President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to decentralise the policing system and seek help from more experienced and resourced nations. “This is not a time to apportion blames but a time for sober reflection. The Church and the Christian politicians, and all Nigerians must rise and stand in the gap. “We must take urgent steps to reclaim our land and defend our inheritance because no nation in the world can contain Nigeria. “This administration must begin to listen, starting by taking urgent steps to decentralise policing to enable every constituent part to take charge of the security of lives and property in its jurisdictions. That is the least we can do, and the most urgent step we must take at the moment,” he said.