Data and information management are essential components for achieving corporate objectives, especially with the fast-paced changes in national and global economies. This was part of the conclusion at the 28th annual conference and induction of the Institute of Information Management (IIM) Africa. Managing Consultant, Gokmar Communication Consulting and a former Editor at Financial Standard, Goke Ilesanmi was among the 10 inducted professional members at the ceremony. President, Institute of Information Management (IIM) Africa, Ambassador Oyedokun Oyewole said comprehensive, accurate and fact-based analysis is crucial in supporting policy-makers in taking informed decisions, especially in the current circumstances. He noted that the COVID-19 pandemic has been a human tragedy with almost 110 million people sickened by the virus, over 2.4 million died and millions of livelihoods destroyed. According to him, the emerging situation now depends on the outcome of the race between the changing virus and the vaccines to end its spread as well as the ability of policies to provide effective support until that happens. He pointed out that the 2021 annual conference with the theme “Identity Management and Data Protection Regulation: Risk, Responsibility and Compliance in ‘Circles of Data Governance” was timely as it came at a time that Nigeria’s digital identity goal is being reinforced by the World Bank, which is funding the Nigeria Digital Identity for Development Project with about $115 million. Oyewole said the $115 million was part of a portfolio of six projects in all, totalling $430 million, aimed at empowering the country’s citizens, especially marginalised groups, to allow them access welfare-enhancing services. He outlined that the institute has been collaborating with various entities  to enhance the frontiers of data and information management, including the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the NiNAS, collaboration with the Bureau for Public Service Reforms (BPSR) and the execution of the IIM National Digital Transformation Awareness Campaign. According to him, the institute initiated the National Digital Transformation Awareness Campaign which was conducted at different ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) in Nigeria as part of the drive towards promoting excellence, standards, competence and certification in data and information management in the society. He noted that the campaign was a follow-up to the directive issued by the Head of Service of the Federation in June 2020, directing MDAs to begin automation and digitisation of files and records. He congratulated the inductees, noting that their induction as certified members of the institute has imposed on them the professional responsibility of having to exhibit a high sense of integrity and professionalism in their services. He advised inductees to be abreast of trends and embrace high ethical and professional standards in their practice at all times. A total of four Honorary Fellows; 10 Professional Fellows; six Senior Professional Members; four Professional Members; one Associate Member and two Information Management Academy Members were inducted.  Dr Abdul-Raheem Adebayo Shittu, former Minister of Communications was the Special Guest of Honour while Mr Bharat Soni, Group CISO/DPO, Guaranty Trust Bank was the Keynote Speaker and Special Guest.  