TOR: My complaint is on the non-payment of outstanding pension and gratuity.
I am retired from the Nigeria Immigration Services (NIS). I was in service when the National Pension Commission (PenCom) was introduced in 2004.
In 2006, I registered with First Alliance Pension Limited in the first instance, which has metamorphosed into ARM Pension Managers with a PIN 100####.
But certificate issuance was unusually delayed, yet no explanation was advanced.This unexplained delay created anxiety prompting me to register with another pension manager, Stanbic IBTC Pension with PIN PEN100####.
I retired in May 2016. By December 29, 2016, I applied for the harmonisation of my pension managers to the PenCom into one pension manager to facilitate payment of my pension.
PenCom replied me in a letter dated February 1, 2017, saying that PenCom recognised the first PIN with ARM as valid and that Stanbic IBTC PIN is considered invalid. That ARM Pension Managers PFA Limited would retain the first valid PIN on its data base while Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers would de-activate the second invalid PIN from its data base.
PENCOM advised that I should maintain a Retirement Saving Account pin with ARM Pension for all pension transactions.
PENCOM also promised to reconcile the contributions in the valid PIN to ensure that total contributions therein were brought up to date accordingly, while that in the valid PIN (if any) would be refunded to the Federal Government through its accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria. Kindly assist me solve this problem. Thanks. PENCOM: His retirement benefits were paid into the second PIN with Stanbic IBTC. He is advised to forward the complaint to the Commission for proper treatment. ANNONYMOUS: PTAD is owing me pension arrears of three months since 2015. I was verified over one year ago, yet no payment. Why is it hard for them to pay? PTAD: Pensioner should forward his verification slip and bank statements to complaits@ptad.gov.ng BOLAJI: I withdrew my service from the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 1996, after spending 12 years. I am of the old defined pension scheme. My monthly pension was paid up to last September, but that of October is yet to be paid. Kindly assist me. PTAD: The pensioner should send his verification request to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. ALABI: I have written several times and I will not stop writing until my prayers are answered. My name Alabi. I participated in the 2017 verification of PTAD in Lagos State. I wish to say that I have started receiving my monthly pension. I received from March 2018 till date.
Also, in June 2018 I received N57,8736.39 as pension arrears. I wish to say my monthly pension should start from the month and the year that I retired in August 2004 as a permanent secretary. In this regard, payment of my monthly pension should start from August 2004. In like manner my pension arrears should commence from August 2004.
Let me quickly add that I have not received my gratuity from the Federal Government.
Kindly assist me to compute my gratuity and my pension arrears. I am over 70. Please help me so that my labour would not be in vain. PTAD: The pensioner should forward his bank statements from when he retired from the service to complaints@ptad.gov.ng TIJJANI: I retired from the National Inland Water Ways Authority (NIWA) in 2007 on Grade level 012. My colleague in Nasarawa State called me on phone that he had been paid arrears since last week. When I approached my bank at Wukari in Taraba State, my account was in the red. Please help find out what went wrong. PTAD: The pensioner should forward his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng JOSHUA: My name is Joshua. I retired as a Seargent on grade level 05 step 4. My date of first appointment January 20, 1986 and date of retirement is March 1, 1997. I have done verification in Abuja. Please I am koboless and pray you to tell pension boss that she should pay my pension. I am living a torture’s life. PTAD: The pensioner’s complaint has been reviewed by the Operations Department. He will be paid when funds are released by the Federal Government. STEVEN: I am a retired teacher from Ifako International School. I was receiving pension N24,684.76 but since 2003, nothing has been given to me. ANNONYMOUS. I will be happy if you can help and see that the money is paid. I also worked at Barachel Model College. PTAD: The pensioner was called several times without any response. He is advised to send his complaint, name and account details to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Do you have problems with your pension? Visit Facebook: omobola pension solution