It was a bloody Easter weekend in Delta and Kaduna states as rampaging gunmen killed, at least, 11 persons, including two policemen and a prince. While four kidnap victims were rescued in Ekiti and Ondo states, Allawia in Niger State came under a fresh siege by bandits who killed five soldiers in a military camp in the community. Six of the deaths were recorded in Effurun and Warri while the remaining five happened in Kaduna. It was gathered that the late prince was the son of the Ovie (King) of Orhumwhorun Community in Udu Local Government Area, HRH, Ighohwo Takerere, Okaka II. The two policemen and a young man, according to sources,   were riding in a Range Rover and Mercedes Benz GLK  with the prince when they were shot dead at the Alaka area of Effurun on Saturday. Although sources told The Nation that another son of the monarch was also killed by the hoodlums, the Acting Police Public Relations Officer, Delta State Command, Bright Edafe, only confirmed the death of a prince. He added that the second prince was recuperating at a hospital in the state. Edafe said: “We are aware of the incident and investigation is ongoing. One of the princes died at the scene, while the second is still alive and he is being treated in the hospital.  Two policemen and one of the princes died on the spot.” An eyewitness however, said: “All the five persons inside the car died on the spot because the hoodlums made sure that they were thoroughly damaged by bullets before they left the scene.” According to him, the gunmen took nothing from the two SUVs, which were “splattered with the blood of the victims. This fueled  speculations  that the killings were cult-related  or due to failed business deals.” The incident sparked protests, looting and destruction of properties in the Usiefurun area of the oil-producing community.  One person was said to have lost his life in the mayhem. In another incident, the head of  Igbi Vigilance group was gunned down by suspected armed robbers in the Lower Erejuwa area of Warri also on Saturday. In Kaduna where five persons lost their lives during bandits attack on Katarma, Chikun local Council Area, the decomposing body of  a man who had been missing since   March 24 was discovered by troops in Zangon-Kataf. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the incidents. He added that one person was injured during the attack on Katarma. Aruwan said: “Security agencies have reported that armed bandits attacked Katarma village in Chikun Local Government Area. “According to the report, five persons were killed in the attack and they were listed as Samson Danladi, Luka Gajere, Amos Ali, Titus Baba and Damali Musa.  One person was injured  and he  is receiving treatment in a neighbouring state. “In another incident, troops under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven reported a clash between some youths in Atuku village, Jema’a LGA. During the clash, one Afiniki Thomas was attacked by two youths, and sustained a deep gash to the forehead. “One of the assailants, Sani Safiyanu was arrested for profiling and Investigation.  The injured victim was rushed to hospital for treatment. “Furthermore, troops of Operation Safe Haven while on patrol discovered the decomposing corpse of one Paul Simon, a resident of Yagbak village in Zangon Kataf LGA. The deceased was reported missing on 24th March 2021. The corpse has since been buried.” Niger State  was again at the mercy of bandits who for the second time in a week struck at Allawa community in Shiroro local government area, where  the gun-wielding bandits, numbering more than 100 rustled cattle, goats and sheep yesterday. Sources said no one was killed as the residents escaped through bush paths to neighbouring Pandogari town. However, Governor Abubakar Bello has denied that the Joint Military Taskforce Base in the Allawa  had been deserted. He explained that the military, after evacuating “the corpses of the gallant officers who died in the faceoff with the bandits last week  retreated for a while to re-strategise.” “They(troops) have not left or abandoned the community and others“, he said, adding that security agencies would ensure that the criminals were eliminated. The  police in Ekiti State have launched a manhunt for gunmen who kidnapped a farmer in Ikere Ekiti, Ikere LGA. The Nation learnt that the farmer, Isaac Agabnigo, was abducted in the presence of his family members while returning from his farm at Ajengbede, along Ikere-Ise Road around 4 pm on Saturday. The state Police Command  spokesman, Sunday Abutu, in a statement yesterday, said the victim’s wife told the police that her husband, their children and herself were about to enter their vehicle when they were accosted by seven masked armed men . He said the woman recounted how the kidnappers ordered them to lie face down or risk being shot. Abutu quoted Mrs Agbanigo as saying: “After the suspects asked us a series of questions, they escorted me and our  children to the main road after taking our daddy away to an unknown destination. “My husband’s family members have been in dispute over the same farm with a lot of threats before the incident happened. “Meanwhile, the command has invited three persons for interrogation and further investigation.” Men of the Ondo State Security Network Agency, Amotekun Corps,  have rescued three persons abducted by gunmen while travelling from Benue State to Akure after a church programme. Their names were given as Adewale Adebisi, 52; Ahan Mary, 21 and Ladi Bude, 23. They were abducted on Saturday along Ifira-Iduani Road in Ose Local Government Area. Two suspects were arrested in connection with the incident. Adebisi, who was the driver of the bus conveying Mary and Bude, said they were flagged down by eight young men that emerged from a bush. He added: They had cutlasses, but only one of them was with a  locally-made gun. They asked us to start moving into the bush until men of the Amotekun corps met with us and rescued us.” Ondo Amotekun Commander, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, said the victims were rescued after combing the forest.