 Kidnapping has taken another dimension, particularly in the Northwest and the Northcentral regions of the country. Bandits are on the prowl. Unfortunately, school children have also been victims of unending abductions. Chibok and Dapchi girls’ story that gave rise to #BringBackOurGirls protests didn’t just stop there, the nightmare has continued with a series of school abductions in Kaduna and Niger. Kankara and Kagara boys, Zamfara school girls to, perhaps, last one that took place at Kaduna College. Statistics shows that from  December 2020 till date, more than 600 students from various institutions across the Northeast had been abducted. About 279 students were abducted from Jangebe in Zamfara State, and an estimated 27 students, including staff from Government Science College, Kagara. Also, nine students from Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria and another 30 students of the Federal College of Forestry, Kaduna State were kidnapped. Kidnapping is in vogue. With the shocking statistics of out-of-school children, education is being threatened if nothing is done to address the issue. Payment of ransom won’t solve the problem. Security personnel need heavy weapons like the bandits. It’s high time a state of emergency was declared in the  education sector. Government at all levels should  put effective measures in place to stem the tide of abductions. We need to know what government  is putting in place to safeguard lives and properties in our  institutions. The capture of students further makes people believe they are no longer safe in schools. Niger State has a fair share of school attacks/abductions. Though it’s yet to witness any attack on its higher institutions, the state government should tighten the noose on abductors. The school management, local government council and the state government are urged to provide adequate security for  students to  ensure learning is unhindered. Police, civil defence and the army need to be deployed to our institutions of learning as it will likely help in scaring away bandits and other criminal elements. 