 The registrar of the Medical and Dental Council (MDCN), Dr. Tajudeen Sanusi, has faulted calls for his sack as a result of problems being experienced in the new central placement process for house officers. Rather, it is the teaching hospitals that should be blamed for deliberately creating the hiccups in the new central placement process as a ploy to force a return to the status quo, he said. Following the announcement of an indefinite strike by the Nigerian Association of Resident Doctors (NARD), which began on April 1, 2021, NARD and MDCN have disagreed on the central placement of house officers. One of the conditions by resident doctors to shelve their strike is the sack of the MDCN registrar for alleged failure to demonstrate competence in the handling of the central placement of house officers. The President of NARD, Dr Uyilawa Okhuaihesuyi, explained that 2,136 house officers are on the streets demonstrating for lack of placement for their housemanship. The Federal Government  has begun the implementation of a new central placement process for house officers to teaching hospitals, which ensures that the placement process is automated online and free from individual biases. In his response, Dr. Sanusi explained that though the new system is flawed, he insisted that the council had reached out to teaching hospitals to work with it during the transition period to ensure that nobody is excluded. Teaching hospitals across the country are deliberately trying to frustrate the new arrangement to return to status quo, the MDCN said. “In 2017, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) decided that the issue of housemanship be centralised at the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. In 2018, we wrote to all the hospitals training house officers that they should re-validate their accreditation status. By the end of last year, only less than four out of 42 hospitals had actually renewed their accreditation. “We did not know that the centralised thing will take off this year. We just discovered that in October last year when they called us to submit to the Budget Office the approved quota for each of the hospitals. If those teaching hospitals had actually renewed their status, maybe we will have an update of the number that they can take. But they were just doing what they liked. We did not know what was happening, but it was early this year that we heard that these hospitals were barred from accessing GIFMIS through which they normally pay their house officers. “Realising this, myself and the Heads of my Admin and Account, went to the office of the Chairman of the Committee of Chief Medical Directors (CMDs), Dr Jaff Momoh of the National Hospital Abuja. We did not meet him. I dropped my card but the man did not deem it fit to call me back, neither did he deem it fit to even come to me, and I kept quiet. By December, one of the medical directors called me asking me about the centralised house jobs being a reality and what can be done. At the instance of that person, the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman now came to my office and I called my management, and we all met. I said to them – please let us all manage this period of transition together to the exclusion of nobody. “The question they now asked was that they have more than the approved quota, but I told them that the council is not aware of that, and that we only know the quota that is given to each and every one of them. Therefore, it was that quota that we used to prepare the budget, and therefore submit the names of house officers that are not likely to finish their housemanship by December 31, 2020. “The letter went out to all of them on  December  21,2020. By January 18, 2021, only seven of them out of 42 had responded positively. On January 18, we wrote another reminder to all of them. By the first week of February, additional 12 responded making it 19. So I had to profile them and be sure that first they are doctors who are on our list, and that they are people who are eligible to do house jobs. “Surprisingly, we saw some names that are already on full registration. Our question was how did those people come in as house officers? Second, people that you have not even licensed at all and you have not given them professional association, and you say you have engaged them – this is illegal. This is a criminal act. “Third, when they submitted the names, on looking at the bank details of some of them, we discovered a different name. So, NARD is coming to say this and that – I don’t have business with them. I am focused on this job which I have been given, and I believe that even if this gets to the highest quarters and they ask me what I have done, I have the records. “Moreso, we have told the Teaching Hospitals that they should not engage anybody yet until we finish the issue of the transition, but these people went ahead and started recruiting house officers from January. Now they are complaining that house officers have been working and we are not paying them. I don’t know what they want again from me. The way forward is for the resident doctors to have some kind of restraint and let us kick-start this thing to see how far it goes. This way we see the flaws and find ways to correct them. However, before you start the programme, they are trying to frustrate it. “They know that people will not come and meet them again for favours in order to get placement for housemanship. We are not saying people should come and meet us for favours either. The postings are there online. Also the payment is structured in such a way that it is for 12 months. After the 12th month, your name is deleted. We have created another module for those who are doing house jobs in institutions not owned by the Federal Government so that those institutions can forward the names of their house officers to us. “From the back-end, we fill them into that module. This way, if you want to play smart again to come into our system, the system will reject you. We have explained all these things to them, and maybe that is why they don’t like it. We had meetings with the Minister of Labour and Employment last week Thursday and he said the excess they have, which I have rejected before, I should take them for payment. We have profiled them and their names are in the office of the Accountant-General for payment. The minister also gave his words that if for any reason there is a need for us to have a supplementary budget for that, he is ready to support us. I don’t know what else they want,” the MDCN Registrar said.