Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma is in the eye of the storm, as criticisms have continued to trail his leadership style. But, the governor’s Special Adviser on Power and Energy, Sam Nwaire has dismissed such criticisms as mere distractions from the opposition who are disenchanted because they have lost the opportunity to siphon the state’s treasury as was their habit. Nwaire made the remark recently in Lagos said critics of Governor Uzodimma’s policies and programmes are ignorant of the impressive achievements recorded by the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in Imo State in less than one year. He said: “Within one year in office, Governor Uzodimma has achieved laudable, dramatic, and exhilarating changes at all levels of government, in all strata of the state and in every nook and cranny of society. “The Uzodimma’s fame for good governance is applauded by an anonymous many even beyond his state. He has, in a positive manner, touched the lives of the common man to the chagrin of his opponents. Governor Uzodimma is a man who wants to better the welfare of the downtrodden.” On infrastructural development, the Special Adviser said Uzodimma has performed wonderfully well. His words: “The roads built by former Governor Rochas Okorocha such as the Owerri-Orlu is being reconstructed because it was not done according to international standard. Before 2019, if one gets into Owerri when it rained, one cannot pass through Wetheral Road and any other roads. But currently, there is desilting of all the drainage systems to ensure that there is no flood when it rains.” Nwaire said Imo people have witnessed many administrations after the glorious reign of the late Chief Sam Mbakwe, including Military Administrators. He said God placed Imo State in the hands of the late Mbakwe, a man who was a father to all. He added: “Mbakwe worked hard for the old Imo State from where Abia and Ebonyi states were carved out. All templates of development in Imo today were the handiwork of Mbakwe. “Any electrical installations that are of international standard and size were brought in by Mbakwe. Since the administration of Chief Sam Mbakwe, no governor after him had achieved half of his feats. But if you want to see another Mbakwe in action, visit Imo State. There has not been any major road from Owerri to Orlu. The one there was pothole-riddled. Currently, a German firm is constructing the road from Owerri to Orlu while another German firm is constructing the road from Owerri to Okigwe. “Agreed that Imo people are yet to say Uhuru, but I know that soon they will confess that outside Mbakwe, Governor Uzodimma is another person that has the spirit of Mbakwe that will bring Imo out of the woods.” On power infrastructure, Nwaire said: “Since 1976, there is only one single 132-power line from Alaoji to Owerri. That single line serves Orlu, Owerri, and Okigwe. Now, Governor Uzodimma is turning things around. We are now doing 330 power line coming from Alaoji into Owerri, Ihiala, and then to Onitsha. That line alone will engender industrialisation, civilisation, and businesses in Imo State. “The 330 power line coming into Imo State is not done by the state. What we did was to extend a hand of comradeship to the Federal Government for that to happen. We had to bring in Niger Delta Power Holding Company. We have also brought Ministry of Power from Abuja and they are all working together to achieve this 330 power line which has the highest frequency in terms of power supply in the world. “We have succeeded in bringing in this infrastructure since after 1979; as we have paid all that needs to be paid, and the contractors handling the project have 11 months to complete it. We have another 132 power line that is coming up in Orlu, another one from Mbalano in Abia, and straight into Okigwe. So, Governor Uzodimma is another Mbakwe in terms of governance and infrastructural development.” On how Lagos and Imo states could collaborate with each other to ensure development, Nwaire noted that Lagos State is the epicentre of knowledge, politics, trade and commerce. He added: “If one is operating in that kind of state, there is a serious synergy that is expected between Lagos and Imo. Incidentally, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu who is a political father of the APC household is very close to Governor Uzodimma. So, the visit is to enable that synergy to take place to the extent that we can tap from the goodwill of Lagos State. Jude Idimogu, who represents Oshodi/Isolo State Constituency 11 at the Lagos State House of Assembly said Imo and Lagos are of the same parents politically and can cross-fertilise ideas for the benefit of the people of the two states, particularly the people of Okigwe zone. Idimogu extolled the virtues of Asiwaju Tinubu as a political father and mentor. He said: “Jagaban has a vision and a mission for 2023 and, from the look of things, no other Nigerian is as prepared and qualified as the Jagaban. To say the truth, Jagaban is somebody who raises people who become great personalities in life. I am enjoying Lagos today because Jagaban felt that this man is Igbo, let’s bring him in so that there will be unity. He is such a person that does not discriminate irrespective of one’s social and cultural backgrounds. “Again, my Igbo brothers and sisters also were instrumental to what I am today because they always support me, especially in my political journey. Jagaban identifies talents and grooms them. Inasmuch as I would have loved an Igbo man to be president, the best candidate we have currently is from the Southwest which is the National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. The Igbo in Lagos State will support him. Then, the synergy we are talking about will manifest.” The lawmaker said Lagos is the home of the Igbo. He added that Imo people are more into politics in Lagos than any other tribe. “An Imo man is someone that is liberal; they are not too much business-driven,” he noted. Idimogu noted that the late Mbakwe and the late Alhaji Lateef Jakande had a lot in common as great leaders. His words: “When you compare the former Imo State Governor Sam Mbakwe and former Lagos State Governor Alhaji Jakande, there are great similarities between them. Today, Alhaji Jakande built a lot of foundations in Lagos that Bola Ahmed Tinubu and others improved upon. “In the same manner, Sam Mbakwe drew a road map for Imo and many governors have improved upon it. Governor Hope Uzodimma is doing well in Imo State. With that common purpose of being in the same party, he would be relating with people from Abuja, Jagaban and other leaders of the party that will give him support to succeed.”