 There are all sorts of claims about the identities of the masterminds of terrorism, banditry and kidnapping in the country. In particular, politicians and government officials are said to be involved. Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom attracted attention when he gave voice to a similar allegation in a lecture he delivered in Abuja on April 15. Ortom spoke on “Insecurity in Nigeria: Restoring Peace, Unity and Progress,” at an event organised by the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Correspondents Chapel. He said bandits were operating in at least 24 of the country’s 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). It is unclear how he got the alarming figure. Inevitably, he made remarks about kidnapping for ransom, which has become a big issue. “There is another lucrative business in Nigeria with strong suspicion of connivance with government officials,” the governor said. Of course, the phrase, “strong suspicion,” does not prove the allegation. He added:  ”The rise in kidnappings of all categories of people across the country is a dangerous trend. We don’t know who is telling the truth. But as it stands, there is a strong allegation that desperate politicians brought into the country foreign mercenaries to help them win elections. Unfortunately, after the elections were lost and won, the mercenaries were abandoned, leading to worsening security in the country.” The governor publicised an allegation that needs to be proved. It is not enough to make an allegation without providing proof. Ortom did not provide proof.  He was merely spreading hearsay. The involvement of politicians and government officials in fuelling insecurity, if proven, would be scandalous. But it needs to be proved first, and rumour-mongering is no proof. It is disturbing that kidnapping is regarded as a “growth industry” in Nigeria, based on the observation that it appears to have become a business, particularly for unemployed youths in many parts of the country. A study indicated that more than $18 million was paid as ransom to kidnappers in the country from 2011 to 2020, and the greater part of the payment was from 2016 to 2020 when about $11 million was paid. This implies growing profitability. Indeed, some analysts forecast that kidnap cases will increase in the country as a result of increased unemployment. This is a worrying scenario, considering that Nigeria already has one of the world’s highest rates of kidnap-for-ransom cases. It is noteworthy that the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, Kayode Fayemi, this week, attributed the country’s security challenges partly to its 33 percent unemployment rate.  It shows why the authorities should urgently pursue improved socio-economic conditions to discourage economic kidnapping. It is unclear what Ortom hoped to achieve by publicising a rumour that politicians and government officials are involved in kidnapping. Others in high places have made a similar claim in reaction to the country’s increasing insecurity.  The question is: Where is the evidence? Paradoxically, such a rumour may well have some value in the sense that the repetition of the claim should prompt the authorities to take it seriously and investigate it. The case of a former chairman of Jibia local government caretaker committee in Katsina State, Haruna Musa Mota, who was arrested in February and arraigned for conspiracy, aiding and abetting and terrorism, shows why law enforcement agents need to pay attention to claims like Ortom’s. According to a report, “Before his arrest, an audio recording in Hausa language went viral on the social media where the culprit was heard discussing with one of the bandits’ leaders over the abduction of Kankara students.” However, the problem with helping to spread unsubstantiated claims, as Ortom did in his lecture, is the lack of concrete details, which is ultimately unhelpful. Facts, not hearsay, are needed.