Nigeria’s 61st Independence anniversary might  be months away, but polo brothers in neighbouring Ghana are already planning to  end the Nigerian dominance during the prestigious annual  Ghana-Nigeria Match Day usually  hold to celebrate the milestone. Top shots of Accra Polo Club recently revealed  that the Ghanaian polo family that has been on the receiving end of the Independence Day Cup series, is already building up for a ground-shaking upset as the countdown to the  2021 event  gets underway. One Ghanaian polo big name who has not hidden his determination to see to the end of Nigeria’s polo domination over the decades is the former Captain of Accra Polo Club, Jamil Ibrahim who has played many times in the Ghanaian colours against his Nigerian counterparts at many international tournaments. His optimism springs from the performances of the upcoming Ghanaian youngsters against their Nigerian opponents at a recent international friendly tournament in Accra. Like Ibrahim, many Ghanaian polo top shots believe the time is now to move to the next level. “The Performances of our youngsters at competitions recently, remains the strongest indicators yet to polo in Ghana is obviously heading for the global stage and we are prepared to support this endeavours,” he  hinted. The Nigeria-Ghana rivalry in sports particularly in polo has been around for as long as both countries have existed. It is the stuff of legends that hung there behind every sporting competition, every argument, private or national, between our two countries. Only recently, Shoreline polo team  upped the ante of sporting rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana with a resounding victory over host at the recently concluded Accra Polo Club international friendly tournament. To come out tops, the Shoreline team boasting youngsters like Sadiq Dantata, Tommy Ojora, Bolawa Tojoalaso and Adebayo Karim played two games against their host who presented two teams for the international friendly tourney that attracted a sizeable crowd of polo buffs from both Nigeria and Ghana. Yet  Nigerian teams showed great potentials and discipline in the final game, defeating their Ghanaian counterparts parading Ramzy A., Rashid A, Harold AD, and Dishan I,  71/2-7 in  closely fought four chukkas clash, to lift that event’s biggest prize. Two Nigerian umpires Faruku Ibrahim and Edozie Onwuli who were part of the event, described the tournament as an exciting experience watching the youngsters show exemplary sense of commitments, sporting discipline and friendship. Though Ibrahim and Ownuli agreed that the polo family in Ghana is looking forward to closing the polo gap with Nigeria, they believe it would take a while, certainly not during the forthcoming 2021 Independence Day anniversary faceoff in Accra. The last time Ghana defeated Nigeria at the Independence Day Polo Championship was in 2014.  They won 61/2-3 to win at their foremost the Accra Polo Grounds It would be recalled that Ghana who were given a half goal due to their weak Handicap, opened the scoring two minutes inside the First Chukka through George Agyemang and added the second  when Awudu Mensah took two minutes to end the first chukka. Nigeria, winners last year, rallied up and scored a goal, a minute inside the Second Chukka through Ahmed Umar but Ghanaian Pablo Billa scored two quick goals to end the second chukka. When the Third Chukka resumed, Damani Duncan scored for Ghana in the third chukka, while Ademola Alakija netted for his side. The last Chukka saw Ghana scoring two goals through Agyemang and Duncan while Seyi Oyinlola scored for Nigeria. The then Nigeria High Commissioner to Ghana Ademola Oluseyi Omafowakan in an address, said the bond between the two countries will continue to be strengthened through the noble game of kings and congratulated Ghana for winning the trophy.