Christian youths across the Niger East Senatorial District have met to strategise on how to gain relevance politically in the next general elections. The youths, who were drawn from the nine local government areas in the senatorial zone, had their meeting at the ECWA Good News Church in Minna, Niger State. Various speakers who spoke during the meeting urged the youths to be more involved and participate in the political processes in the state. The Keynote Speaker, who is the Vice President of Mastercard and a one-time senatorial aspirant in Niger State, Mr. Paul Tsado Tswanya, in his address titled ‘Strategy and Action Focus for Desired Relevance in Our State’ lamented that the Christian youths in the state are lukewarm. According to him, there is need for the youths to rise up if they want to change the political and socio-economic narratives in the state. “One of our biases as Christian youths is that we perceive politics as a dirty game and Christians do not play dirty. There is also the bias that politicians are liars and Christians should not lie. “But you all need to know that the impact of politics in the state is the impact on the lives we live. Whoever is in government makes policies that affect your life. Politics is a game of numbers and for Christian youth to be relevant politically, they have to work on their numbers and being united.” In his presentation, a former Permanent Secretary, Cabinet and Security, Paul Kolo, noted that the Christian youths need to get it right and try to work at taking risks. He noted that there is fragile unity among the Christian youths, adding that there is light at the end of the tunnel if they can mobilise themselves and unite with each other. The Chairman of the Niger Christian Youth Forum, Alexander Tsado, said the Leadership Summit is being organised to engage and enlighten Christian youth leaders in Niger East Senatorial District. Ambassadors were selected from each local government area to sensitise and mobilise the Christian youths towards getting the desired result socio-politically.