House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has advocated for proper synergy among the three arms of government for Nigerians to enjoy the benefits of democracy. He said those expecting the Legislature to fight with the Executive arm of government are ignorant of what separation of power is all about. The Speaker also dismissed the belief by some Nigerians of the existence of a number one, two or three form of government, saying the three arms of government are equal with no senior or junior partner. The Speaker, who spoke in an interview published in the current edition of the Green Chamber Magazine, an official publication of the House, also said until Nigerians begin to tune their minds to politics of issues, the nation would not get anywhere fast. He was also of the view that Nigerians have assigned to them responsibilities they are not elected to perform and are not equipped to handle. He said by nature of the system of government practised in the country, the three arms of government are independent of themselves and they are also dependent on each other for the smooth running of government. Admitting the need to continue to work for the independence of the legislature, he said: “I think the Legislative arm of government is independent, but within that independence exist some dependence. “We have three arms of government and what we need to understand is there is no number one, two and three. They are co-equal arms of government. There is no one part that is senior to the other. They have different responsibilities, which may appear and make one think that there is, but they are equal arms of government. “We have to learn to depend on each other, we have to have a similar relationship and when there is that synergy, then, the people out there will begin to enjoy democracy. Democracy is the best form of government; but it depends on how you apply it. “So, when I hear people talking about or expecting all three arms to clash, I know that they kind of miss the concept of democracy, just as they miss the idea of Separation of Powers and the Three Arms of Government. “You don’t have to be in bed with each other, you don’t have to fight with each other either. But, as long as you can agree in the national interest, you can complement each other and that’s what we are doing. We are expected to do something called checks and balances.”