 It was a tragedy Mrs Sewuese Ahumbe did not see coming. Neither did she think it was one that could befall her in her fruitless search for a baby she could call her own. But that was the fate that befell her in her desperate search for a fruit of the womb after she was sent packing from her matrimonial home on account of infertility 10 years after marriage. Sewuese, an indigene of Benue State, was faced with a choice between enduring the pain of life without a child or stealing one and damning the consequences. He opted for the latter and now finds herself a guest of the law enforcement agents. Before then, her life had been a mixed grill of sadness and joy. Joy because at the time she got married to her heartthrob, Mr Fidelis Ahumbe, she was full of hope that their marriage would be cemented with as many children as they desired. Alas, that was not to be for the10 years they were married. She recalled that tired of waiting endlessly for her to get pregnant and pressured by relatives and friends to produce a baby her husband woke up one day and sent her parking. Now detained at the Force Headquarters in Lafia, Nasarawa State capital for stealing a four-month-old baby from a neighbour, Sewuese told our correspondent how her marriage, which at the beginning was the envy of other couples that lived around them, turned sour and became characterised with frustration and matrimonial tension such that her friends and mother-in-law had to intervene repeatedly until her husband eventually sent her away. Describing the last 10 years as the worst in her life, she said: “It got to a point that I asked myself if I was still living with the same man I married. He suddenly became aggressive, calling me a barren woman and a harlot, just because I could not conceive. “My husband was my best friend before we got married. We were ready to have children as quickly as possible so we could move on. “But one year after, there was nothing. Then the second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth years passed and I didn’t conceive. We became apprehensive “We tried several tests and doctors told us to be patient; that we were okay medically. But nothing changed. He assured me of his love and I tried to be calm. “Then suddenly, my husband joined them and eventually, they threw me out of the house. “Before then, I visited places that my faith would ordinarily not permit because all I wanted was a child. But nothing came out of it. That was how I started living alone after I was chased out of his house. “I cried for months but that didn’t bring me any succor. I decided to relocate to Uke, Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State, to stay with one of my relatives, and that was where desperation took the better part of me and I stole the baby. “I felt I had no choice but to steal and raise a baby of my own to console myself and prove a point to my husband that I was able to get a child after all. It was desperation that pushed me into this act.” But despite her desperate plea for mercy, the Nasarawa State Police Command has detained her and vowed to prosecute her in the court of law after investigations are concluded. The police said she was traced and caught in Adikpo, Kwande Local Government Area of Benue State after noticing her disappearance at the time the four months old baby of her neighbour was also missing. She was said to have confessed to taking the baby from the room when the mother went to a nearby market to get some food items while the baby was asleep. Although the baby was recovered in good condition, the Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, said Sewuese would be charge to court. The police command had issued a statement that on the 8th of March 2021, the command recieved a complain at its branch office in Uke Division by one Queen Moses of Gidan Zakara, Uke of Karshi Development Area, Karu Local Government Area of Nasarawa State that one Sewuese (F) Ahumba came to her house same day and took away her four months old child after she fell asleep. All effort to locate her and the whereabouts of the child were abortive. The statement, which was signed by the command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Ramham Nansel, said upon receipt of the complaint, a painstaking investigation was launched by the Uke Divisional Police Officer and his team. Consequently, on 11th March, 2021, the suspect was trailed and arrested at Adikpo village in Benue State where the four months old baby boy was recovered from her and taken to the hospital for medical examination. The police said the suspect would be charged to court upon conclusion of investigation.