Nigeria will be competing against the rest of the world at the World Athletics Relays tagged Silesia 21 in Poland from tomorrow with two targets at stake. The contingent led by experienced Blessing Okagbare and hurdler Tobi Amusan will be aiming for Tokyo Olympic Games and 2022 World Championships qualifications in the historic Polish City of Silesia, reports OLALEKAN OKUSAN.  Blessing Okagbare, two-time African champion and former Commonwealth gold medalist has been in blistering form since the start of 2021. Last weekend, Okagbare ran the second-fastest women’s 100m in the world for 2021 to win the 100m event at the USATF Grand Prix at Eugene’s Hayward Field being the first World Athletics Continental Tour Gold meeting of 2021. Touted as an inspiration to Team Nigeria, the 32-year-old topped the list of athletes to represent Nigeria at World Relays in Poland, clocked an impressive 10.97s to win the women’s race ahead of United States’ Morolake Akinosun who settled for the runner-up spot in a season-best time of 11.09s. Prior to last week’s performance, Okagbare had two personal bests on the same day in the third leg of the American Track League event in Fayetteville, Arkansas in February. After running an impressive 7.17 seconds in the 60 meters heat to equal her personal best at the US-based professional track meet, Okagbare obliterated the field in the final with a new lifetime best of 7.10s to clinch top spot ahead of Jamaica’s Christiana Williams (7.14s) and Teahna Daniels of the United States (7.17s). Undone with the feat, Okagbare continued her fine form in the 200m event, blazing to another lifetime best of 23.01s to win her heat being the second-fastest time ever to be run by a Nigerian woman in the 200m event behind Regina George’s 23.00s national indoor record on the same track in Fayetteville back in 2013. Unlike Okagbare, Amusan who finished at the fifth USATF Grand Prix may not have rediscovered her form but she is another star considered to be part of the engine room of Team Nigeria in Poland. Meanwhile, World Athletics has tipped Nigeria as one of the top contenders in the women’s event of the championship.  Apart from competing for laurels, the top eight placed teams in the women’s and men’s 4x100m finals will automatically qualify for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, while the top 10 – the eight teams in the final and those with the two next best times in the first round – will qualify for the World Athletics Championships Oregon22. It is the fast-paced and unpredictable nature of the 4x100m which adds to the thrill at the Silesian Stadium in Chorzow May 1 to 2 as 17 women’s teams would compete in the 4X100m as Germany, Italy and Switzerland have secured their spots for Tokyo as world finalists in Doha but there is still qualification for next year’s global event in Eugene to race for in Poland. The Nigeria team will be keen to make an impact, under the guide of Okagbare and Amusan alongside Ese Brume, Tima Godbless, Joy Udo-Gabriel and Nigeria’s queen of the track and rave of the moment Grace Nwokocha in the women’s 4X100m. For the women’s 4X400m, Nigeria will be represented by Uwemedino Abasiono, Patience Okon-George, Opeyemi Oke, Glory Patrick, Imaobong Uko and Osareti Usembo. In the men’s event, Enoch Adegoke topped the list in the 4x100m race while others in the team include Alaba Akintola, Usheoritse Itsekiri, Jerry Jakpa, Divine Oduduru and Seye Ogunlewe. For the men’s 4x400m, Team Nigeria is made up of Sikiru Adeyemi, Rilwan Alowonle, Timothy Emeoghene, Samson Nathaniel, Ifeanyi Ojeli and Chidi Okezie. Nigeria’s mixed relay team has Timothy Emeoghene, Patience Okon-George, Ifeanyi Ojeli, Chidi Okezie and Imaobong Uko. Double Olympic champion Elaine Thompson-Herah, three-time world indoor champion Pavel Maslak and African 100m champion Akani Simbine are among the big names on the final entry list for the World Athletics Relays Silesia 21. The entries indicated that 127 relay teams from 37 countries will compete in Silesia. Many other global stars also feature on the entry lists, including world 400m silver medallist Anthony Zambrano of Colombia, Belgium’s Borlee brothers, world 800m bronze medallist Ferguson Rotich and his Kenyan teammate Emmanuel Korir. Spain’s Angel David Rodriguez, who turns 41 later this month, is the oldest athlete listed for the event, while 17-year-old Nigerian sprinter Imaobong Uko is the youngest. The USA and Jamaica – top two at the 2019 edition of the World Relays and the 2016 Olympics – have decided not to send teams to Silesia, while world silver and Olympic bronze medallists Great Britain are not fielding a women’s 4x100m squad. Of the 22 teams entered in mixed relay, Poland is one of the four having already booked a place in Tokyo thanks to making the final at the 2019 World Athletics Championships. Enoch Adegoke believes with the present crop of athletes, Nigeria stands a chance to medal at the meet. He told NationSports: “My expectations are very positive and high; I trust the best for all of us and the first hurdle is getting to the final at least that will put us in a very good position to run at the Olympics. “Then when we get to the finals that will set another standard for ourselves but I really trust us to improve on our last season’s best and I believe it is possible with the squad that we have.  “At least for every one of us, that has been here there has been some kind of positive relationship between us so I really believe we can pull off something spectacular.” Jerry Jakpa, another member of the men’s 4X100m, believes making it to the final remains the priority of the team. He said: “My expectation for the team is to go up there and expect us to get into the finals and qualify for Tokyo Olympic Games. Especially that most of the top teams have pulled out of the tournament, this will give us a bigger opportunity even with a little amount of time to train together. I feel we have a good chance of team chemistry since we are all home-based and at least going three now to spring surprise and get a good time.” “The chances for team Nigeria in the whole events are very bright especially that most of the stronger nations are pulling out and I think it is a good chance for us to be able to go there and get into the finals to pick the ticket to the Olympics. “I feel we can do that from what I have seen so far and everyone is in unity and we all want to get a chance to go there and win. I think generally Team Nigeria can achieve at least the final that will qualify us for Olympics in the whole event,” Jakpa added. Timothy Emeoghene, who will be competing in the men’s 4X400m and mixed relays, is certain of a medal for Team Nigeria. “Our goal generally is that we are good to go and definitely we will pick up a medal. I may not know the colour of the medals because some top countries have already pulled out already but I am certain and sure with what I am seeing in camp we will definitely get a medal to make our country proud.” Double gold medalists at the 20th National Sports Festival tagged Edo 2020, Grace Nwokocha believes with team work and understanding, the team has the wherewithal to rub shoulders with the best in Poland. “As a member of the 4x100m team, all we need do is just to work together as a team, put in our best and go there to make sure we qualify for the Olympics that will enable the team to be in Tokyo. I also wish we do the right thing on track to make sure the baton exchange is smooth and with this, I think we will qualify. Doing the right and ensuring we don’t go above the zone as well as not matching the line because if we do that we will be disqualified. So I expect and hope the team works together as one,” she said.