Niger has immunised 34,220 persons with 38,940 doses of the vaccine left, the State Immunisation Officer, Abubakar Usman Kpantu has disclosed. He spoke at a one day workshop for journalists organised by Technology and Development Research Network (TEDREN) FUT Minna and Media Mentors Network in Minna, Niger state. According to Kpantu, the state has received 74,110 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine targeting 65,228 persons, which represent one per cent of the state total population of 6,522,777. The State Immunisation Officer said that there have not been any serious adverse effects of the vaccine reported in the state or any of the local government areas where the vaccines have been administered. He said the state has inadequate vaccination teams to cover some of the populated areas, adding there are 146 teams in the state which are not enough to cover all the populated areas. “We have 146 vaccination teams and they cannot cover all the areas because some local government areas are given a minimum of four teams and a maximum of eight teams which are still not enough. We need more vaccination teams,” he said. The State Immunisation Officer also disclosed there was refusal of the vaccine among the target groups for phase 1, stating “even among the health workers, some are still scared of taking the vaccine. We are facing refusal of the vaccine in the state”. He appealed to the media to do more in terms of creating awareness about the vaccine, stressing many people do not know about the vaccine which is increasing the level of misinformation about the vaccine in the state. “We did not collect the vaccine to keep it in the state, we collected it for use and the people, especially the frontline workers need to know that there is a vaccine for them to take. “To do that, we need you, the media. You are the one that will help us to sell the commodity. We need more reportage about COVID-19 vaccine in the state,” he stated. The Coordinator, Technology and Development Research Network (TEDREN), Federal University of Technology, Minna, Professor Nicholas Iwokwagh, said journalists were needed because they are critical in maintaining vaccine confidence in Niger State. Taking the participants on ‘Essentials of vaccine reporting’, Iwokwagh noted it was important for journalists to understand the dynamics of reporting vaccines to keep society well informed. In her presentation on communicating facts about vaccines, Data/Investigative Journalist, Justina Asishana observed people are already showing some hesitancy to the COVID-19 vaccines. She stressed it was important for journalists to shed light on the issue and educate the public about it. Asishana, who gave various tips on communicating facts about vaccines, stated that journalists were critical to tackling the reluctance of people towards vaccination.