The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has stated 50 percent of people infected with meningitis will die if left untreated. It further disclosed of those who receive treatment and survive, 10 to 20 percent of them are left with lifelong disabilities like deafness, loss of sight, loss of limbs, acquired brain injury, epilepsy, difficulty in learning etc. Cerebrospinal Meningitis (CSM) is an acute inflammation of the cerebral meninges (protective membrane covering the brain and the spinal cord), which can be caused by several microorganisms like bacteria, viruses, fungi etc. NCDC urged Nigerians to avoid overcrowding, observe proper hand and respiratory hygiene and ensure they immediately visit the nearest health facility if they notice any of the symptoms of meningitis, such as fever, tiredness, stiff neck, nausea, rashes, convulsion, bulging fontanelle in children, sensitivity to light, etc. The Director of Special Duties and Technical Lead for the National Cerebrospinal Meningitis Technical Working Group of the NCDC, Dr Priscilla Ibekwe, made these known in Abuja, during the agency’s awareness creation campaign at Utako Market, to commemorate this year’s World Meningitis Day. She said: “A very good thing that has happened with meningitis is that Nigeria has now put meningitis A vaccine in routine care. Through the campaign of putting meningitis A vaccine as part of our routine vaccine, a lot of raising awareness has been done. “So it is not surprising that our cases are reducing. That does not mean that we go to sleep. One death from meningitis is a death too many if we can prevent it. “The sad thing about meningitis is that it is a race against time. 50 percent of people who have meningitis will die if untreated. Even when treated, 10 to 20 percent of them will have after-effects such as deafness, loss of sight, loss of limbs, difficulty in concentrating, difficulty in learning, etc., and these are long-term. It affects the family, the child’s education, and when this child becomes an adult, what is his productivity? “We want to develop comprehensive services in health, linked up to the education sector, social service and other sectors, to ensure that we get great support around the survival of meningitis. “The cost of disability is so high, and the cost of the unproductivity or low productivity, both for the family and the affected is so high. That is why as a whole community, both in health and outside health, we must come together to defeat meningitis in Nigeria.” Speaking with journalists, Head of Risk Communication at the NCDC, Dr Yahaya Disu, explained aside what people can do, policymakers have very critical roles to play to defeat meningitis. “When it comes to vaccination – making it available, accessible, and making sure that the vaccine is available in a form that is efficacious, this is the role of policymakers. “They need to ensure equitable access to what is available to prevent meningitis, and what is available to cure meningitis. “They need to empower facilities, train the healthcare workers, and provide the necessary drugs to promptly treat to prevent deaths. “Also, when disability occurs, there should be rehabilitated mechanisms to ensure that those who suffer the disease, suffer a minimal disability. We must be able to reintegrate them back into society, in order for them to optimise their potential,” he said.