As Nigeria joins six other African countries including Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, Mozambique and South Africa, where the TELA maize is currently being developed to improve farmer’s production on the continent, the country hopes to bridge the maize deficit so as to meet up local demand. The TELA Maize Project is a public-private partnership led by the African Agricultural Technology Foundation (AATF) working towards initiating commercialisation of transgenic drought-tolerant and insect-protected maize varieties to enhance food security in Sub-Saharan Africa. While the transgenic crop developed to resist Fall Army Worm (FAW) and drought has gone through three experiments of Confined Field Trials (CFT) at the research farm of Institute for Agricultural Research (IAR), Zaria, it has recorded a huge success. This reporter, who was at the research farm of IAR at the harvest of the third trial of TELA maize, observed that the newly developed maize is resistant to drought and stem borer such as fall army worm which could cost 80 percent yield losses. It was also learnt that the addition of insect protection will also reduce pesticide use which will bring benefits to both the environment and human health. A more reliable harvest will give farmers additional confidence to invest in their farms and improve their farming practices. According to African Biosafety Network of Expertise, confined field trial (CFT) is an experiment in the open field. The aim is to test and evaluate the performances of one or more lines of a crop with a new trait(s) introduced by genetic modification (GM). CFTs are conducted on a small scale (often 1 ha or less), and often on an official experiment station. Explaining how long the CFT trials took in the research farm, Principal Investigator of the project, Professor Rabiu Adamu said the experiment started in March 2020 under dry season, while the second trial was in June 2020 under the wet season farming and the third one was in  November 2020 to April 2021. Adamu explained that the trial was under confinement because the crop has not been regulated. “We are doing this trial for the third time, we started March last year, we did the first trial under dry season, while we did the second one in June 20, and the third one in November 2020 to this April. “This trial  is under confinement because the crop has not been regulated, it is composed of three major trial, the Bt, hybrids to resist FAW and drought. The first trial are those raw materials we are trying to breed that are resistant to stem borer, the second trial are those materials we are evaluating that could do well in the presence of drought under the optimum, giving that you have drought and insect pest, try to manage them”, Professor Adamu said. Analysing why the trial is confined, the Lead Trial and Pipeline Testing (PTP), Dr Muhyideen Oyekunle, said trial is confined  because they are dealing with a genetically modified organism, which needs approval before going to farmers’ field. “Until we get approval for environmental release, that is when we can take this product out of the confinement to farmers’ field. While explaining that the project is aimed at alleviating the two major constraint  of insect pest and drought that affect maize, Adamu added that the maize is a high yielding variety. He lamented that the country produce only 12 million tonnes against the 18 million tonnes required, adding that there is a deficit of 6 million tonnes. “Nigeria produces only 12 million metric tonnes of maize, the country requires at least 18 million, it means there is a deficit of almost 6 million, we need to bridge that deficit. We can do this by increasing the land areas under cultivation or produce high yielding varieties. On yield the newly developed maize can produce per hectare, Professor Adamu explained that it can produced up to 8 tonnes per hectare, adding that most of varieties cannot produce more than 2.5 to 3 tonnes per hectare in Nigeria farms. “With this variety under on farm trial we were able to record up to 8 tonnes per hectare, this is quite a commendable achievement, from 2.5 to 3 tonnes, we are recording 8 tonnes. This will go a long way in boosting the productivity of maize in Nigeria and reduce the food insecurity we are facing. Before now, Nigerian maize yields are less than 3 tonnes per hectare because of the nature of the varieties we use, this variety we are working on can produce up to 8 tons per hectare, this is more than double of what we got in our farms. “This will translate into more income, food security and boost the economy”, he added. According to AATF, the newly developed maize variety will provide valuable economic, agronomic and environmental benefits to farmers by helping them produce more reliable harvests under moderate drought conditions and better grain quality due to reduced insect damage. “This will help farmers harvest enough to feed their families, a surplus which they can sell to increase their incomes, and help strengthen local communities and countries”, it said. Speaking on the economic benefit, the Executive Director, IAR, Professor Mohammad Ishiyaku said, the savings farmers will make from the maize variety is estimated N9 billion from insecticide spray of 500hectares land and drought effects. According to him, “The savings farmers will make from this maize variety is estimated to be over 3 billion naira from insecticide spray of 500hectares land and over 6billion naira from drought effects. “This is to ensure that we continue to expend government resources strictly on those problems that will lead to national economic growth and self-sufficiency in food production. “The Institute for Agricultural Research Samaru in its almost 99 years of existence has developed and released crop varieties that are climate resilient and farmer friendly. “IAR recognises the importance of cutting edge tools in sharpening research output. It is in this vein that it combines conventional and modern genetic engineering tools to discover scientific solutions to farmers and consumer problems. “IAR as a leader in Agricultural biotechnology in the country is ahead amongst Nigerian Agricultural Research Institutes in deployment of biotechnology tools to provide solutions to farmers, it has recorded enormous success in the release of Cotton that is resistant to bollworm which causes up to 80 percent yield loss in cotton. It has also successfully developed and released the first pod borer resistant cowpea SAMPEA 20T”, added. Speaking further on the economic benefit of the maize, the Country Coordinator, Open Forum on Agricultural Biotechnology (OFAB), Dr Rose Gidado,  said with that increase in yield, farmers’ livelihood will be enhanced and also get more money. “This newly developed maize will affect so many lives positively and reduce the prices of maize. Presently, a bag of maize goes for N20,000, we know how FAW has deviated maize farming in Nigeria and farmers are still suffering, by the time this maize variety is ready and get to farmers, they will all smile. However, the Director General, National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), Professor Abdullahi Mustapha said, with the adoption of TELA maize, Nigeria will be self-sufficient in maize production which will also improve the economy of the country. Mustapha said biotechnology and its tools has opened a window of opportunity to Nigeria to address challenges facing food crops. “As a country, agriculture is one of the major employers of labour, but in recent times, our agricultural processes started encountering challenges of insects/pests, drought, weediness, floods, gully erosion,  oil spillage among others that led to reduced yield and made farmers very unattractive,  especially to the youth”, he said. He assured that NABDA will continue to work with IAR and other institutions across Nigeria and beyond to promote biotechnology usage  and research development in agriculture as one of the most potent options available to revive agriculture and make it net contributor to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Analysing what’s next after the third CFT harvest , the Lead Trial and Pipeline Testing said they will analyse the data, prepare a document and submit the dossier to National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA) to review and get approval for environmental release before going for national performing trial. He said: “After the harvest, we are going to analyse the data and prepare document to get approval for environmental release, we are going to submit the dossier to NBMA to review and once we get approval that we can come out of the confinement, then we can now have a national performing trial and along the line”. Corroborating this, the Principal investigator said the TELA maize will go outside the confinement which is on farm field trials outside Zaria.