The Nigerian Youth Corporate Social Responsibility Fund (NYCSRF) has lamented that rising insecurity has almost made the country ungovernable. The youth group noted that the matter is made worse by rising ethnicity and religious conflicts from the North, West and Eastern parts of the country. The group noted that kidnapping, killings, Boko Haram attacks and all forms of atrocities and crimes had thrown the country into the ungovernable situation. Director-General of the NYCSRF, Vincent Ubani said this in a statement. He called on the Federal Government to take some fundamental steps such as addressing the high rate of poverty and increased hardship, unemployment and underdevelopment that affects the youth. Ubani noted that these steps will reduce the “uncontrollable situation we find ourselves in Nigeria.” He added: “The #ENDSARS and the implications of damage in Lagos and other states should not be overlooked, especially the ethnicity and religious conflicts that have become the order of the day in the North, West and Eastern parts of Nigeria. “Kidnapping, killings, Boko Haram attacks and all forms of atrocities and crimes have thrown our country into ungovernable situations. “This is why we urge the Federal Government to take some fundamental steps to mitigate the unsavoury situation. The government, the people, and foreign companies benefiting from our soil can come together to ensure that the high rate of hardship, poverty, unemployment and underdevelopment affecting Nigerian youths could be addressed.” Ubani said the group has commenced mobilisation for the 2023 presidency to ensure that a younger person emerges as President of Nigeria. He said the NYCSRF, working with other youth groups, will rally Nigerians at home and in the Diaspora to present a formidable platform for 2023 presidential election. “The youth are leaders of today and all the old politicians believe that it is time for the youth to take over the leadership of the country. But to do so, they must come together to get involved in politics. We shall run a one-party system for young candidates and aspirants with parties just to ensure that we are in one accord,” he said.