 Abia Warriors defender Adeleke Adekunle is one of the three Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) players invited to the Super Eagles camp for last month’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho. He was handed an  invitation  by coach Gernot Rohr as replacement for Kenneth Omeruo who was blocked by his Spanish  club CD Leganes amid COVID-19 restrictions. He was joined by Enyimba duo of John Noble and Anayo Iwuala.into the Super Eagles fray but Adekunle surmised he would forever cherished his first day in camp after Rohr formally welcomed him to the Eagles camp at the Eko Hotels in Lagos on March 22, 2021. “For the coach (Gernot Rohr) to personally welcomed me to the camp shows that  I am part of the family,” Adekunle told NationsSport,.“I am happy and very grateful to God for this opportunity because it is the wish of every player to play in the national team.” Although, the former Go Round FC of Omoku defender did not get a playing time in the double 2021 AFCON encounters, he is confident that his time would come with persistence and hard work. “I am aware that the national team is for the very best players but one thing I know is that my quality will speak for me,” he continued.”I know I have to work very hard to get the opportunity to play in the team. “Nothing is impossible and  I believe in myself: and what I can do for the team.I just want to be positive about it. “Of course,  I would have loved to make my debut in any of the two games against Benin and Lesotho but the coach gave me reasons for not playing me;  I have to understand and respect that. ” I believe my time will come and I am looking forward to the next World Cup qualifiers and see what is going to happen. “I have to keep focused on my club and  give my best in every game so that by the time the World Cup qualifier comes up, I would be giving a chance for the national team to call up again.” The atmosphere in the Super Eagles’ camp is always lively when the players converge to represent the country, Adekunle yet revealed that he would forever be nostalgic about. his first time experience. He said: “The players were  very friendly and they showed love. There is no pressure at all to be in the team and I was  relaxed to be in their mix. ” There’s no segregation and some of the big stars  encouraged me. “It was a good experience for me and it has improved my football and helped my career as well, I learned so much from the players and the coach who always talk to me from time to time in training, so I am very happy with my time with the Super Eagles.” Comparing the national team and club condition, he added: “Club football is easier because we trained together every day, so the understanding is there with my teammates; they know what I can do with the ball, and the coach has trust in me because he has trained me to play in his style. “But in the national team, we just do two training sessions before a game so the understanding with different quality of players is put together.”  The former Delta Force star  is already nursing the ambition of writing his name in history. of Nigerian football by winning laurels with the national team. “My target as a footballer is to play at the top level and win a trophy with the National team because I want my name also to be in the history book of the Nigeria team,” he offered. Meanwhile,  Adeleke, who played a pivotal role in the resurgence of Abia Warriors after a shaky start in the 2020/2021 NPFL season , said he and his teammates will put in more hard work. “Yes, we started the league on a shaky  note but we never lost focus and faith in ourselves,” he said.”Sincerely, it was not that we were not playing well but the result was not just coming then. “But we have understood each other very well now and we are winning games right now which is good for the team; we did nothing new to keep faith in ourselves,.” he noted.