The police got marching orders on Tuesday to track down those who attacked its headquarters and the correctional centre in Owerri, Imo State capital. Immediate-past Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, who was replaced while in Owerri, urged the men to be ruthless against members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The police on Monday blamed IPOB for the attacks in which 38 vehicles were destroyed and 1,844 inmates were freed. But, the group denied culpability. Its leader Nnamdi Kanu, said the police were too hasty in their conclusion. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was also in Owerri to assess the damage. Hours after Osinbajo and Adamu left the state, gunmen set ablaze a divisional police headquarters. In Ebonyi, policemen repelled an attack on a station. Adamu said: “Those who are attacking police officers and other security agents, as well as security facilities, should not think that they will get away with it. Never! “I’m here to encourage you that this group of people that take delight in attacking security agents and security facilities, you should deal with them ruthlessly. “You should never ever spare them. You should use all the force available to you to ensure you incapacitate them; to make sure that you don’t give them space; to make sure that they don’t exist. “These are criminals. They’re not covered in any way by law. The law is against their activities. But, you are covered by the law. “Bandits will never succeed. Never spare them. Deal with them ruthlessly. Unleash your full arsenal on them. The law is behind you. “We must work together with all stakeholders to fish out criminals and their hideouts. “We have increased the number of units that we have and we have sent more tactical personnel. “You have facilities and weapons at your disposal that you can unleash against these people. “So, your strategy should change. Let your strategy be the type that will counter the strategy of those people.” Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma also urged the police to defend themselves. To him, it is unacceptable for miscreants to attack the government and its facilities and get away with it. He said: “Each time there’s any problem in the state, the police pay dearly for it. During the #EndSARS protests, it was the police that paid for it. “This time around, these hoodlums emerged and were able to visit this kind of mayhem on police facilities.  “I don’t know what the rules are. But, I think it’s also going to be a terrible thing for an armed man to kill an armed man. I think the purpose of being armed is to, at least, defend yourself. “If you must not retaliate; if you must not be on the offensive, you should be able to defend yourselves. “The citadel of justice in Imo State rests here at the police headquarters. You don’t allow hoodlums to have their way; to enter this place, operate and go away scot-free. Overtly or covertly, it must be condemnable. “I don’t want to identify with any situation that will encourage, insinuate or allude to the fact that miscreants will confront the government and get away with it. “For me, it is unacceptable. There is no pretence because once police are insulted, the integrity of the government itself is insulted. “So, we must rise as a government to take charge of discipline, to take charge of conduct and control and bring up enhanced performance towards ensuring peace and order in the society. “Rise up and fight this so that our people will have a sense of security”. The governor assured the police of his administration’s resolve to “always do our best to complement your efforts in making sure security, which is the primary purpose of governance, is provided”. Also on Tuesday, gunmen set ablaze the divisional headquarters of Ehime Mbano Local Government Area of Imo State. It was learnt that the assailants freed all the suspects in detention. A source said: “On arrival, the gunmen freed the suspects before wreaking the havoc.” Police spokesperson, Orlando Ikeokwu, confirmed the incident. “Ehime Mbano Division has just been attacked. No casualty on the part of the police. No loss of arms. Three vehicles burnt,” he said. In Ebonyi, the police repelled an attack by gunmen on another police station in the state. One of the assailants, our reporter learnt, was allegedly killed in a shootout with the police. An officer was injured. The incident happened at Ugbodo Police station in Ebonyi Local Government Area. A top security source said that the gunmen launched the attack around 2 am. “They met stiff resistance from the policemen at the station. In the ensuing battle, an officer sustained an injury while the gunmen later retreated, with some of them being hit. “The police searched the bush and discovered the corpse of one of the gunmen,” the source said. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo described the attacks on the Imo police headquarters and correctional centre as cowardly. The Federal Government, he said, is taking steps to strengthen security at the custodial centres and police formations nationwide to contain the security threats. He said the release of inmates posed a threat to the welfare of citizens. “Perpetrators of this act will be brought to book. They must not go scot-free. They are cowards and will be duly prosecuted. “We will rejig the security architecture and strengthen security at correctional centres nationwide,” the Vice President said. Minister of Interior Rauf Aregbesola expressed sadness over the attack. “A pattern of syndicated attacks on custodial centres is emerging…Make no mistake; they will be hunted to the ends of the earth. They can only run, but they cannot hide. “We shall bring them to justice, or in the alternative, take justice to them,” the minister said. Aregbesola urged all escaped inmates to return to custody. “Unlawful escape from custody is a crime, but the government in its magnanimity will grant amnesty to prisoners who willfully return. “They will no longer be charged with unlawful escape, but only for the initial crimes that took them to prison. “So, we urge all escapees to return before they are caught on the run,” the minister said. A wave of criminality appears to be sweeping through the state. On Bank Road and Douglas Road, close to the Government House, hoodlums ambushed bank customers and snatched their money and valuables at gunpoint. One of the victims, who was robbed of N340,000, said: “While the three boys attacked me, I begged passersby for help, but everyone was minding his business. I sustained bruises as they tore my clothes.” Residents said criminal elements have increased their activities as the police seemed to have abandoned patrols, especially around Port Harcourt Road. Residents of Uratta, Nekede, Naze, Egbu, Egbeada and Orji fear the freed inmates would seek hideouts in the communities. At Nekede, a young man who runs a phone charging shop was attacked. A source said: “Three escaped inmates went to the Batcher Estate where he lives and forced him to part with all his savings for causing them to be remanded in prison.” In Nekede, residents said diehard criminals were celebrating their escape from jail. At Uratta in Owerri North council area, it was gathered that one of the traditional rulers whose wife died in kidnappers’ den hurriedly left his palace. He was said to have relocated to Abuja after learning that one of the suspects who kidnapped his wife had visited the village on Monday. The suspect, whose house was partly destroyed by youths of the community, following his involvement in the kidnap, was said to have left after inspecting his house. At Akabo in Ikeduru Local Government Area, it was learnt that a returnee prisoner caused a stir as residents became jittery. It was gathered that three suspected kidnappers of the wife of the owner of ABC Transport were to appear before the court today, but were among those who escaped. In the Egbu community in Owerri North, the mother of a three-year-old girl, who was serially raped by one of the inmates, went berserk following the return of the suspect. A senior police officer confirmed that some policemen who played roles in the arrest or conviction of the escaped inmates have been receiving threats. “This shouldn’t stop us from doing our work. We’re grateful to God that we didn’t lose any officer in the course of this whole attack,” the source said. In neighbouring Abia State where Governor Okezie Ikpeazu imposed 10pm-6am curfew, security has also been beefed up around the correctional centres. The Enugu Correctional Centre also beefed up security around the facility to forestall any attack that could lead to jailbreak, according to the spokesman, Mr Emeka Monday. IPOB, which earlier denied the attacks, blamed Southeast governors for rising insecurity in the region. It said Uzodinma was “shedding crocodile tears” when the governors, according to IPOB, did little to secure the zone. IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, said in a statement: “How come the governors are just waking from sleep? Our message is simple: good morning to you all! “When our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu was warning you, you called him a miscreant…and hurriedly outlawed IPOB, a peaceful movement and prepared the ground for the Federal Government to tag us terrorists… “You…approved Operation Python Dance that claimed many innocent Igbo youths. Thank God for the miraculous escape of our leader…” IPOB blamed the governors for not backing the Eastern Security Network (ESN). “Stop lamenting. We warned you but you took us for fools,” the group said. Kanu, in a tweet yesterday, said the police was hasty to blame IPOB for the attacks. “Apparently the world-renowned clueless Nigeria Police knows who attacked Owerri Prison a few minutes after the event, but don’t know who attacked Ebonyi community more than a week after innocent villagers were murdered,” he tweeted via his handle @MaziNnamdiKanu.