Finally, the rehabilitation and modernisation of the narrow gauge has got to the Eastern flank, bringing to fruition a 25-year  masterplan for the railway’s fixed assets to link the coastal city of Port Harcourt with Maiduguri. Though the East and the West axis ought to be developing at par, the West had surged ahead, with the speed train already nearing completion on the Lagos-Ibadan, a segment of the Lagos-Kano, known in the rail circle as the Western line, while the Eastern line had remained in the woods, largely due to  paucity of funds, made worse by the insecurity that made the line largely unsafe as the Northeast has been eaten up by banditry and Boko Haram violence. The Eastern line, which connects no less than 15 states from the Southsouth, Northcentral and Northeast is, arguably, Nigeria’s most lucrative freight line being the nation’s arterial corridor for agriculture and solid minerals. The groundbreaking of the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Port Harcourt–Maiduguri Eastern Narrow Gauge railway project have two freebies – the development of the Bonny deep seaport and Railway Industrial Park, Port Harcourt, which the government disclosed would be developed by the contractor, Messrs China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC). The groundbreaking, which drew the cream of personalities from across all sectors, signalling the beginning of the rehabilitation of railway, put paid to speculation that the corridor had been abandoned by the government.The rehabilitation of the 1,443 kilometres narrow gauge rail will cost $3 billion. Flagging off the project, President Muhammadu Buhari said: ‘‘The connection of the railway to a new seaport on Bonny Island and Railway Industrial Park, Port Harcourt is designed to increase its viability and boost trans-shipment of cargo and freight locally, across the West African sub-region and in the Continental Free Trade Area. ‘‘In addition, there will be further  utilisation of local contents and technology transfer, increase in internally generated revenue and it would serve as a fulcrum for the achievement of the Federal Government planned Integrated Development Masterplan.” The President said the projects, when completed, would push the economy to the global canvas, urging Nigerians, especially industrialists, manufacturers and businesses within the zones, to take maximum advantage of the infrastructure in planning for expansion and building new factories. Following lean resources, Buhari noted that in planning the project, prudent use of resources was given priority and that Nigeria would retrieve the old narrow gauge that has been lying in neglect for years and bring it to full functional state, commensurate to a national railway service at a rational price. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, stated that the project would have commenced years ago but for the delay by contractors and inadequate funds. He said the effort of the government at rehabilitation of this rail line from 2009 to 2012, did not achieve the desired outcome, partly due to inadequate funding and incompetence of some of the contractors employed, thereby making the rail line unserviceable. “The Eastern narrow gauge railway is one of the transport infrastructure established in the pre-independence period and played a significant role in the development of agriculture and industrial sectors in the colonial era and immediate post-independence year up till 1985, when it became unfit for purpose as a result of the general neglect and divestment suffered by the railways. “The need for a functional rail line on this Eastern corridor persists and remain compelling as the supply chain for products and services on this corridor vanishes and articles and items such as petroleum products, iron and steel, minerals, livestock and poultry products availability were reduced giving rise to the high cost and affecting the manufacturing and agro-allied industries. The Federal Government, therefore, focused on its revival.” Giving further insight into the project, the minister said: “The project is to be co-financed by a loan from a syndicate of Chinese financiers with Federal Government contribution of 15 per cent counterpart funding of the project cost, while the Bonny Deep sea port and Railway Industrial park, Port Harcourt are being developed through direct investment by CCECC Nigeria Limited. Both are to cost US$700million. “Upon completion, trains on the Port Harcourt–Maiduguri Eastern Narrow Gauge Railway will run at 60-80 kilometres per hour and 80-100 kilometres per hour for freight and passenger. The Bonny Deepseaport has a container terminal of 500,000 TEU (20-foot equivalent unit) per annum capacity and 100,000 DWT (Deadweight tonnage) Berth. The Railway Industrial park, Port Harcourt would be supported by necessary infrastructure (Power, Water, Waste Disposal, ICT, Gas distribution) as well as transportation, logistics centres and ancillaries. Amaechi said the rail line from Enugu to Awka-Onitsha and Abakaliki was undergoing feasibility studies and preparation of conceptual design. The Managing Director of CCECC Nigeria Limited, Jason Zhang, said over 10,000 jobs would be created during the construction of the project. He assured that the project, estimated to be completed in 36 months, would be delivered in record time. “Upon completion of the project, it will help in the transportation of petroleum products, movement of goods from Bonny seaport, ease transportation of agricultural products and movement of passengers. During the construction, over 10,000 jobs will be created and during its operation, over 500 permanent jobs will be created, in addition to over 10,000 job opportunities that will come up as a result of the train operation, which will no doubt, boost the economy and contribute immensely to the reduction of unemployment. On behalf of northern governors, Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, said: “The major beneficiaries of this project are also from the north, particularly myself. This has been one project that I have been yearning for. The minister of transportation is my friend, but I always tell him that when he leaves and there is no railway from Jos, he should not come to Jos again because if he must come, he must come through the railway.’’ On behalf of the Southeast, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, thanked the administration for considering the region, despite the lean resources. He said: “I want to thank God for today, particularly Mr. President, who has decided that infrastructure even with the lean resources of the country where we found ourselves today, less resources than the past government, decided that infrastructure of roads, railways, and power will be the cardinal institutions for the government to touch.” The Senate President, Sen. Ahmed Lawan who was represented by the Chairman Senate Committee on Lands Transport, Senator Buhari Abdulfatai said the project will provide end to end logistic supply adding that matters relating to rail will be given high consideration in the national assembly in the national interest of Nigerians. Giving further insight into the benefit of the project when completed, the Director Rail of the ministry of transportation, Muhammed Babakobi said the project will lead to more export opportunities and open up more businesses. “This project is connected to a seaport and that is originating from the directive of the president that we must connect the seaport and see how the economy can blossom. Also, there is an industrial park, so in terms of operation, they are integrated. So, the benefit is that you are able to take your raw material from everywhere within that zone and it encompasses four geo-political zones; northeast, northcentral, southeast and south-south. Between these zones, we have about fifteen states, so you can imagine the output in terms of agriculture, mining resources from these states for Nigeria.