  The President, Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU), Josiah Biobelemoye, has appealed to frontline health workers in the fight against COVID-19 to take the AstraZeneca vaccine. He urged his members nationwide to put aside all grievances and come out en masse to get the much needed protection against the virus. Biobelemoye who doubles as President, Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN), made the appeal in Abuja, while receiving his first jab of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. He explained that members of the union who have always been discriminated against as health workers especially when it comes to welfare and other benefits, were suddenly recognised as health and front line workers when the issue of vaccination against the virus surfaced. While appealing to the health workers to consider their safety first before any existing acrimony or the various conspiracy theories making rounds in the country and African region,  gave assurances that the vaccine was safe, adding that he felt no sign of side effects after taking the jab. He said: “I have just taken my jab of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine and I feel good. I have come to take this to tell all health workers especially members of JOHESU that it is not harmful to anybody. “I know their area of grievances that from the outset of COVID, majority of my members were discriminated against that they are not health workers and today vaccines came and they said we are health workers.” “They are saying when it comes to butter and bread, naira and kobo we are discriminated against but the bottom line is even if we have to agitate we need to be alive so I am calling on everybody; I have sent advisories, I have been talking to our people and I think the anger is being doused. “We are health workers, we are science based and we have been interacting with our counterparts elsewhere in the world. I want to appeal to all Nigerians that if this is having any negativity, certainly, nearly one million Americans will not be lining out to take this.  “Initially, the fear was the vaccine was made specifically to depopulate Africa and all the conspiracy theories but we are witnesses to the fact that the Europeans have used themselves as the guinea pug so what’s the reason for fear? “We should come out and take the first and second jab so we can be 100 per cent clear. We have millions of health workers across all levels; federal, state and primary level and they all need to be protected so they can go out and attend to the Nigerian population.” On if there is any sanction for members who refuse the vaccination, Biobelemoye disclosed that although no health worker was being compelled or mandated to take the vaccine, “we will appeal to the conscience of everybody as a health worker, you need to be safe, you need to be healthy to dispense health to those who needs it.” Officials of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA), were on ground to supervise the seamless vaccination process of the leadership of health workers in the country. Director Advocacy and Communication of the NPHCDA, Eunice Damisah, who reiterated the safety of the vaccine, said as the day goes by, more Nigerians within the first priority areas, were embracing and coming out to get vaccinated “The leadership of the Nigerian health workers has. Appreciated the need for this vaccination so we are here physically to ensure that he gets the vaccine. “Nigerians have embraced it, though like every other society there are few skeptics but the more we vaccinate, the more people we have coming out to demand for the vaccine.”