Islamic State West African Province (ISWAP) and Boko Haram Terrorists (BHTs) on Sunday night attacked troops at Dikwa, Borno State, dislodging them, The Nation has learnt. The invaders struck between 7pm and 7:30pm at 81 Division Task Force Battalion, sending continuous fire from their gun trucks. Sources said the location of the troops was yet to be ascertained at about 11pm as they allegedly lost radio communication with the Theatre Command. It was gathered that soldiers of the battalion, who initially complained of overstay in the battlefield, were at the mercy of the invaders because they had no artillery weapon to defend themselves. Sources said the battalion had only their service AK47 rifles and could not do much when the heavily-armed terrorists advanced and set fire their camp on fire. This is the second time this month that the battalion has come under attack from the terrorists. A soldier who pleaded anonymity said: “They were under fierce attack and later lost communication which means that they have been overrun. They do not have armament in the camp; it is only their AK47 they have. “This same battalion has been in the battle for almost six years straight. The army has refused to rotate them; ordinarily, we are to be called back every two years but these ones have not been replaced. “So, they are already drained mentally, emotionally, physically and otherwise. Worst part is that no one is checking their mental health and all complaints to the army authorities have not yielded positive results. “There must have been casualties but we do not have details now since they have lost communication. Sadly, this is the second time this month that their location is attacked by terrorists.” Similarly, a security alert released by United Nations Department for Safety and Security (UNDSS) warned aid workers about fire burning around the 81 Division Battalion in Dikkwa around 7:34pm on Sunday. The alert signed by Maiduguri Security Operation Centre (SOC) confirmed there was an attack at the location, adding that the military were reportedly engaging the invaders with close air support observed in the vicinity. A subsequent update released by the UNDSS around 12:40am yesterday indicated that the terrorists returned in large numbers on bikes and gun trucks from Dikwa-Ngala Road 7km NW towards Kemtubire, a route behind Marte to Kirenowa. It revealed that the Airforce hit some of them while others had already entered the community, mostly the ones on motorbikes. “Source also revealed that Dikwa is still partially in the control of the ISWAP-BHT. The source revealed that military radios are in their possession, thereby all communication within the military circle were incommunicado as BHT took over their radio communications.“ Army spokesman, Brig.-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, said in a statement that the terrorists suffered heavy casualty in both equipment and personnel, adding that most of their top commanders were killed during the attack. Yerima described the attack as a failed attempt to take over Dikwa, adding that the troops, with support from the air component, inflicted heavy casualty on the terrorists. “The troops launched a counterattack in the early hours of Monday 19 April 2021 and successfully reoccupied their main headquarters in Dikwa.