 Few things surprise Nigerians these days. We keep reeling from scandal to scandal, and it may be said that, as a people, we are scandal weary. According to a report by Matthew Page, an associate of the London-based Chatham House, no fewer than 35 past and present governors and 299 office holders in Nigeria have acquired choice properties in the United Kingdom and Dubai amounting to hundreds of billions of Naira. In Dubai alone, they have spent over $400 million to acquire over 800 properties. Page did not name all the names but indicated the positions. He revealed a Northwest governor, two former Deputy Senate Presidents and a former chairman of the People’s Democratic Party were notable persons in the list. Others included 15 former ministers, one judge, 14 police, security and military chiefs, lawmakers, five staff members in the presidency, 11 officers of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), and 16 heads of departments and agencies Page also said that 50 businessmen fronting for Politically Exposed Persons (PEP), 158 suspected PEP proxies and 13 known Nigerian law enforcement agency suspects “enriched” the list. He elaborated on the story with reference to some specifics.  For instance, he said that a serving governor in the Northwest owns eight Dubai properties worth $5 million; a former PDP chairman acquired 11 Dubai and two London homes worth $18 million. A former Deputy Senate President secured 14 Dubai properties at $12 million and one of his successors bought eight Dubai assets and three UK properties at $15 million. The list is long and disturbing, and he explained that Nigerian politicians and their fellow official accomplices have perfected the method of using the real estate sector and school fees as money-laundering strategies over the years. He implied that the agencies for fighting corruption in Nigeria, especially the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) ought to step up their games in preventing this wholesale theft of our patrimony. He referred to even former Governor Joshua Dariye of Plateau State who, while facing corruption charges, was still funneling money abroad for fees “to send his children to the UK boarding schools and universities,” noting however that his “children have not been implicated in any wrongdoing.” He is said to have spent over 240,000 pounds sterling on school fees. Another lawmaker of longstanding reportedly owns high-end properties worth over 665,000 pounds sterling in the UK. A career politician from the north owns property topping 861,000 pounds in the UK. Another from southern Nigeria gulped luxury property worth over 343,000 pounds. Another career politician has a property worth over 447,000 pounds sterling. According to Page, they are taking advantage of what he called “global nexus of IFFs, accessibility, permeability, reliability, and affordability.” Just as the Igbo proverb popularised by Achebe’s Things Fall Apart, as men have learned to shoot without missing, birds have learned to fly without perching. Nigerian politicians are now the birds of prey on our resources. This report shows that the corruption acts have not abated. Nor has the much vaunted fight against corruption under the present administration stanched the bleeding. It also shows that our architecture to fight corruption needs a rethink. The EFCC and ICPC have become mere symbols of an intention. On many occasions, they have become weapons against the opposition and tools for browbeating election threats. The report indicates that politics is not a platform for service but for theft. A whole industry of larceny has been woven around it. So we have businessmen as fronts. We also have politicians who do not have confidence in this country’s economy. Hence they send their children abroad and buy houses there for them to shelter away from the instability they created at home.