The baby daddy of popular actress, Uche Ogbodo, who is expecting her second child, has suddenly surfaced on the internet. The viral video showing the actress kissing a young man was shared on social media by celebrity blogger, Stella Dimoko Korkus on her Instagram page. The news personality, while sharing the video, tagged the actress and her alleged baby daddy to the post which reads: “Actress @ucheogbodo the old witch (me) found your handsome baby Daddy @bobbymaris Congratulations to the two of u in advance.” However, the actress has reacted to the post in the comment section of the new personality’s Instagram page. She was noted to have screamed quite in an embarrassed manner while using swear words on the celebrity blogger. Uche wrote: “Hmmmm ! Abeg oooo ! Aunty Stella Young Witch ! I no abuse you again ooo. Leave me alone oooo . Evil & Amebo will not finish in your house oooo.” This exposure of the alleged baby daddy is coming out as a result of the actress strict privacy policy on the matter and more importantly having being involved in some forms of fracas with the news personality in times past. Series of shared affectionate comments between the actress and the young artist, on their Instagram pages may suffice to prove the news personality may have made an accurate claim. On 12th July, 2020, the artist, Bobby Maris, who has featured singer Selebobo in his music video titled “Dance” posted a photo of a project the duo were involved in and the actress commented; “Thanks baby” accompanied with a couple of love emojis. On 25th July, 2020, the Hustler’s Entertainment singer posted a photos of himself with the caption: “So what did you hear about talented cute guys ? #roborobo.” In response to post in the comment section, the actress wrote; “too Cute to eat” accompanied with more than one love emoji. On 10th October, 2020, Bobby Maris posted a video with the caption; “OPERATION FEED 5000 people, we fed 500 (first badge) shout out to @ucheogbodofoundation God bless you.” While in the comment section of same post, Uche commented; “T hanks for always supporting me My Darling.” On 1st January, 2021, the artist posted a photo of himself with the caption; “Happy new year my people, from us all !” Following in the comment section, the actress commented; “happy new year Handsome” accompanied with several love emoji as usual as well as several others.