October 21, 2020; Jola Edewor wore his uniform with a frantic earnestness unlike the passion that drove him to enlist with the police. Few minutes before he gets to work, he would rip it off and renounce his calling. But he did not know that. The previous day, Edewor retired in bed with a heavy heart, having discovered that his salary had been short of N50, 000 for two years (about N1.2m). The following day, the 41-year-old set out for the force headquarters, eager to get to the root of his hardship. But that fateful morning, he wouldn’t get to work. About 15 minutes after he left the barracks for his rendezvous with colleagues at Meiran, he beat a hasty retreat. It was the 12th day of the #EndSARS protest and the streets pulsed with mayhem as irate youth ran it amok baying for blood of uniformed men. Few paces from his rendezvous, a riotous mob chased after a policeman until he tripped over a boulder and they pounced on him. They ripped his shirt off and rained punches on him, chanting “#EndSARS! #EndSARS!” said Edewor. “From the distance, they didn’t look like protesters. They looked like hired killers out for blood. One of them railed that they would kill any police officer that they see and set him ablaze” he said. Instantly, he retreated behind an empty food kiosk. From his hiding, he watched the mob batter his colleague till he was drenched in blood. Fearfully, he tore his shirt off his body, ripping the buttons as he did, and he slipped out of his trouser. He would be naked, but for his improvised undies comprising a t-shirt and cycling short. He balled his left hand into a fist and rolled the uniform around it. Then he tucked it in a refuse bin behind the kiosk and walked away, coolly, in brisk, urgent strides. Several metres ahead, he turned to look at the scene. He could not make out his colleague in the distance but he felt contrite leaving him to the mob. He was equally ashamed for discarding his uniform. “I knew I could purchase another uniform. They sell everything to us anyway. But that officer (his lynched colleague). Till date, I don’t know what became of him. I never bothered to ask,” he said, arguing that even if he did, there was nothing he could do. Still, he rued his helplessness leaving his uniform in the bin and watching his colleague fall to a lawless horde. The melee resulted from the demonstrations triggered on Thursday, October 8, 2020 by videos circulated on social media, showing the highhandedness and extrajudicial killing by officers of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery (SARS) Squad. For the next two weeks, protests were held in various states across the country and by Nigerians in the diaspora calling for police reforms and an end to brutality. But before long, groups of hoodlums seized the opportunity to unleash staggering violence on members of the police force. Still smarting from his close shave with death, Edewor set back hurriedly for his barracks in Agege, chanting “#EndSARS! #EndSARS!”in solidarity with hoodlums prowling the streets in search of policemen. Eventually, he ran into a group of teenagers wielding battle axes, machetes and clubs at the Oja Oba and Abule Egba junction. While some of them kept watch for policemen and smashed empty beer and soda bottles on the street, others huddled in clusters around mobile phones, chatting animatedly about a trending video. Intrigued, Edewor asked one of the horde what they were excited about. “He told me to switch on my Bluetooth device and shared the video with me,” Edewor said. The video showed a police officer being clobbered by a mob in front of a burning police station at Orile, Lagos. The officer reportedly jumped the fence in order to escape being caught in flames as the mob set fire to the station, in protest against the alleged high handedness of the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) heading the station. Unfortunately for him, he leapt into the hands of the mob. They pounced on him and beat him to a pulp. Amid the mayhem, a thickset youth stabbed him in the eye. The officer careened with the dagger stuck in his eye, bleeding profusely. As he reeled blindly, his assailants took turns hacking into his already bloodied frame with machetes. Eventually, he keeled over and the mob descended on him maniacally, finishing him off.  Edewor swallowed hard. He cringed, watching the mob hack the policeman to death. At that moment he wished to abdicate his position as a Police Inspector. An axe-wielding boy in his early teens railed that he was looking for a policeman to hack to death. “How could I serve and protect members of a public that wants me dead?” thought Edewor. Suddenly, he felt vulnerable, exposed. “I feared one of the hoodlums might recognise me,” he said. Thus he retreated cautiously, in anxious steps. Soon, he was dashing down the bypass behind Oja Oba market, en route Agege; an inexplicable yearning to live urging on his desperate feet. “I was in survival mode,” he said, stressing that he thought nothing of his oath to protect and serve in that moment. “I have no passion for this police work again. I just wish to make ends meet and care for my family. What kind of work is this, that your employer would steal N50, 000 from your salary for over two years and the public you serve seek to kill you,” he said, adding that were it not for a colleague who alerted him, he would continue living from hands to mouth. Edewor was supposed to earn N130, 000 monthly but instead, he received N80, 000 for two years. Having spent over two decades on the job, he felt cheated. He wondered how much had been stolen from my salary in the course of his 20-year-career as a police officer. He said, “When I approached people in the cash office, they told me point-blank that I must pay a bribe of N50, 000 to them, if I was serious about receiving my full salary.” Faced with no choice, Edewor paid the bribe of N50, 000 and instantly, his salary was regularised. On next pay day, his account was credited with N130, 000. His stolen salary and the events of Wednesday, October 21, 2020 shook him to the bones. They were ingenuously haunting episodes that rendered his heart a soiled, grey carapace for police work. Recalling his travails with the police accounts department and the #EndSARS mob, his face darkened and crimped with furrows. His eyes eddied from white-black to a muddy capitulation, his lips parted and closed, forming an incongruous angle with his words. Softly, slightly distended, as if he would break into tears or start bawling. “If I see something better, I will quit police work,” he said with submissive sternness. Yet Edewor was lucky to escape with no physical hurt, unlike Sergeant Ajibola Adegoke and Corporal Rotimi Oladele. They were among the police officers killed in the wake of the #EndSARS protests that rocked Ibadan, Oyo State. The duo, who were attached to the ‘B’ Operations office at the headquarters of the state police command at Eleyele, Ibadan were attacked and set ablaze while going on special duty to a fish depot at New Gbagi area with a superior, Inspector Osho Ojo, on Thursday, October 22, 2021. To guarantee their safety, they reportedly wore mufti and rode in an unmarked vehicle; but for a minor accident with a motorcyclist, the team would have gone about its duty without incident. A heated argument ensued with the motorcyclist, attracting hoodlums to the scene. Immediately they discovered that they were police officers, the hoodlums reportedly pounced on them.  Although they fled for safety, Adegoke and Oladele were eventually apprehended and the thugs descended on them with various weapons. A viral video posted by one of the hoodlums showed the gory scene as the policemen were beaten to death and set ablaze on a heap of used tyres. Not done, the hoodlums allegedly cut chunks from the burnt corpses and devoured them with chilled drinks. Fortunately for Inspector Ojo, he was rescued by operatives of Operation Burst, while they recovered the pistols of his burnt colleagues. Unnerved by the fate of the murdered officers, the Oyo State police authorities launched a manhunt for their assailants. The police subsequently arrested two men identified as Aliu Mubarak, 24, and Adewale Abiodun, 17, in connection with the killing, dismemberment and selling of decapitated heads of the policemen for N1,000. The suspects were arrested after one Oladipupo Ifakorede, 45, confessed to buying the policemen’s heads from the duo for money-making ritual. Recounting how he got the heads from Mubarak and Abiodun, Ifakorede said; “I want to use them to prepare ritual to make money. It is for myself. They (other suspects) did not let me know where they saw the two heads. I did not ask them where they saw them.” Five persons were arrested in connection with the crime. The police had earlier arrested Kemi Adeyemo and Saheed Oyedepo and they were both transferred to Abuja for further investigation. Abiodun equally confessed that he and Mubarak sold the two heads to Ifakorede, stressing that they saw the two heads “while coming from Egbeda area of Ibadan.” In Rivers State, three policemen also lost their lives to angry mobs. Police authorities in the state, however, accused members of the pro-Biafra group, Indigenous People of Biafra, (IPOB), of hiding under the #EndSARS protests to kill the three police officers. The State Commissioner of Police (CP) Joseph Mukan, while briefing the press in Port Harcourt, gave the identity of the slain officers as: Sunday Dubon, an Inspector attached to the anti-kidnapping unit, whose corpse was said to have been burnt; Swawale Ornan, a Sergeant attached to the 19 Police Mobile Force on Special Duty at Oyigbo, whose corpse was also burnt; and Umunna Uchechukwu, a sergeant with Afam police station, whose legs and hands were cut off before he was burnt to ashes. Uchechukwu was butchered, his legs and hands cut off, and his body was eventually burnt to ashes. Emotionally stricken by the presence of the grieving wives and children of the murdered policemen, the Governor of Rivers State,  Nyesom Wike, decided to pay a N20 million compensation to each of the families of those killed by hoodlums in Oyigbo. The Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu, speaking through the Police Spokesman, Frank Mba, stated that, “available reports show that twenty-two (22) police personnel were extra-judicially killed by some rampaging protesters and scores injured during the protests. Many of the injured personnel are in life threatening conditions at the hospitals.” He added that “two hundred and five (205) police stations and formations, including other critical private and public infrastructure, were also damaged by a section of the protesters. “Despite these unprovoked attacks, our police officers never resorted to use of unlawful force or shooting at the protesters,” Mba said, even as civil society chide the police for excessive display of aggression and use of force on the #EndSARS protesters. Human rights organizations blame the police for escalating the protests soon after it was hijacked by armed thugs, leading to the deaths of at least 51 civilians.   There is no gainsaying the #EndSARS protest and the mayhem triggered in its wake has strained relations between the police and the public. Speaking with The Nation, several officers – who pleaded anonymity – admitted that they have become less passionate about their work. “Our morale is very low. Extremely low. Nobody bothered to ask of our own side to the story. Yes, there are bad eggs in the police but don’t we have bad eggs in every profession? We have bad doctors, teachers, engineers, accountants, civil servants, journalists and even our religious men…Every day, we deal with dangerous criminals among the public. But na police be everybody’s problem.  Now, that they have killed policemen. Let them begin to protect themselves,” he said.  While offering condolences to bereaved families of police officers, Kunle Atanda, a retired civil servant stated that, “Now, they feel our agony. Their wives and children know how we feel when their husbands torture and kill innocent members of the public. They understand the severity of the losses suffered by members of the public who have lost their loved ones to extrajudicial killing by policemen. An eye for an eye is never a welcome option but our social and security system is truly deserving of a corrective purge and I think the tragedies of the #EndSARS killings should guide us towards urgent solutions.”   Nationwide, policemen live in squalor within and outside the barracks. They patrol in rickety vehicles, often extorting commercial transporters and motorists for fuel money. A combination of poor training, poor remuneration – recruits earn N9, 000 and less than N120, 000 annually – and a culture of corruption and impunity has allowed torture and other ill-treatment to become routine in criminal investigations by the police. Suspects are tortured to extract confessions as the police are under pressure to solve serious crimes without adequate resources and specialised skills. With little investment in fingerprint databases, ballistics and other forensic expertise, investigations often rely on confessional statements not brilliant police work to solve cases. Several policemen also complained of deplorable housing; some residents of the Agege and Pedro police barracks, for instance, lamented their squalid living conditions. “The barracks are overcrowded. I live in a single room with my family of seven. There is too much heat, the septic tank is filled up and it really stinks. Cockroaches crawl all over our apartment, even our beds, and the whole place is rat-infested,” said a Police Sergeant, who lives at the barracks in Agege, Lagos. Patricia Udom, 36, also complained of overcrowding, unsanitary toilets and surroundings. “The whole place smells like a toilet. It smells of human sweat, over-filled septic tanks,” said the Lance Corporal. The Centre for Anti-Corruption and Open Leadership (CACOL) recently took the National Assembly and the executive arm of government in charge of the Police Trust Fund (PTF) to task on the present state of police barracks across the country, lamenting that police barracks could pass for rat holes and slums. The Executive Chairman of the Centre, Debo Adeniran, stated that, for this reason, the Nigerian police was rated among the top five worst police organizations in the world in 2016 by the World Internal Security and Police Index. Police barracks in Lagos are an eyesore. Most of the structures are collapsing, yet the barracks and accommodation department of the force has done nothing to rectify the situation. “All they do is deduct N7, 000 or more from your salary as lodging allowance. The rooms are very bad, and you only get one room and parlour, no matter the size of your family and you are forced to share toilets and bath,” said a Sergeant at the Agege barracks. He lamented that police families struggle to construct and maintain septic tanks and drainage. Plans have, however, been concluded to demolish all dilapidated and rebuild them for policemen and their families. This was disclosed recently by the Chairman, Nigeria Police Trust Fund (NPTF), Suleiman Abba, during his visit to the Ijeh Barracks, Obalende Barracks, MOPOL 20 Barracks and the Police College, Ikeja. Abba, a former IGP, who was accompanied by the Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu, and other senior officers said, “We are going to demolish dilapidated barracks and renovate those that are still good to human habitable status, with the provision of modern toilets, flowing water, safe roofs where water will no longer leak into rooms as well as safe electricity. That is what policemen deserve.”  With a staff strength of almost 400,000, the police is the primary law enforcer and security agency in the country consisting of 36 state commands grouped into 12 zones and seven administrative organs including special units such as the disbanded SARS and newly constituted SWAT. Yet salaries of Nigerian policemen are abysmally poor with a recruit earning as low as N9, 000 monthly and N110, 000 annually. Jocelyn Nwiti, a Corporal said she earns N42, 200 per month, Niyi Orunkoyi, an Inspector, said his take-home salary is N78, 478 per month. A 2008 Presidential Committee on Police Reform headed by Muhammed Yusuf recommended an estimated N2.8 trillion – or N560 billion annually – to effectively reform the police in five years. The Parry Osayande Committee, constituted in 2012 by former President Goodluck Jonathan regime, made similar recommendation, and called for a special fund to transform the NPF which he described as the worst paid in the West African sub-region. In November 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari approved an enhanced salary structure for the NPF but more than three years after the approval, police officers say they are yet to receive a pay rise.  The deplorable working conditions have been blamed for police officers’ poor attitude to the job. “Hostile work conditions breed hostile personnel. The slogan, ‘Police is your friend’ is very wrong. How can we be your friend when we are underpaid and our children play and sleep in filth? Many of our children have fewer choices to succeed; they either turn criminals or do police work. Many choose the former and become Yahoo Boys. It’s easier to be a Yahoo Boy (internet fraudster) these days. Many police officers even support their children to do internet fraud. Yes, its as bad as that,” said Nonso Michael, a Lance Corporal. According to him, the many policemen resume their shift everyday, very angry, hungry and agitated. “That is why some get trigger happy when provoked. It’s not that they mean to kill but they are not in the right state of mind…And things have worsened since the #EndSARS. Many of us watched our colleagues get slaughtered for no just cause. We are not happy about it,” he said. To watch the viral videos of police killings in the wake of the #EndSARS protests was to suddenly explore a dark facet of Nigerian life. Pundits argued that the development was a fallout of the persistent highhandedness and extrajudicial killings of innocent members of the public by the now defunct Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the police. Police officers, however, admit disillusionment at the backdrop of fears that the incident could make them apathetic on the job and undermine their work ethics. Memories of the #EndSARS killings and police impunity dating farther, continually trigger hostility and despair among affected parties. For many citizens, particularly bereaved families of slain policemen and victims of extrajudicial killings carried out by the police, the memories are too grisly for comfort, even as some victims receive compensation for their losses. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu recently compensated the families of six police officers lynched in Lagos State, in the wake of the violence that trailed the #EndSARS protests, with N10 million each, totaling N60 million.  Sanwo-Olu also announced scholarship awards to the children of the deceased officers up to the university level. The slain officers include Yaro Edward, an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP), Inspector Ayodeji Erinfolami, Inspector Aderibigbe Adegbenro, Inspector Samsom Ehibor, Sergeant Bejide Abiodun and Inspector Igoche Cornelius. Sanwo-Olu described the slain officers as “heroes,” saying the deceased sacrificed their lives to secure lives and properties in the State. The Lagos State judicial panel hearing cases of police brutality and SARS-related abuses also awarded N10 million each to two victims of police misconduct. Adebayo Abayomi — who received the compensation on behalf of Kudirat, his late mother, who was hit on April 4, 2017, as SARS officers raided the Onipanu area of Lagos. Hannah Olugbodi was equally awarded N10 million for being hit by a stray bullet from a SARS officer’s rifle while police unit raided an Ijesha hotel shooting sporadically in the air; the bullet shattered Olugbodi’s left leg and left her in crutches. The duo received their cheques from Doris Okuwobi, chairperson of the panel, who presented the cheques to them on behalf of the Lagos State government. Marc Chidiebere Nwadi was also awarded N7.5 million by the panel for his brutalisation by the Nigerian police in 1999. Nwadi first appeared before the panel on Saturday, November 28, 2020, where he testified, without legal counsel, that he was arrested by the police in 1999. He had just arrived in Lagos and he could not find his relative. The 39-year-old told the judicial panel how he was detained and  tortured, and later remanded at Kirikiri prison for six years, awaiting trial. This put paid to his dream of becoming a journalist, he said. Memories of the #EndSARS killings and police impunity dating farther, continually trigger hostility and despair among affected parties. Inspector Edewor brusquely recalled the chain of incidents as a monumental tragedy, stressing that the impact will live with us for a long while. The police Inspector is still traumatised by the incident. These days, he drinks “to forget” because the remembrance unnerves him. Edewor may have escaped with no physical hurt but he is undoubtedly one of the several victims of the #EndSARS protest, argued Bisi Ade-Iluyomade, a social psychologist. She said, “Most people are battling Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) inflicted by their gruesome experiences in the hands of lawless police officers. On the flipside, we have a very traumatised police force whose orientation to the job has suffered a terrible mutation to an ‘us versus them,’ and ‘we against the world’ mentality. This is very bad for future relations between the police and the public that they were employed to serve.” Notwithstanding the hideous work conditions, Sergeant Bulus Maina would never ‘betray’ his uniform and his oath to protect and serve the Nigerian public. Just recently, The Nation encountered Maina working against the tide of bad blood and apprehensions about the police. On a Saturday afternoon in Ahmadiyya, Ijaiye, Lagos, Maina moved to save a destitute man sprawled in the middle of the road, in a puddle of spittle and pee. From dawn through noon, flies hovered around him, darting back and forth his soiled pants and begrimed face. His soft breath chirred against the hard tarmac, like a dirge of dying locusts. But while pedestrians and commuter traffic took great care to avoid him, Maina ventured closer. Good news: he wasn’t dead. But he had neither the strength nor the will to state his own name. He looked starved and spent as if life could depart him any minute. Seeing his piteous state, Maina who was attached to the unit manning a roadblock along the bypass hurried to get him a rice meal. But the homeless man was too weak to feed. He lifted his hand from its perch in the puddle of urine and proceeded to dip it in the food but Sergeant Maina prevented him from doing so, and instantly crouched to feed him. With his belly full, a semblance of spunk spread through his hitherto lifeless body and he identified himself as Johnson Babatunde. Maina went on to get him off the street to the consternation of his colleagues who felt he was exposing himself, recklessly, to possible infection by COVID-19. To some, Babatunde was a ticking time-bomb, a deadly pathogen in human form. Others saw him as a “junkie” and “drunk.” Ultimately, he was the creature that must be avoided by the sidewalk, the irritant laying supine, hugging the tarmac as his bed, his urine as bedsheet, and pedestrian scorn as blanket. To Maina, however, Babatunde was simply a Nigerian in need, a “deserted husband, a forlorn father, and bankrupt carpenter.” He was a destitute Nigerian in need of help, and Maina endeavoured to feed him, wash him, and get him off the street. Now, that is an image of the police we hardly see. Some names have been changed to protect interviewees.