 Before Nigerian fast defender Zaidu Sanusi became a cynosure of eyes after his classy performance against Juventus to knock the Italian giant from the 2021 Champions League, he had become an item in Portugal and picking regular shirt under Sergio Conceicao. European media, especially, hailed the Kebbi-Nigeria indigene for pocketing Juventus world class striker Cristiano Ronaldo throughout the game and achieve a 2-1 win over Juventus in the UEFA Champions League. Faced against one of the greatest footballers in world football, Ronaldo, Sanusi, who gained invitation to the Nigeria national team said it was always about paying attention to details. In December, Sanusi also helped Porto beat Benfica 2-0 to lift the Portuguese Super Cup title. Sanusi, 23, joined the Portuguese top club last summer from Santa Clara and has had a good run of play both at in the domestic and European competitions. He said of keeping Ronaldo quiet was an easy task and at first he was apprehensive. “The task of keeping the best footballer in the world in check got to me. I grew into the game as it progresses and prior to the game, my coach told me a lot about how to approach Ronaldo. Those details helped me in keeping him away from goal. He doesn’t need too much chance to score, so don’t even let him have it. It worked for me that day.” Arriving in Portugal in 2016, Sanusi has endured to learn the rope even after signing for Gil Vicente in the Primeira Liga-the top division of football in the country. Gil Vicente, loaned the 19 year-old to Mirandela for two seasons (2016/17 and 2017/18), where the left full back with electrifying speed, amassed 35 matches for the club from Bragança. He helped himself to three goals and quickly got bigger clubs wanting his signature. The most successful football team in Azores Islands-Santa Clara, soon came for him and there he flourished playing 27 matches and scoring one goal. Santa Clara could not hold on to the exciting Nigerian for more than one season when national champions, FC Porto, came for him, becoming their third signing after Cláudio Ramos and Carraça in 2020. Feeling upbeat about the move, Sanusi, who had played once for the Super Eagles said the deal with FC Porto was what he had been waiting for all his life. He posted on his social media handle upon putting pen to paper for Porto. “I am extremely happy to play for FC Porto. I can’t explain it, but I am thrilled to wear this shirt.” “I hope to do a good job and help the team. We are going to win everything this season. “The club and the fans can expect me to give everything. I received a lot of messages from FC Porto fans, and that made me happ y.” Though Porto lost 2-0 on Wednesday in the first leg of the Quarter-final match against Chelsea, Sanusi held his own moving up front to create chances early into the game. He was found wanting later on in the half allowing Chelsea youngish player Mount to slip off which resulted in the first goal of the match. Sanusi however redounded to make his usual incursions into attack but his sides were unlucky to score. They now have an herculean task cancelling the two goals deficit when Porto visit Stamford Bridge for the return leg this week. Sanusi speaks more on his form, relationship with manager, Super Eagles and more. Excerpts: On Coach Sérgio Conceição We do a lot of talking. He likes talking with his players and talling them what to do. We spoke a lot before the match against Juventus. He told me what to do with Ronaldo and after the game he told me i did well. He’s my coach, so we will be talking a lot, I’m sure. I’m extremely motivated to work with him. On Super Eagles AFCON Qualification We got four points when we needed only one to qualify. We had good games and the approaches to the two games were wonderful and with all the seriousness it deserved. We made a statement by picking the maximum points from both games. I want to say we are ready for On FC Porto move The pressure is high in Porto than any other teams that have played before. Porto is a big club with big followers. The pressure is high but the experienced players in the team are helped me a lot. They speak to me on how to ease off tha t pressure. At Porto, you’re expected to win every domestic game and fight for a win in all continental games because they are a big team here. The level of pressure brings out the best in you all the time. Settling down was however smooth. It was one of the easiest phases I have had in my life. Kudos to the coaches, players and everyone associated with the club including the fans. Now I am playing regularly and the idea is to maintain it to help the team reach their targets for the season. I am close to all the players, both old and new because i love to make people laugh. They call me the clown of the team and i am enjoying the attention. I am not the type who likes to go out a lot so I most times keep my relationship on the pitch or training ground. I’m very close with the entire team but with the back four, we share a special. On Champions League That is another ball game but I have good coaches and my manager speaks to me a lot. I’ve had an impressive domestic and champions league action. The game against Manchester City was difficult. We lost 3-1 away but I’ve learnt my mistake and been able to keep my head down.  I played in all of Porto’s Champions League games and helped them to three straight wins since that defeat at City. Against Marseille II got a goal and that was my first Champions League goal. It was a dream come true for me. I was elated and celebrated with my friends. It is a very important goal in my career, my first in the Champions League. Going to the quarter-finals of the Champions League during my first participation is difficult to explain. Playing against Cristiano Ronaldo, one of the best in the world, was very motivating and it was great to continue.