Newly recruited 1,056 police constables have commenced training on community policing in Kwara state at the weekend. Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for keying into the concept, which he said would strengthen internal security architecture. AbdulRazaq said the kickoff of the initiative was long due and urged residents to always volunteer timely information and support the police to burst criminal networks before they carry out their activities. The Governor, however, said the success of community policing depends on the society fully backing it, asserting that police is often a reflection of the society it serves and commending the security agencies, including the police, for their hard work that continues to keep Kwara mostly safe. “The people are integral to the success of the police. The people will give the information that the police will act on. These constables are products of the society and they will operate within the society that they understand. This is the essence of community policing,” he added. AbdulRazaq said the recent US travel advisory exempting Kwara from states considered to have high security risk testifies to the exceptional efforts of the police and other security agencies in the state to protect lives and properties, urging them to continue to partner with the state government in that regard. He tasked the new constables on discipline and commitment to duties, which he described as the bedrock of policing job. “Those of you stepping into the community police today have your job cut out for you. You need a lot of discipline to excel. Once you are disciplined, other things will fall in place for you,” AbdulRazaq added. Police Commissioner Mohammed Bagega said the initiative was intended to enhance success in the fight against crime. He also emphasised the significant role intelligence gathering plays in checking crimes. “The IGP, through the Police Service Commission, wishes to enhance the fight against crimes through intelligence-led policing. Therefore we need information and these people after graduation will be posted back to their respective communities,” he said. The CP added the constables will, after undergoing one month training on security tasks, be deployed to their various communities in the state.