 Nigerian Breweries (NB) Plc  injected over N36 billion into capital investment of its operations in the 2020 financial year. Its Managing Director, Jordi Borrut Bel made this known during the Pre-Annual General Meeting (AGM) Media Briefing of the company in Lagos. Bel stated that the investments include the construction of a PET line at Ijebu Ode Plant, and the Ibadan Brewery Solar Power project, among others. He affirmed that the company remains a great believer in the economy and would continue to play its part by investing to create more employment opportunities and contribute to the nation’s economic growth. “The 2020 financial year was a remarkable one for us as it afforded us the opportunity to invest heavily and position for growth. It was a year we invested in a new PET Line for non-alcoholic drinks at our Ijebu Ode Plant. In the same year, we embarked on some other important projects which boosted the capacities of our business”, he said. He further explained that the huge investment on its business operations amidst the impact of COVID-19 pandemic clearly demonstrates the company’s determination to stay afloat and remain strong in the interest of its stakeholders. “Though the outbreak of COVID-19 adversely affected the global economy and impacted businesses negatively, our company was able to weather the storm and stay afloat in the face of the challenge. This could not have been possible without our resolve as a business to invest in our operations which contributed to the improved performance witnessed across our products portfolio,” he added. In Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Bel said the company contributed to communities and the country at large – donating N600 million to the Federal and some state governments, as part of efforts to support the fight against the pandemic, while also continuing its social investments in education, health, access to potable water, environment, youth and women empowerment in various parts of the country.  He assured stakeholders that the company remains committed to not only keeping its balance sheet strong but ensuring that the health, safety and welfare of its workers is not compromised. 