 It was a sad day for the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) in particular, and Nigerians generally, when on March 31, an Air Force fighter jet lost contact with the radar in Borno State while on a mission to support ground troops. NAF spokesman Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet said in a statement that the Alpha-Jet lost contact with radar in Borno State “while on interdiction mission in support of ground troops.” It added: “the Alpha Jet aircraft (NAF475) that went off the radar with two crew members on board on 31 March 2021 might have crashed. The cause of the crash as well as the whereabouts of the two pilots remain unknown.” Search and rescue efforts, it said, were ongoing. The loss of the plane is a serious blow to efforts to combat Boko Haram and the Islamic State West Africa as the Nigerian military have for years relied on air strikes to turn the  tide against the Islamic insurgents. Some successes have been recorded in this regard. A twist was however brought into the matter when Boko Haram, on April 2, claimed responsibility for bringing down the plane. The insurgents  released a video to buttress their claim. In the video, they showed a plane as it exploded midair, ostensibly after heavy shelling by Boko Haram fighters. The inscription on the plane, Alpha Jet 475 matches that of the missing plane. The mangled corpse of a man in military fatigue described in the video as pilot of the plane  was also shown, with a masked Boko Haram fighter speaking in Hausa language standing on top of the wreckage. “As you can see, this is the pilot of your aircraft, whom you sent to harm the servant of god,” the fighter said. “This is what god did to him. He fell from the sky, and if you do not repent this will be your reward,” the obviously elated insurgent boasted triumphantly. This is not the first time Boko Haram is claiming responsibility for bringing down a Nigerian fighter jet. The jihadist group also said it shot down a NAF jet in 2014. Then, in February, this year, a NAF Beechcraft KingAir B350i aircraft crashed while returning to the Abuja Airport, after reporting engine failure enroute Minna, killing all the seven people on board. So far, no one has been able to verify the authenticity of the Boko Haram video on Alpha Jet 475. But then, the NAF, which had earlier said it was not ruling out anything regarding the incident has debunked the terrorists’ claim. “The attention of the Nigerian Air Force has been drawn to some videos being circulated on social media, as well as media reports therefrom alleging that the NAF jet aircraft, which was reported missing in Borno State on 31 March, 2021 after losing radar contact was shot down by terrorists…Although the video is being thoroughly analysed, it is evident that most parts of the video were deliberately doctored to give the false impression that the aircraft was shot down,” the air force said. It is not unheard of that countries, even the very strong, sometimes lose aircraft in battles. But, to lose two fighter jets within two months in what could pass for a localised war is a serious matter. Worse is that we do not even have a word as to what actually happened to the aircraft as we speak, that is close to two weeks since it reportedly crashed. Is this not a reflection of the poor capacity of our armed forces? We ask this question with utmost sense of patriotism and responsibility. At any rate, it is in the public domain that the terror war has dragged endlessly because it has become an industry for some powerful people in the country, including military officers. The war has produced emergency millionaires among them. Indeed, that some military officers had either been indicted or convicted for fraud arising from management of the military’s resources lends credence to this assertion. Nigerians want to know what actually happened to Alpha Jet 475. For NAF to say it was not brought down by Boko Haram, it must be able to give at least snippets of what actually transpired. It is embarrassing that we are still clueless on its crash site about two weeks after. These jets don’t come cheap. They cost the taxpayers hefty sums. This is aside the fact that they are not things that can be picked on the shelf even if the buyer has the money. We are still expecting delivery of some aircraft that we paid for a long time ago. It is that tough to acquire these war equipment. This is also aside the loss of personnel who are also something of substance to some other Nigerians, and which, unfortunately, would keep happening if it is a question of capacity. All of these explain why there must be a thorough investigation of the circumstances leading to the disappearance of the aircraft. A fighter jet is not a needle that would disappear into thin air. This is not a matter that anyone should try to sweep under the carpet. It is when a thorough investigation is conducted that we would know exactly what happened and how to avert a recurrence. If we must seek foreign help, so be it.  