The daunting human triumphs: Lagos athlete, Aminat Idrees, eight months pregnant, grabbed a gold among her three-some haul of gold, silver and bronze, in the Taekwondo event. The most audacious of brutal sports politics, which nevertheless paid off: the Edo 2021 Local Organizing Committee (LOC) threatened to shut down the games by noon of April 7, should the Federal Government fail to pay the hosts, promised support funding.  The Federal Government did — and the games went on, from April 2 to 15. Then, the basest of unsportsmanlike conduct, as either bad winners or sore losers: the allegations that Bayelsa “imported” a Kenyan, to dust all others in the long-distant races; while Ogun athletes and officials threw tantrums and missiles, at the Oba Akenzua venue of the boxing event, claiming they had been robbed.  Hosts Edo displayed similar rotten conduct, when it was clear their boxer would lose a decision, with even reported guns allegedly booming outside the venue. That was the 20th version of the National Sports Festival (NSF), tagged Edo 2021: a tale of different strokes. Though reported ugly events: controversial officiating and competition-driven passion were unfortunate, they were little dents on a festival rolled back by a year by COVID-19 challenges, being billed to have held by March 2020. That all involved managed to pull off Edo 2021, after many postponements, is a triumph of the human spirit.  On this score, the Edo State government deserves special kudos, though its brinkmanship, over late delivery of federal support funding, is to be decried. Arrant blackmail is hardly a sporting virtue. But the Federal Government too should learn to be less tardy, when the situation calls for fast-paced action.  Due lesson learnt, it’s big congratulations to the duo.  But the COVID-19 delays have abridged the two-year gap in-between each games.  Delta, announced by Sunday Dare, youth and sports minister, as next hosts, has less time to prepare for the next games, due 2022. So, the time for the Federal Government to start monitoring Delta’s preparedness for the games is now.  That is imperative, if the open but ugly dispute over funding, that nearly torpedoed Edo 2021, is to be avoided.  Indeed, such should be avoided in future games. Besides, early planning and faithful execution of plans, should take care of postponements that had plagued earlier games, even before COVID-19.  Witness that the 2018 Games were hurriedly hosted by the Federal Capital Territory, after Cross River, billed to hold them, pulled out. Still, since 1973 when Lagos hosted the first-ever NSF, as part of General Yakubu Gowon’s immediate post-Civil War (1967-1970) policy to foster national unity and integration through sports, the games they call the Nigerian Olympics had come a long way. Back at the first set pioneering games (all held in Lagos), big stars, including foreign-based athletes, mostly in America, came to grace the festivals.  Eagles stars, like Thompson Usiyen and the likes of Segun Odegbami, competed for their respective states, beyond catching the eye of national team managers. Even then, over the years, the focus on competing for states of origin has diminished.  Economic pull, with stress on athletes’ sponsorship and welfare, has trumped the fixation with native states.  That is not a bad development. Besides, that development has enhanced one of the cherished prime goals of the NSF: national integration via sports.  That must warm the heart of Gen. Gowon and his sports technocrats, that birthed the sports fiesta, like Isaac Akioye, pioneer director of sports, National Sports Commission (NSC) and the great Abraham Ordia (both of blessed memory). Edo 2021 also had an added importance. That Nigerian states can still gather somewhere, and slug it out in the best tradition of friendly hostility, a profound paradox that is the essence of sports, shouldn’t really be a big deal.  It was the 20th NSF. But Edo 2021 held, despite the virulent ethnic-powered voices of division and break-up.  The grand symbolism here is that even Nigeria’s most grievous challenges can be overcome, in the best tradition of hard, frank but friendly exchanges.  That is the prime message, from the just concluded NSF. After the games, it’s congratulations again to Delta, who appear perennial winners; and Edo, who as hosts, gave Delta a good run for their title.  In swimming, Bayelsa’s Ifiezegbe Gagbe grossed 14 medals (8 gold, 2 silver, 4 bronze), the most by any single athlete.  Lagos also showed class, particularly in combat and team sports; while hitherto minions are also finding their niche, like Osun, in weightlifting. Still, the ugly win-at-all-cost ghost remains, which seems to have fuelled controversial calls and frayed tempers.  That came into life with ugly scenes at the boxing events; and at the football men’s final, where Lagos lost the gold to Edo, after giving up a two-goal lead, before losing 2-3.  For its loss, Lagos claimed faulty officiating. Whatever the true facts, fairness to all is the fundament of sports.  That noble credo must drive future games, if sports must teach Nigerian politics and politicians to deal with each other with mutual fairness; and to disagree without being disagreeable.