APC dissemination of information and clarity of purpose has been abysmal and outrightly shambolic to say the least. This has left members of the Party in doubt of their status as members and in limbo at a time when the slightest of slip-ups can prove to be costly come 2023; a time when the leadership of APC should be breaking new grounds, reconciling aggrieved members and showing signs of progress in all aspect of governance thereby opening doors for potential members given the monumental importance of the forthcoming elections in 2023. APC Diaspora is the public image of APC as a Party in the international communities which serves as a mirror to the world – the spotlight will in that regards, will be on the composure and affairs of APC diaspora. This begs the question; Who is this exercise for? What will happen to members or potential who are unable to go through with the process? Nigerians and members in the diaspora are finding it harder to comprehend the logic of this process and have somewhat concluded there must be a sinister agenda behind what some believe may be a charade. This invariably questions their commitments and loyalty to the Party, which in turn has planted a seed of discord amongst
`members in the diaspora at a time when the Party should be aiming to grow in numbers, not discouraging existing and potential members by introducing complex and incomprehensible policies and processes. APC Diaspora; especially, the UK Chapter was that instrument that galvanised the international community support for the Party pre-election 2015. APC Nigeria and APC Diaspora should be working together to execute policies in line with laws that govern the Party. This ought to be the modus operandi to avoid confusion that could easily become problematic in the absence of answers when and where it is required. The popular adage, “Charity begins at home” does not seem to apply here. It is regrettable that even in Nigeria, some heavyweights of the Party could not give a proper account of themselves after the ill-planned exercise, which brought about a sense of discomfiture in the air for a while. This national embarrassment to the Party was completely avoidable and unnecessary. If the Party is not prepared for a proper membership census with the necessary logistics in place for a smooth process, why create a mediocre of a process that would only bring about embarrassment to the image of the Party? An approach of this nature would require proper strategic planning that would be all-inclusive and with a clear purpose of intent made public for members to understand their duties, requirements and eligibility to participate in the exercise. It is important to note that APC as a party does not belong to any person or group of individuals and it is certainly not a family business, but a Party that belongs to every member both home and abroad; therefore, disseminating of information and clarity is vital in building sustainable developments, partnership and trust amongst members and leaders of the Party. This process has further shown beyond every doubt that there is a void between APC Nigeria and APC members in the diaspora, which is rather unfortunate and glaring for everyone to see. So, where do we go from here? The National Chairman of the Party should be clear and precise on what exactly is going on in the Party. Why is it necessary to have this excessive exercise and for whom? Why are the exercises necessary? And what prompted the exercise? The Party’s constitution is clear on the right of party members to be carried along in party affairs as every member is a stakeholder and a representative of the Party in their various zones no matter the size or area of operation. The questions asked require answers, accountability, and responsibility to avoid any sense of exclusion particularly for members in the diaspora. There must be some sense of transparency in the Party especially at a time like this where members are lobbying and campaigning for representation in the forthcoming election. A time where secrecy and exclusion in decision making have taken centre stage in APC which is totally unacceptable. It is worthy of note that leaders of the Party do not get to pick and choose when and how to be responsible and open to the people they represent. Membership is not about making up the numbers when it is convenient or during an election, but a big part of the puzzle that leaves the whole incomplete when removed from the equation, because members makes the party and not the other way. Revaluation, Revalidation, Registration and Validation without a National convention of stakeholder are totally inappropriate and unconstitutional. Members in the diaspora are not any less members compared to members in Nigeria. Proper notice of intent should be readily available and accessible through the right channels before such decision can or should be implemented, and for a Party that prides itself on due-process, equality and leadership, it is highly regrettable and very much avertible the uncertainty this exercise is causing amongst existing members of the Party. So, what does this process mean? Does membership of the Party now have an expiry date? Are the revalidation and validation exercise part of the constitutional requirements of APC?
Leadership is centred on accountability and transparency. As members we deserve to be in the know at all times with regards to the affairs of the Party. Given the lack of transparency and exclusion of members in the diaspora have endured over time, we need the leadership to bring APC diasporas up to speed on the intentions of all that transpired and clarity of how it intends to help the growth of APC as a Party moving forward. It is not enough to call for REGISTRATION from members of the public without proper motivation and defined requirements for such individuals. For people to wish to register with the Party, their vision and that of the Party must be in sync to avoid clash of interest and ideologies. Whilst it is commendable to expand and welcome intending members, it is also important that we do not throw away the values which is the fabric holding the Party together just to increase in numbers and fall short in loyalty and commitment when it is required. The database of members is important more than ever as Nigerians in diaspora are in a state of confusion as to what this exercise means to both existing and intending members. Without a database, it is almost impossible to differentiate the new from the old. This is further proof of how substandard and incomprehensible the whole exercise has been even for existing members and leaders in diaspora. The communication between leaders and the members must be better and clear to avoid pandemonium and the spread of fake news. The misinformation and lack of direction has to stop given the task that awaits in 2023.
We cannot expect people to trust the Party if we cannot put our house in order and focus on what is important which is, establishing APC as a political force to reckon with in Nigeria and Africa through numerous developmental projects that would leave a lasting and indelible mark in the lives of citizens home and abroad.
This is not the time to disorganize structures put in place for the benefit of the Party but to improve on what has borne fruits in terms of success over the years. The ripple effect of this misinformation is the absence of trusts it builds in the minds of the public and the dents it leaves on the image of the Party. As we know, when trust is broken, it’s usually very difficult to regain.
The Party should be specific and forthright on what this whole “project” is and what it entails, how it can improve the foundation and base of the Party. Also, why has it become relevant or important to go through this exercise and what is the place or role of members in diaspora in all of this? The status of members in the diaspora should never be displaced or taken out of the equation when policies are made concerning APC.
The Party has gained international recognition through various activities organised by members in the diaspora and to turn a blind eye and put the APC in diaspora in such a precarious situation is highly unacceptable and regrettable. The Party should make policies that are all-inclusive in implementation after due consultation with members at home and abroad. This will only project the unity of purpose between the various zones; which will make participation in governance even more transparent to the various people who are represented.
It remains the sole responsibility of the National Chairman of the Party to create an environment where no member will feel under-appreciated in any way or form, and this can only be achieved if the members in the diaspora are fully aware of whatever is going on within the Party and their voices are heard whenever necessary to avoid the spread of unwanted rumours and commotion. APC belongs to every single member of the Party, and everyone has their own responsibility which they owe to the Party as members, and it is within the right of every stakeholder to ask questions whenever its necessary.
For all that has transpired, the commotion, confusion, and amid the exercise of Revalidation, Validation and Registration. For me, the question is, APC What’s Going On?