National Vice Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-South Zone, Chief Dan Orbih, has said the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has no candidate in its fold capable of winning the 2023 presidential election. Orbih said this was more evident since the ruling party was reportedly looking outside of its fold for a candidate to fly its flag in 2023. The PDP chieftain was reacting to a story making the rounds that former President Goodluck Jonathan was being wooed to contest the presidential election under the APC platform. The APC has come under a lot of criticisms of late over its performance at the centre with many Nigerians arguing it was a mistake to have let the party take over the reins of power. The worsening security situation in many parts of the country, occasioned by terrorist acts, banditry and kidnappings, has left many Nigerians frustrated. Many Nigerians have also lamented the economic situation as cost of living continued to escalate with more Nigerians below the poverty line. Orbih said that shopping for a presidential candidate by a ruling political party in an opposition party was a public admittance the party has not found any person worthy of running for that position within its ranks. Orbih said the 2023 presidential contest would be a very serious, which could explain why the ruling party was shopping for a presidential candidate from the PDP “because they have no presidential material”. The situation, he said, has been compounded by what he called the apparent failure of the APC federal government to deliver on its electoral promises to the people. He noted the PDP boasts of qualified Nigerians in its fold that could make a difference in governance and move the nation forward. He added that this was why the PDP was very formidable with other political parties shopping for candidates from the party. “So I am not surprised that they are looking for people in the PDP to come and contest the presidential ticket in their party. “It shows clearly that they are aware that in their party, they don’t have anybody that can win the next presidential election,” he stated. The South South PDP leader also faulted those criticising a South South Governor for saying he would not support a former President if he decides to pursue his political ambition in another party. According to him, it will be unfair to expect a loyal PDP member to go and vote for a candidate in another party. “That will amount to anti-party activities”, Orbih said.