 Police in Delta State have rescued six commuters after an attack by armed hoodlums on a vehicle on Okutolo-Sapele Road, Okpe council area. Two of the abducted passengers died after being shot by the hoodlums, the police said. Police spokesman Bright Edafe, in a statement, said  police in Orerokpe divisional station, acting on a tip-off, teamed up with soldiers and chased the kidnappers into the forest. He said the kidnappers abandoned the victims when they could no longer withstand the pressure from the patrol team. The police said the victims rescued included four females and two males. The victims were identified as Edoma Rita, Evelyn Chinwekwe, Believe Omoruyi, Linus Kojo, Idolo Christina and Ojemudia Esther. It was also said that an injured female passenger identified as Ojemudia Esther and an unnamed driver, died as a result of injuries sustained in the attack.  It said 7.6mm and 39mm spent shells were recovered from the scene, while a manhunt has been launched for the fleeing bandits. Part of the statement reads, “On 03/04/2021 at about 1945hrs information got the DPO Orerokpe Division,  that a Toyota Sienna bus with REG.NO. BWR 301 SU was under attack by hoodlums armed with AK-47 rifles at Okutolo-Warri-Sapele Road. They shot and injured the driver and a woman other passengers were dragged into the bush, the DPO SP Ojo Oluwole swiftly mobilized patrol teams, assisted by military patrol team to the scene and they went after the kidnappers  into the forest, The men did not relent as they gave the kidnappers a hot chase, the hoodlums who could no longer withstand the pressure quickly abandon the kidnapped victims and fled, The patrol teams successfully  rescued  the six (6) kidnapped passengers which includes  Edoma Rita ‘f’,  Evelyn Chinwekwe ‘f’,  Believe Omoruyi ‘m’,  Linus Kojo ‘m’,  Idolo Christina ‘f’  and Ojemudia Esther ‘f’ an injured passenger was rushed to the hospital but was later confirmed dead on admission, her corpse and that of the driver were deposited in a mortuary. Expended shells of 7.62, 39mm ammunition were recovered from the scene manhunt for the arrest of the hoodlums is ongoing while the commissioner of police is appealing to members of the public to avail the police with any useful information that will help to arrest these hoodlums.”