The rising spate of insecurity in the country is being debated by the Senate. This followed a motion on a matter of urgent national importance moved by Senator Mohammed Sani Musa (representing Niger East). Senator Musa’s motion was titled: “The activities of bandits and Boko Haram terrorist in Shiroro, Munya and Rafi Local Government Areas of Niger State has taken a dangerous dimension: Urgent need for Federal Government to deploy troops and other security apparatus to immediately bring an end to the menace of insurgency and terrorism in Niger State and other parts of Nigeria.” Part of the motion reads: “I can authoritatively confirm that the Boko Haram terrorists have mounted their flags in many of the villages they have captured such as Kaure, Alawa and Magami. “Inhabitants of these war-torn parts of the State have been abandoned and left to their fate thereby compelling them to wallow in perpetual agony and abject misery. “Furthermore at this moment primary schools in Gwada, Kuta, Pandogari and Minna have hurriedly been turned to IDP camps following the sacking of nearly 5600 villagers from their ancestral homes in Shiroro, Rafi and Munya local government areas in the last few weeks by bandits who raided the towns and villages. And what this means is that if they can launch attacks without hindrance in Niger East Senatorial District then I don’t see how we can be safe Abuja anymore. “Again notes before the recent Bandits struck Kagara headquarters of Rafi Local Government, Madaka-Gari, Maikujeri, Magami, Zangouru, Bassa, Gusoro, Galadiman Kogo and Kokki villages where all attacked with casualties as more than 46 people were killed. And between March 2021 to date same terrorist have launched serial attacks on daily basis to adjoining villages of Alawa, Shakodna, Chiri, Kwaki, Ajatayi, Gwassa, Barden Dawaki and Gyammamiya communities in Munya and Shiroro local Government Areas of Niger State killing many innocent people which also resulted to the loss of more than 25 gallant soldiers, mobile policemen and other security personnel, while more than 16 civilians were killed, many others unaccounted and leaving over 2300 displaced, while over 1500 are now sheltered at Primary Schools turned temporary camps at Erena, Galadima-Kogo and Zumba. The number of persons said to have been killed by bandits in Niger East are over 475 between January 2020 to date. “Further aware that confirmed reports emanating from those affected areas of Allawa and Bassa towns in Shiroro local government, Niger State indicated that the Joint Security Task Force stationed there has been withdrawn. “However, no reason has been advanced for the withdrawal but observers believe it will not be unconnected with the casualties suffered by the JSTF during last unfortunate invasion and ambushing of the troops stationed at Alawa by the heartless, venomous and hydra-headed terrorists. “If this menace is not drastically addressed, the attacks will continue and the danger is that it may escalate further to other communities, which are mostly farming communities and they are farmers, may desert their farms this season and this will negatively affect the food sufficiency and economic diversification policy of the Federal Government.”