 In the day that we celebrated the risen savior’s victory over death, Mr. Jacobs Moyo Ajekigbe (JMA), former MD of First Bank, Plc, quietly marked reaching a milestone of 70 years. With Nike, his loving wife, by his side, they sang praises and gave thanks to the One who teaches us to number our days so as to put our hearts in the path of wisdom. My request, yeah, demand, is that once this nutty pandemic is over, we must roll out the drums and celebrate this community hero, our Olu-Omo, who has repeatedly refused our offers of a well-deserved cape. JMA is a homeboy, solidly grounded in the age-old ethos of Okeho, before becoming a national treasure. Attending public primary and secondary schools in Okeho and higher school in Ado-Ekiti, with a brief teaching stint in Okeho prior to university matriculation, he was thoroughly baked in the values of community. An inspiring feature of his life is that, even with his national and global profile, JMA is still well-grounded in those values, which have also been instrumental to shaping his approach to success. As we celebrate Moyo’s becoming a septuagenarian in the land of the living, it is fitting to remind ourselves of the significance of some of those values for a successful and meaningful life. But first, what is success? And in what sense is JMA a successful person? The answer to the first question is to be gleaned from the answer to the second. And the answer to the second question is visibly encoded in the trajectory of Moyo’s career. From a temporary teaching job at Okeho-Iganna Grammar School prior to university matriculation, Moyo attained the retirement age as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of First Bank of Nigeria, Plc. As temporary teacher, he inspired his students, who were not much younger than himself and many followed in his footsteps. As Managing Director, he inspired staff, directors and shareholders, and the growth of the bank was spectacular. In between teaching and directorship, JMA didn’t rest on his oars. He retrained and remade himself many times over, adding an MBA from the University of Lagos, an MA in Global Affairs from the University of Buckingham, UK, and courses of study at several institutions, including Harvard Business School, to his repertoire of educational accomplishments. This constant effort at retraining and remaking conforms to one of our traditional ethos of self-improvement: I have been made. But I will continually remake myself. An uncomplacent head is sure to inspire subordinates to aim higher, thus enhancing the prospects for the success of an organization. That was what Moyo achieved in the various pre-retirement positions he held. It is part of his success story. As Managing Director and CEO of the foremost first generation bank, Moyo earned the trust of shareholders and staff in part because they saw him as a God-fearing and humble person. His tenure was free of drama and devoid of controversy or scandal. Most importantly for shareholders, they had good returns for their investment. The late Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland, Alhaji Azeez Arisekola Alao once praised JMA’s stewardship for enabling shareholders to take huge dividends and bonus shares incrementally for six years. A businessman of Chief Arikekola Alao’s status must know his onions. His was not just sentimental effusion of praise. It was backed by the impressive figures publicly accessible: Moyo moved the First Bank of Nigeria, Plc from a Total Assets of N266.356b in 2002 to N1.3 trillion in the first 6 months of 2008. In the same period, the deposits of the bank jumped from N166.176b to N838.479, while Share Capital rose from N1.016 billion to N12.431 billion. Shareholder Funds rose from N17.747 billion to N315.979billion. In 2002, Gross Earnings was N41.717 billion; in 2008 however it doubled to N80.903 billion. In 2002, Profit before Taxation was N5.087 billion; in 2008, it was N23.027 billion. In 2002, the bank had 328 branches, in the first six months of 2008, it had 475. Number of Shareholders jumped from 211,628 in 2002 to 1,327,837 in 2008, and the number of shares in issue jumped from 2,032 in 2002 to 24,863 in 2008. If this is not a success story, nothing qualifies for that appellation. Were these numbers to move in the opposite direction, shareholders and observers won’t hesitate to stamp the effort with a label of failure, no matter how likable they found JMA! A most important and ultimate goal of a banking institution in a capitalist setting, and the determinant of success, is to make profit and make shareholders happy. As MD, Moyo succeeded in achieving this goal. But he also did much more by making the First Bank a key vector for corporate responsibility in the matter of giving to worthy causes as well as in making banking accessible to rural communities. The increase in the number of branches during his watch is commendable, especially because many of them were located in rural areas. Just as JMA is a successful person in the corporate world because he leads by example, achieves set goals, and is a strong force for justice and fairness, he is just as successful in the non-corporate world, pre-and post-retirement.  For while some may excuse moral failings in the corporate world for reason of its focus on profit maximization, the non-corporate world typically judges success especially by the metrics of morals and values. And in these, he is an exemplar. An enduring mark of our common humanity is the ability to empathize, to understand that life can deal a heavy and unkind card to others, that while those we start out with on the journey of life may not be as successful, their humanity is still intact, and that a stream that forgets its source will dry up. Moyo imbibes these lessons from the cradle and lives by them. His contributions to the ascendancy of community life is legendary. I have written extensively about Okeho community efforts to make progress and accelerate development educationally, economically and infrastructure-wise. Moyo has been in the forefront of these efforts even before his retirement. The Okeho Centenary celebration was a huge success thanks primarily to the Moyo Ajekigbe-led Committee. Funds raised were well-accounted for. Projects initiated under his watch were duly funded and completed. And he continues to be a veritable source of inspiration for the youths. He’s the go-to person for advice. In the words of the elders, eefin ni iwa (character is like smoke). This suggests that one cannot hide the core of one’s character. Like smoke from a burning fire, it will escape into the surrounding environment. The smoke that is the core of Moyo’s character, which he grew up with in the foot of Okeho hills, filled the boardrooms of corporate world in and outside the shores of Nigeria, and helped his rise as a successful person in and out of that world. The former Chairman, Board of Directors, First Bank, Plc. Alhaji (Dr.) Umaru A. Mutallab, confirmed as much in his remarks upon Moyo’s retirement from the bank: “With over 32 years of meritorious service and working life in the bank, it is indeed to his (Moyo’s) credit that his transparency, honesty, integrity, humility, justice, and fair play in the discharge of his duties earned him geometrical progression in the Bank.” “Transparency, honesty, integrity, humility, justice, and fair-play in the discharge of one’s duties” are the marks of Moyo’s personality. They are the ingredients that ensure his success and they continue to open doors of new opportunities for him after retirement, and to shape his success in his new engagements. Since retirement, JMA has served or continues to serve on several boards, including Keystone Bank (Chairman), FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Ltd. (Chairman), Opticom Leasing Company Ltd. (Chairman), Nycil Ltd. (Member), Baptist Theological Seminary (Chairman),  Nigeria Leadership Institute (Vice Chairman), and Institute of Directors Governing Council (Member), among others. Moyo’s loving wife, Nike, has been his solid pillar of strength over the years. I pray for both of them and the children as they enjoy this new age in God’s grace. Happy 70th JMA! Igba odun, odun kan.