 Ogun Ministry of Culture and Tourism has unveiled popular sitcom couple, Mr. and Mrs. Kogberegbe, as ambassador in Diaspora for the upcoming Adire Festival in Dallas. This announcement was made on Friday during the one-day city tour of Abeokuta which was initiated by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. Mr. and Mrs. Kogberegbe are popularly known as a controversial TV couple, whose drama series shows on Africa Magic Yoruba every morning during the weekdays. The duo is the brain behind the Dallas International Yoruba Movies Award (DIYMA) which held its maiden edition in March 2021. Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Dr. Toyin Taiwo applauded Mr. and Mrs. Kogberegbe for their roles in promoting indigenous heritage. He said they find the duo worthy to work with on this particular project because of their niche in promoting culture in the Diaspora. Taiwo explained the development is to promote the uniqueness of Ogun State indigenous textile in the diaspora. “Making of ‘Adire’ is one of the major things this state is known for. We have, therefore, decided to widen our reach because this textile deserves to be showcased all over the world. ” We believe in our newly appointed ambassadors to help us in achieving the goals of this ministry in diaspora,” he said. In reaction, Olanrewaju Olakanlu, whose stage name is Mr. Kogberegbe, expressed immense gratitude on behalf of him and his partner, Mrs. Kogberegbe. He said: “We are so grateful for this great opportunity to be promoters of a unique indigenous material which we all know as “Adire”. It is indeed a great honor to be counted worthy of such a position and title. “Just like we have always given our best to any project we embark on in the past, we are assuring the Ministry that we’ll work hand-in-hand with them to ensure that the objectives of this initiative are achieved.” According to him, the Creative Village Production, in the USA which is headed by Mr. and Mrs. Kogberegbe has always given priority to the Yoruba culture. “This is because we understand the fact that our culture is not unique but also rich. We acknowledge it as our source and we will always be proud of it anytime, any day. “Therefore, I would say that this is a perfect opportunity to show the world that our creativity in terms of art is also topnotch,”
Sites visited with the aid of a tour guide identified as Abdulsalam Abdulrazaq Olaniyi, are Hall of fame at June 12 cultural center, Kuti Heritage Museum, First church in Nigeria, Ake; Centenary Hall, Ake; Sacred heart hospital, Ittai; Palace of Alake, Adire International market and Olumo Rock Tourist Complex, Ikeja.