Kelechi ‘Senior man’ Iheanacho continued his stunning form with Leicester City by scoring twice in the second half, but it was not enough for the Foxes as they fell 3-2 to fellow Champions League hopefuls West Ham. Boasting of 14 goals for Brendan Rodgers’ men in all competitions this season, the 25-year-old Nigeria International equalled his best goal scoring tally in a single league season, the last in the 2015-16 campaign for Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City. Iheanacho, who was last month’s Premier League Player of the Month, set up a tense finale with two goals in the final 20 minutes against the hammers. He scored his first in the 70th  minutes after being set up by Richardo Pereira and fired in from close range in stoppage time to grab his eighth  premier league goal of the season. Elsewhere,Paul Onuachu was on target yet again as Genk trashed St. Truiden 4-0 at home in the Belgian Jupiler  as the  lanky hit man recorded his  31 goals and two assists in 34 games for club and country so far this season. The 26-year-old is now just three strikes away from reaching the 30 goal mark in the Belgian top-flight this season following his latest effort. The former Midtjylland star has now scored in his last four games for both club and country. Onuachu fired Genk to victory against Oud-Heverlee Leuven last weekend and was also on target in the Super Eagles Africa Cup of Nations Qualifiers against the Benin Republic and Lesotho. In Italy’s Serie A, Victor Osimhen scored his fifth goal of the season in Napoli’s 2-0 victory at Sampdoria. The win moves Napoli into fourth place, as they continue their push for Champions League qualification. Meanwhile, Terem Moffi scored the equalizer for FC Lorient in their eventual 4-1 French Ligue 1 defeat at RC Lens. Moffi, 21, now has 10 goals for Lorient in all competitions as they remain only two points above the relegation zone. In Scotland, Joe Aribo scored the opener as Rangers beat Hibernian 2-1 to maintain their 100 percent Scottish Premiership home record. The 24-year-old has now scored eight goals in 28 league appearances for the Gers this season. Zaidu Sanusi impresses in FC Porto’s comfortable 2-0 league win at Tondela while Chidozie Awaziem featured in Boavista’s three all draw with Rio Ave.