TALENTED comedian, Fagade Olufemi Ademola, aka Omobaba is not only a seasoned comedian but also a smart alec.  He has positioned himself strategically in comedy and other segments of the entertainment industry thrilling the corporate world. For over a decade in the industry, he has not staged a major show but has kept running a comedy club, which he says caters to over 14,000 audience yearly. In this interview with ASSISTANT ENTERTAINMENT EDITOR, GBENGA BADA, the humour merchant opened up on his comedy club, the social media comedians and lots more.  WHY did you just kick off the comedy club after one year? One year because of COVID, one year COVID. And we thought it was just going to be two weeks, you know, the country was locked down for two weeks, it was increased. And as a responsible comedian, I just made up my mind that rather than exposing much more people to, to the risk of getting infected with COVID, we should be responsible by leading by example, because Unknot your tie comedy clubs, is majorly a strong voice when it comes to comedy clubs in Nigeria. So, we lead, others follow. So I had to do that. And I had to go to, you know, when, when down what a lot of them resumed, like I had, what I still took my time, one year is the 25th of March last year. Comedy clubs are not so popular in Nigeria. What made you delve into this aspect of comedy and what is the importance and your vision for comedy clubs? The biggest venue is 6000 capacity, and that is Eko Hotel for stand up comedians. So for me, that number does not justify the numbers of lovers of stand up comedians and I now said, as a comedian it’s not only on the big stage that you have the time to banter and do your stuff, as a footballer, they train, as a comedian. Yes, you can do that in the corner of your inbox, you need interaction with people and a comedy club is where you oil your engine and you fire it out on anytime you have your show. Mostly we get much engagement during the weekend. And from Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, nothing’s really happening. So I don’t want to be idle, I now said I need a place of my own to entertain a few people that value one understand what stand up comedy really means. So starting that up, I started with my friend, late Nomoreloss, he was doing a lot of music, I would just come in every Saturday just chip in a few jokes to support the music. The music lover, I mean, the live band lovers, because from people that love live band music when you play all kinds of music, jazz and the rest, they are more attentive to comedy. So I started with that and I now parted way with doing Wednesdays, while he was doing Saturdays at the same venue. So, for me, it’s just somewhere that people will come together and laugh. Now, from the name, it will tell you the kind of audience we are targeting, Unknot your tie, we are not saying drop your textbooks. We are saying to the working class, come out after getting stressed. So it’s basically for the working class from age of like 20 and upward because we have young upwardly mobile people doing great in so many multinationals, so that’s been the idea. And also, as apart from my brand having something to show for being around for so long without doing a major show and having that name, I need to keep it steady. So I started developing yonger comedy and so you cannot write your story without mentioning Omobaba Comedy Club Unknot your tie. I mean a lot of people now feel oh it’s now necessary to go to a comedy club. I mean even the comedians so it is a place where you learn what to say, how to say what to say and what not to say. I mean, you see younger people performing then after their performance you can call them I said oh come why not chip in this. It’s just like a comedy or for comedians. With you being in the comedy industry for over a decade, why haven’t you staged a comedy show? Well, at some point, what I was seeing was very, very encouraging, the set up, the stage and the kind of quality jokes. At one point in this country we were having two to three shows in a day and everybody would go and they all had fun and all of them will go home happy and everywhere is jam packed, we see it, we have the theatre kind of sitting and that’s proper standard. So at a point a lot of things were changing and you cannot change the country without changing your state, you cannot change your state without changing a particular local domain, cannot change your local government without changing your street, you cannot change your street without changing your compound and you cannot change your compound if you don’t change your house. So I have taken time out to study what the comedy business is all about. And I am not a mediocre and I will not jump on anything because everybody’s doing it, I have that household name just by featuring in other shows. I mean, and you still see people doing shows but are not recognized. So, it’s not a do or die thing, the people that I have shown the way have shutdown shows, people I’ve shown the way with the help of God have won competitions, and the records are there. I gather 300 to 250 people every working class, in a year, that is 13,000 or 14,000 and nobody does that here in this part of the world and it is not all about noise making, you don’t see the billboard. It is experiential, we don’t have to bring it to you, it is experiential, come and experience it, you yourself will invite your friends, so all of us cannot face one direction. It is okay to have specials, I have organised specials, I mean, the idea made other people realize that I can even do stand up for one hour.  Unknot your tie started giving people that courage that come, you jokes for one hour and they say I don’t have o and we tell them exactly how to go about it. And for some of the big shows they are seeing with all credit to all my friends that have been around, they come to Unknot your tie to perform it to be sure this is good before going on to perform it at big shows. We’ve had New York Times come here to witness what was going online and CNN have also come to capture it, so it’s not just something that we don’t value, we value it, we value the numbers, what is restricted to just filter. It is believed in some quarters that the emergence of social media comedians who made waves a lot in the coronavirus lockdown have taken the shine off the traditional comedians. What’s your take on this? It would be wrong for anybody to think that way because 85% of the skits you see are proper stand up stories told by stand up comedians. So comedians don’t have that time, creatives, most especially like a stand up comedian don’t have that time for the skit. If you pay more attention to it, if you have been following stand up comedy for a while in the country, a lot of stories that have been told on stage, stand up scripts, I write my scripts, I use my script. I know when you should laugh. I know when I don’t want you to laugh. I know when I can be spontaneous. And I know when I’m going to enjoy it too. This is the standard and proper skits and we have examples. Now we can mention some of these guys who are stand up comedians as well. Not all of them, not all of these guys can do stand up comedy. So there’s a difference between cut and record again. And you are on that stage and anything can happen. you have to be spontaneous. I like the fact that you refer to them as online comedians, so what happens offline? Comedy is interactive, after watching your skits, can I come to a venue of 5000 and listen to you? Can I come to a venue of 10,000 and listen to you, if yes, okay, good. So everybody is helping everybody to grow. I am a stand up comedian, a proper stand up comedian. I’m a proper compere and MC. So it is not all stand up comedians that can do that as well. So I mean, there’s always a particular thing that is lacking one way or the other. Stand up comedians are not online comedians. Some online comedians are stand up comedy too and vice versa. But do you think they are a threat to the industry? I don’t think they are threats to us. No, I don’t think so. And yes everyone is online, for now, we cannot continue like this forever. Yeah, you make money online and on and a lot of people are doing that, a lot of people are making money online. It’s just your passion, it is just what you’re passionate about or just what you feel like doing. That’s when you will know the difference about people that are pressured into doing something that they don’t really like to do, but they just want to do it because everybody’s doing it, and people don’t know what is right to do that they just want to follow suit. It does not cost anything to host a show in a year, even without sponsor, we will get sound and we will run but I mean, it’s just what are you passionate about? I’m passionate about growth. Somebody saw me, somebody encouraged me and that’s Ali Baba. So I should do the same for people. Everybody should learn to pass something down to the generation next. I told them we started from the lowest and we move straight to the highest. So you discover a talent, the next thing is you are on the big stage and it is not supposed to be like that, in a developed country. We discover a talent and develop the talent at comedy clubs, you can do comedy club for 20 years 15 years before you will get to the mainstream and they can perform in the freaking world. What determines the crop of comedians that you look out for to appear in your comedy clubs? Well, for me, I’ve been I’ve been among the judges of Alibaba’s spontaneity from the inception and I’ve auditioned over 1000 comedians, so I can tell you that one thing I’ve discovered in this life is everybody can be better at what they do if they’re given the opportunity and they are encouraged. I’ve seen worse comedians becoming great guys today. Josh2funny cannot write his success story without mentioning Unknot your tie as a stand up comedian, a whole lot of people like that. SLK will not write his stand up story. And he has done a special that is on amazon prime. D One was the first guy that came out from Big Brother Nigeria. And he did a special over one hour performance, these guys cannot tell their stories without mentioning the contribution of Unknot your tie and how well we can encourage them. But once we see the passion in them, you can just teach them the ABCs and they will go and discover the Z, Y and X. The comedy club kicked off at a venue in Ikeja, why the choice of the venue on the Island? We are at the sidewalk on Victoria Island and the reason is because the environment is cozy and the security is top notch services. Again the owner is a passionate person about stand up comedy. Now this is not somebody that is looking for someone that will blow sirens and all that at comedy shows, he understands what it means to have a comedy club. And these are people that I would like to partner with until we get enough support that we need as entertainers to own our own space and with proper standard practice. Are you looking at the possibility of spreading the tentacles across some other states in Nigeria? Now that’s that’s where it’s very funny because there are many comedy clubs running already across Nigeria. There is a comedy club running in Ibadan and it was encouraged by Unknot Your Tie by another comedian , there is a comedy club running in Abeokuta, encouraged by Unknot Your Tie by another comedian. So they call for templates, they call for ideas in and outside Lagos. There’s one running in Jos, doing well in Jos,but everything, concept, the idea started from Lagos Unknot Your Tie. So it does not have to be Unknot Your Tie. You should just wake up on Monday and say I’m going to a comedy club, because you really need it when they say laughter is the best medicine, what do you think they’re talking about? continuous laughter, when you see people practice, stand up comedy, funny art to make your life. So what’s the remuneration? Oh, well, for me I would say it’s, it’s just something that I believe that everybody can do it. Everybody. Everybody from from the top to the last Financially, what do you expend to keep the comedy club going? For my friends, they won’t charge me what they charge normally. Some will come and show love. Alibaba is on stage to come and show love. Others, you know what to do? It has been a very tough time but others, you know what to do? It takes a lot every week to put this together even when it looks so simple and you just walk in. Well, when you check 10 comedians performing and out of that 10, probably seven are struggling comedians, you don’t want them to be stranded or they look up to you. You just have to do something. It costs a lot every week, that’s why we need support, that’s why we need sponsorship, it is experiential.