In its quest to contribute its quota to improved healthcare delivery in Lagos State, Orunsii Wellcare Foundation, in conjunction with Office of the First Lady recently unveiled an awareness campaign to boost mental well-being of residents of the state. The event, tagged: “Mental Health Awareness, De-stigmatisation and Enlightenment (MHADE) in Lagos state” and targeting persons between the ages of 15 and 70, had wife of Lagos State governor, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu in attendance. Citing the World Health Organisation (WHO) report ranking Nigeria to have Africa’s highest caseload of depression and being in the 15th position in global frequency of suicide, Mrs. Sanwo-Olu, a surgeon, commended the Foundation, for taking the lead through its “MAHDE in Lagos” campaign. While lending her support for the project, the governor’s wife said, “There is a need for a clarion call on the people, more than before, to pay close attention to their mental health as much as they do to their physical health. It is medically possible for someone to appear physically fit but mentally sick. “We also must re-emphasise the need for people to prioritise healthy lifestyles. Physical health is maintained by good nutrition and healthy diet, physical activity and exercise, as well as adequate sleep.” “The number of psychiatrists in this country has also been established to be a far cry from what is needed when juxtaposed with the percentage of mentally ill Nigerians who need medical care. “This staggering reality is a pointer to the fact that all hands should be on deck towards tackling emotional disorders among Nigerians and ultimately to de-stigmatise mental disorders in the country.” In his opening remarks, Prof. Adetokunbo Fabamwo, chairman of the foundation’s board of trustees, said the focus was to make life worthy of living for the people, especially the vulnerable like the elderly, widows, among others. While reeling out the action plan for the project, Dr. Ademola Gureje, its deputy coordinator, said the project will involve the gathering of scientific information on the status of mental health of residents in Lagos. He said 100 volunteers have been recruited to implement the next phase of the initiative involving distribution of questionnaires to obtain data. “The pilot study will serve as a template for subsequent studies in other local governments. The time for these studies would be communicated in due course.” The third phase will involve “utilising the results and experience from the pilot study to conduct awareness projects across other LGAs.”