A good dose of laughter boosts the immune system, scientists agree. And in between the daily hustle, laughter is a good outlet for releasing stress. Nigerian comedians have latched on the cracks in our cultural diversity and day-to-day interactions to create authentic and engaging contents gaining popularity amongst local audiences. Mark Angel Comedy has 7.46M subscribers and more than a billion views. The channel has delivered undiluted comedy to its audience since 2013, making Emanuella into one of Nigeria’s favourite characters. Emanuella is joined by Chukwuemeka, Denilson Igwe and Success as they get caught up in scenarios that reveal their ridiculousness and wittiness. Comedian, Samuel Oluwafemi Asubiojo, simply known as SamSpedy, opted to be a comedian at the expense of his medical certificate. The comedian, who studied Medicine at Zaporozhye State Medical University, Ukraine, derives satisfaction in putting smiles on faces with his comedy skits. SamSpedy’s journey as a comedian started in 2014 following a dream he had. He has over 1.91million subscribers on YouTube Broda Shaggi is referred to as Nigeria’s number one fine boy “agebero”. The “Oya Hit Me” comedian has over 886,000 subscribers and over 100 million views on his YouTube Channel. To get an idea of how funny he is, check out Big Brother Naija’s Mercy Lambo slapping Broda Shaggi when Broda Shaggi finally kissed DJ Cuppied or if you need to know what Broda Shaggi looks for in a woman. His goofy videos will leave you hooting with laughter. You can also watch musical videos too. AY Comedian is the official YouTube channel of Ayodeji Richard Makun, also known as AY, one of Nigeria’s top comedians. His channel has over 150million views with more than 780,000 subscribers and features hilarious videos from previous AY shows, AY skits with popular celebrities, AY Crib Sitcom and more. AY is particularly known for the “Who wants to be a Billionaire” skits where Akpos uses Warri pidgin language to anchor a parody of the “Who wants to be a millionaire” show. With over 550 thousand subscribers on YouTube, Xploit comedy has carved a great niche in the comedy industry. Xploit comedy consists of four young men – Brizy, Chizzy, Lankz, and Lenz who began their comedy career from their drama group in the church. According to the group, their fans influenced them to post their skits on social media and they haven’t looked back since. Yawa Skits is a comedy series about survival. The channel has over 481,000 subscribers and above 40million views. The videos are based on the Kalistus daily struggle to earn a living by all means. Check out The Impersonator, The Accidental Drug Dealer and Bus Runz for a good laugh. Taaoma is the current queen of Nigerian YouTube comedy. The 21-year-old came into the spotlight acting the role of a typical Nigerian mother whose legendary slaps on her daughter makes us roll on the floor with laughter. With over 420,000 followers, Taaoma has the highest subscribers as a Nigerian comedienne on YouTube. Dubbed queen of Nigerian Instagram comedy, Gloria Oloruntobi aka Maraji, has consistently shown us a female can make a successful comedy career in Nigeria. The queen of Instagram comedy is also on her way to taking over YouTube. She currently has over 361 thousand subscribers. One of the funniest prophets, Woli Agba, is not new in the comedy industry. He has already dominated Instagram and on the way to dominating YouTube as well. Woli has over 317 thousand subscribers. Mr. ‘Freaky Freaky, you are doing well, ooin,’ is also doing well on YouTube. Mr. Macaroni has over 334,000 subscribers. The Osun-born comedian came into the limelight through his funny skits where he plays the role of Agidi who addresses the current issues in Nigeria. MC Lively has over 242 thousand subscribers on YouTube. Olamide Ogunleye aka Oluwadolarz began showing his skits on Instagram in 2014. The comedian-cum-musician came into the limelight when he did a remake of Olamide’s song, Science Student. His skits with his younger brother Tope are especially hilarious. Oluwadolarz has over 131 thousand subscribers on YouTube.