The Presidency has stated the alleged certificate forgery against former Finance Minister Kemi Adeosun is completely different from the allegation of support for terror groups levelled against Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Patanmi. The Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity Mallam Garba Shehu stated this on Friday. Adeosun had resigned as minister in September 2018 after she was accused of forging her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) exemption certificate. Shehu spoke on Friday during an interview on Channels TV Programme Politics Today monitored by The Nation. The Nation learnt reports part of the many arguments of Nigerians calling for Pantami’s resignation is hinged on the fact that Adeosun was haunted because of her past and she resigned. But Shehu explained the presidency’s response “would have been different” if Pantami had forged his certificate like Adeosun did. The Nation reports the Presidency had defended the embattled Minister, saying he made enemies because he tried to put Nigeria first and had initiated plans and policies that would profit the public. “In the second case which is that of Pantami, you are probing the thoughts, what is called ‘McCarthyism’; you search the inner recesses of the minds of individuals, bring out things they have said, or they are about to say, or you think they would say, and use that against them,” Shehu said. “If Pantami had forged certificate before coming into office, the attitude (of the presidency) would have been different. “We don’t remain in the same position. Don’t assume that things cannot change. If the one who created you gives it to you that from being bad, you can become good, what says you should deny some other persons this right? “Those people who stand in criticism of a man who has said he had wronged the society, he has apologised and changed, and they are not willing to forgive him to move on, they are the ones who are the problems. They are the ones who are deeply intolerant,” he added.