 Former Chadian president Idriss Deby had in his lifetime said he was always going to the battle field not necessarily because he was courageous but for the love of his country. He was not the kind of armchair general that would take bullets with his buttocks. No one but Deby himself knew deep down in his heart why he chose that path. But what has now become a fact is that he has ended it all at the very place where he loved to be: the war front. He died on Tuesday from injuries he sustained during a battle with rebels in the northern part of the country, at the weekend. Déby “breathed his last defending the sovereign nation on the battlefield”, an army general said on state TV on Tuesday. Without doubt, Deby was fearless and, as a matter of fact, regarded by some Chadians as indestructible. At least until he came face-to-face with the rebel group called Front for Change and Concord in Chad, FACT. Before this time, he had weathered many storms. The 68-year-old president had spent about 30 years in power, having become head of state through a military uprising in 1990. He was thus one of Africa’s longest-serving leaders. Ironically, he died a day after provisional election results had projected he would win a sixth term in office, with about 80 per cent of the votes in his kitty. Déby was born on June 18, 1952, in the village of Berdoba, approximately 190 kilometers from Fada in northern Chad. Other things being equal, he would be buried today. The lingering question is what happens to Chad now that Deby is no more? Hiccups are expected, given that the former president was the government, as everything revolved around him. Already, signs that all may not be well with the country after Deby’s sudden demise have begun to emerge. And this is understandable. Ordinarily, under the constitution, the speaker of parliament is supposed to take over in the event that the president is incapacitated or dies. But the army has constituted a 15-man Transitional Military Council (TMC), with Mahamat Idriss Deby, a 37-year-old four-star general, and Deby’s son, as leader. The army said he is to govern for the next 18 months after which “free and democratic” elections will be held. As usual with such military coups, the government and parliament have been dissolved and a curfew imposed, while the borders were also shut. Clearly, this is unconstitutional and therefore a recipe for chaos. Sensing trouble, some foreign embassies in the capital have urged their staff to leave the country. Long before his death, there had been growing concerns over Deby’s government’s management of Chad’s oil resources. Moreover, he had been accused of being increasingly autocratic, an accusation that could make his about 80 percent victory in the April 11 election suspect, if true. As a matter of fact, it was the accusation of Deby’s repression of the opposition in the run-up to the polls that led to FACT, founded in2016 by some disillusioned former military officers, to mount an attack on a border post on Election Day and gradually advanced on the capital, N’Djamena. In all of these, Nigeria must brace up should the worst happen in Chad. Deby’s death has left a vacuum in the political firmament of that country and even beyond. Chad is surrounded by some of Africa’s most protracted crises, with Deby having a hand in virtually all, from Darfur to Libya, Nigeria, Mali and the Central African Republic. But he was lucky to have some of the battle-ready troops on earth. He was, for years, an indispensable ally of the West, particularly in the war against Islamist militants in Mali, Niger, etc. Little wonder the French government described him as a “brave friend”. France had for years helped to stabilise his government and, by extension, Chad, by deploying troops and fighter jets to push back his opponents whenever they tried to topple his government. He had also been a dependable ally of Nigeria in the country’s efforts to defeat Boko Haram insurgents that have been troubling her since 2009. His death, therefore, has implications for Nigeria’s counter-insurgency war and the country’s security at large. It is a reminder that Nigeria’s military authorities must redouble their efforts in bringing a closure to the terrorists’ activities. It is incumbent on the Federal Government to provide the military with all they require to bring the war to an end. Meanwhile, Nigeria has to be constantly abreast of developments in Chad, this post-Deby era. When Libya unravelled, its neighbours were dramatically affected. Should there be an implosion in Chad, Nigeria would have to play host to some of the people that will be displaced as a result of the conflict. We must therefore be interested in the country’s political stability as well as keep in touch with the leadership for continued collaboration on the counter-insurgency war. It is clear that no nation can single-handedly defeat terror.