An ex-militant leader under the auspices of the Niger Delta Movement for Development (NDMD) has slammed Ebikabowei Victor-Ben, aka Boyloaf, over his attack on the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. The Convener, NDMD, Mr. Victor Matthew, described the comments credited to Boyloaf against Akpabio, the former Akwa Ibom State governor, as a tissue of lies, saying Boyloaf was being sponsored by enemies of the region to pull down the minister. He said Boyloaf should have settled his problems with Akpabio instead of allowing persons, who never meant well for the region, to use him. Matthew, who spoke on the phone, described the comments of the former militant leader as most uncharitable, irresponsible and unbecoming of an ex-agitator. He said Akpabio’s superb performance had become a nightmare for some persons, who had recruited the likes of Boyloaf to tarnish his image. Matthew said another sin Akpabio committed against persons like Boyloaf was his refusal to share the money earmarked for developmental projects in Niger Delta. He said Akpabio’s insistence on pursuing the completion of abandoned critical projects in the region had pitched him against the likes of Boyloaf, who rather wanted him to share the money meant for such projects. Said he: “What did Boyloaf actually agitate for? Is it for money to be shared or for development to come to the region? If it is for development, then he should not have problems with the minister. “Senator Akpabio is a proven performer. Since he became the Minister of Niger Delta, he has been working to develop the region. It is on record that massive work is ongoing on the East-West road, which was hitherto abandoned. “Soon, significant section of that road will be completed. Look at the office complex of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) that was abandoned for 25 years. It took an Akpabio to complete and inaugurate that complex, which has become one of the most beautiful edifices in the region.” Matthew asked Boyloaf to tender an apology to Akpabio for associating the minister with tribalism and alleging that his ministry and the NDDC had become an extension of Akwa Ibom Government House. He recalled that a Boyloaf’s kinsman from Bayelsa State, Prof. Keme Pondei, was given an opportunity by Akpabio to head the former Interim Management Committee (IMC) of the NDDC. Matthew said: “This is another lie told by Boyloaf. The minister, as we know him, has been a detribalised and generous individual. His aides and workers hail from states in the Niger Delta and the country. Besides, the minister is known for presenting opportunities to people based only on their competencies. “He has carried stakeholders in the Niger Delta along. This is why the region has remained peaceful since his emergence as a minister. Where was Boyloaf when the minister nominated Prof. Pondei, Boyloaf’s kinsman from Bayelsa, to head the past Interim Management Committee of the NDDC?”