It is  known that those that had lived and are living in Nigeria are always active, smart, and intelligent. Although things are hard in the country, people still try to make themselves happy by visiting recreational places, attending concerts and chatting on social media where issues are being discussed. Stress, financial and family issues, unemployment, bad educational system, having to live from paycheck to paycheck and many others, can’t be avoided. But surviving it all is always the order of the day among citizens. In doing that, they need to be smart about happenings around them. There is a constant struggle for self improvement , done at  all costs  irrespective of moral implications. Surviving is always at the top of the game during day-to- day activities and it’s being practised by all Nigerians right from childhood to adolescent and then adulthood. When a mother shares cake among her six children, the smartest one will take the biggest part in the blink of an eye, then others will also have it in mind to take the biggest part next time.  They all know that one needs to be smart and fast in doing that. Education is seen as a means to a better life. No wonder it is the dream of every family to send children to school to acquire knowledge that will  make them live well. Today, getting  education is not a problem, but the certificate determines  the salary and type of job. Unfortunately, the number of graduates outnumber the number of available jobs. Even those offered employment would prefer to stay at home because the pay is poor.To get a job in Nigeria now,one needs to be connected. This also  applies to  gaining admission into tertiary institutions. In  business as well, the buyer and seller need to be smart in their respective dealings because the seller will want to increase the price of goods and the buyer will want to reduce it to his or her advantage. Surviving in a Federal Public University is not  a child’s play.Students struggle most times to survive. Other times, it’s tuition fees, course materials, textbooks, paying several impromptu registration fees, accommodation fee, transportation expenses and other miscellaneous expenses. Some students tell their  parents  to send them more than enough allowance for feeding and taking care of miscellaneous expenses, especially those from well to do families. But for  others  whose parents are not really rich, they venture  into businesses on campus. Interestingly, there is much to be valued about life in Nigeria. Attempts are being made to give the country a facelift for the future and only time will tell. However, based on personal experience, these challenges are surmountable. Stop focusing on the challenges and begin to look for the opportunities that exist.  If one is prepared, it can remain mere inconveniences. It’s true that living in Nigeria is not for the fainthearted, you have to be ready to take on as many challenges as possible, but Nigeria is not a failed country and not a difficult place to live.  