The National Directorate of Employment yesterday began vocational skill acquisition training for 32 youths in Ekiti under its Environmental Beautification Training Scheme (EBTS). The skill acquisition encompassed tiling, interlocking, landscape designing, raising nurseries, casting construction of water fountains, planting and maintenance of grasses and flowers as well as casting. Speaking during the one-day orientation excercise for the 32 trainees, the NDE Acting-Director General, Abubakar Fikpo said the scheme was designed to make unemployed youths self-reliant. Fikpo who lamented the rising poverty and unemployment rate among Nigeria youths, said that the Federal Government under the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration was committed to halt the ugly trends. The DG represented by Mr. Said Salawu said it was in recognition of the menace that the federal government through NDE rolled out various interventions schemes pull the youths out of the unemployment pool. In his remarks, the NDE Coordinator in the state, Mr. Babatunde Alao said the trainees, drawn from across the 16 local government of areas of the state, would receive a three month training. He called on the trainees to see the skills acquisition scheme as a springboard for economic prosperity, wealth creation and become employers of labour rather than job seekers. “This day, we are witnessing another strategic tool employed by the NDE in fulfilling its mandate of creating jobs as we post beneficiaries of the scheme out to various training outfits under the EBTS in a bid to promote self-reliance which in turn breeds a noticeable multiplier effect through direct and indirect wealth creation. “The main essence of this programme is to enshrine in the trainees the technical knowledge and expertise required to remain relevant in their various fields of vocation and requisite entrepreneurship skills to thrive no matter the economic realities”, he said. Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Ajayi Emmanuel commended the FG and the directorate for the rare gesture and pledged to work hard to acquire the skills in order to become self-reliant.  