IBOM Metropolitan Polytechnic (IMP) is to resume academic session after the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) has fully accreditated its courses during the board’s visit to the school. The non-residential polytechnic located at Atan Offot, beside the State Secretariat in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, has promised to offer top-notch academic and technical services for the advancement of education in the state and beyond. Founder of the institution, Dr Victor Williams said the  polytechnic was conceived in 2001 when he realised that a lot of people in the state were unemployed for lack of relevant technical skills needed in major industries. “When I discovered this lapse, I thought it expedient to set up a place where the youth can be built up with skills that can build the economy.  Every child would love to be educated where they can see and carry out practicals,” he said. Williams noted that  they were able to satisfy and surpass the NBTE’s demands regarding accreditation. “The school has a lot of  up-to-date facilities and modern equipment. When the team came and went round, they congratulated us on doing well in terms of infrastructure, equipment, laboratories, workshops and all the new gadgets one can think of in a typical polytechnic. “The prospect is to become one of the largest polytechnics in Akwa Ibom; to be able to deliver  excellence in academics and produce a workforce that will be productive in the society,” he said. The Executive Secretary of NBTE, represented by Dr. Ekpenyong, explained that the faculties of Electrical Engineering, Electrical Electronic Engineering, Computer Engineering, Computer Science, Statistics, and Accountancy have been fully accredited. He called on indigenes and non-indigenes of the state to tap into the school’s goodwill and endowment, while maintaining that lots of departments and courses will be introduced in due time. He also urged members of the host community to take advantage of the new  institution, which he said will add value to them intellectually, academically, socially, and economically. 