The Governing Council of the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) has elected Prof Nnenna Oti as the new Vice-Chancellor of the institution. She succeeds the outgoing vice-chancellor, Prof. Francis Eze. The Nation reports Oti emerged top with 75.5 points to beat six other candidates. Her closest rival was Prof. Ikechukwu Dozie who scored 69.7 points. With this feat recorded, Prof. Oti will be the first-ever female VC in the history of FUTO since its inception. 1. Prof. (Mrs) Nnenna Nnannaya Oti was born on November 15th, 1958 in Afikpo North Ebonyi State, 2. She is married to Dr Nnannaya Oti and blessed with 3 children. 3. She holds a Bachelor of Agriculture degree (B.Agric) in Soil Science from the University of Nigeria Nsukka, UNN; (First Class Honours), Masters in Soil Science (Soil Biology and Biochemistry Option), UNN; a Postgraduate Diploma in Irrigation Engineering (Distinction) from Catholic University Leuven, Belgium and capped her academic laurels with a Ph.D. in Soil and Environmental Conservation from FUTO. 4. Prof. (Mrs) Nnenna Nnannaya Oti is a Professor of Soil Science and Environmental Conservation. She is a three-time Head of Department of Soil Science and Technology in the School of Agricultural and Agriculture Technology (SAAT) and the immediate past chairman, Gender Policy Unit. 5. Prof. Oti has over 34yrs in academics, teaching research and administration in the Nigerian university system with international exposure. She has had hands-on experience working as a consultant to the government and private sector and various times in diverse capacities ranging from TETFund, Anambra Imo River Basin Development Authority, National Biotechnology Development Agency etc. She has over 65 academic papers, 40 seminar and workshop papers, edited a handbook, 50 public lectures and over 10 technical reports for the Federal government of Nigeria. 6. Professor Oti will be the 8th substantive Vice-chancellor of the Federal University of Technology Owerri. Before her appointment, she was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Academic.