The Chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC), Hon. Abdullahi Candido, has vowed to resist any attempt to frustrate his efforts to discharge his constitutional responsibilities of serving his people. Candido, who made the vow while speaking with journalists, insist that some vested interests were bent on undermining his constitutional responsibilities through ignition of unnecessary conflict aimed at making it impossible for his administration to deliver dividends of democracy to the people. He vowed not be cowed by silent intimidation and threats being orchestrated against him, adding that: “I will not keep quite because I have a mandate to discharge.” His words: “And must I keep quite? No, I wouldn’t. I will not keep quite because I have a mandate to discharge”. Recall that there have been conflicting claims between the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) and the Abuja Municipal Area Council, AMAC, over who is empowered by law to collect certain taxes in the city centre. The entire city centre, including space where the FCTA office is located, falls under the jurisdiction of AMAC, but the authorities of the FCTA have continued to lay claim to the right to collect the tax. This development, Candido said, has made things difficult for the administration to meet its obligation to the Council and its people. He said: “This conflict between AMAC and FCTA is affecting our revenue base. We are not in conflict with FCTA; we should be the one collecting it. The tenement rate collected will be used to build some schools, especially in rural areas. We have 12 wards in AMAC and we try to reach out to each ward as at when due. “However, as a democratic structure and a government put in place by citizens, we feel we are going to fail in our own way of discharging our responsibilities if we keep quite.   So, we needed to let the people of Abuja Municipal Area Council, who brought me here and other elected representatives, know what we are passing though. “Sincerely, I am a respecter of authorities, and I value synergy with all organs of government. But it must not be at the expense of the good people of this Area Council. We have suffered enough in silence, and if we keep quiet, the good people of this Area Council will continue to suffer.