Residents of Igisogba in Akure South Local Government of Ondo State have been rendered homeless after Sunday’s rainstorm destroyed their houses. Also affected were churches, shops and electricity poles.Roofs of the affected houses were blown off. The rainstorm, said to have lasted for 45 minutes, caused power supply to be cut off. The incident has paralysed activities. Many of the affected residents said they are squatting with their neighbours and relations. They appealed to government agencies to assist them repair their buildings. The Chairman of Igisogba Landlord Association, Mr. Ebenezer Ojo, urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to help the landlords. ”We call on the Akure South Local Government, Ondo State Government, individuals and agencies to assist us. The rainstorm has caused damages. ”We want the government to help our people return to their normal lives.” Rainstorm, accompanied by downpour, has destroyed buildings at the Government Day Secondary School (GDSS), Okekerein Ilorin West Local Government of Kwara State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the rainstorm had wrecked similar havoc at the Ansarul lslam Secondary School, Ogidi, Oloje also in the same local government. NAN also reports that the rainstorm had paralysed activities at the Government Day Secondary School, Okekere. None of the existing buildings within Government Day Secondary School (GDSS) Okekere’s premises was spared by the rainstorm, as their roofs and ceilings were blown off. Some of the buildings damaged by the rainstorm include: blocks of classrooms at the senior section, administrative block, library, laboratory blocks and hostels. Although the school is on holiday, the head teacher and other members of staff are taking refuge under some of the trees on the school premises.The Coordinator of the school’s Old Students’ Association, Dr. Mubarak Oloduowo, on Monday in llorin described the incident as a disaster.He said it can paralyse teaching and learning when the school resumes. Oloduowo, who is also a lecturer with the Department of Chemistry at the University of llorin, said the Old Students’ Association recently spent about N500,000 to rehabilitate some blocks of classrooms. He said parts of the classrooms rehabilitated from the funds raised were damaged by the rainstorm.He appealed to the state government to rescue the school by rehabilitating the damaged structures and providing other necessary infrastructure to achieve qualitative learning at the school. The Head Teacher of the senior section of the school, Hajia Surura Mohammed, described the damage caused by the rainstorm as monumental.She solicited the assistance of the government and well-meaning Nigerians to assist the school.