Former National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Senator Victor Umeh, has condemned  the attack on the ex-Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Professor Charles Soludo, by gunmen at Isiofia in the Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State. Soludo, an aspirant for APGA ticket in the Anambra governorship election scheduled to hold on November 6, escaped death when the gunmen attacked him while he was addressing some youths at Isuofia Civic Centre. Three policemen attached to the leading APGA aspirant were killed during the attack while the Commissioner for Public Utilities, Mr. Emeka Ezenwanne, was abducted. Umeh, a former representative of Anambra Central District in the Senate, said: “I am still in shock over the shooting Incident at the Isuofia Civic Center last Wednesday which claimed the lives of three Police Officers attached to Professor Charles Chukwuma Soludo. This deadly attack has left me without words in the past two days. “However, I wish to formally commiserate with Prof Soludo over this unfortunate dastardly Incident. I have never imagined that our Politics could degenerate to this level of massacre for whatever purpose!  “While I urge Prof Soludo to remain steadfast, I wish to beg for the immediate Release of Engr Emeka Ezenwanne, the Honourable Commissioner for Public Utilities of the Anambra State Government who was taken away during the attack by the Gunmen. “I pray the Almighty God to grant the Souls of the fallen Police Officers eternal rest in Paradise. I also pray that God grants His Divine Consolation to the Families of the deceased. He added: “While we await the Report of the Police Investigation, let us remember that the Almighty God from His heavenly abode watches over all our actions! “Finally, I wish to remind all of us that no ambition or Intention is worth the Life of any human being! The manner of the Attack in a Town Hall Meeting being addressed by Prof Soludo clearly indicates that the attack was politically motivated. This attack is a sad note on our preparations towards the forthcoming 6th November Gubernatorial Election in Anambra State and is hereby totally condemned. “While I commend the Security Agencies for their good efforts, I urge them to do everything to rescue the missing Commissioner alive. God bless Anambra State!” 