If there is anything in dispute about Nigeria, it is certainly not its reputation as a country with endless possibilities in terms of the weird, the bizarre and the downright absurd. That much was evident in the march on Ibadan by more than 250 beggars penultimate Thursday, protesting low patronage from members of the public. Their protest came a few weeks after the video trended on the social media of a female beggar confessing that she was in the business of exchanging whatever money she collected as alms with two or three times the amount from marabouts, herbalists, other spiritualists and even some wealthy people who then use the sums she collected from unsuspecting members of the public for ritual purposes. The strange story became even more intriguing with the revelation that the woman in question was a landlady and car owner who would park her car at a distance and disguise as a beggar to collect alms she would later exchange with good money from those that would use her collections for money making rituals. Indeed, the game she had played for years was said to have come to an end when one of her tenants with whom she was not in good terms managed to recognise her in spite of the veil she wore to disguise her identity. Apparently taken in by the scary video in spite of its superstitious nature, the hitherto magnanimous givers around Ibadan decided that their generous disposition must come to an end. The result was the low patronage that sparked the protest embarked upon by the beggars in Africa’s second largest city penultimate Thursday. The spokesperson of the beggars and the Seriki (leader) of the Hausa community in Oja’ba, Ibadan, Imam Abubakar Abdullahi, believes that the video of the woman and the reports accompanying it had created deep hatred for his people, consequent upon which the alms were no longer coming. Abdullahi said: “The reports that some wealthy people are buying money from beggars, including the physically-challenged people, for money rituals is not true. As a result of the claim that some ritualists do buy money from these beggars, there has been public resentment against these innocent people. What we know is that traders, hawkers and commercial drivers do come to these beggars who are mainly blind and lame people to change money (into smaller denominations). We need to clear our names so that people will not be punishing us for offences we don’t know anything about.” While Abdullahi might have failed to disclose the daily, weekly or monthly income of the average beggar in Ibadan before the current slide in their economic fortune, he has succeeded, wittingly or unwittingly, in starting a movement that could culminate in the formation of an association by the nation’s beggars to resist the forces that seem determined to rob them of their fair share of the national cake. If the nation’s women of easy virtue could form an association, stridently protested absence of patronage during the lockdown occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic earlier in the year and openly appealed to housewives to release their husbands so they could be patronised, then there is nothing preposterous about the nation’s beggars constituting themselves into a pressure group. A man of my acquaintance who saw things from the foregoing light had said that the beggars in Ibadan should not have stopped at protesting but should have taken a step further by going on strike. Before I could tell him it was the dumbest thing to do because they would die of hunger in their homes, he said: “You have no idea the number of highly placed public office holders whose lives rotate on the pivot of spirituality and superstition. They will not only find the beggars out from their hideaways on the instructions of their seers and marabouts, they will also facilitate the constitution of a panel to determine the immediate and remote causes of the beggars’ strike with a view to getting them back to the streets after paying them adequate compensation.” Case closed. Dear Vincent, I read your piece on the above captioned on Page 9 of The Nation of 27th March, 2021 and felt obliged to share some lights. On two occasions, you referred to these schools as built and run by Christian missions. I’m thinking maybe you didn’t have a good grasp of the issues. These schools have been handed over to government since 1974, and since then, being financed, run and administered by state government with tax payers’ money. Most of d schools have been rebuilt, restructured and, at the least, developed with the people’s money. In another paragraph, you said granting aids to school does not transfer ownership. Like I said above, it’s outright takeover. Hence the funding and running of the schools is not shared with the government. From the above two, the owner of the schools, being the state government, has the right to decide the mode of dressing, especially to take care of all interests, which are the citizens of the state. You equally didn’t hide your sentiment when you said what happens if C&S comes to school in their robes. Please note that Muslims too have religious ceremonial wears like turban & other flowing gowns. But hijab is part of a Muslim girl’s dressing, without which she’s like naked. Your friends whose wives and daughters don’t don the hijab are not yet conscious of their religious duties and can’t be the yardstick. It’s like saying after all, some Christians or Muslims fornicate, therefore there’s nothing wrong in it. Also, you chastised the state government for treading the path of fairness and justice, more so when the same issue has been decided in their favour by two competent courts, even to the Court of Appeal. You didn’t see anything wrong in CAN that behaved maturely to seek interpretation of law ab initio, only to result to self help when d case didn’t favour them. Where then is “leadership by example”. On d same page, there’s another article titled “This Hijab Madness”, also by a Christian. I want to recommend that u read it, if you have not. May God almighty deliver this country from religious bigotry. 