WHEN it comes to making an impression, the face is very important and that explains why  celebrities give it the attention it deserves. The neckline is the next point and it also deserves a lot of attention.  Accessories play a major role here but there are times when a simple outfit can do the magic. One item that comes to mind here is the turtleneck top, blouse or dress.Its fabulous and gives you that classy advantage. Our celebrities know how to rock the design in style. You can also try this next time you want to be casual and seek attention. •Splendid. Rihanna’s orange turtleneck top and matching jacket is a must have. Her accessories are also remarkable.    •She looks really good in this brown turtleneck outfit. Her brown boots and cream coloured shawl make her total outlook exciting.     •She looks stunning in this turtleneck top, creative sleeves as well as shorts that reveal her beautiful legs. A matching high heeled shoe in the same colour is nice.     Shimmering! It’s a casual look, yet you find bold statements all the way. From her golden hairdo, turtleneck top, designer belt, curvy pants, shoes as well as a gorgeous Fendi bag.     •Terrific in this powerful posture. It’s all black except her white canvas which gives a sharp contrast. A black cap, turtleneck top, pants and bag.     •Her posture radiates a magnetic effect. Check out how she rocks her light blue long sleeve
top. It combines in a unique way with this long black skirt with a powerful slit. Her black beret, sunglasses, snickers and bag all blend to make a great fashion statement.    •Marvellous. You can’t ignore Ebube’s glamorous style. Her black top, trouser, boots, all make her stand out in style. For contrast, she makes use of a light brown jacket that is fantastic. Extras include her sunglasses, well manicured nails and accessories.     •Curvy. Lilo steals the show with her simple brown dress. The turtleneck design is grand and she
combines this with a black bag and high heeled shoes. Her smile is also infectious.