After hemming and hawing for a few days, and perhaps stung to the quick by the tacit refusal of the Central Bank of Nigeria governor Godwin Emefiele to directly refute the claim that N60bn was printed to lend the federal and state governments a helping hand in their financial distress last month, Finance minister Zainab Ahmed finally eased up on her assertion that no money was printed to augment March revenue before being allocated to states. Edo State governor Godwin Obaseki had some two weeks ago alerted the public to Nigeria’s dire financial situation, which necessitated the printing of N60bn to augment the revenues of state and federal governments for March. Mrs Ahmed had initially and ferociously denied the printing of digital money in what some economists described as quantitative easing of the ignoble kind because it was merely shared and not directly or necessarily targeted at productive enterprises. Rather than directly controvert Mr Obaseki’s disclosure, Mr Emefiele simply poured scorn on everybody’s understanding of economic theory, in particular their inability to appreciate the CBN as lender of last resort to the government. Then, angrily, also partly because the information about the printing of more money was attributed to the Edo State governor, a supposed beneficiary of that policy tool, Mr Emefiele warned that the $2.1bn Budget Support Facility lent to states between 2016 and 2018 in tranches would be deducted from the allocations to states going forward. The governors have engaged in damage control, gently rebuking Mr Obaseki for his brashness, and placating the CBN governor and the federal government. The CBN’s and federal government’s anger will probably be assuaged, for the socio-economic consequences of depleted revenues, especially in the face of mounting insecurity, may be unquantifiable. Finding her voice a little after the din had subsided, Mrs Ahmed became more amenable to the facts of the matter. Speaking on an NTA programme last Monday on the N60bn controversy, she said: “These are very difficult challenging times because revenues are low and the demand for expenditures is very high understandably because we have to keep intervening to make sure the pandemic is contained as well as the economic impact it has caused. In our case in Nigeria, the crash of the crude oil prices really hit us very hard in terms of revenue. We have very low revenues, we have very high expenditures. What we have done so far is just to provide some stability to make sure salaries are paid, pensions are received every month; that we send funds to the judiciary and the legislature; that we meet our debt service obligations.” Clearly she began by justifying why an intervention was needed, but only stopped short of elucidating on what kind of intervention was finally adopted. Mr Emefiele’s weak admission regarding the propriety of printing more money not backed by output, not to talk of his threat to compel the states to repay their loans, was a pointer to what transpired, regardless of the almost naïve insistence of Mrs Ahmed that nothing unusual was done. Why neither the CBN governor nor the Finance minister has thought it appropriate to own up to what the government did, thereby leaving the rest of the country to guess how the government resolved the shortfall in March, is hard to tell. Even presidential spokesmen have been largely reticent, preferring that the relevant authorities in the CBN and Finance ministry were capable of sorting out the deliberate obfuscations. The Nigerian government is perhaps the most apt description of Arcanum, a mystery complex so interwoven with unspecified tools and policies that few can lay claim to ever understanding it, including career and appointed officials. Now it is the turn of CBN and Finance ministry to keep everyone befuddled. Years ago, it used to be the NNPC with their shortfall of remittances and inscrutable calculations of subsidies. Of course the NNPC is still a fog, but as it is increasingly clear, many government agencies have become a jigsaw puzzle, and officials, not to say the presidency itself, do not think they owe the country explanations. Nigerians must, therefore, contend with not knowing the president’s health conditions as well as how much is spent to retrofit him; and they must also carry the additional burden of trying to figure out how the Finance ministry and the CBN juggle their fiscal and monetary policies to delicately balance the books and make the country look good to citizens. Of course outsiders know the facts more than Nigerians. In all this, very little will be heard from Aso Villa. That reclusive abode is sickened and mystified by the policy miasma in which the country is entangled. And since the president cannot speak to the issue even in a superficial way, and spokesmen will not rush in where angels fear to tread, expect the N60bn controversy to dissipate as quickly and suddenly as it burst out. With the governors mollifying the anger of the CBN governor and gently rebuking Mr Obaseki for his needless braggadocio, the controversy will be left for economists to speak about doom and catastrophe on the merits and demerits of quantitative easing, inflation and hyperinflation, and the evocation of the spectre of Uganda under Idi Amin’s fiscal madness. Of course few Nigerians are comfortable with the way the Nigerian economy is being managed, or perhaps inexpertly managed; but trust Aso Villa, they will look on in distant amusement as eggheads knock one another’s head over a fuss the rulers of Nigeria see as pointless. Nigerian governors, since the beginning of the Fourth Republic, have been nearly all dedicated to feathering their own nests. They get worse every election cycle. Mr Obaseki, who prides himself as an investment banker, should be consoled that the heavens will not fall; but if they do, it will not be only on his head.  The Communications and Digital Economy minister, Isa Pantami, is in the eye of the storm, a position that was inevitable since he imbibed the fanaticism he has now blamed on his youth. He only partially accepts responsibility for his religious bigotry and his predilection for violence. His vices, he said, were acquired by the indiscretions of youth. Indirectly, however, he was blaming his befuddled thinking and appalling religious fanaticism on his upbringing. More damaging materials are being unearthed to hang him, making all his defences intolerable and sheer afterthought. But it will now force those terribly appalled by what he represents and the violence and alleged murder he connived at to shift focus to his family, how he was raised, and the perils of familial indoctrination. His stay in office has become untenable, despite the presidency’s vote of confidence in him, and the allegation that the minister’s critics have been bought by faceless monsters. It is even more horrifying that after all the Pantami expositions so far, the Buhari presidency, which has come out to back the minister to the hilt, pretends that the controversy will soon boil over and then quieten down. It won’t, not by a mile. If President Buhari does not sack Dr Pantami, investigate him, and arraign him in court for accessory to terrorism, he may be sullying his own presidency. The details surfacing about Dr Pantami are too sordid to be ignored or downplayed. The questions many Nigerians are asking is how deeply religious fanaticism has burrowed into the Buhari administration, which other bigoted politicians lurk in the government’s dark allies, including governors and ministers, and are influenced by Dr Pantami, and whether there is in fact a religious and treasonable conspiracy against Nigeria.