The naira remained steady against the dollar at the weekend. Its exchange rate at the official and parallel markets was stable, despite sustained dollar demand pressure from importers and manufacturers seeking the greenback to meet customers’ demands. Last week, the local currency exchange rate ranged from N482 to N486 to the dollar on the parallel market against N480 to N485 at the end of the previous week. On the Investors & Exporters (I&E) window, the currency fell to N412, but recovered to N408.67/$. According to a trading associate at AZA, global forex dealing firm, Oghenefejiro Eduviere, the market liquidity has reduced as Central Bank of Nigeria (CBNs) policies have restricted Forex inflows into the market in the face of huge appetite for dollars. “In the absence of any new policy announcements, we expect the Naira to continue in this relatively rare stable mode this week, hovering around N480 to N490 levels on the parallel market and N408 to N420 level on the I&E window,” he said in an email note to investors. Member of the CBN-led Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) Prof. Adeola Adenikinju advised the apex bank to ‘creatively adjust’ the exchange rate at minimum cost to the economy. In his personal note to the MPC, Adenikinju, who is also Research Professor at the Centre for Econometrics and Allied Research, University of Ibadan, described exchange rate management as challenging due to shortage of foreign exchange in the economy. He said: “The exchange rate management will continue to be challenging as the deficits in trade account and current account during slowdown in remittances and Foreign Portfolio Investment (FPI) persist. Hence, the CBN must creatively adjust the exchange rate at minimum costs to the economy.” He further called for continuous dialogue between CBN and key stakeholders in the economy, like non-oil exporters, to ensure synergy between the apex bank policies and programmes and the incidence of their implementation. One of the top CBN policies refraining foreign capital inflow include plan to shut down Open Market Operation (OMO) Bills- which are short-term central bank securities- sales to foreign investors. The policy shift could hurt market with over $40 billion investment, findings showed. The market for OMOs had grown to about $40 billion by the end of 2020, data from to Cairo-based investment bank EFG Hermes, with foreigners holding about a third. Besides, the apex bank restricted importers of milk from accessing foreign exchange from official market. It limited the importation of milk and other dairy products to six firms- FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria; Chi Limited; TG Arla Dairy Products Limited; Promasidor Nigeria Limited; Nestle Nigeria PLC (MSK only), and Integrated Dairies Limited. CBN Director, Monetary Policy, Hassan Mahmud, disclosed plans to phase out the OMO instruments “once current obligations have been redeemed”, but didn’t give a time frame for the policy implementation. Mahmud said the cost of liquidity management was getting too high and issuance of OMO bills should be a transaction between the central bank and commercial lenders. “It’s not supposed to be for the public, but along the line, the transition broke and investors who were non domestic were investing in OMO,” he said. The  debt sales handed foreign investors some of the best carry returns in Africa, with many of the investors borrowing from low interest markets, and investing in Nigeria where they got nearly 30 per cent returns in dollar terms. The OMO offerings were introduced to help stabilise the naira following the oil-price collapse in 2015. The CBN had previously barred individuals and local non-banking firms from buying high-yielding central bank bonds, a move designed to stimulate bank loans for purposes other than market speculation. The two types of investors are excluded from buying open-market operations, which are short-term central bank securities, the Abuja-based regulator said.