 Ebonyi State Commissioner for Information and Orientation Orji Uchenna Orji has chided the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for peddling falsehood to dent the image of Governor Davd Umani. He said the party fabricated lies against the governor and his wife in a bid to portray them in bad light. Orji, a lawyer, said in a statement that no no did find the wife of the governor threatened not to support her husband on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He said: “The attention of Ebonyi State  Ministry of Information and State Orientation has been drawn to a vicious, mendacious and faceless post captioned: “I will not vote my husband in APC,” falsely  credited to Her Excellency, wife of the Governor of Ebonyi State, and  made to trend in social media by  political jobbers deployed by the remnants of the drowned People’s Democratic Party, PDP in the State. “These elements have also resorted to  writing helplessly and derogatorily about the doyen of gender  mainstreaming, Mrs Rachel Ogonna Umahi (Ogoo Nwanyi), wife of the governor.  “While we take exception to this cheap and disrespectful blackmail, we make bold to state that the wife of our governor is a proud card carrying member of All Progressives Congress,  with registration number, EB/BZR/11/04202. “She is a great pillar of support to our Divine Mandate Adminstration and champion of  mobilisation for the cause of APC in the state.” He added: “Let it  be further reiterated that the elegant and superlative amazon of our dear State joined APC  with her husband as a response to the clarion call for South East to  reintegrate  into a party of national spread. “We therefore, want to use this medium to admonish the remnants of PDP in the state that no amount of lies and fake news shall mitigate the tsunami that has brazenly  befallen them since the glorious defection of the government and people of Ebonyi State to All Progressives Congress. “We also invite the members of the public to discountenance all the social media posts against the First Family of Ebonyi State as  a worthless political strategy of PDP to misinform the gullible and elicit public sympathy to their unpleasant  political fate . “Ebonyi State is irreplaceably APC and our dear Governor is indomitably delivering in his social contract with the people.” 