Despite huge human and material resources, Nigeria is heading for the brink and there is an urgent need to pull it back from this catastrophe”. “Increasingly, we are seeing a lack of capacity to manage our diversity. ”Closely tied to this is the dangerous threat to the unity of the country. How did we get here and what can we do to change the narrative?.’’ – Lai Mohammed, Minister of Information, in a letter inviting people to a meeting on the precarious situation of Nigeria. This minister is in faraway Sokoto, looking for what is right there  in his ‘sokoto’ (Yoruba word for pocket). He should look more closely. With due respect to any of my esteemed readers who may believe that I have become rather too critical of the Buhari administration which, incidentally, not a few count me among those they claim inflicted it on Nigerians, I shall, in a few weeks, get published here, some articles on some of President Buhari’s predecessors which will show how restrained I have been on the current government. Those articles were hard, depending, however,  on why I  wrote them. For instance, because Obasanjo was so disrespectful of us Ekiti’s, even though he never ceased coming to the state, enthusiastically singing, and dancing, to “OMO O LE JO BABA …, there was no word he considered too lurid to employ in describing us. He would even inflict an illegal emergancy on the state out of sheer hatred. Nor can we ever forget his role in the 2009 governorship rerun election which  involved his compatriot, the  INEC Resident Electoral commissioner, Mrs Ayoka Adebayo. In my articles on his adminidtration, I duly returned his contempt for Ekitis. For the very corrupt President Goodluck Jonathan government, harsh, even acerbic criticism by any columnist worth his salt, was a natural. So corrupt was that government no fund was considered beyond being stolen. that they completely ravaged the $2.1 Billion security fund, which would have, most probably, removed Boko Haram from President Buhari’s current headaches. They stole it all. Unlike the above, however, my angst with this  government proceeds from a huge personal disappointment. I had been a leading supporter of contestant Muhammadu Buhari  long before he became his party’s Presidential  candidate. Candidate Buhari carried a punch! A man of incandescent personal integrity and a retired general, who loved this country so much he came to tears over its lugubrious trajectory, I almost saw him as  the messiah Nigeria was waiting for. Thanks to First Lady Aisha Buhari, we would later know that his government had been snatched  away from him very early by a mafia. An ill-health that took him out of the country for weeks, did not help matters especially since the mafia  consisted of respected relations, old allies, even though,  highly prejudiced politicians who had been sworn to enmity against non- Northern parts of the country since their days in the Kaduna mafia. They are so ossified in their prejudices they even tried to smoke out the First Lady who was about the only voice for fairness, left around the President. Apparently these men had gone to work during the 4 -6 months the president said he was searching for his cabinet members and had penciled down, names of the Fulanis, Kanuris and Hausas – in that order, , regardless of whether or not they are members of the APC, who would take over the affairs of  Nigeria; no longer the man Nigerians voted. Today is, however,  not about President Buhari’s skewed, mostly one -way appointments which continue to make a complete mockery of the Federal Character Commission. I am also not concerned here today  with the promises he made  in the heat of  the campaigns to deliver improved security and  a sound economy to Nigerians; but suffice to say that insecurity has since  worsened, just as the economy has not fared better, having experienced two recessions since he became President.. Until recently when I read a Vanguard News compilation of the promises, I  have always thought that: “equating N1 to $1”, which is no 14 on the Vanguard report, was a cruel joke by the PDP. When I  also read the President promise to: “make our economy one of the fastest growing emerging economies in the world with a real GDP growth averaging at least 10-12% annually”, I concluded that the so- called premises were nothing more than the brain wave of some fecund creative writers out to take Nigerians on a jolly ride. I digress. The leitmotif for this piece is one word: Integrity. And for me, even now, President Buhari remains a man of unquestionable personal integrity. Unfortunately, not so his government. As proof, let us see what just happened  in the case of the Inspector- General of police. Addressing state house correspondents on Thursday, 4 February, 2021, the Minister of Police Affairs said that:”President Muhammadu Buhari has decided to extend the tenure of the outgoing Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu for three months to allow for a robust and efficient process of appointing a new IGP.” Not to be outdone, the Attorney-General, later said in a court process, that the extension of Mr Adamu’s tenure is backed by the Constitution and the new Police Act, 2020″. So why was he unceremonially yanked off on April 7 instead of in May? Is their arithmetic that bad or they just don’t know how things like this could  negatively impact on the president in whose name they play these their games? I have read some people criticising the appointment of another Northerner. NO, not me. What could have surprised me was if  the president  had appointed anybody from below the river Niger to that very important security post. That would not have been in  character, at all. The essence of this article, as I wrote earlier, is integrity. So let us return to that in compliance with the article’s title. As you read this, at least 3 or 4 workers’ strikes are ongoing, namely Doctors, Judiciary, Polytechnic academic staff, and the NLC can barely wait to see the government goof, try to make Nigerians pay for its indescribable inefficiency and corruption by increasing pump prices of oil. I am not by any means saying that strikes, or their regularity,  are new or a monopoly of this government. But for Christ’s sake didn’t this government come shouting CHANGE? Did they mean a change for the worse in every aspect of Nigerian life, except in the huge salaries and allowances of our National Assembly members which make them about the highest paid legislators on earth? They are even now, shamelessly asking for more. I would have asked anybody to perish the thought if told that in the 6th year of President Buhari’s government, these people who sit, literally in sinecure positions, could still be earning these highly atrocious amounts of money, for duties 10-year post graduation Nigerians would do for less than a quarter of what these people presently cost Nigeria. The Association of University teachers – ASUU – is one of the most democratic organisations in this country with a process of decision making that enjoys tremendous internal checks and balances that by the time it comes up with a position, you can hardly fault it. This goes, though at various levels , for the  other labour unions.That being so, why is a government of change never, for once, able to stick to its agreements with such unions? These are very serious Nigerians who would appreciate things if totally unexpected situations like the Covid – 19 pandemic erupts on the world, and ipso facto, on Nigeria, and would therefore readily accept reasonable adjustments to existing agreements. A government of integrity would neither renege on agreements it entered into without duress   nor will it  attempt to unilaterally change those agreements and then proceed to do everything to tarnish the image of persons who have contributed to the nation’s development than their antagonists can do in nine lives. Again, I ask, don’t these people know how all these negatively impact the image and government of President Buhari and make observers feel, like Dr Hakeem Baba Ahmed once said, that the Buhari government is at its wits end? This government sure needs help but it seems to me either too touchy or too proud to rethink its positions. Which again brings me to some of President Buhari’s promises to Nigerians. The Vanguard special presents the very first as:”Initiate action to amend the Nigerian Constitution with a view to devolving powers, duties, and responsibilities to states in order to entrench true Federalism and the Federal spirit”. For a government that means well for all, not  only for a section , what should  have stopped  that being done within the first 2 years of this government? Why does President Buhari hate inclusiveness? And why does he hate the Igbo so? Why such fixation against  a doughty, brilliant, and immensely resourceful people who have more than  paid their dues in national development? Is it still the elections when another is almost here? I can only end this article by borrowing from the President’s Easter message to Nigerians in which he said the following: ”Easter, the season in which Christians mark the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, represents the triumph of good over evil. It is a time to show love, forgiveness, compassion and renewed hope in the Grace of God. ”By placing the joy, comfort and happiness of others above ours, we will make a statement that vices such as, hate speech, bigotry, corruption, banditry and terrorism ( I add ethnicity) should have no place in our nation. We must do all it takes to love our neighbours and display increased spirit of tolerance and accommodation.” I urge President Buhari to begin to walk the talk. May God help him.