It has been reported that, two years after the launching of the country’s Micro Pension Plan (MPP), about 62, 463 artisans have opened Retirement Savings Accounts (RSA) with various Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) and these artisans now have a cumulative contribution of N89.68 million. This is a modestly impressive beginning to a commendable initiative, especially as pension policy and reform in the past had been targeted solely at workers in the formal sector of the economy. It is instructive that within the first nine months of the extension of the Contributory Pension Scheme to the informal sector, i.e March 2019 to December 2020, 58, 000 informal sector workers had registered and made a contribution of N64, 662, 323.38 to their RSAs. This is a measure of steady growth of participation of artisans in the MPP, although there is the urgent need to significantly upscale the number of this category of workers into the scheme. The introduction of the MPP to accommodate artisans and other workers in the informal sector demonstrates an awareness that our concern for the future financial security of workers, especially to enable them cope with demands of old age, cannot be limited to those employed in the formal sector alone. Given Nigeria’s protracted economic crisis, the high rate of unemployment and general economic hardship, it is becoming increasingly difficult for most children to comfortably bear the burden of their elderly ones, unlike in the past when the economy was good and it was relatively easier for the children to cope with such responsibilities. When this is combined with the break-down of the extended family system and the informal welfare scheme that it sustained, it becomes imperative that all workers be empowered through efficiently managed pension schemes, to support themselves in old age. The informal sector is not an exception. It is not unlikely that a number of artisans and other informal sector employees may be reluctant to participate in the scheme because, unlike formal sector employees, their income is not fixed and they may be unable to tie down funds as savings for prolonged periods without injury to their businesses. But this is why the law provides that workers in the informal sector who have contributed to the RSA for a minimum of three months will be allowed to withdraw at least 40% of their savings before retirement. Thus, according to the law, “Every contribution shall be split into two, comprising 40% for contingent withdrawal and 60% for retirement benefits”. There may also be those informal sector workers who are content with their participation in the daily savings scheme known as ‘esusu’ in the South-West, for instance, which enables them to jointly contribute money with others in a group, and enables them to meet emergencies or routinely run their businesses. This category of workers must be educated to understand that beyond the present, which the daily contributory scheme caters for, they must be concerned for their future financial security, particularly when they will no more have the physical strength to engage in strenuous labour. A report by Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) indicates that Nigeria has no less than 59.6 million workers in the informal sector. Thus, the 62, 463 artisans captured in the MPP scheme so far is only a drop in the ocean. PWC projects that if these 59.6 million workers contribute N100 weekly into a pension fund in 2016, for instance, by the end of 2017, the country’s pension industry would be worth N61.1 billion if the contributions were invested at a real return of 4.5% per year. Artisans and other informal sector workers not yet captured in the MPP thus represent a huge market, which will tremendously boost economic growth and development while also being of great benefit to participants in the micro savings scheme. A key factor to fully tapping and actualising the potential of this segment of the pensions market, however, is sufficient public enlightenment to educate informal sector workers on the tremendous benefits of the scheme.