  The Nigerian Army, 4 Brigade, Benin yesterday handed over 12 suspects arrested in connection with peddling illicit drug to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Edo State Command. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the suspects comprising 10 males and two females were apprehended with about 450kg of substance suspected to be cannabis sativa. During the handover of the suspects and exhibits to the NDLEA, Maj. Ojo Adenega, Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 4 Brigade, said the recoveries made were as a result of clearance operations. Adenega also said one of the suspects who engaged the army in a shootout was killed. Also, police in Kogi arrested three persons who allegedly invaded a POS centre and robbed the operator at gunpoint. Police spokesman William Aya who confirmed this in a statement yesterday in Lokoja, said that the suspects committed the offence at Ogidi, Ijumu Local Government of Kogi on April 13. He said they attacked the operator, inflicted injury on him and forcefully collected an unspecified amount of money from him. Aya said that the suspects were arrested at their hideouts by personnesl of Operation Puff Adder II . “Items recovered from them include one single-barrel gun and mobile phones,” he said. In Jigawa, two persons were equally arrested Gumel Local Government Area on armed robbery charges. Police spokesman Zubairu Aminuddeen confirmed the arrest in Dutse yesterday. Aminuddeen said the suspects were arrested on April 10 after they broke into the residence of one Haruna Mohammed of Masama village where they attacked his 35-year-old son. He alledged that the suspects shot the victim and robbed him of N1 million. Four suspected pirates were killed by police in Oron waterways in Akwa Ibom. One suspect was arrested. Police spokesman Macdon Odiko confirmed the incidents in a statement in Uyo yesterday. He said policemen acted on credible intelligence and embarked on a sting operation along Ikang creek in Oron to confront the suspected pirates. “Operatives embarked on a sting operation, along Ikang Creek, Oron where they were confronted by pirates numbering about 32 on board four speedboats, and armed with sophisticated weapons on Tuesday, April 13,” he said. Odiko said the suspects on sighting the operatives opened fire on them. The police returned fire, and in the exchange four suspects were killed, while others escaped on three speedboats. He said the exhibits recovered from the suspects were one W23 boat mounted with 115HP Yamaha engine, two rifles and six rounds of ammunition. fired gunshirs at them, and during the exchange of gunshots, one suspect identified as Nsikak ‘m’ whose other names are unknown sustained bullet wounds, while Imoh Daniel ‘m’ was arrested. He added that the injured suspect was rushed to the hospital for treatment but died in the process. According to him, the items recovered from the hoodlums are: one locally-made pistol, one live cartridge, one expended cartridge, one axe, one machete and a facemask. He said that the Commissioner of Police, CP Amiengheme Andrew, has assured law abiding people of Akwa Ibom that the Command would continue to partner critical stakeholders to provide security for every part of the state. NAN reports that the police had earlier killed four sea pirates in Ibeno Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom on March 4. 