 In a few weeks from now, Maureen Piribonemi Tanumo will assume office as the High Commissioner to Jamaica, Haiti, Belize, and the Dominican Republic. However, before her resumption, the Rivers-born diplomat has begun to show the world why she was appointed by the Buhari-led administration. The former Permanent Representative to International Seabed Authority seems to have hit the ground running with the task ahead as the ambassador to four countries of black heritage. Last week, Thursday, April 16, and Friday, April 17, 2021, she was in Osun State, where she visited Governor Gboyega Oyetola and the Ooni of Ife, His Imperial Majesty Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi. During her visit, she discussed extensively how to infuse and foster the Yoruba/ African culture and tradition into the lives of Nigerians residing in her designated consulates. During her visit to the Ooni, Tanumo thanked the monarch for the invitation and the hospitality accorded her and her entourage. “Kabiyesi, I am thrilled to be here on your invitation as the representative of Nigeria in the Caribbean and Jamaica on your invitation as the King of the black people. The Caribbean would be happy and also look forward to being associated with the people of Nigeria, especially those from the South West, who were transported as slaves many years ago through Badagry in the South-West part of Nigeria and Calabar. So, we have ancestors over there waiting for us to connect. As a woman who believes in the tradition and culture of our people, I was glad when I was accorded with this invitation by the Ooni of Ife to come here to see and also know how to communicate to the people of the Caribbean.” She further revealed that the Jamaicans had not been connected to Nigeria owing to a lack of direct flights from both countries. But this is being looked into and will soon be a thing of the past. In his response, the Ooni, who christened the ambassador-designate ‘Adetamilore – which means gift from the crown – said Tanumo has been adopted and the Yoruba race will continue to celebrate, honour and support her to become the greatest Nigerian diplomat. Tanumo also visited Lagos State governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to further export the cultural splendor, heritage, trades, and other institutional aspects of Lagos and Nigeria to investors and the world.