President of the Nigeria Football Federation Amaju Pinnick has commended the Chairman of the Nigeria Women Football League (NWFL), Aisha Falode and her board for the excellent organization of the just-concluded Super 6 Tournament held in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. “I must commend Aisha (Falode) and her board for the efforts that went into putting up such a showpiece. It was a fabulous event in all facets and I believe the NWFL as a whole deserve our praise. I was there and saw large parts of it and I was truly impressed,” said Pinnick. Perennial champions Rivers Angels of Port Harcourt clinched a place in the WAFU B play-off for the inaugural CAF Women Champions League by crushing Sunshine Queens of Akure 4-0 in one of Sunday’s two final games. “Admittedly, we need to do even more for women’s football in this country because as I always insist, the women deserve more attention having won as many as nine African titles for the country. It is no mean feat. I am enamoured by the superb organization of the Super 6 and I have no doubt that the positive vibes therefrom and the terrific after-glow will have some good impact on our efforts to engender real development and sustainability of the women’s game,” Pinnick added. Meanwhile, Falode, has expressed her gratitude to stakeholders for their contributions to the success of the Super Six Championship. In a statement yesterday, Falode admitted that stakeholders in Nigerian football contributed to the success of the competition: “I want to say a big thank you from the bottom of my heart to everyone who in one way or another contributed greatly to the successes of the just concluded NWFL Premiership Super Six Championship. “We will remain eternally grateful to the host governor, Mr. Dapo Abiodun, the executive governor of Ogun State for the hospitality and security throughout the one-week football exercise. “Of course, we are ever grateful to the number one sports citizen, Mr. Sunday Dare, for being there always for us. Our sincere gratitude goes to the Women Affairs Minister, Mrs Pauline Tallen, for being a role model of womanhood,” she added.