Gunmen suspected to be bandits on Sunday night kidnapped one person in Pegi community in Kuje Area Council of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The incident is coming less than a month after one person was kidnapped and ransom of N2 million paid for his release. Chairman Pegi Community Development Association (PECDA), Isaac Aderibigbe, confirmed the incident. He said the attack on the community was becoming worrisome as residents live in perpetual fear. Aderibigbe said: “Most frightening is when one of the lucky person that narrowly escaped heard the gunmen speaking in Hausa threatening to strike during the day time since most people now return home before evening”. He added the gunmen, who were in army fatigue, shot into the air and forcefully stopped cars on their way home. Aderibigbe said unfortunately Laide Muhammad was not lucky enough as he was whisked away. He said the kidnappers have since contacted the family of the victim asking for N15 million ransom for his release. One of the victims, who escaped from the kidnappers on his way home from work and pleaded to speak under anonymity, said he noticed some men in Army uniforms, which is very unusual in the area around 9pm on Sunday night. His words: “I was coming back home, as I got to where the tiled road was terminated where there is heap of sand, on my way to 1000 units gate, Pegi. “I noticed that people were sitting on bare ground and some people were standing. This to me was a red flag, I told my passenger that, this is not right so I put my car on reverse, a man came out from the bush with machete and hit the back of my car asking me to stop. I just continued to reverse. “As I was reversing I heard one of the kidnappers giving order in Hausa language that they should not shoot because if they shoot they will alert other motorists and residents. “Unfortunately, my car entered a ditch so I came down and continued running toward Kuje town where I started turning other motorists back and one of the cars now picked me. “We called the Divisional Police Officer for Pegi, who came and helped remove the car. I am still shaky and scared after that experience”. The Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Police Public Relations Officer, ASP. Yusuf Mariam who confirmed the incident, said there was heavy exchange of gunfire between police and the kidnappers before they went away with the victim. Mariam said efforts were on to rescue Muhammad.