Some years ago, Chairman of BUA Group, Abdulsamad Rabiu, one of Nigeria’s manufacturing giants and producer of BUA Cement among several other household consumables, stuck out his neck in yet another strategic entrepreneurship move aimed at bridging existing domestic sugar consumption demand and supply gap, when he ventured into the production and refining of sugar. Over this period, the BUA Group has pursued with vigour its set goals, principally to ensure that Nigeria’s sugar consumption needs are met with products churned out by local firms, in accordance with the National Sugar Master Plan (NSMP) which envisaged that a $1 billion, or more in local and foreign direct investments (FDI) will be attracted, or injected into the economy with the overall objective of creating more than a 100,000 jobs over a 10 year span. BUA Group is not a greenhorn where sugar related issues are on the table, it currently boasts of two functional sugar refineries in Lagos and Port Harcourt. Nonetheless, the conglomerate’s desire to  help bridge existing shortfall in sugar supply, and as well be a part of the job creation segment of the nation, has established a 20,000 hectres sugar plantation and refinery (about 60 per cent ready), in Lafiagi, Kwara State. The site is a beauty  to behold given its vastness and incorporation of other needed essential products and amenities, including power generation, health facilities, schools, housing estate, irrigation and an ethanol plant already completed. In addition, BUA has constructed dual carriage roads and an array of other community focussed projects, making the BUA Sugar Refinery, not just a plant, but an integrated industrial city hub, that will give birth eventually to many other ancillary industries within its vicinity and catchment area, in no distant future. Added to this, is the privately purpose-built three kilometre runway functional airstrip, designed to provide easy access to the factory. The Senior General Manager, BUA Refinery, Lafiagi, Abdulrasheed Olayiwola, speaks of the plant as not just a Sugar Refinery, but a four-in-one project, comprising of a Sugar Mill, where 10,000 ton cane sugar per day (tcd) is obtained, the Ethanol  plant, already completed with capacity for 20 million litres of ethanol derived fuel, the Sugar Refinery itself which is expected  to churn out 220,000 bags of white sugar and the Power plant is capable of generating 35 Megawatts of electricity, part of which will be ceded to the national grid and also to provide power to the catchment areas and surrounding communities. ”That is to show the kind of contribution we are bringing.  We are building a power plant, part of it will go to the national grid, which means that those around this area will benefit from the power project ongoing. We are building an ethanol plant. Those are the kind of things that are going on here,” Olayiwola said,  adding, “we have already started developing the plantation and as we speak, close to 7000 hectares have been cleared. We are removing trees all over, that’s to show the kind of development that is going on as we speak,” Olayiwola stated. He said there are over 20 varieties of cane in Lafiaji that we are being tested, saying the idea is to know the variety that is suitable in the area for commercial propagation . “So you will see different kinds of varieties when you go round Nigeria and  outside Nigeria which people have developed. In the future too, we are planning to have plant breeders that can develop indigenous varieties local to this environment so that we will have high yielding sugarcane in this area which we can even sell to other plantations in the future for their own use,” he said. According to him, to ensure adequate water supply to the plantation, BUA is constructing two canals from two ends of the River Niger into the estate, saying the irrigation method being adopted, is a special type of irrigation system from Israel where the quantity of water  used  is less, but the yield of the canes will be more because one is able to take water to the root of the cane directly and BUA, he said, is the only one that has started that drip irrigation  system.  “We are doing 4000 hectares of drip irrigation in the first instance. This is to show the kind of investment  BUA is putting into sugar plantation in Nigeria,”he explained.  Ethanol production On ethanol, Labaran Saidu, the engineer overseeing the project, said the plant is capable of producing 200,000 pounds of the products a day. As he puts it, “this is where we produce 99. 8 per cent purity ethanol that is 12 grade. We are going to be producing 200,000 pounds of ethanol every day. Our annual production is 20million litres. “The bye product of this fermentation unit is yeast which is of the export material.  Recently, one of the state governors approached us to buy the bye product for animal feed. This is a special product that makes those cows look big.” He said the biogas from the ethanol plant will be used to fire the boiler which will produce power. There are other bye products that we can get from this factory, including animal feed, he said is garnering a lot of revenue in Sudan, for example and it can also help in checking herdsmen-farmers clashes. “If you go to Sudan, animal feed is one of the major bye products that is earning them a lot of income. And so all these our problems of herdsmen and farmers, you can see with this type of sugar plantation,  having this kind of project all around, we will stop that problem because animal feed can easily be produced,  and like in other countries, they produce soap and cosmetic products from sugar extract so which means that from this kind of project, you can get a lot of things that can be done.”  Corporate Social Responsibility BUA is a  group of companies, Olayiwola said that takes Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) very seriously. He said: “Even though we are still at project level and  not yet producing, we don’t mind, but we make sure that all our communities are enjoying the benefits of BUA being around. ” And if you go to town, an average person in town will tell you the impact BUA is already making. When we got here, there was no road beyond this place, but now with the construction of all the roads we are doing, we are helping to connect more than 15 communities now. Before, once they come from town and there is rain, nobody dares go back to their villages because there’s no road otherwise before you know it, the person might get lost because of flooding or robberies, but now we have been able to connect all these communities through road network and we are still bringing more. ”In addition, as part of our own CSR, anytime  part of the communities which are close to the River Niger have flooding issue, BUA is going to intervene to make sure that all these things stop.  Now they can live in their communities in peace.  And every year since we started this project, not only in Lafiagi, but beyond Lafiagi, in the whole of the local government, we make sure that after Ramadan, gifts are shared throughout the community in the local government. “It is something we are doing that we have started right from 2016 and we have been consistent with it. This year again, Insha Allah  we will do it . Just down the road, the NYSC camp which is located in the local government, we just did some sports facility construction for them. These are part of the CSR that we are using to support the state. At the state level, we have done a lot in supporting sporting facilities because we know that youths are the ones who participate more in sports . “So we encourage youths to be more engaged so that we don’t have issues that we normally have with youth unrest. Because of the fact that we don’t want to disturb the peace of Lafiagi town, BUA is constructing a 7.5 kilometre dual carriage way; a bypass so that the community who are in the far end can be transporting their goods from the farm easily to the point of sales, Ilorin or anywhere. “ He said by the time “we go round, you will see the construction and you can imagine how much the construction of 7.5 kilometers carriage way is going to cost, but we are doing it for the fact that this is something Lafiagi deserves and we are doing it at the moment, BUA Foundation has started working on it all around the communities. “ So why I am particular about this is the fact that even though we have not started earning anything from Lafiagi, we make sure that at least, let the Lafiagi people and town alike, feel the impact of these projects.  Job creation Olayiwola stated the project on completion, the factory and the plantation will have about 5,000 workers in direct employment because when there is need to extract an hectare of land, it can only be imagined how many people will be needed. “And  for the factory, even before now, we’ve been planning on running an integrated factory and you can imagine the number of people. “So we are planning to have about 5,000 workers working within the place directly and indirectly, over 10,000 because we will have all sorts of auxiliary workers; the motor boys, packers and others that will be coming. That is the kind of project we are talking about and you can imagine if this kind of project is replicated all over the country, the impact it will make in the economy and environment,” he said.  Project cost For the investment,  Olayiwola said it  is over a $300 million investment that is ongoing and it might be more  because of what is happening in the economy and the range of the products that are factored into it, and by the time we go round, he added, “you will see what has been committed because a lot of work has gone into this project, including the three kilometer runway, that’s to show the kind of investment that has gone into the project. ”I can tell you that this is one of the sites that is highly rated by Sugar Council. In fact, it is the pride of sugar council.  If you talk to anybody in sugar council today they will tell you that look, BUA is the main VIP project they are looking up to. “Look at the array of products that will come out of that factory, none of the sugar plantations which have even been in existence  before BUA came on board, has come near it. For others,  it’s either they are doing 3500 tons per day, or 3000 tons and it is just sugar. None is up to 10,000 tons of cane per day. “So that is why this place is highly rated and it is one of the places Sugar Council is looking up to, to lead the realisation of the Sugar Master Plan. Every quarter, the sugar council team is always with us  to check the progress of work here and they always leave this site fully satisfied that yes, BUA is at work. The aim is to raise local production of sugar to enable the country attain self-sufficiency; stem the tide of unbridled importation; create huge number of job opportunities and to contribute to the production of ethanol and generation of electricity.