As part of its contribution to mark the World Health Day, a non-governmental organisation, the Zainab Muhammed Bima Initiative, has distributed delivery kits to 150 pregnant women in Minna, Niger State under its Save A Mother campaign. The delivery kit, according to the NGO, would compliment government’s effort towards reducing maternal mortality in the state Speaking during the distribution of the delivery kit at the Dr Musa Inuwa Primary Health Care in Minna, the founder of the organisation, Hajiya Zainab Muhammad, said the distribution of the birth kits was made under the Save a Mother Outreach of her organisation. According to her, getting qualitative medical care as a pregnant woman in rural and developing communities has been a major challenge, adding that this has caused a lot of maternal mortality in the state. Zainab, who lamented that a lot of women do not go to the hospital to give birth because of the lack of the birth kit which they cannot afford, said with the birth kits distributed, 150 maternal deaths would be averted. She said, ‘Pregnancy is a very integral part of human existence. If women who get pregnant don’t deliver safely and have healthy babies, the world as we know it would be completely different. “Daily, so many women die in labour rooms and even at home in the process of birthing their babies. A good number of these cases can be avoided if these women had attended ante-natal or the hospitals to give birth.” Zainab stated that her Initiative intends to reach out to 2000 women in Northern Nigeria to reach out to more pregnant women. The Niger State Family Planning Coordinator, Mrs Dorcas Abu, who lauded the gesture of the Initiative, urged the women to ensure they register for ante-natal and come to the hospital regularly for check-ups. Abu pleaded with the women not to sell the kits, as it would be very important to them during the time of their delivery. The kits contained a sanitary pad, an underpad, hand glove, cream, surgical blade, cotton wool, soap, spirit amongst others.