Policyholders have lamented the non-payment of claims by Standard Alliance Insurance Plc, The Nation has learnt. The underwriting firm has been failing to meet its claims payment obligation to the public. This development has been on for more than five years with an outcry from the public to the regulatory authority, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), to save policyholders from the menace. Policyholders have besieged the company’s headquarters at Plot 1, Block 94, Providence Street, Lekki Scheme 1. Lekki-Epe Expressway Lagos to protest to no avail. Sources said the company has been in trouble for more than five years with the chance of recovery deeming yearly. This has led to many chief executives of insurance companies to call for the cancellation of the company’s licence, as according to them, it has been tarnishing the image of the industry. They said the company is one of the few bad eggs causing distrust in the industry. They are calling on NAICOM to do the needful by cancelling the licence of the company. Investigation by The Nation shows that the company has not held its Annual General Meeting (AGM) for two years. Also, its account has been hidden from the public. Besides, the Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA) also do not have Standard Alliance’s result as shown in their yearly digest. An aggrieved policyholder, Shola O’Neil in Warri, Delta State with policy number IPP/10/0009392/WWR in a special appeal The Nation entitled: “Standard Alliance Life Insurance, Pay My Maturity Claim”, said: “I want to use your widely read newspaper to appeal to the management of the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to compel Standard Alliance Insurance Plc to pay my Income Assurance Plan maturity claim. The claim matured since May 2020. “I took the IPP Policy Number IPP/10/0009392/WWR in June 2010 for a 10-year period to May 31, 2020, and as the name implies, it is meant to protect my income. Nearly one year after maturity, I am yet to get my claims, despite several efforts and visits to the company’s office in Effurun-Warri. On my first visit, I was told it could take up to three months to process my claim. I felt it was irresponsible to have me wait for three months when the company knew from the first day that the policy would mature in May 2010. “I have also engaged NAICOM via their twitter handle, but that too has failed to yield any result. My experience with Standard Alliance is a very painful and sad one and it is same for many others like me who besiege their offices daily. The regulatory agency should note that this is one of many reasons Nigerians are skeptical about taking up insurance policies. NAICOM, which has the responsibility of, among others, protecting insurance policyholders, should take up this matter and ensure that Standard Alliance lives up to its commitment to me and pay my overdue maturity claim”, he wrote. A visit to the company’s Facebook page showed many aggrieved policyholders have confronted and called out the company, describing it as a scam. On the facebook page https://web.facebook.com/SAInsuranceNG/,  Adenle Ademola Kenny-Akon said, “This insurance company is a scam. I don’t know why NAICOM still allows them to keep scamming people.” Eniola Nesimone said, “This so-called company doesn’t keep their promises, destroyed family, relationships between marketers and clients, hold clients to ransom by withholding their hard-earned money thereby making people suffer emotionally. Almost a year now, they haven’t paid my money. All their contacts are fake.” Danny Morgan said: “They have refused to pay me my claims going to a year now…Initially I want to start a 5 years plan, but since they have refused to pay this very one, how then will I have the balls to continue with them? I’m pleading with you guys to please pay me up…SFAS/18/0006306/LAD”. Ogri Peter said: “Standard Alliance is not truthful to their dealings with their clients. They are becoming a big scam. They come up with different flimsy excuses. The Head of SPIS, Chioma don’t respond to her messages. She doesn’t have regards for her clients as she never picks her calls. I have been begging them to pay my claims. Chioma nothing is permanent forever, not even the loss of my job nor that your so much exalted position. Please keep to yours words.” Adebisi Ebere Akindele said: “Flee Standard Alliance Insurance Plc for not paying claims. They are criminally minded people that gave their customers heart attack & psychological trauma.” Wunmi Chroma said: “SALIFE just scammed me… I contributed for 10 years. Now they are nowhere to be found in Akure. Their number isn’t going through. God punish all of u thieves” Ankurufu Tsonga said: “I think and suggest we need to organise protest to make the public aware of what standard alliance is doing with people’s money after they work hard to earn and save money into their company and refuse to pay to the clients as they promised. Facebook shall be used as our TELVISION and we will sponsor it for the whole world to hear our voice and this will also stop those that are still saving with them (sic). SALife in has no fidelity and lacks of integrity.” Toyin Olayinka claimed “Standard Alliance Insurance is a scam” Dosunmu-Adeyemi Oluwatoyin called Standard Alliance: “One chance insurance” company. Dare Babatunde Adekanmbi  based in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital also reported the company to the newspaper. In his statement entitled: “Standard Alliance Insurance, pay my money”, he said: “I wish to vent my anger about the wicked refusal of Standard Alliance Insurance to pay my long-due claim on an insurance policy I subscribed to about two years. “I subscribed to two policies with the company in April 2018. The first is a one-year policy with the number SFAS/18/0005800/IBD (Special Flexible Assurance Scheme) at the Ibadan regional office of the company.  For the one-year policy, I paid N50, 000 monthly without fail into the firm’s Ecobank (0942000200), Zenith (1011813306) and UBA (1017621521) accounts (the company intermittently changed the account into which to pay midway into the policy). “The second policy is a five-year plan of N70, 000 monthly which I also paid into the aforementioned bank accounts without defaulting for 12 months. I have so far paid N840, 000 on this policy. Upon maturity of the one-year policy, I ought to have been paid my N650, 000 contribution plus accrued interest by May, this year, having paid N50, 000 for 13 months instead of 12. All the necessary paperwork to fast-track the payment was done early in May. As I write this letter on November 7, my money has not been paid and there is no official word as to when it will be paid. “Countless visits to the firm’s regional office, which ought to liaise with the headquarters in Lagos to quicken the payment, have been fruitless.The regional head no longer picks my calls nor does he respond to WhatsApp and text messages sent to his two telephone numbers. During some of my visits to the Ibadan office of the company, I met a couple of equally frustrated clients whose claims are being held on to. They painted a gloomy picture about the company. Tales were also told of how clients had to storm the Lagos headquarters of the company and create scenes before a tiny percentage of them got paid. “But unable to continue to wait, I petitioned the Ibadan zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on August 22, after all means to get the company to pay my money failed. On the day the EFCC officials and I went to the Ibadan office, the regional head was said to be unavailable. I am not aware he has since honoured the invitation of the EFCC officials. One of the staff boasted that the company had got a blanket court order purportedly restraining the EFCC from ‘harassing’ its staff over matters like this,” he added.  Company’s 2017 Auditors’ report Meanwhile, the company’s independent auditor, BDO Professional Services, in its report signed by Olugbemiga A. Akibayo on August 7, 2018, read: “We have audited the financial statements of Standard Alliance, which comprise, the statement of financial position as at 31 December 2017, statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity, and statement of cash flows for the year then ended; and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. “Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the shortfall of N1.477 billion in assets cover indicating that the company was not able to generate adequate liquid assets to cover the policy holders’ funds. Due to the large number of policies underwritten by the company, there is a risk that the revenue recorded in the financial statements and the flow of premium information from the underwriting systems to the financial reporting ledger may not be completely accounted for,” the report read. All efforts to get reaction of the company from the Divisional Head, Human Capital Management/Adminitration, Richard Ohoreoghene,who speaks for the company, via calls, SMS and WhatsApp messages, failed as he did not respond as at press time. The newspaper, however, sought NAICOM’s reaction from the Head, Corporate Communications, Mr Rasaaq Salami, asking why the commission has allowed the company continue business, having not been able to pay claims for many years. The newspaper also inquired  about what the commission was doing to stop unsuspecting public from becoming victims to Standard Alliance. Salami stated: “Your complaint has been forwarded to the Compliant Bureau Unit of the commission for necessary action. They will reach out to him.”  