AFTER releasing her ninth studio album in February 2021, Sola Allyson says her songs come from personal experiences. In this interview with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN, the mother of three who sings predominantly in Yoruba opens up on several issues including sex education, and her collaboration with Adekunle Gold.  Tell us how the music journey began for you I was just tired of just doing the same thing singing over and over again. I knew that I could act so I met a guy. I went to their office. I’m sure some of you must have heard the story before. So I went with the mindset of becoming an actress and it metamorphosed into me doing the soundtrack of the film, ‘Eji Owuro.’ And that was how it began. Did you plan to become famous with the soundtrack? When we did the soundtrack it wasn’t like I sat down and I planned that I was going to blow as you people call it, I just did what I had to do because everything I lay my hand on, I make sure I do it well as a woman, mother, as a wife and so on. After we did it they just put it in the film and they used it to advertise the film so instead of the regular jingle it was the song they were using so it made my face become a bit known. So, every time I was walking on the street at that time, I was living in Ibadan, people would be pointing at me in correlation with the film and song and it was then I knew I had become famous. Interestingly, I am a very private person even till now. How has it been since then? I have been evolving and it has been getting better. I mean the major part of it was difficult. I am emphasizing on it because these days when people meet disturbing blocks in life, they decide to commit suicide because we have been wrongly conditioned that immediately you become saved (as a Christian) things will change instantly. But it’s not always like that and it depends on where you are coming from and many times things are not equal. You begin a journey from that time and things start to change then you begin to shed some weight, so there were difficult times, difficult moments, and difficult seasons, but here I am today. I am very grateful for what I’ve been privileged to achieve right now but like I said before my journey is still far. Can you share with us the creative process of your latest album, Isodotun? The creative process of Isodotun…hmm, the way it happens for me, I sing from the abundance of my spiritual experience, I don’t just sit down to say I’m due for an album. For instance, between ‘Eji Owuro,’ ‘Gbeje Fori,’ ‘Ire’ and ‘Imo’ore,’ there were two years but between ‘Adun’ and ‘Ope,’ there were four years. For me, I wait depending on what is happening at that time. Everybody has their journey. What is important is for you to know you. You can’t know everything, pay attention to how your journey is unfolding, so the creative process for me is about what life experiences I have had. Many levels of growth that I achieved that time like the title implies – Imuse. I had experienced what I said in the song before recording it. So many times, during my experiences, songs come to me, words drop in my heart though I wouldn’t know when I will use them but I just write them down. So the creative process for ‘Isodotun’ happened before it was recorded. If I say ‘Ijoba re de’ (your kingdom has come) it means I have experienced it before. Of course, I watch movies, I listen to people and I read books. But basically the most important source of my music comes from the experiences of life. For what purpose do you think these songs come to you? I believe I am receiving them not just for me but my kind because they are more than people that are not my kind. People who are struggling to bring something beautiful out of the challenges that life has given to them are more than those who met good systems on ground. So I believe any song I receive, anything I do, I am doing it so that my kind who can identify what I do can be helped. It’s just now that people are coming out to tell their stories. How open are you to collaborations with secular artists? I collaborated with Adekunle Gold and I was almost killed for it. I enjoyed the experience and I am going to do it with anybody whose music is compatible with mine. I collaborated with Adekunle God because he sings in Yoruba, his mode of delivery and the things that he sings about not breast and bum bum. We need to question a lot of things, we believe that somebody cannot do clean good music until they wear the emblem of “I’m a born again Christian.” Even if we want to narrow it down to Christianity, Jesus said go ye into the world not go ye into Christians alone, he didn’t say go ye into the church. What is the problem if I say I am a Christian but I want to sing like this, why should I be put in a box with my gift? We need to start questioning the things that we know. Please what is the difference between saying “I am a child of light and I am a child of God”? But because you expect me to say it the same way you say yours, then we have issues. If you knew your father very well and you hear your father being mentioned even when his name is not mentioned, if your spirit is open, you should know that this person is actually talking about your father. I am open to collaborations but it has to be based on the direction I get. For a person like you who performs to a large gathering of people physically, how strange is it to you performing to people online as a result of the pandemic? If I have to perform to a ten thousand capacity audience or one hundred, for me it doesn’t make any difference. I am in the entertainment industry but I am not an entertainer. I’m somebody who believes that where I am right now, somebody’s soul is being steered. I don’t feed off people’s energy. I concentrate on my own ambience spiritually and I come to deliver it so whether I’m doing it live or virtually, it is the same. I still make money and I will even take more because I’m going to pay for a studio to perform for people virtually. What were your fears about Covid-19? I’ve always known that Covid won’t go but we will find a way. I knew that inspiration would come for those who are in charge of medicine and they will find a solution just like they did when malaria was first discovered. What do you have to say about claims that you hardly mention ‘Jesus’ in your songs? I don’t need to explain to anyone about how I sing my song and choice of words. It boils down to the same thing I said earlier, we need to start questioning the things that we know both the real and fake ones. How important is having family time for you? It is very important because it helps to get the family closer. The most important thing is parenting and in doing that, one has to create a family time to rub minds even sometimes, argue. Sometimes, my kids disagree with me on certain issues but respectfully and politely. So, family time is very important and very compulsory. For instance, talking about sex with teenagers, some people tell them they will go to hell if they have sex but no tell them that having sex is like eating hot yam, you know that eating hot yam can cause damage to the mouth, it can only be enjoyed when it is cold. They need to know certain things because they are getting to puberty and so many things will be setting in so they have to be lectured properly so that they don’t get into the wrong hands. Let them know that how they feel when entering puberty isn’t devils work or a sign of sickness but your body is changing and you are evolving into a full grown human being.