Against the backdrop of rising wave of insecurity across the country fueled by banditry, kidnapping and killings, farmers’ groups have impressed on all tiers of government the need to ensure the security of lives and property, particularly of the farming communities in order to guarantee food security. Making this appeal recently was the National President of the Association of Nigerian (AFAN), Alhaji (Engr.) Farouk Rabiu Mudi. According to Mudi, who spoke at the three days General Assembly of Farmers (GAF 2021), in Kano, said, going by its mandate, AFAN is instrumental to effective delivery of farmer support by government over the years, whereby its policy advocacy and influencing roles are germane to greater availability, accessibility and affordability of farm inputs to its members. There is therefore the need for governments at all levels to partner with AFAN more closely for effective delivery of farmer support services in Nigeria, he stressed. The AFAN boss further noted that “For food security to be achieved in Nigeria is a policy imperative to ensure peace and security in the country. Thus, federal and state governments, in collaboration with various security agencies, should develop various mechanisms and organise dialogues, in order to identify those sponsoring insurgency and banditry for prosecution and appropriate punishments. “Other policy imperatives emerged specifically for facilitating the delivery of farmer support services in the country. In policymaking for agricultural development by both federal and state governments, whereby the state.” Speaking earlier, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Alhaji Muhammad Sabo Nanono, who congratulated the elected National President Mudi, assured him of the support of his ministry. The minister said that government have a good plans for Nigeria farmers, because of the important role they play in the country and appealed to Mudi to be focus as the farmers national leader. National President, AFAN, Mudi, commended the minister for his tremendous achievements and his supports to the farmers. Chairman of Board of Trustees (BOT), AFAN, Admiral Murtala Nyako (Rtd), represented by Senator Bello Jubril Gada, and commended Mudi as an achiever and a hardworking man who will revive the group from redundancy to activeness. The newly elected AFAN executive members are, Deputy National President I, Prince Olisegun Dasolu (Ogun), Deputy National President II,  Com. Confidence  Mac-Eteli (Bayelsa), National General Secretary , Mr. Yunusa Halidu (FCT), Assistant National Secretary,  John Oluwoye Olatero (Oyo) and National Treasurer, Alhaji Adebayo Hammed Ayodele (Kwara), as well as others. 