Rivers State Commissioner for Sports, Barrister Boma Iyaye, said sports development, promotion and organisation stand to benefit more following the numerous road and land reclamation projects being executed by Governor Nyesom Wike. Speaking at a briefing in Port Harcourt with sports journalists on Team Rivers’ preparation for the forthcoming National Sports Festival in Edo, Iyaye noted that with the projects spread across the local government areas, the state is in a position to seamlessly host national and international sports competitions. He noted that with the plethora of solid road networks within the state capital and beyond, Rivers State was in a position to host local and international marathon races and cycling competitions, in addition to beach soccer and volleyball at reclaimed lands. The Commissioner emphasised that one of the parameters of awarding hosting rights to cities are good road networks, which ease movement of officials and participating sports men and women. Iyaye added that to further deepened his love for sports development and economic growth, the governor built a world-class football academy; the Real Madrid Football Academy. He said: “We must commend Governor Nyesom Wike for his vision and sense of responsibility. His broad approach to developmental issues has also triggered opportunities in the sports sector. “We can now host national and international marathons because we have solid road networks that include no fewer than eight flyovers, just as cycling can also take place in our state. “ He added: “The governor is reclaiming lands in many riverine communities and these can also serve as breeding grounds for talents in beach soccer, volleyball and other beach-related sports. “We are proud of our governor, who understands that there is a nexus between provision of infrastructural facilities, sports development, harnessing of talents and wealth creation. “We all know that when you engage the youth, they have no time for social vices and when they are productive, they earn means of livelihood and become useful members of the society. “On our part as a Ministry, we are ready to collaborate with local and foreign sponsors who want to organise sporting activities in the state in line with the NEW VISION. Our doors are open for partnerships and collaborations in developing sports in the state,” he stated.