Usmanu Danfodiyo University Sokoto (UDUS) became the first institution to get a solar-powered electric vehicle charging station in the country last week.This has generated excitement among students and members of the university community, reports ABDULWAHEED SOFIULLAHI (UDUS).   These are exciting times in Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto, (UDUS). The National Automotive Design and Development Council(NADDC), on last Thursday inaugurated Nigeria’s first Electric Vehicle Charging Station in the institution. The  NADDC collaborated with the university on the pilot project. NADDC Director-General Jelani Aliyu said the project was part of the Federal Government’s commitment to building sustainable technology. “This is the beginning of a new era for Nigeria as it marks the realisation of government’s desire to build sustainable technology in the country. “Moreover, our vision and mission at NADDC is not just to enable the production of vehicles in Nigeria but also producing the best and most-advanced technology vehicles. “Today, we have inaugurated the first 100 per cent solar energy powered charging station in Nigeria. The reason for choosing Sokoto for the pilot project is the harsh weather. “However, such weather has become a blessing for us as we can power our homes, offices and even utilise it for industrial consumption,” he said. Aliyu also said  the NADDC was partnering three universities — UDUS, University of Lagos, UNILAG, and University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), with the hope of advancing research in renewable energy “With the current development, Nigeria can power her economy exclusively with renewable energy and, by the time that is achieved, the challenges of power would become history in the country,” he added. He said it was an avenue for the institutions to utilise the  best in research to enable them come up with more-advanced technologies in the automotive industry. The Vice Chancellor of UDUS, Prof. Lawal Bilbis, described the inauguration as a landmark for the institution, Sokoto State and Nigeria at large. Bilbis, who was  represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Administration, Prof. Ibrahim Magawata, assured that the university would continue to collaborate with NADDC. “We are hoping that the collaboration will usher in favourable results to enable Nigerians, even in remote villages, to rely on the gift of nature for energy,” he said. The Dean Students’ Affairs, (UDUS), Prof. Aminu Mode, said the management was delighted on the latest development in the institution. “The management is happy about this new development on campus. As we know in Sokoto State, the sun can make solar powered vehicles charge faster and stronger. And we believe as time goes on, the institution would keep advancing and developing among the comity of tertiary institutions in the country,” he said. Oluwasheun Joseph Hassan, an official of (NADDC) working at the new station, explained the charging process and how the vehicles work to students. He said: ” When these vehicles are fully charged, they can travel as far as 480km, that is really amazing. If you are to travel from Sokoto to Lagos, a distance of more than 1000km, then the batteries must be charged three times for long hours. “We drove the cars from Abuja to Sokoto, the movement was okay. They were faster compared to other cars. The  vehicles  do  not use fuel, engine oil. There is no need to change oil because it is purely electric. We did not  come with a spare tyre  because the tyres are durable. At  present, we use solar to charge them. If it is compulsory to charge it while embarking on a long journey, we can use  a  wire to charge  the car. Other branches will soon be launched in Lagos and Nsukka.”  Students celebrate UDUS Abdurrahman Adamu, a 300-Level student of Chemistry, expressed delight about the new development in the school. ‘’I am excited to witness this first solar powered electric vehicle charging station, being the first station in Nigeria. It is a blessing for the entire students. I am glad because today’s experience is incredible. It is a lifetime experience even seeing the electric cars  in operation,” he said. Umar Hammad Yero, a 300-Level student  of Adult Education, said: ‘’Here in Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto is a big development for us, something that has never happened before in Nigeria. Some people might think this would first happen in the South,  but we’re happy that it was launched in the North. Those vehicles are fit to be used as private cars if one can bear the costs.” Adekanbi Mariam Olawumi, a 300-Level student of Chemistry Education, said the charging station would pave way for more development in the university. “The station beautifies the school; the campus looks more attractive than before. It has also brought honour to our varsity and state. What really surprised me about the  vehicles is that; everything is electric. It is a great development for UDUS. If solar-powered vehicles like these ones are produced for students, they would get to campus on time for lectures and all,” she said. Wahab Afolabi, a 200-Level student of Computer Science,  noted  that with the latest development, students’ horizon would become broadened. “We’ve created history in Usmanu Danfodiyo University and I’m so excited about it. In Nigeria, the first solar-powered electric vehicle charging station  was launched here. It is a remarkable achievement  and pride for the university. This new development would broaden the horizon of students,” he said. Soliu Ridwanullah, a 200-Level student of Public Administration, expressed his satisfaction over the development, stating that it would add to the prestige of the university. “This new development is pleasing. UDUS would be envied by other institutions across the country,” he said. Maryam Raji, a 400-Level student of Mathematics  Education,  said: ‘’This experience is amazing and I am happy that this was first launched in my school; marking the first of its kind in Nigeria. I commend the efforts of those behind the initiative and congratulate the  management and all students.” Another student, Soliu Habeebullahi, said: “Being a student of this university, I am so happy to see the first electric vehicle charging station in Nigeria launched here. Actually, this school is known as an ancient school that has produced different people who are now the pride of this country. The likes of Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and INEC Chairman Mallam Yakubu, among others.”