One of the highlights of the just concluded 20th National Sports Festival that would continue to resonate in the days ahead is the golf tournament, a game where Governor Godwin Obaseki and his deputy, Rt Hon. Philip Shaibu featured. They demonstrated their skills as the governor did not only tee-off at the tournament which was played at the Benin Gold Club, Government Reserved Area, (GRA),  where he underscored the benefits of the game to players and enthusiasts. Defending champions Delta State emerged the overall winner with a total of 384 medals to pip the hosts Edo State who won 341 medals. Team Delta finished the Games with 158 gold, 116 silver and 110 bronze medals while Edo had 129 gold, 104 silver and 108 bronze medals. Team Bayelsa was a distant third with 56 gold, 55 silver and 58 bronze medals. Sokoto and Taraba States were at the bottom of the medals table with just three and two bronze medals respectively. At least 18 states etched their names on the golf medal table, with Delta topping the chart by winning five gold, one silver and three bronze medals, followed by Bayelsa with five gold, five silver and two bronze medals.  Plateau won three gold, two silver and one bronze medal, just as Edo State won two gold, four silver and three bronze medals. Ogun, Kaduna, Kano and Ekiti states won one gold and silver medals each, in addition to two bronze medals by Ogun and one bronze by Kaduna. The Federal Capital Territory, Oyo, Niger, Rivers and Akwa Ibom states also had their names on the golf medal table. Meanwhile, Governor Obaseki said that the state government has concluded plans on how to maintain the world-class facilities used in hosting Nigeria’s own Olympic Games, stating that its maintenance was the duties of all sons and daughters of Edo. “There are tremendous changes in Edo today regarding how we maintain the structures and institutions,” he said.“It has to do with the people, with capacity building and making sure you have the right processes and procedures. “Through the new hiring and recruitment which are on-going in the Edo State’s public and civil service, we are going to put in place not only the right people but also the right systems and institutions to sustain what we are doing. “I am assuring Edo people that these facilities will be kept well. It is owned by Edo people and therefore we must have systems in place to ensure that they are maintained.” Yet Obaseki who is an avid player, highlighted the benefits of the sport:  “For us, golf is about good health and happiness and making sure one accomplishes God’s purpose in one’s life. “Golf is a game of life because it tests one’s endurance, fitness and ability to face life’s challenges. “In America and other parts of the world, the game of golf is played by all, irrespective of their financial status; it is not meant for the rich alone; golf requires a lot of mental participation.”