The Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Senator Mohammed Ali Ndume, has urged the Federal Government to try alleged Boko Haram financiers in an open court. Ndume told reporters in Abuja that those financing Boko Haram should be immediately exposed. H said: “The Presidency said recently that Nigerians would be shocked if it revealed the identities of those who are sponsoring the Boko Haram insurgents. Can you imagine that 400 Bureau De Change operators are the people funding Boko Haram? When the BDC operators are arrested now, what will the government do with them? The Presidency is already saying their case is confidential. What is confidential about it? “The Presidency should expose the identities of all the BDC operators so far arrested and carry out their trial in public. “If any of them is innocent, he should be allowed to go while those found guilty must be made to face the music. “When I was wrongly accused, I was tried publicly and I was vindicated. The trial lasted six years in an open court. “If there is any criminal act linked to anybody, no matter how highly placed, let the evidence be placed before the public, there should be no secret trial. Nowadays, criminals are arrested and paraded without further action. Nobody knows what happens to the people who killed 11 soldiers in Benue State recently. “What happened to those who beheaded policemen in Cross River State? If everyone is doing what he is supposed to do as defined by our Constitution and laws, we would not have these problems. Citizens should expose suspicious movements.” On the issue of the United States of America’s advisory to its citizens on travel to Nigeria, Ndume said the U.S. has the right to advise its citizens on security. He advised Nigerians not to travel anyhow within the country. “America has the right to advise its citizens on the issue of security just the same way I won’t advise anybody to travel anyhow within Nigeria. There is no big deal about the American travel advisory to its citizens wishing to come to Nigeria. “The truth of the matter is that we are facing security challenges that are more intense than the situation before now especially with the new dimensions in addition to the existing ones. “It is a matter of concern. I am of the view that the security and welfare of the citizens should remain paramount. “We need more personnel in the military and security forces with modern equipment to prosecute the war. “All hands must be on deck. Citizens must provide useful information while the security agencies should be adequately empowered with modern weapons to enable them to act fast whenever information is provided. “I am scared and worried because I don’t have anywhere to run to. Right now I don’t have a visa to any country. “Nigeria is the only country that I have; that is why I am so passionate about my country. I believe so much in this country that is why I don’t travel out for my holidays. “I spend all my holidays travelling from one state to another with members of my family. That is why the current security situation is of great concern to me,” Ndume said. The Presidency through the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, last month, said the Federal Government had arrested some Bureau De Change operators facilitating the transfer of money to Boko Haram terrorists. He alleged that some Nigerians transferring money to the sect from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) were working with the BDC operators. Dozens of persons have been arrested by security agents in an ongoing nationwide crackdown on suspected financiers and collaborators of Boko Haram. Those arrested are said to be kept in military and DSS facilities in Abuja and other places.