Local fashion designers with an eye on the international market can now heave a sigh of relief thanks to a new tech application, Oyoyo app. The recently launched game changing app set to revolutionise the Nigerian fashion industry, is the brainchild of Catwalk Creatives Limited, sister company of Lassod Consulting. Oyoyo designed and built by Nigerian tech engineers, will connect designers, tailors and (Aso Ofi) weavers in Nigeria with a nationwide customer base. Building on the heritage of the Nigerian fashion and traditional textile industry the app uses technology to harness the history of garments designed and manufactured by individual fashion designers and weavers and cataloguing them in an accessible format. Creating this resource enables simple re-ordering and a point of reference for customers. One unique benefit of Oyoyo is the intuitive “measurement management” feature which allows fashion designers to take, store and convert measurements of the individual into the desired format. By creating this order history it provides transparency between tailor and client and overall improves productivity and levels of quality. Clients or the “Oyoyo fashionistas” as the app terms them, can search, like, comment and follow individual artisans and designers as well as connect with them and access their services. On the launch, Executive Chair, Lanre Sanni said, “This is an exciting time for Catwalk Creatives and Lassod as Oyoyo is the first of our products to launch in Nigeria. I feel very proud that an idea I had a couple of years ago is now coming to fruition. Using visual technology in a very accessible way as a digital marketplace, Oyoyo will showcase local talent on both the national and international stage.” Oyoyo is supported by a leadership team who are based in Nigeria and the UK, Lindsay Burham-Lowes, Chief Executive Officer and Faith Olaniran, Intern. Mr Sanni also disclosed, “As most of the development has taken place over the past 12 months, the pandemic has proved that despite the distance of the teams, we all have a common goal to succeed. The impact Oyoyo will have on the fashion industry in Nigeria is substantial and opens up new opportunities which previously were impossible.” “It is our mission to create sustainable commercial opportunities through recruitment and technical innovation in Nigeria and the wider African continent. I know there is a wealth of talent and we have ambitious plans to utilise those skills,” he further explained. The Oyoyo app is available on Android and is currently offering a free subscription for designers, tailors and weavers as well as other professionals operating in the fashion industry. It will be free to access for customers. 