 During his prime days as Governor of Abia State, Orji Uzor Kalu, Senator representing Abia North at the upper National Assembly is well known beyond the southeast region. His popularity spread like wildfire across the country becoming the youngest governor in Nigeria at age 39, thereafter serving two-term between 1999-2007. On Wednesday, April 21, 2021, the politician and Chairman of Slok Holdings celebrated his 61st birthday amidst glamour. A close source divulged that the senator organized a low-key house party dinner at his palatial Abuja residence where he hosted top political office holders and business czars for his 61st birthday. He is scheduled to proceed to his hometown this weekend, where he will host his people and also donate and empower the needy. The birthday boy means so many things to different people. To the politician, it’s a birthday worth celebrating, most especially as he was unable to throw a massive 60th birthday shindig for himself last year as a result of his incarceration. Like a true-born fighter, the senate Chief Whip bounced back rededicating his life for service to humanity like a cat with nine lives.  For his commitment to better the lives of the girl-child as part of his campaign promises, the chief promoter of Orji Uzor Kalu Foundation (OUKF) recently, made a personal donation of N10 million for the construction of a female hostel at Holy Rosary Girls Secondary School, Umuahia where he further reiterated his constant support for the investment in girl-child education for the sake of national well-being. The businessman and politician have been advocating for girl-child education, gender equality, peace and unity, youth and women empowerment, and credible leadership. Within a short while as the Senate Chief whip, his impact is being felt across his senatorial district as he facilitated the rehabilitation of several abandoned road projects, youth empowerment, drainage construction, educational empowerment, health outreach, and other humanitarian needs that will make life easy for his constituents.