Pope Francis has urged countries to quicken the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines, particularly to the world’s poor. The pontiff described armed conflict and military spending during a pandemic as “scandalous’’. He gave the advice in his Easter message on Sunday. “I urge the entire international community, in a spirit of global responsibility, to commit to overcoming delays in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their distribution, especially to the poorest countries,’’ he said. Coronavirus has meant this has been the second year in a row that Easter papal services have been attended by small gatherings at a secondary altar of St. Peter’s Basilica, instead of by crowds in the church or in the square outside. After saying the Mass, Francis read his “Urbi et Orbi” (to the city and the world) message, in which he traditionally reviews world problems and appeals for peace. “The pandemic is still spreading, while the social and economic crisis remain severe, especially for the poor. “Nonetheless and this is scandalous, armed conflicts have not ended and military arsenals are being strengthened,’’ he said. Francis, who would normally have given the address to up to 100,000 people in St. Peter’s Square, spoke to fewer than 200 in the church while the message was broadcast to tens of millions around the world. The square was empty, except for a few police officers enforcing a strict three-day national lockdown. At one point, nearly nine thousand people were simultaneously celebrating Jesus’ Resurrection with the Pope on Vatican News’ English-language Facebook page alone. Over 170 broadcast networks and media outlets picked up the Easter broadcasts, which has seen much wider coverage in recent years due to live-streaming. The Vatican this year also added a service in sign language. On this holiest of Christian feasts, Pope Francis chose not to multiply words but to reflect in silence on the mystery of Christ’s Resurrection from the dead. In place of a homily, he led the faithful in silent prayer following the proclamation of the Gospel of John (20:1-9), which was chanted in both Latin and Greek. The Pope asked God to comfort the sick, those who have lost their loved ones and the unemployed. He urged authorities to give families in greatest need a “decent sustenance’’. He praised the medical workers, sympathised with young people who are unable to attend school and said everyone was called to combat the pandemic. “There are still too many wars and too much violence in the world! May the Lord, who is our peace, help us to overcome the mindset of war,’’ Francis, who has often called for disarmament and a total ban on the possession of nuclear weapons, said. Noting that it was International Awareness Day against anti-personnel landmines, he called such weapons “insidious and horrible devices … how much better our world would be without these instruments of death!’’ In mentioning conflict areas, he singled out for praise “the young people of Myanmar committed to supporting democracy and making their voices heard peacefully’’. More than 550 protesters have been killed since a Feb. 1 military coup in Myanmar, which the Pope visited in 2017. Francis called for peace in several conflict areas in Africa, including the Tigray region of northern Ethiopia and the Cabo Delgado province of Mozambique. He said the crisis in Yemen has been met with a deafening and scandalous silence. He appealed to Israelis and Palestinians to “rediscover the power of dialogue’’ to reach a two-state solution where both can live side by side in peace and prosperity. Francis said he realised that many Christians were still persecuted and called for all restrictions on freedom of worship and religion worldwide to be lifted.