To inculcate innovation and creativity among youngsters, an Abuja- based finance outfit is organising an essay competition for secondary school students to mark this year’s United Nations World Innovation and Creativity Day celebration. The literary competition is to advocate among students and younger generation the needs to embrace sustainable model and system in Nigeria. The group Managing Partner, Olufemi Adedipe, who disclosed this to newsmen in Abuja, said the literary competition was to further drive conversation around global Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with a view to engaging younger generation. “This has become imperative because civilization and technology is threatening human’s healthy living and existence. “We also know that technology is at the same time empowering seamless living. We have found new easier and far more faster ways to do a whole lot of stuffs in a short period of time. “Therefore, we must constantly seek new ways to ensuring that human civilisation, technology and healthy living co-exist in such a way that the environment is sustained and our future guaranteed. “As an organisation that embraces sustainable model and systems, we believe that everyone should be concerned about the safety of our environment and ultimately the human lives, and we have constantly advocated for this,” Adedipe stressed. He said the objective of the competition “is to build an exciting platform for school kids aged 10-16 in Abuja to leverage on their creative prowess to generate, create and write an original innovative, sustainable model that supports and proffers solutions to any of the UN SDGs. “Bring together exceptional school children who are very innovative and gifted under a platform to provide acceleration and mentoring for them. “Breed deeper levels of interaction amongst participants to enhance cultural tolerance for nation building and intra-generational learning.” Three top candidates will get cash award, plaques and inducted into “The Pistis Alpha Scholars Club” while their schools get 50% of their cash prizes. “The grand finale will be a two-hour event where invited schools and their representatives, media outfits, UN representatives, government officials from the ministries of education, science and technology will also be in attendance,” he explained.