The end is shrouded in secrecy and mystery. Idriss Deby died the way he lived. No one is sure whether he fell to enemy munitions. Or he succumbed to friendly fire in a deadly conspiracy of the Praetorian Guard. The fact that the military promptly terminated the democratic charade in progress is a telling tribute to the phenomenon of elections without democracy in Africa. No one has raised any eyebrow, certainly not the international community or the African Union and the congeries of surrounding nations who viewed his departure with mournful trepidation. Surely there must be a structure first before we can begin to talk of its superstructure. A nation must be before it can mean anything. Having supervised four fathers to sons transitions in “post-colonization” Africa, the French are not about to discard a winning formula. It is just as well then that last year the fawning Chadian parliament proclaimed Idriss Deby Itno as Marshal of the Field. A marshal of the field he was indeed. But when the end came earlier this week, it was all too reminiscent of the typical African palace putsch. After replacing his father, Kabila the younger went on to rule the old Zaire for almost two decades before he ran out of plots. So forget about the democratic façade. Chad has been in turmoil for the past fifty something years, ruled by a succession of warlords. But for the few fitful years after independence which culminated in the assassination of its founding father, Ngarte Tombalbaye in 1975, Chad cannot be said to have known genuine democratic rule. Idriss Deby Itno belonged to this storied tradition of battle-hardened warlords who have held Chad by the jugular for most of its postcolonial history. It is a story of cruelty and savage infractions. One of Chad’s former rulers is known to have arranged to push a rival in the direction of the rolling propellers of a helicopter for onward transportation. Deby’s predecessor in office, Hissene Habre, aka the devil of Samangudu, is serving time in a Dakar jail for gross human rights violations. Idriss Deby himself was no spring chicken among this august assemblage of human vultures. In the run up to the last presidential election, he sent his troops to the home of his leading opponent and at the close of business they had murdered his aged mother and young son. For thirty one years, the former pilot ruled his country with an iron fist and a streak of vengeful intolerance. Yet whatever his authoritarian failings, his managerial shortcomings and intellectual incapacitations, Deby was by a long stretch the most militarily capable and gifted of all the warlords that had ruled Chad. His military exploits have become the stuff of legend. He was a warriors’ warrior. He was not a pepper soup general. A man of exemplary personal bravery, he led from the front and could often be seen in the thick of battle rallying his troops and directing proceedings. Having been forged in the furnace of fierce battles, Deby became the ultimate desert warrior. It was alleged that having collected a black eye from Deby in the battle for Aouzou Strip, Moammar Ghadaffi was so impressed by the Chadian’s military skills that he promised to assist him to become his country’s next ruler. The opportunity duly came in 1990 when Deby tore through the desert from Darfur in a characteristic three-week blitzkrieg which ended at the N’djamena presidential gate. Deby left his country neither economically developed nor democratically viable. But he left behind a battle-hardened, well-motivated fighting force that has become the bedrock and driving spirit behind the struggle against radical insurgency in the Lake Chad Basin as well as the Sahelian subcontinent. He had a particular aversion for crazed druggies parading as freedom fighters. In the event, Deby’s military significance and political relevance transcends the borders of his poor and arid semi-desert country. He was a virile symbol of pan-African possibilities in the era of continental and global volatility. Rather than clutching to their rash of colonially bequeathed but militarily vulnerable and politically unviable nations as if they are personal fiefdoms, African rulers must view Idriss Deby’s sub-continental roaming and trans-border derring-do as an omen of the immediate future. At the end of it all the entire colonial cartography of Africa would have been forcibly remapped. In order to better appreciate the political clairvoyance of the Idriss Deby moment in the postcolonial transformation of the continent, it is useful to recall where he was coming from. In a political portrait of the desert warrior published on this page only last year, this columnist noted thus and it is useful to quote at length: An event scantily reported but of great significance occurred this past week. In a multi-national trans-border military operation which makes nonsense of territorial integrity and the whole paradigm of post-colonial nationhood, Idriss Deby, the Chadian strongman, swept into Nigerian territory to give the Boko Haram insurgents a staggering body blow. It was a grim replay of the events of thirty eight years earlier when the then Major General Muhammadu Buhari as the GOC of the Third Division, against the presidential directive of his Commander in Chief, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, also struck deep into Chadian territory to pursue some ragtag militiamen fomenting trouble around the Lake Chad precincts. At that point in time, Nigeria could boast of an army with three well-provisioned and well-armed divisions making up arguably the sleekest fighting machine in the whole of West Africa. On the other hand, Chad could boast of four thousand five hundred soldiers up from the four hundred and fifty men comprising solely of demobilized veterans of French military campaigns in Vietnam and Indo-China that made up the Chadian army upon independence from France in August, 1960. But the table has since turned and by the time Idriss Deby was done last week, scores of Boko Haram fighters and their commanders lay dead and dying in scorching sand. Shekau, their monstrous and bloodthirsty leader, was literally gasping for breath while begging Idriss Deby for a respite. But the Chadian strongman was having none of that nonsense from the berserk brute. In a terse broadcast, Deby ordered Shekau and his demoralised troops to surrender or be summarily eliminated. In all this, the main regret of the warlord was that Nigerian soldiers were nowhere to be found to hold on to their territory recovered so that he can continue his march deep into Nigerian territory to flush out the insurgents. Deeply humbled as a fighting force, the Nigerian military command could only make some feeble noise about fighting on in some adjacent territory even as the territorial integrity of the nation lay in tatters. But by the end of the week, the noise of gun battle had receded. All was quiet again on the Ubangi-Chari front.  Around Wednesday, a triumphant Chadian military convoy clattered through the rusty streets of the capital.  There was no further word on Boko Haram and Shekau. If anybody had thought that the slippery and coldly calculating Deby was interested in saving Nigeria from military humiliation or political disintegration, such a person is a neophyte. With his military machine poised to punitive exertion by decades of relentless fighting, Deby could have gone all the way to Abuja if he had minded. But that is not part of his calculations. It has been noted by security experts that the death and departure of Idriss Deby has punched a massive security hole in Nigeria’s internal and external security arrangement. This may turn out to be a vast understatement. To be sure, the intrepid but wily Deby was not averse to gaming Nigeria particularly when the giant neighbour was down on its military luck. Only a fool will not help himself to the stew of a man being hotly pursued by violent masquerades. But overall, and as it can be seen from the above excerpt, Deby was far more interested in acquiescing at Nigeria’s current political arrangement than in adding it to his own country’s already benumbing difficulties. In the coming months, Nigeria must get its political and military act together. If Chad succumbs to centrifugal forces, if the swarming rebels unleashed from Libya overwhelm a stunned and disoriented Chadian army, and if Deby’s four star general son is found out to lack the grit, charisma and military nous of his outstanding father, the ensuing collapse of the Sahelian buffer zone may lead to a security nightmare for a Nigeria already shaken to its foundation by a plethora of internal woes.