Today’s world is making progress ultimately. The past couple of decades have brought many undeniable technological advancements in this world. Now, this world is more like a global village with almost all the digital technologies. For instance, today, most of us use technology very frequently. We use the internet usually on our mobile phones rather than on computers. You see that technologies have consigned the world to smaller but more innovative gadgets. Like such technologies, another technology was also introduced almost ten years ago. This technology is Digital currency such as Cryptocurrency, central bank, and virtual currency. Among all of these, cryptocurrency is the most prominent one nowadays. Cryptocurrency is such an online platform which allows the traders to perform online transactions, investment and depositions for highest profits. If you look around, you may probably get cryptocurrency involved in almost every business. This online platform has upgraded the view of money transactions. Due to the ultimate benefits and features of cryptocurrency, it is good to say that cryptocurrency will be the tradings’ future. Moreover, people nowadays are preferring cryptocurrencies over plain currencies. Many trading platforms like News Spy provide beneficial strategies to invest in cryptocurrency so that the traders can earn significant profits. At the very beginning of cryptocurrency, people were not aware of cryptocurrency. When the first decentralized cryptocurrency Bitcoin was introduced in 2009, people did not show any concern about the cryptocurrency. At the start of cryptocurrency, people of several countries did not embrace it with an open heart. Not knowing the benefits and advantages of cryptocurrency, they kept refusing to adopt cryptocurrency for the tradings. Well, people’s responses to cryptocurrency were not favorable. There were many fears and risks on traders’ heads that kept them away from adopting cryptocurrency. We have analyzed and spelled the top worry for which people did not know accept cryptocurrency at first. It is stated that people fear all those things they do not understand or cannot understand. So is the case with cryptocurrency, and it makes sense as well. In the beginning, people did not know who cryptocurrency works. They did not know the details about cryptocurrencies, their pros and cons, and their several platforms. When few interested people started to search about cryptocurrency, they knew that it is not a legal one. Hence, it was regarded as an illegal platform which performs the online transaction. Till now, it is not classified as a legal tender by the government of the US. This is another reason which kept people away from cryptocurrency. Another biggest reason which did not let people embrace cryptocurrency is the fraudulent activities associated with crypto. We all know, where there is advanced technology, there are more imaginative technological scams. Moreover, people were well-aware of the online scams and fraudulent activities. This imparted a very negative effect on the traders. At first, the traders thought it better to stay away from such risks. Later on, when improved security policies were introduced in the crypto world, the crypto usage ratio rose. When cryptocurrency first came among the people, it was not accepted due to its several risks and fears. People kept fearing due to its uncertain market value. They fear losing all the funds and money they would invest in it. So, at that time, people thought it wise to stay away from cryptocurrency. However, when people started to know about its benefits and advantages, they positively responded to it.