The Media Office of All Progressives Congress (APC) Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu has cautioned volunteer groups and supporters of the politician distributing rice and other gifts as well as those receiving them to verify the source and the content of what is being distributed. According to the spokesman of the Media Office, Tunde Rahman, the warning is coming on the heels of a statement the office issued on April 15, concerning rice distribution in parts of the North, bearing Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s picture. The office, which lauded the true humanitarian works of Tinubu’s supporters for their abiding concern for the welfare of those in need, said the society also has many who hate others and who would try to wreck the noble humanitarian efforts of others. It urged those who are distributing rice and other things to people in need – whether or not with bags bearing Asiwaju’s likeness or not – to please make sure they get the items from trusted and reliable suppliers. “Do not allow hate-filled people to turn your efforts against you”, the statement warned. It said as earlier indicated, Asiwaju Tinubu has never been one to take personal credit for the humanitarian work of others. The statement reads: “Nor will he do so in this instance. These good efforts are the labour of compassion by others. However, Asiwaju is gratified that those who support him also have this abiding concern for the welfare of those in need. “That this exercise of compassion and help is occurring during the Holy month of Ramadan makes it that much more gratifying. Thus, he commends the efforts of the various volunteer groups responsible for this benign act of charity and love for one another. “While lauding the efforts of these volunteer groups, Asiwaju, however, urges them to be careful. Sadly, just as we have true humanitarians among us, our society also has many who hate others and who would try to wreck the noble humanitarian of others. “Thus, those who are distributing rice and other things to people in need, whether or not with bags bearing Asiwaju’s likeness or not, we urge you to please make sure you get the items from trusted and reliable suppliers. Do not allow hate-filled people to turn your efforts against you. “Likewise, those who are receiving the rice and other items being distributed should only take such things from people you know and trust. You must verify the source and the content of what is being distributed. “That we have to issue such a warning is sad. It is necessary because we fear some malevolent elements may try to undermine and destroy these noble efforts because of their political opposition to Asiwaju or simply because they have no love for their fellow man. “Asiwaju says to such people that they have every right to oppose or dislike him. He defends their right to do so. However, they have no right to undermine humanitarian efforts providing needed food to the poor or otherwise victimise them. “If these actors want to fight Asiwaju, so be it. But they should have the minimal decency to leave poor people alone and not to disturb or disrupt attempts to alleviate the hardships of the hungry and struggling among us.”