When the federal government announced the approval of $1.5billion for the rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt Refining Company (PHRC) recently, the least they expected was an imprimatur of support from Nigerians, considering in the opinion of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva that the whole idea was well-thought out.  But the welter of criticisms that greeted the announcement is not something the federal government bargained for. Speaking with a cross-section of Nigerians, including stakeholders within the nation’s oil and gas ecosystem who should know better, the common thing that resonated with them is outright condemnation of the planned rehabilitation of the refinery. Welter of criticisms against repairs of PHRC In the view of Dr. Kolawole Adewoyin, the National President of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), it is scandalous that the federal government decided to commit such a humongous sum of money on the repairs of a moribund refinery like the PHRC. According to him, the rehabilitation of the PHRC is not in order. The IPMAN boss who practically lampooned the idea said the position of the independent oil marketers is that the only way out for the government can go ahead is to create an enabling environment for investors to build modular refineries in different parts of the country for ease of logistics in production cost as well as transportation of refined products. “Unless the government makes the bold efforts to get modular refineries working, we will continue to suffer the bitter pills of this faulty attempt at deregulation of the sector,” he said. Stanbic IBTC founder, Atedo Peterside is also on the same page with Adewoyin.  However, unlike Adewoyin, he would rather the $1.5 billion earmarked for the repairs of the Port Harcourt refinery is disbursed into nation’s troubling health sector. Peterside said the amount is enough to build 12 world class hospitals within the country, adding, that two of the hospitals would be located in each of the geopolitical zones. The investment banker and economist said the twelve hospitals are estimated to cost $125 million each. He reiterated that the federal government should allow private investors take possession of the refinery. Peterside said core investors should be sold the Port Harcourt refinery at its faulty state, with rehabilitation cost placed on the buyer, not the government. “The $1.5bn earmarked for PH Refinery Rehabilitation by the Mele Kyari-led NNPC could build 12 world class hospitals costing $125m each – 2 in each geopolitical zones. Echoing similar sentiments, Dr. Austin Nweze, a political economist of the Lagos Business School, said the repairs of the PHRC was bad economical management and planning given the long history of disrepair the refinery has suffered, adding that the cost is huge and is counterproductive. In defense of refineries’ rehabilitation However, some schools of thoughts hold the view and very strongly too that building a new refinery may be costlier than anticipated. While making a case for the rehabilitation of the PHRC, in his informed commentary under the title, ‘In Defence of Refineries’ Rehabilitation,’ Alexander Adejoh noted that the last time a TAM was conducted on the refinery was 21 years ago, precisely in 2000. According to him, “On the contrary, a cursory look at brand new refineries built across the world reveals that building a refinery of similar capacity as the PHRC is estimated at over $6 billion, depending on a number of technical and non-technical factors. For example, $10 billion was spent on building the Aramco Oil Refinery (250,000-300,000 bpd capacity) in Pakistan, $12 billion was spent on building Abrue Lima Project (230,000 bpd) in Brazil; while $27 billion was spent on building Pengerang Refinery and Petrochemical Integrated Development, RAPID (300,000 bpd + 3 mtpa naptha steam cracker) in Indonesia. In Nigeria, $19 billion has been spent so far on the Dangote Refinery (650,000 bpd), prior to commissioning and start-up of the plant.” It is worthy to note that for African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), which is the reliable lender for the project to have raised $1billion towards the initiative, it goes to show that the multilateral institution while the federal government will raise the sum of $550million. “A credible and capable lender like Afreximbank would never agree to put such huge amount of money where there will be no value. Also, the right governance structures have been instituted around the project implementation to ensure success. Similarly, Tecnimont SpA, the Original Refinery Builder (ORB) which is also the Engineering, Procurement, Construction, Installation and Commissioning (EPCIC) Contractor, is globally reputable and capable, with requisite experience of similar jobs across the globe,” Adejoh stressed. In the view ofAdejoh, that TAM is different because it will enable the replacement of aging/obsolete equipment as well as ensure that refinery operates at a minimum of 90% capacity utilisation. According to Omoefe, a cursory look at brand new refineries built across the world reveals that building a refinery of similar capacity like PHRC is estimated at over $6billion depending on a number of technical and non-technical factors. Specifically, he said over $10 billion was spent on building Aramco Oil Refinery (250,000-300,000 bpd) in Pakistan, $12billion was spent on building Abrue Lima Project (230,000) in Brazil while $27billion was spent on building Pengerang Refinery and Petrochemical Integrated Development, RAPID (300,000 b/d + 3mtpa) naptha steam cracker) in Indonesia. He further noted that in Nigeria, $19billion has been spent so far on Dangote Refinery (650,000bpd) prior to commissioning and start-up of the plant. Groundswell of support for TAM at PHRC Adejoh’s position is not any different from the view of Frederick Omoefe a petroleum economist. He said the TAM would save the country enormous cost. Meanwhile, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Timipre Sylva who had stirred the controversy around rehabilitation of the PHRC said things are not as bad as they’re being painted. While drumming up support for the repairs of the PHRC, Sylva urged Nigerians who are opposed to the project to hold him accountable for every dollar that will be spent on rehabilitating the refinery. “They (Nigerians) can hold me accountable and hold this government accountable for every dollar, every cent on this refinery and ensure that we deliver a refinery that works,” he said. Sylva has also explained that the rehabilitation will take 18 months and the first phase will get the refinery to 90 percent operational capacity, stressing that President Muhammadu Buhari was bent on leaving a legacy including making sure that the refineries are working. “It is not going to be all debts, we are not going to borrow all the monies that are going into the rehabilitation.” While defending the project, the former governor of Bayelsa state noted that the federal government also plans to rehabilitate other refineries in the country, explaining that the move is not a waste of funds as believed by many Nigerians. According to him, the refinery will benefit Nigerians and be commercially-viable to return profits for the government and satisfy the domestic needs of the country, especially in addition to the Dangote refinery. “This rehabilitation will bring a lot of gains for Nigerians. First, we are gaining from savings in the foreign exchange end, savings from importation of premium motor spirit (PMS); and we will gain from the operations of the refineries itself,” he noted. The minister also debunked insinuations that the rehabilitation could have taken less than N500 million, saying that the rehabilitation of the refinery was being handled by professionals. Echoing similar sentiments, the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide believes the idea of carrying out a TAM at PHRC is a signal that the federal government has woken up from its slumber. The IYC President, Peter Igbifa, said though reviving and optimising the refinery was long overdue, it was better late than never. Igbifa, who described the move as a welcome development said it would create employment for the teeming jobless youths in the Niger Delta region and increase the country’s refining capacity. The IYC boss also expressed optimism that the project when completed would reduce youth restiveness and criminality in the region. He advised the federal government not to play politics with the project. Igbifa called on the government to swing into action immediately by releasing money immediately to back up its approval. “As a council, which fights for the interest of Ijaw youths and other youths in the Niger Delta, we will be constituting an action committee to work closely with the ministry of petroleum and the contractors that will be in charge of the rehabilitation project. We will monitor the execution of this project from the beginning to the end and if we notice any foul play, we will surely raise the alarm.”