 With cash allocation from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) dwindling by the day, and with nary a prospect of shoring up their internally generated revenue (IGR), it is yet again, a moment of awakening in the states as threats of insolvency looms. A measure of the grim picture is the National Bureau of Statistics’ (NBS)  figures showing the total revenue (federal allocation and internally generated) accruing to the states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) slipping from N3.8 trillion in 2019 to N3.599 trillion in 2020. As it is, the signs, across the board, are of growing restiveness in the face of the inevitable cash crunch, with some states already taking to desperate measures to stave off their effects. In Kaduna State, the governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has already made known his resolve to downsize the state’s workforce of close to 100,000. According to the state government: “Government finances have been severely stretched by higher wage bills at a time when revenues from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) have not increased”. Its neighbour, Kano, had since December reverted to the old minimum wage of N18,000 without notice or prior consultation with the workers – an action that drew the ire of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). In Ogun where the pensioners only recently began to enjoy some respite in terms of regular payment of their pensions, that the March edition came behind schedule would stoke no little anxiety, particularly with the state’s revenue shortfall for the month of March put at N692,354,252.06k. Same for Taraba State, where the implementation of the new national minimum wage has been put on hold. Whereas the state government attributes the development to dwindling revenues occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, the state’s joint public service negotiating council (SJPSNC) says “recklessness and wastage in managing the state’s resources” are to be held responsible. Similar measures are of course expected in the coming weeks, as more states roll out measures to address a problem that has not only permanently defined our economy, but has since become a major source of poverty and instability that has plagued the country. Unfortunately, for a problem whose roots are not unknown, it has been an endless indulgence of red herring, hollow posturing and fruitless blame games. Whereas in 2016, the states had the Federal Government to look up to for a $2.1billion budget support facility to help them pay salaries and offset contractors’ obligations in the wake of the dip in global oil prices as a result of which the country slipped into recession, what we have presently are angry denunciations that leave out the substance of how the states and the Federal Government hope to get out of the crisis.  For, much as one might deplore the claim by Godwin Obaseki, the Edo State governor, that the apex bank allegedly printed some N50-N60 billion currency to augment the March allocation for states, and the riposte by the Federal Government that it actually turned down states’ request for a N50 billion loan, the overall context of the ensuing brickbat, which is the threatening storm of fiscal insolvency, is not only undeniable but grim. Asking the states to overhaul their IGR merely begs the issue. Agreed, the record of states in the regards leaves much to be desired. In any case, there is pretty little that the states can do in the short term; at least not with unemployment at 33 per cent and poverty currently at record levels, and certainly not with the abysmal state of national infrastructure. The same with the call for diversification of the economy; it is neither here nor there. The issue really is that the states cannot be expected to thrive under the current situation in which the Federal Government not only holds the proverbial yam but also the knife, even when it lacks a demonstrable capacity to get the job done. Needless to state that pious preachment on IGR would amount to mere placebos without the states – as economic entities – being allowed to breathe. And surely, the most effective way to do this is for the Federal Government to allow them to harness the resources in their domain while paying royalties to it as one would expect under a truly federal arrangement. And there is certainly no better time to kick off the process than now.