The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State yesterday said there is no plan to foist undemocratic structures on the local government areas. The party said it is ready for Council polls whenever the umpire blows the whistle. APC Publicity Secretary Seye Oladejo said in a statement that the allegation that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu was planning to entrench undemocratic structures is unfounded. His PDP counterpart, Taofik Gani, said since the governor was planning to fester anarchy at the grassroots, the major opposition party will resist it legally. Gani said: “The voice of the major opposition party in the state is coming on the heels of statements credited to some chieftains of the APC in the state that local government elections will not hold and that caretaker committees shall be set up at the levels. “Section 7 of the 1999 Nigeria constitution as amended “guarantees democratically elected local government councils. “We are informed that the APC Plans not to conduct local elections this year. The tenure of the councils expire in about three months. However, Oladejo said there will be an election and PDP will be defeated like the previous polls. He added:”The needless ranting about the local government elections that are not even due and for which we await an official pronouncement shows the idleness and needless rabble rousing of its confused leadership. “The baseless allegation or suspicion to entrench undemocratic governance at the local government level in the state is not in tandem with the fact that Lagos State has always had democratically elected leaders at the grassroots since the inception of this dispensation. “It’s also noteworthy that activities and preparations towards the local government elections as admitted by the opposition spokesman are only prevalent in the ruling party in the state. We can only sympathize with the fact that the opposition PDP will struggle to field candidates for the elections. “As  a party that believes in the rule of law , upholds the provisions of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and  the tenets of democracy, we wish to assure Lagosians that local government elections will hold in our state at the appropriate time. “There’s absolutely no need to cry wolves where there’s none.”