  Gunmen continued their reign of terror on Wednesday with attacks in Oyo, Ondo, Kwara and Rivers states. The hoodlums abducted 11 people, including  a traditional ruler and a council chairman, in separate incidents. They also burnt 15 houses and injured two policemen and a farmer. Two attacks in Ibarapa axis of Oyo State were attributed to armed herdsmen. They reportedly abducted three persons, including Miss Salami Sodirat, a student of Royal Institution of Health. The names of the two  others kidnapped with Sodirat  on Igboora-Eruwa Road, Ibarapa, were not given by the Convener of Igangan Development Advocate, Mr Oladiran Oladokun, who confirmed the attacks. He said the kidnappers had demanded N1.5 million ransom from the student’s family He said: “Miss Sodirat is a student of Royal Institution of Health which is at Eruwa.  She also works at Olugbon Hospital at Igboora, meaning that she goes to and fro Eruwa-Igboora. “She was kidnapped on the 7th of April with two other people. Ransom has been demanded and negotiation has been made with the kidnappers for Sodirat’s release. “The kidnappers are believed to be herdsmen going by their accent when they contacted the victim’s family members.  We gathered that a ransom of N1.5 million was agreed upon to be paid for her release.” He added that bandits also attacked a farm settlement in Oyankalu area of Ayete in Ibarapa North Local Government Area, injuring a 45-year-old farmer,   Kereku Yanmi. Oladokun said: “The victim   was rescued and he is   receiving treatment at an undisclosed hospital in Igangan. “The report I   received is that about six or seven suspected   bandits went to Olukosi and attacked the area but the people ran away. “Unfortunately, they injured a farmer, Mr Kereku Yanmi.  The attackers were with guns, swords and sticks. They used their sticks   to inflict injuries on him.” Oyo State Police spokesman Olugbenga did not pick his telephone and failed to return calls.  Ondo women protest burning of houses In Asere, a riverine community in Ondo State, women took to the streets protesting the burning down of 15 houses by bandits who operate at waterways in Ese-Odo LGA. The gunmen were said to have attacked the community for allegedly tipping off security agencies about their activities and movements. The   women called for the arrest of the attackers, whom according to them, are known. One of the protesters, who gave her name simply  as Faith, said: “We saw our houses on fire and started  running ran into the bush on  Wednesday night till security men came to our rescue.” Oba Zachueus Doubra, the paramount ruler of Agadagba Kingdom said he received a report that one of his subjects, who he described as a ‘recalcitrant boy,’ invaded Asere to burn down houses. He said:  ”I sent my chiefs and some police officers to the community and I was informed that some houses were burnt down and others vandalised. Many were rendered homeless. Many ran into the bush wearing pants only. “I am appealing to all the three tiers of government and all relevant agencies to come to the aid of the victims by way of relief materials. “We have no clothes to wear and nothing to eat. Government should do this to assuage the devastating and calamitous situation my people are going through. Government should immediately arrest the situation to prevent reoccurrence.” Spokesman for the State Police Command,   Tee-Leo Ìkorò, said: “The Commissioner of Police, Bolaji Salami, has ordered full scale investigation into that and deployment of the tactical team to the area so that they would not come back to repeat the same incident. “Our men have taken over the area and with no time, the gang members would be arrested and prosecuted.”  Three killed in Kwara land dispute In Kwara, three people were feared killed in a renewed dispute over land ownership between Share and Tsaragi, Ifelodun and Edulocal government areas. It was learnt that many villagers also sustained injuries and many vehicles were set ablaze. Residents of Share community accused their Tsaragi neighbours of attacking them from both entry and exit points of the town. A resident said: “The renewed attack on our community and travellers started early this morning. They have been attacking us from both entry and exit point of the town. “While I cannot confirm or deny any death for now, I am very sure scores have sustained varying degrees of injury.” Another account said the communities clashed over the clearing of a parcel of land ahead of the planting season. The source said: “It has to do with a land close to Kanje that indigenes were clearing for the forthcoming farming season which the Share people claimed belongs to them. The altercation later degenerated to  full-scale hostility. “At least, I can tell you that three people have so far been killed as it involved confrontation with guns and other dangerous weapons. It is the people of Kanje that suffered the brunt most with houses, cars and properties burnt and destroyed.” Confirming the incident, spokesperson of the State Police Command, Ajayi Okasanmi, said: “We received information and immediately deployed our men there. We’ve restored normalcy as I am speaking with you.” According to Mallam Rafiu Ajakaye, spokesman to Governor AbdulRaman AbdulRazaq, the government has taken immediate steps to maintain peace in Tsaragi/Share communities. Lauding the efforts of the security operatives deployed to restore order, Ajakaye said: “Government appeals to all sides to keep the peace while the development is being monitored. “The governor is already talking with the leaders on all sides.”  Hoodlums abduct monarch A community leader, Nokey Ebikam, told our correspondent that there was apprehension in Umuezie community, Nguru in Abo Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State. He called on the relevant authorities to beef up security in the area. It was learnt that Eze Iroegbu and his cabinet members were abducted while returning from a traditional wedding at Ihitte-Uboma. A source close to the traditional ruler told The Nation that  ”the gunmen  stopped the vehicles conveying the monarch and his cabinet members  at  Seven and Half junction  and took them away.”   The source said he was unsure if the kidnappers had demanded ransom from the families of the victims.  Council chairman abducted in Rivers Also on Wednesday, hoodlums kidnapped the Chairman of Okrika LGA in Rivers State, Mr. Philemon Kingoli The Nation learnt that Kingoli was abducted at gunpoint along the Peter Odili Road in Port Harcourt. The state Police Public Relations Officer Nnamdi Omoni said the command was making efforts to secure his unconditional release. Omoni said: “There is no contact yet from the kidnappers but we are out to ensure that the man is released timely and unhurt “The Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, has directed all the tactical commanders to move in immediately to ensure his release.” Also, two suspected cultist members have reportedly been killed along  Bende Street, in the township area of Port Harcourt. A source said that the killing followed a feud between members of Iceland and Greenland cult groups. ”We heard heavy shootings and later found the lifeless body of two young men,” he added.  