Nigerians appear not to be backing down in demanding for resignation of embattled Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Ali Pantami for alleged ‘ties to extremists’ This came as the Federal Executive Council (FEC)said the alleged link of the Minister to Al-Qaeda and Taliban some years ago was not discussed at its Thursday’s meeting. Also, a former Assistant Director with the Department of State Services(DSS), Dennis Amachree, said the secret police informed the Federal Government and National Assembly of the past radical pro-Taliban views of the embattled Minister before his confirmation in 2019. The Nation reports various groups had in the last few days called for Pantami’s sack or resignation. The Pantami controversy started with a report that the United States of America government reportedly placed the Minister on terrorists watch list. Pantami, who is caught in the web of controversies over his past comments endorsing activities of terrorist organisations, has, however, announced renouncement of his views. Irked by government’s inaction over the current controversy, many Nigerians have accused the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration of insincerity and also ‘endorsing terrorism’. Some others have called on President Buhari to act on the situation due to Pantami’s very sensitive position and as such, the comments should not be overlooked. Social Commentator, Morris Monye said: “So Dennis Amachree, Fmr DSS Assistant Director said the DSS knew about Pantami’s extremist views and indeed told the FG about it. Infact expressing concerns about him. “The FG ignored the DSS and still appointed Pantami as Minister. There is a problem somewhere o.” FS Yusuf argued: “DSS has deep information on all individuals of interest. For a person coming to handle a critical asset of the National Security, I bet the DSS would even have the DNA information of such person. So now, the question is: WHY WAS #PANTAMI APPOINTED!!??” Adetutu Balogun tweeted:”When Dr. Obadiah Mailafa gave us a warning that our government was culpable in the killing of Nigerians and that an unnamed Nigerian governor was a sponsor of bandits killing Nigerians. DSS picked him up 3 times. Then Pantami happened.” Somto Onuchukwu wrote: “The Buhari/APC regime is not silent on Pantami; by doing nothing they have spoken, and it is loud!” Investigative Journalist Fisayo Soyombo said, “At this point, @MBuhari can no longer pretend to be quiet. “The doc flying around about Pantami chairing a meeting that recommended Yakowa’s assassination must be adddressed, given the circumstances of his eventual death. “Clear Pantami with incontrovertible evidence or fire him!” Ago Sogunro said: “Pantami knows your identity.” Dr. Dipo Awojide tweeted: “The anti-North and anti-Islam rhetoric is a distraction from the main issue. Isa Pantami’s case isn’t one of Southern Nigerians or Christians criticising a government appointee and asking for his resignation. Kemi Adeosun is a Christian from Ogun State. Focus on the main issues.” Ex-minister Oby Ezekwesili said: “The @NigeriaGov @NGRPresident @MBuhari may not realize that the world is following the ugly developments on our country’s Minister of Communication and how his government is handling or in fact ignoring to handle it. “Nigeria must avoid the List of States that Sponsor Terrorism” Sodiq Tade argued: “If Buhari can’t do without appointing extremist, he should sack this extremist and appoint a lesser extremist. Pantami has reached the ‘peak of extremism’ if there is anything like that uh.”