 For the want of a perfect description, Pastor Temitope Balogun Joshua, the head pastor of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, is a misunderstood personality. Hence, the reason many see him as a controversial person. However, for Joshua, he is just doing the work his creator has directed him to do. Despite the high level of criticism from some quarters, he has stayed true to his beliefs and continues to live his life in line with his beliefs. Joshua has dedicated over two decades of his existence to propagating the gospel far beyond the shores of Nigeria, making his church a tourism destination for foreign nationals across the world. At one point, his church was a mecca of sorts for thousands of foreign nationals who came for healings. On his route to evangelism, Joshua fought several battles underground and has, times without numbers, triumphed. So much that when he was written off and people cast aspersions on him, he continued praying for God’s guidance for his critics.  Apart from his work as a shepherd, he has dedicated his life to charity and philanthropic gestures in line with his ideology of ‘Changing Lives, Changing Nations and Changing the World’. His milk of kindness has flown ceaselessly and this is evident in his response to the disaster by sending medical and other aids to troubled countries like Haiti, India, the Philippines, Ghana, and Ecuador. In his Ikotun, Lagos environment, TB Joshua has constantly donated food to inhabitants of his host community. He has also awarded scholarships to students. Sources said one thing that the Arigidi Akoko born pastor loathes is the sight of people in distress, he is always ready to render assistance and do everything humanly possible to put smiles on their faces. A few weeks ago, at his regular church service, YouTube suspended the Synagogue Church of All Nations channel with over 1.8 million subscribers. The suspension came after the British association, OpenDemocracy, complained about his sentiments as regards hateful and homophobic speech. Reacting to the suspension, Joshua tweeted, “Help me pray for YouTube, pray for them, we must consider them friends, we must be strong”. Not relenting, a new channel for the church was opened and it has kept amassing subscribers who continue to watch and listen to his preachings across the globe. Another bird chirped that for his love for education, Joshua is currently working on citing a private yet affordable University in his Arigidi-Akoko, Ondo state, hometown. The varsity should be ready for academic activities by mid-2022.