 As stakeholders prepare for the forthcoming National Convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), the issues of who would emerge the next National Chairman of the party and the zone the candidate would come from have become major concerns in the party. This, according to some sources, is because they will, in a way, help to determine the possible presidential flag bearer of the ruling party in the 2023 General Elections. So far, the game has been dominated by former northern governors and powerful senators. Although the list of the aspirants has not been made official, names that have featured prominently include but not limited to Senator Tanko Al-Makura (Nasarawa); Abdulaziz Yari (Yobe); Senator George Akume (Benue); Senator Kassim Shettima (Borno); Ali Modu Sheriff (Borno) and Senator Danjuma Goje (Gombe). Aside these former governors, some party chieftains, like Sunny Sylvester Moniedafe, from Adamawa State, have also indicated interest in the plum job. Given the calibre of the aspirants so far and the crucial role the eventual occupant of the seat will expectedly play in the APC presidential primaries and the final outcome of the 2023 Governorship Election, close observers say the contest promises to be quite enthralling. “The interest of the serving and the former governors in the office of APC National Chairman at a time like this explains the importance of the position in the overall political architecture of today’s Nigeria. Number one, stakeholders who argue that it is the turn of the South to produce the next President after Buhari, contend that the National Chairman of the ruling party must therefore come from the North. They argue that if a southerner emerges the next National Chairman of the party, it would be difficult to convince the rest of the country to also yield the presidential ticket of the ruling party to a southerner. This understanding obviously explains the dominance of northern aspirants so far,” says Dr. Nkemka Uwanu, a political analyst. As the behind-the-scene moves deepen, aspirants have been very active at the grassroots level. The Nation searches indicate that although they may be many more aspirants, the best known aspirants for the plum job today include: Al-Makura Many observers have identified the former Nasarawa State governor, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, as a frontline aspirant for the plum job of the next National Chairman of the APC. Born 1952 in Lafia, Nasarawa State, Al-Makura has distinguished himself as a strong grassroots politician.  The Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, graduate and founder of Almakura Nigeria Limited, emerged at the national political scene in 1980, when he became the youth leader of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) in the old Plateau State. He was elected to the Constitution Assembly of 1988–89, representing the Lafia–Obi Federal Constituency of what is now Nasarawa State. Today, Al-Makura’s ambition to lead his party, the APC, appears to be enjoying massive support. Just last month, March, a former Minister of Information, Dasuki Salihu Nakande, openly supported the candidature of Senator Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, describing him as “the most suitable for the chairmanship position of the All Progressives Congress (APC).” Aside individual and groups’ support, Al-Makura’s ambition has received great boost from the demand of the North-central to be allowed to produce the next national Chairman of the APC. Although Al-Makura may not be the only qualified aspirant from that zone, keen observers said the zoning debate may favour him. Ali Modu Sheriff Another former governor from the North that has been mentioned as nursing the ambition to lead APC is Senator Ali Modu Sheriff, a former Governor of Borno State. Early this month, April, Sheriff shocked possible rivals when he said he will contest the position of national chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) if it is zoned to his region, the North East. Sheriff, a former National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), made this disclosure in Lafia, the Nasarawa State capital, when he visited the State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, to solicit his support. Given that Sule was recently quoted as saying the office of APC National Chairman should be zoned to the North-Central geo-political zone, and that he has specifically thrown his weight behind a former governor of Nasarawa State, Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, observers said Sheriff’s expressed interest is a clear indication that the contest would be tough. Perhaps, aware of the implication of his participation and to douse the expected tension, Sheriff assured his host before taking his leave that if the slot is zoned to the Northcentral, he would support a frontline contender that is in the good books of Governor Sule.” As a former occupant of such a seat, Sheriff, if he finally contests, will be a strong aspirant. Abubakar Yari Born 1968, Alhaji Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari was elected the Governor of Zamfara State at the 26 April 2011 governorship elections on the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) platform. Politically, Yari gained national notice in 1999 when he served as the Secretary of the then All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) between 1999 and 2003. He was elected Chairman of ANPP Zamfara State in 2003 and later rose to the position of ANPP National Financial Secretary and served in this position till 2007 when he was elected as Member representing Anka/Talata Mafara Federal Constituency from 2007 to 2011. As a serving governor, Yari’s political mettle gained more feather in May 18, 2015, when his governors’ colleagues elected him as their Chairman in the powerful Nigeria Governors’ Forum, succeeding Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. After his tenure as governor, Yari ran for the Zamfara West senate seat and won with a very wide margin. With his wide experience in party politics, as a governor and as a lawmaker, Yari, if he finally contests for this position will be another strong aspirant to beat. George Akume Born in 1953, Senator George Akume is one of the political leaders that have seen it all. The first governor of Benue State from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007, served as the Minority Leader of the Senate from June 2011 to June 2015. As the Minister of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs under the Buhari administration, insiders said Akume still commands strong political influence across the country. It is therefore believed that if he contests, he will not be a push over. Danjuma Goje Another former governor linked to the contest is Senator Goje, a 68-year-old former governor of Gombe State. The lawmaker who represents the Gombe Central Senatorial District, is believed to be very influential in APC. Insiders say his influence derives from some important roles he allegedly played in the formation of the ruling party. Whether this influence will give him the plum seat remains to be seen. Kashim Shettima Two-term governor of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima, has also been mentioned as a possible aspirant. Although some of his close associates said he is still warry of contesting, we learnt that some groups are championing the call for his participation. It still remains to be seen how far he would go. Sunny Moniedafe As if to say the seat is not reserved exclusively for former governors, former Chairman of ACN in Abuja, Sunny Moniedafe, recently declared his ambition to lead the party. The chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) from Adamawa State, while declaring his ambition told newsmen in Abuja that he would instill discipline by enforcing party supremacy. He said: “The National Secretariat of the APC under my unflinching leadership will see to the increased impact and effectiveness in service delivery. “If given the opportunity to serve as National Chairman of the APC, my team will, first of all, reaffirm the respect for and supremacy of the party’s constitution, and ensuring its effective implementation, whilst maintaining utmost discipline. “I will put every bit of my energy to institute an effective working synergy among all party structures and arms of government, which is critical to ensuring that promises made during campaigns are not mere rhetorics, but will be accelerated and fulfilled to the letter for the good of Nigeria and its citizens, as well as an excellent global relation.” Stakeholders’ plots The Nation learnt during the week that most of the leading aspirants are being encouraged by various stakeholders interested in who will eventually emerge the presidential candidate of the APC in the 2023 elections. It is in fact alleged that within the APC itself, the various political families have been perfecting their plans to ensure they are not outsmarted. The game is on!