 Professor Peter Ogban, a soil scientist and lecturer at the University of Calabar, has been jailed for three years by a high court sitting in Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom State, after he was found guilty of of tampering with the election result of  Northwest Senatorial District of the state  in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the 2019 general election. He acted as the collation/returning officer during the election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) prosecuted him for manipulating and falsifying the election results in Oruk Anam and Etim Ekpo local governments in favour of the APC candidate. He reportedly pleaded for leniency at his sentencing, claiming to have an aged mother and being, according to him, “a well-sought-after lecturer in his department.” We commend INEC for successfully and diligently prosecuting the professor whose behaviour contradicts the dignity and honour that ought to go with such high academic achievements and position of influence on younger students. He dragged in the mud the letters in the series of his acquired certificates that describe him as ‘worthy in character and learning”. A former INEC chairman, Prof. Attahiru Jega, introduced the idea of using professors as collating/returning officers during elections because, he assumed (may be wrongly though), that the hood makes the monk. Prof. Jega himself had led the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and as an association of academics, he must have trusted that they would bring the expected integrity associated with their academic achievement to the often flawed electoral processes. However, with a series of elections since INEC brought in the professors, Nigeria has had the most litigious elections possibly in the history of democracy. Some election results they collated have been nullified by tribunals, and even when appeals have gone up to the Supreme Court, the decisions of the courts in most of the cases have left Nigerians and the global community wondering about the voices of the people in Nigerian elections. While we do not condemn all the professors that have taken up the roles given by INEC, we believe that given the performance of some of them, INEC may have to review its decision. The jailed professor is definitely not the only one that had betrayed the trust reposed in him. Nigerians have observed some of the professors reeling out wrong statistics and mumbling incoherently results that often do not add up to the real results. The conviction of the professor is however telling of our electoral system. The manipulations he did to the results is the greatest crime in a democracy. It is a shame that after over 60 years, Nigeria still cannot boast of fairly credible electoral processes His conviction vindicates  Nigerians that called for the prosecution of the former Deputy Senate President, Ibrahim Mantu, who confessed during a TV interview that politicians often bribe some electoral officials and security agencies to help them win elections. No punitive measure was meted out to him. It is even surprising that the professor is going down alone. There must have been accomplices, including the sponsors of the crime that are politicians. Why are they not being mentioned and prosecuted too? While we commend INEC for at least carrying this prosecution through, we urge the commission to screen more thoroughly their staff and other adhoc staff, including youth corps members, and begin to put their searchlight on politicians more closely, as they are the sponsors and beneficiaries of the fraudulent practices. The professor in his plea for leniency kept mentioning that he is a well-sought-after soil scientist in the universities of Uyo and Calabar. The questions are many: does it mean he has no shame that, as a convict, he ought not to hold public office ever again, especially in a character-molding system like the education system? What would the students learn from him? We hope this will be the beginning of the end of electoral malpractices that have marred Nigerian elections. Diligent men and women of integrity abound in Nigeria, so there should be no fixation on professors as the only capable hands for our elections. The hood does not make the monk.