 Victor Osimhen appears to have found his form at Napoli but still experts are divided over whether he has justified his big-money transfer. Former Italy striker Bruno Giordano said Osimhen is not worth the over 80 million Euros Napoli splashed for him last summer “I don’t know if the Nigerian is worth so much. I know that Haaland at Borussia costs less and so it is logical that the square should question itself given the high expectations surrounding Victor, who is only 22 years old,” Giordano argued. “He has different characteristics from the other Napoli strikers and this season his growth has been held back by all the injuries he has had.” However, former Inter Milan star Benoit Cauet said he believes the Super Eagles striker is back to his best “Osimhen is showing interesting things, he is finally making the plays he did at Lille,” Cauet told Radio Kiss Kiss Napoli. Osimhen has so far netted five goals in 22 appearances for Napoli this season.  Yet former Napoli captain Beppe Bruscolotti believes  Osimhen has made  significant impact with coach Gennaro Gattuso-side in recent time,  adding the Nigerian is  a ball fighter. “I really like his (Osimhen) way of taking the field to fight. He goes on every ball, fights; fighting spirit and also drags his teammates with his attitude. This is also important in a team,” the former defender who contributed to the team’s first ever Serie A title in 1987,said. Meanwhile,  Osimhen’s agent  Andrea D’Amico believes the Nigerian is getting used to Serie A despite initial  challenges . “Osimhen? We know how difficult it is to settle into the Italian league, past champions took  six  months. He was unlucky between COVID-19 and injuries, for now he only smelled the scent but he can do very well,” D’Amico said. Yesterday, Osimhen could not hide his passion for humanity when he launched a social appeal for charity to find Mary Daniel, the 26-year-old amputee single mother who hawks water in Lagos. He wrote on his social media, “”Help me find this girl”. 