 It is trite knowledge that when a person has, by his own profligacy, sailed into modest, humble financial straits, his sense of economic frugality enjoys some form of growth and development. He acquires newfound dexterity at drawing up his scales of preference and knows what opportunities to forgo. Instead of topping his favourite delicacy with the choice parts of a roasted bird, he is more agreeable to decorating such a meal with the much cheaper egg of that bird. He no longer orders a taxi ride; he stands at the bus stop and hops into something more suited to his lean finances. In a word, they learn painfully how to cut their coats according to their cloth, not their size as previously dictated by affluence. Trite knowledge, that is, to a more judicious country than Nigeria whose senate is currently contemplating a national database for cows. It is difficult to fault the lawmakers of National Assembly for choosing to perform their duties in accordance with Section 4 of the 1999 Constitution. It is, however, trickier to examine whether or not their interpretations of Chapter 2, or the fundamental objectives and directive principles of state policy, has not become too strident. The social havoc that the existence, rearing, preservation and economics of cattle husbandry has wreaked in Nigeria is mindboggling. First, governors pontificate all over the place, extrapolating defences of subliminal jurisprudence for the wielding of dangerous weapons by suspected herdsmen. Next, they team up with misled clerics to posit all sorts of illegal justifications for trespass to land, which certain culpable herdsmen should ordinarily be strictly liable for ab initio. They draw inspiration from a compliant government, which has tried to implement the controversial RUGA policy, and whose spokesmen are given to interpreting criticisms against the criminalities of herdsmen as ethnic discriminations or secessionist agenda. The senate has also nourished this bone of contention. One of its members, Senator Bima Enagi (APC, Niger South) currently believes that a wise solution to the herdsmen and farmers’ crisis in the country is by setting up a bureau for livestock that will be responsible for keeping a national database for cows. Such a prospective national database, which has passed second reading already, is nothing short of controversial. The building of this database would, of course, not be done gratis by well-meaning Nigerians. Funds for such an agency has to be sourced from somewhere in a country whose second legislative chamber is in debt and cannot pay contractors for carrying out repairs. The perceived financial woes of the country are not hidden from any; not even if anyone tries to hide from it. Only last week, Edo state governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, flippantly, casually, and irreverently accused the federal government of financial recklessness by printing 60 billion naira to shore up or augment March’s revenue. Indeed, he went further to urge the government against borrowing without a repayment plan. Angry and full of federal wrath, Central Bank Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele, ordered that states begin repayment of loans given them as budget support facility. Other governors, polarised along party lines, attacked and defended him in turn before huddling together and giving the matter the attention it begged for. Rising from a National Economic Council meeting on Thursday, they unconvincingly stated that no money was printed. Nigerian vaudeville! Nevertheless, it would have appeared that these lean financial times would sound it to the senate that any penny spent should be able to return a pound. It is no longer time to be pennywise pound foolish – it never was time anyway – but pennywise pound wiser. They have not got the memo. To become an Act, a Bill must meet the procedural requirements of Section 58 of the 1999 Constitution and the National Assembly. It must first be sponsored by a body with capacity to do so, go through an initial review at the National Assembly, be gazetted, go through first and second readings, and the procedure goes on till it ends at the president’s table for ratification. If he refuses to assent, it goes back to the National Assembly, and two-thirds of the National Assembly agreeing to it, is passed if the president does not ratify it within thirty days. The legislators run the show on lawmaking matters, and rightly so. The National Livestock Bureau Bill is another of a number of piquing bills, which includes The Water Bill, that the Senate has had to consider. The Bill was sponsored by Sen Enagi and he expects that the agency will be in charge of identification, traceability and registration of livestock such as cows and goats to, among other things, curb cattle rustling. It will also ensure the protection, control and management of all livestock in Nigeria and will be charged with ensuring food safety, transparency and information in the food chain, as well as the prevention of cattle rustling to end the prolonged farmer/herder conflict in Nigeria. The bill is expected to help address the diseases and other threats to human lives caused by the movement of livestock while livestock identification by the agency will include ownership and other details including their origin, birthplace, sex and breed. If Senator Enagi has had a conversation with the Nigerian Identity Management Commission, then the results of that conversation have not conveyed home to him the ridiculousness of embarking on a database system for cows in a country that is still struggling to enroll all its citizens in a database. Not all of the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy’s dithering on the linking of National Identification Number  with SIM cards has deterred the senator from avoiding anything closely related to a database in Nigeria. Indeed, the establishment of the proposed National Livestock bureau is but an exercise of duplicating offices. Already there are the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development (FMARD) and the Federal Department of Livestock. None of these agencies, following the senator’s reasoning, can be trusted to do the job. So, funds must be expended anew in the establishment of an agency. The solution to the livestock issues Nigeria experiences is not lawmaking; it is disciplined implementation of extant laws and policies. Relevant agencies need to be adequately retooled to carry out the functions for which they were created. There is no wisdom in conducting a cattle, goat, ruminant or quadruped census. The lives of these creatures are not sacrosanct or protected by the constitution. At the conclusion of the current Ramadan, many of such ruminants will be slaughtered and eaten; what was the use of entering them, complete with date of birth and gender, into a database? The Bill should never have got to the second reading, and the mere fact that it did is a troubling indicator of the prioritization system in the senate.    Although the country has communicated in many ways and languages that it is fed up with its Minister of Communication and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Ali Pantami, the presidency has stuck with him, maintaining in the process that he is a changed man. It has termed the calls for his removal a “cancel campaign”. Age does not change a person. Academicians of literary studies teach that there are round characters and there are flat characters. If the minister were truly a round character, as he and his defense team, including the presidency, suggest, then there must have been a specific action or series of action that have served to deradicalise him. Not even a deus ex machina can miraculously change a man who found no fault in religious intolerance and homicide. A man who is a legal adult when he makes hate speech has capacity to bear the liability for his actions. It is therefore an unfair estimation of public intelligence for the presidency to chalk off the minister’s past indiscretions as the product of juvenility and expect the country to believe a word of it. That will neither do, nor has it done. Although the presidency reposes a high degree of confidence in the minister, it is oppressive to keep him in power when the entire country has screamed itself hoarse that they do not feel comfortable with his continued presence in the halls of power. The presidency should not be ignobly involved in the defence of the minister but should be the dispassionate judge trusted enough to deliver a final just judgement in favour of public policy and national interest.   Speaking on Tuesday, Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State announced that one of the causes of insecurity in the country was unemployment. In his words, “It is good to be tough on crime. We must be tougher on the causes of crime. You cannot have a 33 per cent unemployment rate in any country and not expect to deal with the sociological implication of that. And that is an area that the Nigeria Governors’ Forum believes we must also work collaboratively with our partners, also work with our financial institutions and the private sector to find the best mechanism to bring our youths to work. If we do that, we would have fundamentally played our role in addressing the causes of this untoward crisis that the country is dealing with.” Indeed, the governor’s statement almost suggests that unemployed youths are a huge factor in the insecurity crisis dogging the country. That is only half-right. Even if all the youths in the country were gainfully employed, there are extenuating factors that would soon put them out of employment again without effectively curbing insecurity. The kidnap and brutalisation of innocent citizens across the country is not only occasioned by unemployment. In fact, as is the case with some herdsmen, insecurity is also as a result of employment. What about the ethnic undertones of insecurity? Or the underfunding of the police and the demoralisation of the army? Deeper than unemployment, structural issues have congregated to increase insecurity in Nigeria. The governor should perhaps address them before pointing the finger at unemployment.