Special Adviser to the Abia State Governor on Teens Matters, Mrs. Chinemenma Umeseaka, has  urged  students and young people to be conscious of  the information they spread on the  social media. She spoke during a training, which held at the Uche Ogah Auditorium of the Abia State University (ABSU), Uturu. The training was organised by former students – Odoemena Chinonso and Unachukwu Daniel. Both are graduates of Political Science and Computer Science. The training was aimed at equipping students with digital skills to make them self-reliant. Chinonso said plans were  underway to reach out to over 50 universities across the country before the end of the year. “We observed that most undergraduates are built with the dependency mentality of graduating and seeking employment, while they could acquire  digital skills and create employment for themselves. I also noticed that there was a gap in technology  information among the graduates and undergraduates and with this training, we are going to equip them with knowledge that will make them self reliant and employers of labour when they finally leave school,” he said. Thus, a team of experts in the Information Communication and Technology (ICT) field trained no fewer than 500 undergraduates of ABSU Mr. Douglas Peters, a computer programmer, taught the students  how to create a web page with codes using their smart phones. Blessing Okebe, an expert in digital marketing spoke on how to promote  businesses using social media tools, and how to expand  brand visibility with digital tools. Marycynthia Mahakwe, a specialist in affiliate marketing, urged the students to be industrious, adding that they could make money from their homes. She said: “One doesn’t need to  undergo stress before making money. You can be at the comfort of your home and make passive income through digital resources.” One of the participants, Virtuous Ezebunwa, a 300-Level student of English and Literature said: “In this era, if you are not technology  inclined,  you are not seen as progressive. I am excited that the training has opened my eyes and mind to opportunities on how to harness my potential to  shape my career for good. The world is digitalised already, and it behoves on us all to follow the trend.” Joan Green, a 100-Level student of Public Health, said the training had helped her to gather experience that would aid her career. “The world is changing so fast with technology. If you are not inclined, you can’t function properly. I have seen the two sides of the social media and how their  usage can make or mar you.  I am very grateful for this life-changing initiative,” she said. 