Title: Despite the Downturn Many Business Have Thrived During the Pandemic Description: Many businesses have seen a massive downturn in their income during the pandemic, but some have thrived and will continue to do so moving forward. We can all rejoice somewhat in the rollout of the vaccine program in Canada for that now gives us the hope we all needed that there is light at the end of the tunnel so to speak, and sooner rather than later we can all get back to the way we used to live our lives. However, there are many business owners that have not been able to weather the storm of the pandemic and have had no other option to close down their businesses for good, however some of them have prospered during the pandemic and some of them have held on by the skin of their teeth. Betting.ca author Doug Hirdle told me recently that online casinos Canada based players are allowed to play at have seen an increase in their turnover and profits during the pandemic, as many people turned to gambling to while away the hours. But for sports fans in particular, things may not look anything like the way they once did when lockdowns finally end for good, as many sports clubs have been suffering financially during the pandemic and may not survive very much longer. For most people, it has been the case that they have been somewhat rejoicing with the vaccine rollout in Canada for that does of course signal the return of normality for many people and one they have all been waiting for too. However, one concern has been raised and that is the older generation may be concerned and worried about attending live sporting events once they are given the green light to resume business once again, even when they have been vaccinated. With that in mind there is going to have to be some attention given to the worries and fears of everyone who is of a certain age when it comes to helping them understand any and all risks of attending such events once they have been vaccinated. But having said that there are going to be no shortages of diehard Hockey fans who are eager to get out there once again and attend any and all upcoming matches and give the teams that they have missed watching playing for so long their in-person support once again. For some business owners that have been able to quickly adapt to the lockdowns and the effects of the pandemic, they have been able to continue trading and some of them have seen a massive increase in both their turnover and their profits over the last year or so. Delivery and courier firms have of course done well during lockdowns as many people have been ordering goods online, in fact many online retailers have also been doing well too. But spare a thought for those business owners that have had no chance whatsoever to trade during the pandemic, travel and airline companies have been operating at a loss for quite some time now, and many high street retailers without an online presence have also been losing money hand over fist. It will be a case of survival of the fittest moving forward and for quite some time yet and sadly some businesses will go to the wall in the months ahead, some of which may be large once prosperous companies too. Having been forced to close or completely change the way they operate, has been something many small business owners in Canada have had no other option but to endure and master, but if you do operate a business and need someone to talk to there are plenty of organizations willing to help. Having someone to talk to can often help you make sense of things and will often help you get your head around certain aspects of the new normal and how you and your business can hopefully fully bounce back when things finally get back to the way we all fondly remember.