Special needs pupils at the 37-year- old Bauchi Special Education Centre, the only special school in the state, are suffering as a result of failing facilities. DAVID ADENUGA reports on the ordeal they face attending school daily.  Bauchi Special Education Centre is the only government-run school that serves special needs pupils in the state.  However, the state of the 37-year old school leaves much to be desired. Zakari Garuba, a Senior Secondary School (SS2) pupil of the school lost his sight to glaucoma two years ago at 18. Determined to further his education, Zakari, who loves music and shoemaking, enrolled at the school which accepts visually and hearing impaired pupils from the Northeast geo-politcal zone. The poor facilities at the centre which is located within the General Hassan Usman Katsina Unity College (GHUKUC) in Yelwa area of Bauchi metropolis does not inspire much hope in Zakari and other pupils. Lamenting the poor welfare at the school, Zakari said he expected special treatment to be given to people like him but the reverse was the case. He said there was insufficient equipment, a development that has made learning difficult. ”We have several challenges we are facing here. Being a special needs school, one will expect that we get special care but reverse is the case. We have both the deaf and blind here. ”We don’t have adequate learning materials. Since Braille machine is expensive, we use slates and silos as a substitute but it is not even sufficient. We need more typewriters too for our tests and exams. ”We want government to help us with enough typewriters, slate and Braille machines ”  How inadequate special teachers, writing materials affect learning.  In its World Disability Report of 2011, the World Health Organisation (WHO) identified inappropriate teaching materials and methods of assessment as some of the barriers to education for children with disabilities. When our reporter visited the centre, he found that there were only about 16 special teachers taking about 600 pupils.  Eleven of them teach the hearing impaired while five teach visually-impaired pupils. Others are regular teachers and those undergoing training to become special teachers. This reporter also learnt that the school lacked adequate teaching and learning materials, including stylus and slate, Braille embosser and printer, and Braille note taker for the visually impaired. Sadly, the inadequacies  are clear violations of Article 16 (3) (h) and (i) of the Protocol to the African Union’s African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Africa, to which Nigeria is a signatory. The protocol stipulates that “state parties shall take reasonable, appropriate and effective measures to ensure that inclusive quality education and skills training for persons with disabilities is realised fully, including by: ensuring that educational institutions are equipped with the teaching aids, materials and equipment to support the education of students with disabilities and their specific needs” and “training education professionals, including persons with disabilities, on how to educate and interact with children with specific learning need.” Goal Four of the Sustainable Development Goals, which Nigeria professes, centres on quality education, and is aimed at building and upgrading “education facilities that are child, disability and gender sensitive and provide safe, nonviolent, inclusive and effective learning environments for all,” according to a United Nations Development Programme document.  Navigating pit latrines, poor facilities  Pupils of the centre have to contend with pit latrines for the call of nature.  This is particularly challenging for visually-impaired, especially as the sanitation is poor.  When this reporter visited, some of them were unclean – with floors covered with urine and faeces. Patience Barnabas in SS2, told our reporter that it was a struggle accessing the pit latrines. The 20-year-old, who also lost her sight to glaucoma at 6, said she had to place her hands on the ground in order to use the latrine while fearing she may fall. “Take a look at our toilet. It is an ancient pit latrine.  We want it to be renovated to the modern ones. It is very risky for us using such toilets. I do  place my  hands on the ground  to locate the hole before usage. It stinks as well and as girls we stand a risk of contracting infections” Regarding amenities in the boarding house, she said ”the hostel is too small for us and overcrowded. We do not have enough mattresses too.” ”We don’t have water in our hostel; we have to fetch water in the school compound. It is not convenient for us in any way. We hit our feet on stones at times.” Talking about the food served, she said: ”We are being served malnourished food, I do cook for myself to augment the food we are given at times.” Corroborating Patience, a worker in the school, who spoke on condition of anonymity said there was a lot of risk involved in the use of the pit toilets, saying it can house snakes, and other reptiles. He added that the pit latrines can easily sink and are dangerous to the life and health of the pupils. ”The odour coming from the pit latrines when it is inhaled will affect the health of the students. “Imagine a situation where pupils have to feel the hole before usage; the process is quite clumsy and unhygienic. ”We are appealing to the government to provide modern toilet facilities. As you can see, these are young pupils who won’t be able to take care of themselves when they go to answer the call of nature. For now, we only manage detergents and Izal disinfectant to clean the toilets for them.” Speaking of the condition of the hostels, he said there was inadequate bed space in both the boys’ and girls’ hostels. He added that the boarding school had two hand pump machines – one for each hostel.  But the one for the female hostel was no longer functioning. He said the school relies on a motorised borehole at the kitchen, which uses solar energy to pump water. He pleaded with the state government to build additional hostels and classrooms, which he said were dilapidated – exposing the pupils to the elements. The worker lamented the neglect of special needs pupils and the lack of societal awareness about them. He said this dampened interest of affected people in enrolling in special schools. ”The society in general does not come to the aid of special needs children.  It is like we are removed from the society and hidden here.  Very few people know about our existence and the school is about 37 years unlike other states where special need pupils are getting aids. Here only few Godly-minded people are bringing aids,” he said. Health challenges are not far from the special pupils but the school does not have enough drugs to treat them in the school clinic. ”Our students are always ill in one way or the other and there is a need to bring more drugs. The last time we received drugs was last year. More so, our medical personnel are few in number. ”Out of the little we receive from the pupils as Parents Teachers Association (PTA) fee, we buy drugs. Their PTA is N700 per year. It is meagre compared to the problem involved. The money also takes care of other minor things like faulty electrical switches among others”  Special teachers not motivated  For Abdullahi Mohammed Pali, a visually-impaired teacher who has been in the school for 23 years, there is little or no motivation from the government. He claimed that special teachers were being deprived of special allowances called inducement fees which are given aside from the basic salary. ”As for our special  teachers teaching special education, there is a 30 percent of the basic salary they are supposed to be paying us separately but we are being deprived of it unlike so many  other states where the 30 percent is paid. It is called inducement fee.” He added that teachers do not have staff quarters saying he had to come to work daily from home. Lamenting the dearth of teaching materials, Pali said: ‘We need the government to provide us with enough textbooks because there is a subject which we have the textbook in Braille but others we don’t have. There is need for the government to provide the textbooks for effective teaching.” Pali, an alumnus of the school, lamented how things had changed for the worse from when he was a student in the 90s. “Gone were those days when special needs children used to get cost allowances from the local government but nowadays the LG even needs help. “Most parents are poor and cannot take responsibility for the students. The allowance given then used to be within N500-N1,000 monthly. Now it ought to be between N5,000- N10,000. “During my time, because I schooled here, we did not pay fees, I came here in 1998.  That was a long time ago.” Another teacher, AbdulAmin Yusuf, who has been with the school since 2008, lamented the school’s poor state. “We are facing a lot of challenges which include inadequate learning materials like slates and stylus, papers, computers.  The big challenge we are facing is lack of special needs teachers. The food given to students too is also not adequate.” Speaking on the dearth of special needs teachers, he said most of the teachers taking the children were regular teachers not trained in the science and art of catering for children with special needs. ”We have a lot of challenges here; we don’t have enough professional special needs teachers. Most of the teachers we use to handle our children are regular teachers,” he said. A member of management of the school urged the state government to give incentives to those interested in training special needs pupils to boost motivation for special teachers. ”I would like the government to motivate the staff who are National Certificate in Education, NCE holders to go for training and promise them a better treatment in service. ”Like the deaf section for instance, if you are not a specialist in Mathematics, English or Science, you will struggle to teach them; you will not be able to modify the methodology that will enable them understand that this is how language should be constructed but when you are a special teacher, you will be able to highlight to them that in constructing a sentence you must have the object, the verb , the subject.”  Government yet to fulfil promise on renovation  The Bauchi State Chapter of the National Association of the Blind (NAB) said the state government is yet to fulfil the promise of renovating the school. Chairman of the association, Comrade Abubakar umar Ningi told our correspondent on phone interview that at the White Cane Awareness Day held last October 15, the Governor, Bala Mohammed promised to rehabilitate the school. “Last year we had our national celebration of the White Cane day, we visited the government house of Bauchi, where we raised the issue. We met with the governor who promised to renovate the school but he is yet to fulfil his promise. As you know, the school is the only government school we have for special needs pupils.  It is very important for us so we called the attention of the government to look into It “The building is dilapidated and needs renovation. It needs additional classes, hostels, and the water issue.  But the governor said the school will be put into the year 2021 budget but up till now, nothing has been done. We are trying to send a reminder now,” he said. When reached for comments, the Commissioner for Education, Dr. Aliyu Tilde, directed The Nation through text to meet the principal of the affected school. But the State Universal Basic Education Board, SUBEB said the government was trying its best in the area of welfare for the pupils. The board’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Abdullahi said the special allowances ( Inducement fee)  for teachers  given by the government was stopped since the last administration of Governor Muhammed Abubakar due to  economic recession. “As far as basic education is concerned, we provided the required materials, we also built five blocks of classrooms in the school. But you know with Bauchi being In the NorthEast, and with the insurgency, the influx of students from other states have overstretched our facilities.  That is why we are experiencing this. There is also no way the food will have quality for the teeming population but to an extent it is okay, “he said. 