 If the latest killings in Ebonyi State are any measure of the killing field that Nigeria has become, that it was carried out, not necessarily by unknown actors, would equally be a measure of how a band of outlaws have come to see themselves as untouchable. On March 29, residents of Amaezu, Nkalaha, Obegu and Umuhuali communities in Ishielu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State reportedly came under attack by armed men suspected to be herdsmen. At the end of the pre-dusk attack, 18 persons, including a Methodist priest, lay dead while scores that survived fled to neighbouring communities in Enugu State. Indeed, the various eye-witness accounts appear to suggest a reprisal action. Whereas some accounts finger a group of herdsmen said to have been evicted by the communities some time ago for alleged destruction and theft of their farm produce in the area, the state governor, Dave Umahi, would trace the development to an incident that happened a little more than a year ago, during which two herdsmen were killed. Then, security agencies, the local government chairman and the community leaders, he said, came together to condemn the attack and the killing, following which the security agencies were tasked with fishing out the culprits. The suspects, who were later arrested, are said to be standing trial in Ebonyi State while the community and security agencies were said to have appeased the herdsmen and made peace with them. Unfortunately, the herdsmen would seem far from being appeased. In fact, the governor would appear to suggest that the local herdsmen in Ishielu knew something about the latest killings. “They vacated despite all efforts my government, the governors of south east and security agencies have been making to give them full protection, not only in the state but in the entire south east”, he stated after visiting the affected communities, even as he also noted that the attack was capable of degenerating into another civil war if nothing urgent was done to stem the tide of criminality by the rampaging herdsmen.  To begin with, it is unimaginable that a group of outlaws in this age would not baulk at mass murder, even of innocents, if merely to redress perceived wrongs. That such brazen resort to self-help not only continues to flourish, but that the cycle of reprisals is tending to become the new normal would largely be explained by the inexplicable meltdown of the formal mechanisms of restraints and sanctions that ordinarily avail all civilised societies to rein in such criminal conducts. Here is an occupational group that continues to carry on as if completely oblivious of the rights of other Nigerians; yet no one dares to raise a voice. Even when they are in the wrong – as it happens all too often – they would, while pleading some nebulous justification, still dare to demand appeasement from their victims or have the latter risk retaliatory action. As the chief security officer of the state, the governor is obviously privy to more intelligence than is available to the ordinary citizens. In this particular instance, he has given a compelling lead worth pursuing, assuming that the security agencies are desirous of getting to the root of the matter. And this is aside the corroborating accounts by some of the survivors. For now, he has given a marching order on the local government authorities to deploy vigilantes to secure the peace. That seems a reasonable action to take in the circumstance. Of course, we expect the security agencies to take things up from there. The Inspector-General of Police, IGP, Mohammed Adamu, in particular, must swing into action with a view to apprehending those behind the murder. Unlike in times past when a group would own up to a crime with the police and other agencies throwing up their arms in a fit of impotence, this time, nothing short of justice for those citizens gruesomely murdered would satisfy Nigerians.