  There was outrage in parts of the country yesterday, following gunmen attacks on a Correction Centre and the Imo Police command headquarters in Owerri, Imo State. The facilities were invaded in the wee hours by gunmen who freed prisoners and detainees before setting fire to the buildings. The hoodlums were said to have also looted arms and ammunition from the armouries of the centre and the police command. Alarmed by the development, Imo residents, youth leaders, and Human Rights Writers Association (HURIWA), called for a probe, with a view to identifying and arresting the perpetrators and their sponsors. The incidents also sparked verbal attacks between an All Progressives Congress(APC) stalwart in Rivers State, Oby Ndukwe, and some pro-Biafra agitators. In Abuja,  HURIWA lamented the attacks, saying they showed “temporary death of law enforcement.” It wondered how the invaders were able to operate  for three hours(1 am to 3 am on Monday) after reportedly singing  “solidarity songs at the Government House Roundabout for about 30 minutes before attacking the facilities. “These attackers had a free run for a long period of time without interference or counter attacks,” the group said in a statement by its National Coordinator,   Emmanuel Onwubiko, and its National Media Affairs Director   Zainab Yusuf. HURIWA urged the Federal Government  and the  governors of the Southeast   to set up a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate the spate of coordinated attacks on strategic national security assets and killings of security operatives, including yesterday’s violent attacks in Imo State. The group said the investigation of attacks   in the Southeast was important because it believes that  “they were  choreographed and formidably coordinated by some external forces working with some internal forces who are in a frenzy to ignite and instigate the collapse of security and economic stability of the Igbo speaking region.” It added: “  We think this is an unusual occurrence that must be confronted by all means necessary. This regime of the unruly gunmen sponsored by God knows who must never be allowed to blossom and take roots in the Southeast  or anywhere in the South of Nigeria which has remained relatively peaceful even amidst terrorism and armed banditry in much of Northern Nigeria”. Also, the Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL), flayed the attacks, blaming them on people who were uncomfortable with the achievements of Governor Hope Uzodimma within one year in office. “These are anti-democratic forces at work who are unhappy with the developmental strides of Governor Hope Uzodinma who within one year in office elevated the state to an enviable height,” the coalition said in  a statement by its President-General, Goodluck Ibem and Secretary-General,  Kanice Igwe. An APC  stalwart , Miss Ndukwe and some Biafra promoters disagreed on who was responsible for the attacks. The tackles came on the heels of a post made by Ndukwe on her Facebook page where she blamed the incidents on the Eastern Security Network (ESN), the  security outfit of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Ndukwe wrote: “Imo on fire as ESN burns down police station, cars and frees detainees and prisoners. A state of emergency inevitable as implosion looms in the Southeast.”  But the pro-Biafra agitators and ESN supporters flooded her wall to fault the post. They  claimed that the attack was carried out by gunmen, whose motive was to avenge the injustice done to their loved ones by the police.    One of them identified as Kingsley Daishinkan wondered why Ndukwe should blame the attack on ESN when those that saw them identified them as gunmen, suggesting that the activist should have waited for the press. But Ndukwe replied: “Kingsley Daïshinkan, do you think I am an entertainer? You don’t know my journalistic background. I am not a social media influencer. I belong to the press you are talking about”. In Imo, some residents condemned the attacks and expressed fears about their possible fallouts. They consequently called for strict security measures to stave off a possible repeat. Richard Agulanna, an auto spare parts dealer, expressed worry that the attacks  would affect the morale of   law enforcement officers in the state. Agulanna noted that the attacks could lead to a spike in crime rate, especially with the freed inmates moving about in society. Pius Anyanwu, a teacher, noted that the   attacks on   policemen and their facilities   in the state had become more brazen in recent times. Anyanwu recalled the incident at Ihitte Uboma  where police stations were razed in March and called for strict measures to forestall further attacks. He also appealed to the state government to take necessary measures to control the situation. Another resident,  Mary Njoku, also expressed concern over the  ease with which the operations were  carried out and how none of the perpetrators was apprehended. She expressed concern that the  freed inmates   could go after people who worked toward their imprisonment. 