Police in Lagos are investigating the alleged murder of a woman by her husband. Mrs Destiny Adaeze Ikpeama, a lawyer, was reportedly six months pregnant when she was allegedly beaten into a coma by her husband Anthony Ikpeama in their Ajah home and was rushed to hospital where she was fitted with an oxygen mask. Police said Mr Ikpeama unplugged the oxygen mask, leading to her death at the weekend. According to a tribute posted by one Chukwudi Iwuchukwu, the couple got married in 2014 and have two young sons. Iwuchukwu alleged that soon after their marriage, Destiny, a law graduate from Madonna University, became a punching bag for her husband  despite intervention from both families. “Even when relatives from both sides intervened several times by pleading with Anthony to stop beating his wife, if not for anything, she is the mother of his kids and his partner, the man was obtuse  as he continued to beat the poor girl any time he was not in a good mood. “COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown/staying at home made the domestic violence worse as it now became a daily ritual. “Two days ago, another round of beating started and this time around, it was very intense which eventually ended up taking her life. “That Adaeze was six months pregnant was not enough to stop him in his track, rather it intensified the beating of the poor girl. “When Adaeze went into coma and was rushed to the hospital by her  good neighbours who came to her aid, Anthony followed them to the hospital and immediately she was admitted and oxygen was placed on her to resuscitate her, the husband went to her bedside and then removed the oxygen mask. “That was how Adaeze suffered cardiac arrest and died,” Iwuchukwu, a colleague of the deceased, posted on social media. The Nation gathered that a report was immediately filed at the Ajah Police Station, while the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone II, Onikan, Ahmed Iliyasu, was also contacted for assistance by some of the lawyers. It was gathered that with the help of the AIG, detectives were deployed to fish out the suspect from his hideout where he was arrested around 2am yesterday. Spokesman for the zonal command, DSP Hauwa Adamu-Idris, confirmed the suspect and the complainants were at the zonal headquarters. “The AIG has directed that the case be transferred to the Lagos Police Command for thorough investigation and further action,” she said. Spokesman for the Lagos Police Command, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, confirmed the incident, adding that it occurred on April 10. He said the 28-year-old woman died on April 10, and that the husband/suspect removed the oxygen mask on her, before she finally gave up the ghost. “The suspect, Anthony Ikpeama, has been arrested,”  Adejobi said.