 Hyundai Motor Company has won 14 awards at the world-renowned International Forum (iF) Design Award 2021 for design excellence, including iF’s top Gold award for the ‘E-pit ultra-fast charger’ for electric vehicles (EV). The feat made it seven consecutive times Hyundai Motor coasted home the iF Design Awards, including three coveted Gold awards, which go to only 75 of the best designs among nearly 10,000 annual entries. Hyundai triumphed across various disciplines such as product, communication, user interface, architecture, and professional concept. In particular, the company was recognised for its brand communication design with six awards in the communication category for the first time. Hyundai Motor Executive Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer, Thomas Schemera, said: “This award is considered to be the part in which Hyundai has been fully recognised by global experts in the field of brand communication beyond product design. In the future, we will strengthen our activities to build an innovative brand image through creative and sustainable customer experiences.” The auto giant was delighted with the Gold award through its ‘E-pit ultra-fast charger’ which greatly improves user experience by solving several problems that are typically found in Electric Vehicles (EV) chargers such as bulky cables, complicated operation and service use, unclear charging status, hygiene (especially important during a pandemic) as well as production and maintenance. Inspired by the pit stops of Formula One racing, Hyundai Design Center designed E-pit to offer fast, easy, convenient and premium services to EV customers. It’s easy to use and provides a simple yet powerful design solution that considers a variety of things from hygiene to maintenance. Head of Hyundai Global Design Centre Senior Vice President SangYup Lee, said: “Innovative design comes out when the designer focuses on the user’s experience as the top priority. The E-pit design is the absolute result of our efforts to offer a new charging experience to customers.” E-pit’s design considers various charging scenarios based on Hyundai Motor’s human-centered philosophy. For example, its large roof provides a comfortable charging experience regardless of weather conditions. Moreover, the auto-positioning feature, which automatically moves the charging cable, allows diverse charging positions for different vehicles. ‘Hyundai x BTS Goods’ is a global hydrogen campaign with merchandise designed to promote sustainability consciousness to MZ generations. Most of the merchandise use repurposed car materials and upcycled flex fabrics. Eco bags are composed of innovative new materials like Tyvek, which leaves no environmental impact. ‘Hyundai COVID-19 Campaign: Safety First’ uses an interactive Hyundai logo to deliver clear COVID-19 prevention notifications. With this campaign, Hyundai enhanced its emotional connection with customers by showing its mind-set about sustaining better humanity. The iF Design Award is among the largest and most important design competitions in the world. It was founded in 1954 by iF International Forum Design GmbH in Hanover, one of the world’s leading independent design institutions. This year, the competition, for which more than 9,500 entries were submitted by participants from 52 countries, featured several innovations. These include a digital preliminary round (‘Online Preselection’), in which half of the submissions are selected for the final round (‘Final Jury’), a transparent evaluation of all categories, including new disciplines ‘user experience’ (UX) and ‘user interface’ (UI). The other categories are Product, Communication, Packaging and Service Design, Architecture, Interior Design and Professional Concepts. This year, the iF jury comprised 98 independent international design experts. All award-winning products are published in the ‘iF World Design Guide’ (ifworlddesignguide.com) and in the iF Design App.