 Civil Society Forum of Nigeria has condemned calls for Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami to resign over his past affiliations with Al-Qaeda. The group described the call as an attempt to derail President Muhammadu Buhari’s government from resolving the insecurity problems in the country. Pantami has been under fire over remarks he made in the past which supported activities of Al-Qaeda and Taliban Islamic terrorist sects. But addressing reporters in Abuja, the head of the Coalition, Olayinka Dada said the allegations are figments of the imagination of desperate interlopers whose fears we are here to reveal to the public. He said: “The Minister is been attacked for the genuine reforms being championed by him in the fight against insecurity with the NIN initiative linking citizens phone numbers capable of identifying major criminals and their sponsors.  “Both as a private and public citizen the  minister had displayed rare patriotism in ensuring the correctness and accuracy of the most important data which confirms who a Nigerian citizen is. Going further, the compulsory NIN registration is capable of identifying economic looters, political brigands, bandits, insurgents, kidnappers, internet fraudsters and all criminals alike. “This initiative is been rejected by elements who are in the business of profiting through crimes against the nation. The huge cry about #Pantami Must Go is an attempt to derail President Muhammadu Buhari’s government from resolving the insecurity problems social vices. “The Civil Society Forum haven seen through the plots wish to say that any attempt by anybody, group or organizations at removing Sheik Pantami through the backdoor is a well-orchestrated agenda at festering insecurity, corruption and As concerned Nigerians, we insist that nothing must be allowed to derail the well-focused plan of putting Nigerians on a database that can detect who we all are and what we claim to be. “We urge President Buhari to resist the unholy media trial against Sheik Pantami”.