The Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) on Thursday recorded a dip in its power supply from 3,387Mw at 1:00am to 2,805Mw in day time. The cause, a source, told The Nation in confidence, is gas constraint. The Nigerian System Operator System Performance for Wednesday 07/04/2021 reflected the lowest generation was 3,723MW. The System Operator, a section of the TCN, said the peak generation for the period under review was 4,427mw. On the day under review, the data indicated that the total energy that was generated was 4,078.7Mw. The document also revealed that the System Operator sent out a total was 3,997Mw on Wednesday. General Manager, Public Affairs Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, did not respond to enquiries by The Nation. Also, the Association of Power Generation Companies (APGC), Executive Secretary, Dr. Joy Ogaji, did not respond to mobile calls. Owing to the situation, the Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) shed its load allocation to customers, it was also learnt. The power generator, according to a message one of its customer shared with The Nation, said: “As a result of the drop in generation, we are constrained to undertake massive load shedding of the underlisted locations within our franchise. The locations are Gwarinpa, Gishiri, Jabi, Utako, Jahi, Wuye, Dawaki, Katampe, Kaduna Road, Jiwa, Suleja Town, parts of Lifecamp, Kado, Wuse zone 1 to 7, parts of central area, Garki, Asokoro, Lokogoma, Apo resettlement, Apo Mechanic village, Shoprite, Obasanjo space center, National Biotechnology, FHA lugbe, Mararaba and Environs. “While we apologise for the inconveniences this will bring to customers in the affected areas, we promise that as generation improves, power supply to the affected areas will be restored. “It is very important to add that the bulk of the interruptions our customers have experienced in the last few days has been as a result of low generation. “We do hope that in the coming days, more power will be available at the grid to enable us serve our customers”. On Thursday, AEDC that used to receive about 400 to 500MW got 322 Mw.