The Executive Secretary, National Sugar Development Council (NSDC), Mr. Zacch Adedeji, has said the nation’s sugar industry can create 110,000 direct jobs when the nation attains the target of meeting 1.7million tons yearly. He spoke after touring the facility of Flour Mills of Nigeria (FMN) Plc sugar refinery. He reiterated the Federal Government’s commitment to implement the Sugar Masterplan. He said: “The sugar industry presents to us the opportunity of a direct labour of 110,000 when we are in full gear of meeting 1.7million tonnes per annum of local demand. That is why the Federal Government is fully committed to implementing the Nigeria Sugar Masterplan. “We’ll do it not because we just have to do it, but because that is one of those things we have to do to solve the problem of unemployment in the country.’’ He further noted that due to the high unemployment figures, the only way to solve this is to give the sugar industry the much-needed attention. “We are, therefore, here to implement the masterplan to create jobs and ensure that investors get returns on their investments and there is prosperity for us all.” Also speaking, the Deputy Chief Operating Officer, Agro-Allied Division/Director Backward Integration Programme at FMN, Mr. Sadiq Usman, reaffirmed the commitment  of the firm to the Federal Government’s backward integration strategy of the Nigerian Sugar Master Plan (NSMP) and shareholders at large. This after hosting the management team of the NSDC, led by its new Executive Secretary, Mr Zacch Adedeji. Usman, while speaking to The Nation, refuted rumour, making the rounds that its subsidiary, Golden Penny Sugar, is at war with some operators in the market segment on the issue of pricing. He stated the only ‘war’ the company was presently fighting, is achieving its commitments to the government and shareholders. According to him, while the company had released some statements on the alleged war, it had become imperative to reiterate the company’s position that its product pricing would only be determined by its raw material costs, and not because of any bitter price war. “We had put out a statement to the general public, and we specifically put out a statement to the stock exchange. We are not engaged in a bitter war with any company at FMN. The only war we are presently engaged in is with ourselves, which is to achieve our commitments to both the government and our shareholders,” he added. Usman also noted that as a publicly-listed company that had been around since 1978, the company would never be involved in any ‘business of collusion’, aimed at shortchanging its teeming customers.