 Early in life,” retired ambassador Dapo Fafowora says in his autobiography, Lest I Forget, published in 2013, “I set myself some objectives, of which the most important were my intellectual and moral development. I believe that I have achieved those two objectives. I have also achieved personal success in my public career with which I remain satisfied.” He can be described as a man of knowledge and integrity. Born in Ilesha, in present-day Osun State, he turned 80 on March 29.  An old boy of CMS Grammar School, Lagos (1954 -58), he had joined the Nigerian Diplomatic Service in 1964 after graduating in History from the then University College, Ibadan.  He earned a master’s degree from University of London in 1966, and a doctorate from Trinity College, Oxford University, in 1972. He served as Second Secretary, Nigeria High Commission, London, from 1966 to 1968.  He was Ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative of Nigeria to the United Nations from 1981 to 1984. “I was only 43 years old in March, 1984 when, without any justification whatsoever, I was suddenly and prematurely retired by the Buhari military regime from the Foreign Service, twenty years after I joined it, and some 17 years before I was due to retire statutorily,” Fafowora says in his memoirs. Understandably, this unexpected development hurt his sense of personal and professional integrity. He had a stint in the private sector as Director-General of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), which showed his versatility. His investiture as a Honorary Fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Letters (NAL) in August 2014 highlighted yet another dimension of his multidimensionality. For more than 25 years, starting from 1991, he was a respected newspaper columnist who focused on Nigerian diplomacy, politics and economics. He retired from column writing when he left The Nation editorial board in January 2018, after 11 years of dedicated service. He is the author of  Lord Lugard’s Political Memoranda and the Development of Indirect Rule in Nigeria; A History of the CMS Grammar School, Lagos (1859 – 2009); A Venture of Faith (An Official History of the Cathedral Church of Christ, Lagos (1867 – 2007); and Lest I Forget: Memoirs of a Nigerian Career Diplomat (2013). As a public speaker, Fafowora has delivered lectures at University of Ibadan, the then University of Ife, University of Lagos, Lagos State University (convocation), University of Ilorin (convocation), University of Benin, Redeemer’s University, and the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies, at Kuru, in Jos, Plateau State. Also, he has presented papers on Nigeria’s foreign policy, prompted by invitations from the foreign ministry. It is ironic that Fafowora headed a team that was set up to prepare a paper for President Buhari on foreign policy after he won the 2015 presidential election.  This was the same seasoned diplomat who had been prematurely retired under the Buhari military regime. It is a testimony to Fafowora’s diplomatic distinction that he was the first National President of the Association of Retired Career Ambassadors of Nigeria (ARCAN) from 2017 to 2019. Under him, the association did a review of the country’s foreign policy to aid the Federal Government.  He led members of the group when they visited President Buhari in November 2018. Interestingly, he has stayed out of partisan politics, although he was Special Adviser on Economic and Industrial Affairs in the Osun State government under Chief Bisi Akande from 2000 to 2003. He was Commissioner for Trade in the government for two years, and acting Commissioner for Finance and Secretary to the State Government at various times within the period. He describes his role as “going there to assist the government as a technocrat.” Fafowora represents a golden era in the country’s diplomatic history. According to him, “the fine Foreign Service we had, of which we were all proud, was wantonly destroyed.”  He is a reminder that there was a country full of promise. He remains relevant, and enjoys public respect for his knowledge and integrity.