Acting Rector of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta, Dr. Adeoye Odedeji, has warned students to stop boarding  motorcycles (okada) following the death of Adebola Ashaolu, a Mass Communication student. Odedeji gave the warning on Monday  at the Department of Mass Communication, when the management of the department and the students mourned the  late Ashaolu. The deceased was coming back from church, recently, when she was hit by a driver along Japo Adigbe area of Abeokuta. CAMPUSLIFE learnt that bike conveying her was hit by a vehicle allegedly driven by a Yahoo boy. Eyewitnesses noted that she died after being rejected by a nearby hospital as a result of multiple injuries. Dr Odedeji told students to stop boarding motorcycles, noting that most riders were incompetent. He said: “Little patience can save lives.Your life is more important than the five minutes you can’t wait to take a taxi, stop boarding okada because most of them are not competent and they are under several influences when riding. “We will surely get to the root of the matter, I have spoken to the Chief Justice of Ogun State about this and he promised to get justice. I urge you all to be calm and continue praying for the institution.” The Head of the Department of Mass Communication, Dr Funmi Alakija, urged students of the department to be strong, adding that death was  inevitable. “I know it’s not easy but you all just have to be strong, death is inevitable and we should continue to pray that we should not experience untimely death again,” she said. Some friends of the deceased described her as a brilliant and straight forward person. Mariam Olapade, an  HND2 Mass Communication  student, said:  “Ashaolu was nice, brilliant and open minded. She didn’t tolerate insults and disrespect no matter your status. “She had her clique. They’re united and known for their brilliance. Last time I saw her was Tuesday last week, when we were discussing issues regarding HND 1 and HND 2 students. May her soul rest in peace.” Also, another student, Risquot Badmus, described Ashaolu’s death as disheartening and painful. “It’s so terrible and disheartening. I left my house immediately they called me to where her friends were. It was hard to believe,” she said.