The founder of the All Progressives Grand Alliance APGA, Chief Chekwas Okorie, says Igbo presidency in 2023 depends on the outcome of the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State He described Anambra 2021 governorship election as very important to Igbo nation, adding that it was the reason he collapsed his United Progressive Party UPP to support the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the State. Okorie spoke Saturday at the campaign office of one of the leading governorship aspirants of APC, Sir Azuka Okwuosa, at the Udoka housing estate in Awka He said the Igbo presidency project was important to Ndigbo, adding that it was the reason why APC must capture Anambra on November 6. “This is a serious business and we insist on democratic primary in APC to bring acceptable person like Okwuosa for the election. “We collapsed UPP to join APC to move the country forward. I have entered APC long ago in spirit. In 2018, NEC held a meeting and supported President Muhammadu Buhari, so that he could complete his eight year term for power to shift to Igbo. Some understood and some didn’t. “We are hopeful that with Buhari’s completion, everyone is driving for Igbo now. We have long been allies of Okwuosa. He joined us to go to Daura to support Buhari. “We are alive so we can always tell the truth and be touch bearers to those who haven’t seen the light. We decided that UPP will collapse to APC. We are here because of Okwuosa who has paid his dues in political apprenticeship,” Okorie said. He said he knew the APC aspirant in the 90s through late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, adding that he would relocate to Anambra to fight for him Addressing APC stakeholders, Okwuosa, said the party must get things right to win the election. “There is need to expand our frontiers. We must shake Anambra State, and the plan is to ensure victory and we will not disappoint. “We will integrate all of you into our campaign organisation, you have shown consistency in UPP, we will integrate you into our steering committees,” the APC aspirant said.