Nigeria joins the rest of polo world to mourn the death of the Duke of Edinburgh, His Royal Highness, Prince Philip, who passed on a fortnight ago in England. Nigerian Polo Federation (NPF) Francis Ogboro described the passage of the Duke as a great loss to the noble game globally and to Nigeria where the Prince has been part of the polo tournaments particularly in Lagos with other British royalties. Speaking with The Nation, Ogboro noted that  April 9, 2021 was an end of an era for the Prince Phillip who was a valiant partner, sportsman and icon who defined a generation for polo players, most of whom have known his grandeur the entirety of their lives. He stated that with the death of the Duke of Edinburgh who passed away peacefully in his 100th year on this earth, the Royal family and the polo world have lost a champion who displayed the same grace, fortitude and verve on the pitch we were all privy to admire on the world stage. “One thing the Duke of Edinburgh did not give up was polo. He was a driving force behind polo’s recovery after the Second World War and remained the impetus behind the founding Guards Polo Club at Smith’s Lawn, Windsor Park where he displayed his own talents and championed the sport of Kings,” the NPF boss recalled. Other Nigerian polo aficionados who have closed encounter with the British born polo icon include, the Life Chairman of the Nigerian Polo Federation and Emir of Katsina, HRH Abdulmumuni Kabir Usman, Prince Albert Esiri, Kola Karim and the late Usman Dantata, among others.  Polo world and lovers of the noble game will for long remember the Duke as the Founder of Guards Polo Club and as the Patron of the Windsor Park team, with their distinctive dark green shirts with red trim, and at his peak holding a 5 goal handicap. Prince Philip secured The Gold Cup at Cowdray Park Polo Club in 1957 and 1966 with Windsor Park and also took several other key titles in England including the Royal Windsor, Cowdray Park Challenge, Smith-Ryland, Chairman’s Cup, Combermere Cup, Westbury Cup and Junior County Cup. Among his many high-goal wins was in 1969, when HRH, was part of the first (and only) all-English team to win the Gold Cup. The five-handicap player took his mallet all over the world from Malta and India to America and Argentina. One of his most popular polo quotes that resonate across the globe was: “I suppose every games player thinks his particular game is far better than any other I am no exception. I have no objection to others enjoying their particular game but give me polo every time.” The late Prince passed on his polo talents to the future King of England, Prince Charles, and his riding talents to his first daughter, Princess Anne, an Olympic show jumper. In his lifetime, Prince Philip supported a number of charities including the British Heart Foundation, the World Wildlife Federation and Book Aid. As the Queen recounted, it was his role to support his wife, and he thrived in this position.. His philanthropies was not confined to the United Kingdom, as he stood behind a wide variety of projects across the commonwealth and worldwide. He cared deeply about the issue of wildlife preservation, having set up the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in 1961, alongside Prince Bernhard of the Netherlands.