 Determined to foster stronger e-commerce on the African continent, SeerBit  has partnered Wix, a global SaaS platform, to create, manage and grow an online presence, to empower and scale e-commerce businesses in Africa. SeerBit is a product of Centric Gateway, an innovative Pan-African tech solutions company enabling seamless and secure payments across East and West Africa. This deal makes SeerBit a payment gateway for Wix on the African continent, processing payments in local currencies, and giving unfettered access to African businesses to build their unique online presence. This integration, experts say, will further empower the continent, especially as Sub-Saharan Africa is on track to become one of the fastest-growing payment markets in the world. At present, online payment in East and West Africa has an average yearly increase of 17 percent with a population of 919 million. With this integration to the Wix platform, Centric Gateway aims to capture 60 percent of the online market in both regions. Speaking on the collaboration with Wix, Omoniyi Kolade, CEO, Centric Gateway stated, “In alignment with our vision of providing innovative technology solutions tailored to bridging payment gaps, this cooperation will boost the payment services industry and increase customer satisfaction in Africa. This collaboration also allows SeerBit to be a frontline player in driving the growth of the eCommerce and online space in Africa. We are happy to do this in collaboration with Wix.” Omoniyi also revealed how both brands are united to make history in Africa. He emphasised their commitment to cater to their valued merchants and to reinforce the brand’s mantra of “Payments simplified”. He called on new merchants to join the Wix platform in order to grow their businesses online in light of the ever-fast digitization the world is experiencing, retelling that payments will be in local currencies, eliminating the bottlenecks of having to pay in foreign currencies. The joint effort from SeerBit and Wix represents the continuous efforts in ensuring Africans get the best experience transacting online, one that is custom-made as if the brand originated in each country.  