What was the inspiration at the beginning? This is something that I am very passionate about and I would say that the inspiration to go into the sector was a calling.  In addition, I got inspiration from food Networks, top bakers in the industry and most importantly the feedback from my clients keeps me going. There are so many opportunities in the sector.  Man needs food to survive on a daily basis. In addition, my craving for a good meal, balanced diet inspired me to monetise this need. Personally, I love good food. What are some of the memorable moments in the sector? I have quite a number and they motivate me to do more and put in my best. One of such moments  was when I was invited by one of my clients for an event.  It was a catering job and I catered  for Kings, politicians and a number of celebrities.  It was an awesome experience  and my presentation was satisfactory and they all testified to it. What do you consider as the turning point in your life and career? The turning point in my life and career  was attending Leading Ladies Business Institute.  It is Nigeria’s foremost Business Institute for  female entrepreneurs . It was a wonderful  phase and the  exposure gave me a better  perspective and new orientation about the ease of doing  business.  It also broadened my knowledge in my field of expertise. What are the challenges? There are so many challenges.  This includes the current state of the economy, high cost of raw materials and so many other factors.  Unfortunately, this is not making the client to get the treats that they deserve or want. How has doing this influenced your personality? Working in the sector is very interesting  because you meet a lot of people on the job. It has therefore helped me to build  my self esteem and understand people  very  well. Now, I have great confidence in myself I believe that I can  achieve any goal that I set for myself. What advice do you have for Nigerian youths? I would tell them to maximize the opportunities around them and discover  their talents. Going to school  is good  but I will advise any youth today to look inward and get a trade. The crux of the matter is that  being financially independent and successful is very  important. There are no jobs out there and so must know your Onions, work hard and be determined.  Always remember that personal development is critical. What  are some of the other things that occupy your time? I am into network marketing and it’s been very worthwhile experience. Here I promote particularly health products. In addition, I am also a real estate consultant and poultry farming. I did a little bit of cucumber farming and right now, I am fully into poultry farming. And most importantly, my family occupies a big chunk of my time . What are some of the developments that you will like to see in the sector? The sector is a gold mine and there are so many opportunities  that need to be explored and developed. So, basically the changes that I would like to see in the sector are many. One of such is that I want to see Nigerian Menu being embraced all over the world. Our food is rich and it would be great to see our caterers making a mark and generating good revenue for themselves and the nation. What are you looking forward to in the next few years? There is so many things and aspect of the business that would have developed in unique ways. By God’s grace, I would love to see  my brand, Taste Imaginations become a household name and having branches in different parts of the world. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? I have quite a number of people that I have worked with and they have influenced and impacted on my career greatly. However, I would just want to mention two of them here. The first is Mrs. Ibukun Awosika  and secondly, there is Mrs. Ayodeji Megbope. They have been a great source of inspiration and I admire them for the passion, hard work and dedication. How would you describe the impact of COVID-19? We all know that COVID-19 impact my sector and it affected businesses and social gathering tremendously. Of course, we know that this   is actually the bedrock of outdoor catering,  events, parties and all this were all put on hold because of social distancing. So, basically  businesses  were affected including mine. However, I used that opportunity to work on the other aspect of my business and that gave me the ability to be innovative in different ways. I also spent more time on farming which is something that I am also very passionate about. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in Nigeria today? Nigeria is a very great nation and there are so many untapped opportunities and potentials. I have lived here for four decades and unfortunately, I am still looking forward to great things. I am yet to experience the greatness the way I would have loved to in different areas. So, I strongly believe that it is time for our youths to actively  participate in creating the  future that they want for themselves and for posterity. Tell us about your experience as a farmer? My experience as a farmer has been very interesting and impactful. As a poultry farmer we deal pure layers and the experience has been interesting and demanding as well. You need to be timely especially when it comes to feeding the birds. You have to be sure that the weather is perfect for the birds, not too hot and not too cold. It is also good to have very good and faithful staff. It is an asset to have trustworthy staff around the farm. They would make sure that nothing goes wrong any time or at all times. What are the challenges in farming? For me, the major challenge is getting staff that is trustworthy. This is very important when it comes to handling finance, sales of eggs, feeds. At some point, for close monitoring we had to install CCTV camera and another major challenge is that you need to avoid staff that are smoking and drinking alcohol. This can cause high bird mortality rate and we thank God that we have been able to manage all this challenges with wisdom. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the sector? The price of a crate of egg for example has almost doubled within the last two years. The increasing insecurity challenge in the country has led to shortfall of the raw materials needed for chicken feed. If the government can help us solve the issue of insecurity in the country, then our produce would be available. How does this help to boost your catering business? The best way it can help me as a caterer or caterers generally is if government can solve the issue of insecurity in different parts of the country. Farmers would be encouraged to work or farm if insecurity is resolved. Then you would find that the prices of food stuff, vegetables, fruits and others would be affordable. That way aterers can serve or deliver their services at prices that are reasonable. Do you have young people who you mentor? Yes, I have people that I mentor. I actually mentor people in different aspects and the most important for me is being self employed and having good morals. All this help you to develop your personality as well as help to grow and sustain the business. You just clocked 40, what does this mean to you? To the glory of God, I believe that this is a new phase in my life. A new phase has started and I also believe that it is a phase of increase and responsibilities, leadership and mentorship. The past few years have afforded me some responsibilities that I carry. I want to use this to help others to thread safely in their endeavors. I would also want to make deliberate efforts to impact positive in lives and make it a life worth emulating.