 Stakeholders in the financial services industry have called for concerted efforts to leverage technology and data, which is globally touted as the next crude oil, to enhance operations in the Nigerian financial sector. Experts, who spoke at a webinar, organised by CWG Plc in partnership with Surya Software Systems with the theme ‘Balance sheet of the future; Risk – data – Analytics’, noted that the financial services sector must be able to harmonise and reconcile data in its domain. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed advised players in the financial services industry to constantly keep abreast of development in the International and local environment, so as to imbibe a culture of continuous innovation coupled with strong governance and effective internal control. The Minister, who was represented by Mr. Ben Akabueze, Director-General, Budget Office, added that in this era of technology enabling other sectors, banks must adopt virtual realities. “Do more virtual than physical banking. This will help them to respond to customers’ needs almost immediately,” Ahmed said. She noted that balance sheet must be structured to face every unforeseen circumstance, such as the COVID-19 pandemic that has disrupted many businesses. Chief Executive Officer, CWG Plc, Mr. Adewale Adeyipo, who delivered the special address, explained that financial services being the backbone of any growing or developed economy has increased dependency on leveraging technology from their internal operations to predictability and market creation. He noted that for the financial service industry to experience continuous growth, technology must be deployed to aid that growth. “The role of balance sheet management and ALM function in banks is of growing importance due to increased demands on bank to improve performance, transparency and compliance to new and complex regulations. Thus, it is important to embrace advanced platforms and technologies that provide greater data navigation and analytical capabilities to manage risk, returns and capital,” Adeyipo said. Senior Vice President and Head, Market Risk and Liquidity Risk Function, Axis Bank, India, Mr. Pravat Kumar Dash said for the sector to move ahead, it has to understand how digital products will help it move forward. He said technology is changing the way consumers react to a product, especially in this era of financial technology that is altering the banking industry. So, it is important for the banks to understand consumer behavior, as this will help them to plan out products and services in line with the consumers’ needs. “The lines between fintechs and banks have become blurred as banks adopt digital products as informed by consumer behaviour data,” Dash said.  He added that no country can have a sustainable growing economy without a strong financial system backed by innovative technologies. Also speaking at the webinar attended by chief financial officers, customer analytics and risk officers from various banks in Nigeria, Founder and Chairman, Surya Software Systems Private Limited, Mr. DN Prahlad, said the balance sheet must be flexible enough to respond to the margin risk, as technology is shaping every sphere of human endeavor. According to him, technology is shaping everything and the banking sector isn’t left out. He highlighted that balance sheet of the future must have diversity, efficiency, strong room and must stand the test of time, which will ultimately lead to profitability. “Banks must ensure that the balance sheet is flexible enough to respond to the margin risk, take advantage of data, keep a close eye on consumer behavior so as to take advantage of every opportunity,” Prahlad said. CWG Plc, which is quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and India-based Surya Software organised the webinar with special focus on ‘Balance Sheet of the Future: Risk-Data-Analytics’ for chief financial officers, chief information officers and chief revenue officer. It was targeted at the Nigerian and Ghanaian clients in a bid to foster conversations around innovative technologies that financial service institutions can leverage to measure risk and returns on capital, analyse data and sustain growth.