The International Organisation for Migration (IOM) has reiterated its commitment to supporting the National Agency for the Prohibition and Trafficking in Persons, (NAPTIP) and the Federal Government in tackling the menace of human trafficking and irregular migration. The organisation donated a bus to NATIP to enable it create awareness against human trafficking in rural communities in Lagos, Edo and Delta states. Speaking at the launch and handover of the Blue Bus project’ in Lagos, the Chief of Mission (IOM) Nigeria, Franz Celestin, thanked the Switzerland Government for the support in making the project a reality. “I would like to reiterate the commitment of IOM in Nigeria to support NAPTIP and the Federal Government of Nigeria in the fight against human trafficking and irregular migration. “I would also like to commend the efforts of the Federal Government of Nigeria for putting the necessary migration governance framework in place to effectively manage migration, including trafficking in persons and smuggling of migrants. Having NAPTIP as a committed agency leading the fight against trafficking, makes all the difference,” he said. Migration Adviser, Swiss Embassy, Manuel Muhlebach, stated that human trafficking remains a low-risk and high-profit crime, which affects the lives of migrants in often the most negative ways while raising awareness is crucial to prevent more people from falling prey to human traffickers. “It is also clear that a holistic approach is needed to tackle this complex challenge in all its forms. This is why Switzerland is also supporting the efforts of NAPTIP to develop and implement a new national action plan against human trafficking. “This new plan is currently being finalised together with all relevant stakeholders from the government and civil society. After its completion and adoption, it will guide the interventions and co-operation of national actors at all levels for the next five years,” he said. The Director-General of NAPTIP, Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim, who was represented by the Director Legal and Prosecution, Hassan tahir, lauded IOM and the Swiss government for the gesture.