Some outlaws have abducted a soldier in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, and killed two police inspectors in Delta and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Three persons, all of them women, were reportedly seized and taken away in the Onipe area of Ibadan on Monday, The Nation learnt. One of the abductees, Mrs Bola Ogunrinde, is a soldier, it was said. The names of the other two women were given as Mrs Temitope Okeowo and Mrs Abosede Adebayo. Mrs Ogunrinde was said to be driving a Toyota RAV-4 at the time of the attack. Mrs Okeowo is a teacher while Mrs Adebayo is a dental therapist at the General Hospital, Ijebu-Igbo, Ogun State. Two men reported the abduction at Idi Ayunre Division, spurring counter-terrorism and anti-kidnapping police personnel as well as local hunters and vigilantes into action. Police spokesman Adewale Osifeso said the security coalition was making effort to rescue the victims and arrest the suspects. The Nation learnt that some ruffians on a motorcycle attacked three policemen at a checkpoint opposite Mater-Dei Grammar School in Ashaka, Ndokwa East council area of Delta State. The assailants armed with daggers and axes hacked the inspector leading the checkpoint team to death, and seriously injured two other policemen with him. It was further gathered that the policemen fought back but were overwhelmed by the hoodlums. A source said the hoodlums burnt a police patrol van and carted away one AK47 rifle. The inspector died on the spot. Police spokesman Bright Edafe confirmed the incident, saying the outlaws were being tracked. In the Angwan-Zegele-Zuba area of the FCT, Inspector Ambi John was gunned down yesterday while trying to foil a kidnap operation. A resident of the area, Ibrahim Saidu, said there was heavy gunfire as police and vigilantes resisted the criminals. Two persons were taken away by the gunmen after a drawn-out gun battle. A source said a policeman and vigilante member injured in the incident were taken to an undisclosed hospital for treatment. FCT police spokesperson Yusuf Mariam confirmed the incident in a statement, saying that police repelled multiple attacks by suspected kidnappers in Dankusa, Angwan-Zegele-Zuba areas of the territory. She also confirmed the death of Inspector John, adding that police had launched a manhunt for the abductors.