About 71 percent of the Earth’s surface is covered by water and the oceans hold about 96.5 percent of all Earth’s water. The Ocean water is not drinkable because it is deeply salinized. If someone should ingest the water from the ocean, it might lead to death. However, thanks to technology the ocean water can now be consumed. How? You may ask. In one of the driest places in the world, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) there is rarely rainfall, no rivers and it is surrounded by salty ocean water. In other words, millions of people in the desert do not have enough water to drink. They decided to make freshwater out of the salty ocean water through desalination. Desalination is a process that takes away mineral components from saline water, this simply means separating salt from water. The process involves pressuring the salty ocean water and putting it through a filter that prevents salt from entering the water. So while freshwater goes through one side, saltwater goes through another side. UAE happens to be the country that does the highest desalination process because billions of liters of saltwater are desalinated every day. Crazier is the fact that not only did they go through the cleaning water process, they decided to make new water also known as cloud seeding. This process involves, releasing salt into the air, i.e. sending planes into the air and releasing salt gotten from desalination through the airplanes. The salt then fills the clouds and causes it to grow bigger and then it rains freshwater into the country. Another amazing thing they do is to catch the water. The process involves building a dam that catches the cloud-seeded rain- a huge dam was built to contain fresh rainwater that falls from the cloud, so instead of the rainwater entering the ocean and becoming salty water, it enters the dam fresh and can be drunk directly. Fabulous isn’t it?! UAE is not the only country that adopted cloud seeding; The People’s Republic of China has the largest cloud seeding system. Other Asian countries that have adopted this system are Iran, Indonesia, India, Israel, Kuwait. In North America, there is The United States Of America and Canada In Europe, there is Bulgaria, France, Spain, Russia, Germany, Slovenia and the United Kingdom In Africa, Mali and Niger. Cloud seeding, desalination, catching of rain and the building of wells are just some of the inventions that prove humans can indeed do the impossible, there are infinite possibilities that are available to a man if only he can think of it.