Pro-bono work is often linked with the legal profession, and for retired Justice of the Supreme Court George Oguntade, there is no better way to give back to  the  society. When he retired on May 10, 2010, he set up the Wiseview Legal Consultancy to put his wealth of legal knowledge to use. He was supported by two lawyers, a secretary and a few administrative staff, but the firm, which marked its 11th anniversary, now has 20 lawyers who offer a range of legal services. The Senior Consultant and Head of Practice, Abosede Oguntade-Oworu, who represented Oguntade, said while lawyers in the firm work to meet clients’ needs, they also contribute to social causes. “Our pro-bono involvements include the resolution of several cases involving communities such as Odoragushin in Epe Area of Lagos. “The settlement will see to the placement and comfort of over 250 persons hitherto displaced by actions of organs seen to be greater than them. “We have resolved a lot of disputes, particularly as they relate to land and property cases in all the states of the Southwest amongst families, state governments and corporate organisations,” she said. Eleven years on, the firm’s corporate social responsibility engagements have cemented its bond with its immediate communities, corporate and individual clients as well as the have-nots in Nigeria and abroad, especially in the United States and the United Kingdom. Oguntade-Oworu said the firm encourages clients to explore settlement, with litigation often a last resort. “We do a lot of mediation, arbitration and other alternative dispute resolution practices. “When clients approach us with certain disputes, we first invite parties to see how best we can mediate,” she said. Justice Oguntade, a certified arbitrator and fellow of the Chartered Institute of Arbitration UK, has proved to be an asset to the firm. He has sat on numerous arbitral panels and as a sole arbitrator and has chaired standing tribunals of the institutes of stockbrokers, insurance and bankers. The firm felt Justice Oguntade’s absence when he served as High Commissioner to the United Kingdom from 2017 to 2020 and is happy to welcome back the 81-year-old jurist, who still has a lot to offer.