Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai has countered those circulating video of his statement on kidnapping and abduction of Nigerians by bandits and terrorists before becoming the state’s governor. The governor, who was seen in the video clip dated 2014, opined that President Goodluck Jonathan ought to have deployed all possible means to secure Chibok girls abducted by Boko Haram, was accused of backtracking, following his contradictory action and refusal to negotiate with kidnappers terrorising his state. El-Rufai, who gave context to the video clip where he was seen advocating for all options to ensure the release of the abducted Chibok girls in 2014, said mass abduction was like a novelty in 2014, but the facts have now changed since then, as negotiations and ransoms have not stopped the criminals. The governor, who responded through his Special Adviser on Media and Communication, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, said the quantum of money paid as ransom following many negotiations with bandits have neither stopped kidnappings nor deterred the criminals from perpetrating evil. He argued that several states who sought to negotiate their way out of the problems by talking to bandits, paying them money or offering them amnesty have not gotten any good result, but instead, such move only encouraged the criminals to press ahead for a surrender of the public treasury to them. According to the governor,  “Amidst the violence unleashed by criminal elements on the people of Kaduna State, some commentators have responded by blaming KDSG for asserting that the duty of the state is to uphold the law and not to reward hoodlums for violating the lives, property and liberties of citizens. “Those pushing that kind of narrative are sharing a video clip of a 2014 interview in which Malam Nasir El-Rufai called on the government of President Goodluck Jonathan to use all options, including negotiation, to rescue the Chibok girls. “The years since 2014 may have led some people to forget the denial and doubt that defined the Federal Government’s response to the Chibok abductions, especially the initial refusal to acknowledge that it happened. That was the context under which civic pressures were brought on the government. “Nigeria’s journey since the 2014 Chibok tragedy has proven that the solution to violent crimes, including terrorism and banditry, is a robust response from the state and its coercive agencies. The quantum of money paid as ransom following many negotiations with bandits have not stopped kidnappings, reduced their frequency or deterred the criminals.”