The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has urged the Federal Government not to rest on its oars or celebrate too early about being certified polio-free to avoid a resurgence or importation of the disease. The country was at the verge of being declared polio-free in 2016, having been free of polio for 26 months, until cases were found in Borno State. It was, however, certified polio-free last August by the World Health Organisation (WHO). Two countries – Afghanistan and Pakistan – are still endemic of the disease. However, experts and stakeholders in the health sector have lamented the low level of routine immunisation for polio and other vaccine-preventable diseases like measles, yellow fever, meningitis, tuberculosis etc., especially during the COVID-19 lockdown last year. Speaking during a media dialogue in Yola for reporters on routine Immunisation and COVID-19 vaccination, Communication for Development (C4D) Specialist with UNICEF Elizabeth Onitolo said: “When children miss their routine immunisation, they are not able to fight diseases, as a result of COVID-19 lockdown. “We are here to increase awareness on the implication of missed immunisation on children, which has led to the resurgence of illnesses (measles, yellow fever, meningitis and tuberculosis) and polio. “Nigeria’s certification calls for cautious celebration. The success recorded is still fragile because immunisation coverage is still low. Many parents are still not compliant while many children have not been vaccinated. “Because of lockdown, we told our mobilisers to urge mothers to go to health centres for immunisation. Many missed their schedule due to COVID-19 lockdown. The BCM collected the numbers of the mothers, called and followed them up. “For children under two years to combat recurring measles disease, one dose of measles vaccination is no longer enough. It has now been increased to two. “Environmental sanitation and personal hygiene in communities are still very low, providing a possible ground for disease outbreak. “Disease burden will be cut by 25 per cent if people regularly wash their hands, according to studies. “Major cause of death among children is vaccine-preventable diseases. We must work assiduously to avoid a resurgence or importation of polio. Afghanistan and Pakistan are still polio-endemic. Routine immunisation is very low in the country.”