Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, will be unveiling several iconic projects in the health, education, transportation, housing and other sectors as his administration attains second year in office. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said in a statement on Sunday that the projects to be unveiled were among those that had been completed since Sanwo-Olu came on board on May 29, 2019. Omotoso said that from Tuesday, series of activities had been put together to showcase the administration’s performance and impact on residents. He, however, said that it would not be all about what had been achieved, as Sanwo-Olu would be offering residents a glimpse into the future of ”A Greater Lagos”. According to him, the governor will be unveiling new projects which the administration plans to execute to make life more comfortable for the citizenry. ”The mid-term report will begin with briefings by Ministries, Departments and Agencies of government, rendering accounts of their achievements in the past two years. ”Events of the second-year anniversary include media interviews and interaction of key members of the Lagos State Executive Council, including Dr Hamzat, the media and various segments of society. ”The governor will unveil iconic projects in the health, education, transportation, housing and other sectors, besides the various infrastructure projects that have been completed during his tenure. ”The ground-breaking of the New Massey Street Children’s Hospital, which is billed to be the biggest in Africa, will be performed by the governor. New schools and housing units will be commissioned,” he said. Omotoso said that since taking the oath of office, Gov. Sanwo-Olu had inaugurated roads across the state, such as the Tedi-Muwo Road and Link Bridge at the Lagos-Ogun State boundary, that cut across Alimosho and Agbado-Oke Odo. He said that the governor had also inaugurated 1.4km dual carriage Pen Cinema Bridge; and the 13.68 kilometres Oshodi-Abule-Egba BRT corridor. Others, according to him, are; 31 networks of roads in Ojokoro LCDA, as well as six junction improvement projects to tackle traffic congestion under the Traffic Management Intervention Plan. The commissioner said that in Lekki, the government was building the regional road and the Lekki-Epe Expressway, while in Ikorodu, work was progressing on Agric-Isawo Road. He mentioned other road projects to include; Bola Tinubu-Igbogbo-Imota Road; Ijede Road; Oba Sekumade Road in Ipakodo; and Itamaga to Ewu Elepe Town. He said that no less than 3,500 housing units had been delivered with thousands more to be completed before the end of the second quarter. Omotoso said that major strides were also visible in water transportation as an alternative means of commuting passengers, to reduce pressure on road infrastructure across the five divisions of Lagos State. ”No less than 15 jetties are in various stages of completion at the Ijede Waterfront and Offin in Ikorodu; Marina Waterfront, VIP Chalet, Apapa and Isalu Ajido in Badagry. “Also included are; Oke-Ira Nla and Takwa Bay, Eti-Osa; Liverpool Road in Apapa; Ebute-Ero on Lagos Island; Mile 2; Ijegun-Egba and Ilashe in Ojo; Ito-Omu in Epe, as well as Ilado in Amuwo Odofin. ”The governor has just performed the ground-breaking of the Lagos Rail Mass Transit Red Line Project to complement the 29km Blue Line Project, which has reached 93 per cent completion stage. ”Phase One of the project will be delivered in the last quarter of year 2022 to convey passengers from Okokomaiko to Marina. ”In social intervention, over 38,000 residents are beneficiaries of programmes that provide empowerment for youths and succour to other residents through agriculture, healthcare, and grants for women in rural areas. ”There are many who have graduated from the state’s 19 Skills Acquisition projects. “These figures exclude the residents who enjoyed free treatment in public hospitals during the first and second waves of the COVID-19 pandemic,” he said. According to him, the Smart City Project is on, as about 3000km of fibre-optic cables are being laid in the first phase of the project, which will be 6,000km when completed. The commissioner said that the fibre-optic would provide faster and more reliable internet that would improve education, security and commerce to boost the attainment of a 21st Century Economy. He said that schools, hospitals, security agencies and members of the public could hook up to the internet connectivity to advance teaching and learning; consultation and treatment of patients as well as surveillance of crime and traffic violations across the state. Omotoso said that besides, thousands of cameras would be installed to check crime in the state. He said that the recent acquisition of body cameras for security and traffic monitoring was an innovative approach to monitoring, identifying and checkmating criminals. Omotoso said that Gov. Sanwo-Olu would round off the second-year anniversary events by engaging the media, captains of industry and other stakeholders, at an interactive session on May 28, when he would deliver an address on his stewardship. (NAN)