The Police Command in Delta has confirmed the arrest of three suspected kidnappers and the rescue of their victim. The Command’s acting spokesman, DSP Edafe Bright, confirmed the development to newsmen in Warri yesterday. He identified the victim as Peter Okologo. Bright said the suspects were arrested on Saturday by operatives of the Rapid Response Team of the ‘A’ Division, Warri, led by its Divisional Police Officer (DPO), CSP Tanko Mahmud. “On April 24, 2021 at about 10 a.m., a complaint was received by the DPO ‘A’ Division, Warri, CSP Mahmud that on April 23, one of the suspects from Ogbori Community in Warri led a group of armed men, alleged to be in military uniforms with guns and other weapons, stormed Okologo’s house and whisked him away to an unknown destination after firing gun shots. “Mahmud, on getting the report, mobilised the Rapid Response Team from the Division. They arrested another suspect who led the kidnappers to the victim’s house. “Police recovered three empty shells from the scene,” he said. Bright said that the suspects led the police team to Sapele where the victim was taken hostage. In Zaria, Kaduna State,  police arrested two of the suspected kidnappers who allegedly attacked Kofar-Gayan Low-Cost Zaria on Sunday, abducting two women and injuring four residents. ASP Mohammed Jalige, police spokesman, confirmed the incident to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Zaria. Jalige said the police were on top of the situation, adding that investigation into the matter was ongoing. Alhaji Haruna Sani, a husband to one of the kidnapped housewives told NAN that he received a phone call around 10.00p.m. on Sunday that kidnappers had raided his house. Sani said he alerted the police who responded immediately and exchanged gunfire for about 25 minutes with the kidnappers. He said that some of the kidnappers took away his wife, that of his neighbour and her three children. Sani however said that the three children were subsequently rescued. He explained that the kidnappers, who dressed in women outfits, left behind braziers and hijab in his neighbour’s house as they fled. Sani also said that four residents were wounded when the kidnappers shot at his daughter who ran out of the house to escape.