As part of activities marking the World Oral Health Day, Colgate, a leading toothpaste brand, collaborated with the Nigeria Association of Dental Students (NDSA) and the Nigerian Medical Students Association (NMSA) to reach out to 44 locations in rural communities across 31 states. At each location, activities started in the early in the morning with oral health sensitisation walk; Colgate team, dental students and medical students combed densely populated areas around the activation points such as the markets, residentials raising awareness about preventing dental cavities and the importance of ensuring a good oral hygiene practice. After wards, everyone had the opportunity to visit the Colgate Dental Checkup stands to have their mouth screened at zero cost by licensed and certified dentist. In Abuja, the team visited Paiko community, Gwagwalada engaging families, market women, children and conducted household calls to preach the message of adopting a good oral care habit in alignment with the theme “Be proud of your smile”. Colgate Palmolive Tolaram Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Girish Sharma, said: “We are, particularly, excited about this year’s World Oral Health Day campaign as it holds the potential to transform the lives of many across the nation.” “Colgate’s partnership with NDSA and the NMSA made the impact even more far-reaching as it facilitated the possibility of combing through the nooks and crannies of over 44 communities across 31 states daily. “Although the target population reach for this exercise is over 18,000 for adult and children,  in line with Colgate’s 2021 goal of touching more than two million people through its Free Dental check ups. “Oral care is a very important aspect of the human overall health and wellness, and preventing cavity is one of the cardinal parts of enjoying a good oral health. It is therefore imperative to create awareness around oral care. “We are committed to proffer effective solutions to the spread of tooth cavities as well as aggressively promoting preventive oral care in Nigeria which is why we decided to go national with the campaign to deeply penetrate the rural communities ensuring they also benefit from the free dental screening opportunity.” President of NADS, Michael Adejumo said: “We embarked on this campaign to support our brand, Colgate and to enhance publicity on good oral care habits across every state in Nigeria and around the world.” NMSA President, Dan-Buba Mohammed  said: “It is a responsibility of medical Students and medical profession to be able to make advocacy campaign that while doctors treat diseases in the hospital, medical students will be preventing the occurrence of these diseases.” WOHD is celebrated throughout the world each year, with a wide range of awareness-raising activities organised by dentists, dental students, and NDAs. It offers the dental and oral health community a platform to take action and help reduce the global disease burden of oral disease.