Former presidential candidate Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has paid glowing tributes to late Afenifere spokesman, Yinka Odumakin, who he described as a man of extraordinary courage that stood by his words. The businessman, in a statement, expressed deep shock over his death, saying Nigeria has lost one of the greatest. Olawepo-Hashim said: “I woke up the morning of Saturday,3rd of April to a couple of news items from some online platforms announcing that Yinka Odumakin had just passed on the early hours of that same day . “I was so shocked because a few days earlier he was engaged in a very passionate exchange with some opinion writers. I had no inclination that he had been sick all the while. “I tried getting confirmation from the wife but I did not get a feed back until some few hours later, at a time the media was already awash with the tragic news.” He added: “To say Nigeria has lost another great is to put it mildly. He was one of the greatest.” Olawepo-Hashim recalled he met Yinka 33 years ago when the deceased was PRO of Obafemi Awolowo University Students Union and he, Hashim was the PRO of the Students Federation, National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS). “It was a testy period as we were engaged in a very intense struggle against the military government. Great Ife had invited me to speak on Alternative to SAP, the economic policy of the regime that we were campaigning against. “Yinka remained on the left of the left platform in the radical movement while I was to the centre of left. But like most of his comrades from Ife such as Lanre Arogundade, Raskeey Ojikutu (Lagos)Adewale Bashar (Ibadan),we were allies in the struggles of the mid and late 1980s. “Yinka was always passionate with his point of view. He made his debut into partisan politics when he emerged a spokesman for General Buhari during the 2011 elections. “He was passionate with General Buhari’s cause when the General had very few friends in the South west. He probably displayed the same passion against the General when he changed his perspective. That was vintage Yinka. “Fortunately Yinka and I had mutual respect for ourselves despite our sometime diametrically opposed perspectives. “He was very respectful of me or perhaps over respectful as he never called me by my first name despite the fact that we were colleagues. “He called me “Baba”.Yinka cuts the image of a fiery fighter but he was a shy person. There was a Yinka known to those he felt obliged to love and respect different from the Yinka on the news stand. He was very emotional and humane.” “Another lover of freedom has departed this clime. I mourn a comrade, friend and brother, a man of extra ordinary courage. “My condolence once more to Joe, Yinka’s wife who I knew separately as a comrade and as a friend. I pray God to give her and the family the fortitude to bear the loss,” he said.