No fewer than 18 persons died and 21 injured when Boko Haram insurgents attacked Damasak town in Borno on Tuesday. This was confirmed during a visit to the town by Governor Babagana Zulum was in Damasak, who slept from Thursday to Friday in the town. Zulum traveled alongside Senator Abubakar Kyari representing Borno north, who hails from Damasak, and some officials. The Governor held operational meeting with soldiers and other security forces after which he presented 12 security vehicles, which include an armoured personnel carrier ( APC) and 11 patrol vehicles to strengthen armed forces and volunteers made up of trained youths in the civilian JTF, hunters and vigilantes, helping in the fight against insurgents. Damasak, headquarter of Mobbar local government area in northern Borno, is located in the fringes of Lake Chad and shares border with communities in Niger Republic. The town used to be producer and exporter of vegetables to target markets within Nigeria, Niger republic and other neighboring countries. Boko Haram had occupied Damasak in 2014 as one of their caliphates and the insurgents seem interested in the town, apparently for strategic access to raising funds through agriculture and for land routes to Niger republic. Zulum, spending the night at Damasak, ended speculation that the town had fallen to insurgents’ occupation. During his stay in Damasak, Zulum had interactions with soldiers and others forces involved in counter insurgency operations. The Governor interacted with residents, empathised with them and assessed destructions caused by insurgents. Thousands of residents who had fled to boarder communities in Niger republic returned on Friday. The UN humanitarian hub, private residential houses, a police station, palace of the district head, a primary healthcare centre, and a GSM Village were among property destroyed. The insurgents attacked the town with three gun-trucks, residents told Governor Zulum. Tuesday’s attack on Damasak was the sixth in two weeks by the Boko Haram/ISWP groups, residents recalled. Zulum assured of robust measures being put in place to avert future attacks on Damasak town, by the insurgents. The Governor directed the strengthening of agricultural activities in Damasak and he assessed a rice farm, which his administration facilitated to enhance food security.