About 163 million ordinary shares of leading companies worth N5.15 billion have been placed on securities lending platform for borrowing by investors. A review of the securities lending status at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on Tuesday showed that the shares of leading companies such as Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank) Plc, Zenith Bank International Plc, MTN Nigeria Plc and Dangote Sugar Refinery (DSR) Plc were deposited by investors and available for borrowing by any  investor. GTB is Nigeria’s largest financial institution by market capitalisation. Zenith Bank is a leading tier 1 bank and second most capitalised bank. MTN Nigeria is the sectoral leader for the telecoms sector while DSR, a member of Aliko Dangote’s Dangote Group, is the largest and only quoted sugar company. Securities lending is the process of lending and borrowing of shares and bonds by investors for a period  under an agreed arrangement. Traditionally, the borrower will provide acceptable collateral to the lender in the form of cash or other acceptable securities of equal but often greater value than the lent securities to protect the lender against any default by the borrower.The borrower must return the securities at the end of the  period. According to the report, a total of 31.1 million ordinary shares of GTBank valued at N899 million were available for lending as at the beginning of this week. Also, a total of 77.333 million ordinary shares of Zenith Bank worth N1.70 billion were available. A total of 11.196 million ordinary shares of MTN  worth N1.84 billion were available while a total of 43 million ordinary shares of DSR worth N714 million were placed for borrowing. Under the securities lending arrangement, the lender temporarily loan its securities to the borrower. Borrowers seeking to borrow securities would do this through a security lending agent. The borrower would need to enter into a Global Securities Lending Agreement with the securities lending agent, who is typically the custodian of the securities. The securities lending agent would need to have a Securities Lending Authorisation Agreement in place with the owner of the security before the security can be lent. Once the security is lent, the legal title of the security passes from the lender to the borrower, but any benefits arising from corporate actions such as scrip issue or dividend payments are retained by the lender, the beneficial owner. The lender regains title when the securities are returned by the borrower at the end of the loan tenor or when the lender calls for the stock if the agreement was a call tenor. The securities recall is usually stipulated by the terms and conditions of the securities lending contract. Borrowers include market makers, broker-dealer firms, investment banks and hedge funds while lenders include large institutional investors such as pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds, sovereign wealth funds, investment companies, holding companies, high net-worth individuals and retail investors. Securities lending enhances the liquidity and price discovery functions of the market while providing more income to all parties.