Former Ajax teammates of Finidi George presented a video tribute to the former Nigeria International as he celebrated his 50th birthday yesterday. The mercurial winger played with the team from Amsterdam between 1993 and 1996, winning eight major titles including the Champions League in 1995 before leaving for Real Betis in Spain. The video, which was posted on the club’s official Twitter page, features Marc Overmars, Frank Rijkaard, Ronald de Boer, Frank de Boer, Jari Litmanen, Danny Blind and former Ajax coach Louis van Gaal  reminiscing about their fond memories with the attacker. “Finidi, congratulations on your birthday. 50 years already but we will never forget you, my friend,” said Blind. “Georgy my friend, I just take this opportunity to wish you a very happy birthday. I hope you enjoy your wonderful day. But above all, I hope you are safe and in good health. Take care buddy and see you soon. Tchau!” according to Kiki Musampa. “Finidi, dear brother, happy 50th birthday. I want to wish you a lot of happiness and health for you and your family,” Kluivert added. Marc Overmars who later featured for Arsenal and Barcelona, believes his partnership with the Nigerian remains one of the best in Ajax history. “It was an unbelievable time in Ajax to play together with you. “You were on the right side; I was on the left side. I think it was one of the best combinations Ajax had in history.” After playing for three local clubs in Nigeria, he joined the Dutch giants in 1993 and went straight into the first team. George was a regular member of the Ajax team as they claimed three consecutive League titles and a Champions League trophy in 1995. He made his Super Eagles debut in 1991 in an Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Burkina Faso, where he scored a goal and provided three assists to help Nigeria to a 7-1 victory. George was also part of the Super Eagles squad that played in Nigeria’s first World Cup outing in USA 1994 and went on to score one of Nigeria’s goals in a 2-0 win over Greece. He made 62 caps for the Super Eagles winning an AFCON trophy in 1994.  