 The team of athletes that represented Lagos State in the Maltina School Games Competition shone brightest, emerging the overall Best State with 21 Gold, 15 Silver and five Bronze medals. The laurels came from pupils of Ijaiye Housing Junior and Senior Secondary School and Euba Junior Secondary School among others.  The athletes from these two schools won millions of Naira for themselves and their schools. At the official prize presentation held last Thursday at the Ministry of Education Conference Room, the Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo attributed the success to Governor Babajide Olusola Sanw-Olu’s investment in developing students to excel not only in academics but also in co-curricular activities. The Commissioner who was represented by the Tutor General/Permanent Secretary Education District I, Mrs. Titilayo Solarin appreciated the initiative of the Nigeria Breweries, makers of Maltina for the bountiuful incentives and reward to the students who have distinguished themselves and made the State proud. “Lagos State Students are gifted and as a state we have continued to create various means of showcasing them to the World,” she said.  Presenting the cash gift to the respective recipients, the Portfolio Manager, Non-Alcoholic Drinks, NB Plc, Mrs. Kehinde Kadiri said she was inspired by the bunch of talents in Lagos State Schools. Kadiri urged the winners to continue to strive for the best always. She lauded the government’s proactive response to the competition in all ramifications and commended the judges and participants of the maiden edition of the Maltina School Games. At the senior category, Ojo Joy of Ijaiye Housing Estate Senior Secondary School took first position in 100 metres, 200m and 4x100m. She got a prize gift of N500, 000 and additional N1, 000, 0000 for emerging as overall best athlete. In the junior boys’ category, Okon Moses of Euba Junior Secondary School, Mushin got a prize gift of N500, 000 for winning gold medal in 400M, 4x100M and silver medal in 100M. At the junior girls’ category, Anifowoshe Sikirat of Ijaiye Housing Estate Junior High School won a prize gift of N500, 000 clinching gold medal in 100m and 4x100m. A cheque of N5, 000,000 was presented to Ijaiye Housing Estate Senior Secondary School under Education District I for emerging as Overall Best School. Other dignitaries at the award presentation included: Tutor General/Permanent Secretary, Education District VI, Mrs. Okelola Oludara, President, Nigeria School Sport Federation, Mrs. Olabisi Joseph, Representative of Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr. Babatunde Omibekun and Representative of the Executive Chairman, Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Mrs Oluyomi Oluwasanmi.