Arsenal and Liverpool will attempt to rebuild some post-international break momentum when they meet tonight. Jurgen Klopp’s side have won just four of their last 15 league matches, an astounding figure considering the destructiveness of their title-winning campaign last season. Trying to pinpoint exactly what’s going wrong on Merseyside can be linked back to a simple lack of goals, although the roots of their issues run deeper. Back in December, Liverpool walloped Wolves 4-0 to go joint top of the league while Arsenal were losing 2-0 to Spurs to slump to just three spots above the relegation zone. Since then of course, Liverpool’s form has completely nose-dived and while no-one is getting carried away in North London, there are signs the Gunners could be something approaching contender status next season if they continue their rate of improvement. Arsenal have lost just once in the league in the last two months and that was at home to Manchester City, while Liverpool have at least offered signs of recovery with two wins in a row in the Champions League against RB Leipzig and away at Molineux to Wolves. Both sides face a desperate struggle to even get into Europe next season and it could be about to get worse for one of them tonight.  Arsenal, by contrast, are unbeaten in four Premier League outings, and have lost just three league fixtures since Christmas. The table is as it is, but the team are playing significantly better football with clear improvements across the board. Certain concerns haven’t dissipated, and they’ll all be blown up if the Gunners crash out to Slavia Prague in the Europa League quarter-finals with the first leg taking place on the Thursday after Saturday’s clash. Arteta will have fatigue to contend with in his squad after 15 of his players were away on international duty, even if the Reds have their own similar concerns to contend with on top of the plethora of other injuries they’ve suffered this season. A Reiss Nelson goal and Alexandre Lacazette strike secured the Gunners a shock 2-1 win in this fixture last term, and a scrappy, handed-on-a-plate win would sit well with supporters once more for the weekend. It’s vital to build some momentum ahead of welcoming their Czech opponents in Europe, while a win will also keep alive their European ambitions via their league finish, which are currently on life support. Two of Arsenal’s brightest youngsters in Bukayo Saka and Emile Smith Rowe are struggling with hamstring and thigh injuries respectively – with the former having to pull out of England duty – and the attacking duo remain doubts ahead of the visit of Liverpool. Saka’s possible absence would give Nicolas Pepe the chance to flourish on the right wing as Willian battles a calf issue, and the Ivorian will likely be joined by Odegaard, Lacazette and Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, with the latter rediscovering his goal-scoring touch for Gabon during the international break. Granit Xhaka and Thomas Partey will not be broken up in midfield, while David Luiz and Gabriel Magalhaes should form the centre-back pairing, but Arteta has a huge call to make on the right-hand side of defence.