Even before the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) held its Southwest congress in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, to elect 22 party officers last Monday, Oyo State governor Seyi Makinde and former Ekiti State governor, the redoubtable Ayo Fayose, flexed muscles so loudly that for the first time in many months, the usually somnolent opposition party dominated the news and colonized the front pages of national newspapers. Despite the theatrics of Rivers State governor Nyesom Wike, and the quite but generally servile leadership and politics of party chairman Uche Secondus, the party previously barely got a significant mention in the news. No one could tell whether they did not secretly lust for Lai Mohammed, now Information minister, in his heyday as the caustic All Progressives Congress (APC) spokesman. Mercifully, Mr Fayose, no slouch when it comes to political drama and vituperation, resuscitated the party from its comatose position, realigned it with the drama and conflict of the past, and deftly positioned it competitively on the front pages. So intense was Mr Fayose’s competitiveness and aggressiveness in his bid to be the real party juggernaut in the Southwest that he backed one of the candidates for the position of national vice-chairman of the Southwest PDP against Mr Makinde’s candidate. The tug of war escalated so dangerously that the congress had to be shifted to a neutral ground, away from Mr Makinde’s turf, Oyo State. Apprised of the shift, the Oyo governor angled for Lagos as venue, while Mr Fayose lobbied for Ogun State. It is not clear why they chose those states specifically. In the end, as the national APC has shown in their own bitter internal struggles, serving governors always have the upper hand. Mr Makinde’s candidate, the former Oyo State deputy governor Taofeek Arapaja, won the coveted position, for now enhancing the Oyo governor’s influence in the party. Mr Fayose has been predictably irritable ever since. He has accused Mr Makinde of sponsoring thuggish groups to seize power. Knowing him for who he is, the former Ekiti governor will not give up his frenzied schemes to be reckoned with. He knows the political and material value of enhancing his influence ahead of 2023. But much more than that, he should congratulate himself, and his party should wink longingly at him for reviving and raising an awkward and lethargic party to renewed prominence. The party will need him in the years ahead. His influence may not secure him intraparty victories, but it has not waned significantly. Together with the equally tempestuous Mr Wike, Mr Fayose will conspire to make the country continue to reckon with the PDP, if not in policy, at least in theatrics. After all, the ruling APC has become all sound and fury itself, and its leading bombardiers, like Lai Mohammed, have become nothing more than royal and presidential fusiliers.