Outgone Director-General Michael Imoudu National Institute of Labour Studies Salihu Alabi has described sundry allegations leveled against him as an attempt at blackmailing his person. The institute workers under the aegis of Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Unions (NASU) had bidden the director-general, whose tenure expired on Friday last week, farewell with a peaceful protest. They alleged the five-year tenure of Alabi was characterised with maladministration. The placard-carrying protesters urged Federal Government and the Ministry of Labour to appoint a new director general that would effect a positive turn around in the institute. The protest, which was staged at the entrance of the institute, was jointly conducted by both senior and junior staff, just as they chanting solidarity songs. Some of the placards read: ‘MINILS shall never return to Egypt’ ; ‘No promotion arrears in five years’; ‘We urge FG, Ministry of Labour not to bring Alabi back’ and ‘MINILS has been reduced to private venture’, among others. Reacting, Alabi who is seeking another term in office, said: “The allegations are embarrassing. They are attempts at blackmail. The allegation that I never put the welfare of workers as a priority is false. “It is on record that I have been the executive officer that has so far provided the largest amount of welfare package. No single year passed since the inception of my administration that I did not give end of year package to staff. “I can also recall that the Federal Government banned end of year gifts to staff many years ago but I said ‘we must do something for for workers.’ “The allegation that development was stagnated throughout my five years tenure is also not true. We know that FG is the sole financier of the institute and it is common knowledge that resources available to the national economy have dwindled over the years due to the shortfall in the prices of crude oil. “Just as the problems were affecting the Federal Government our principal, so also are the problems affecting ministries, departments, agencies (MDAs) like ours. We have utilised the resources available to put up structures on the campus.” On the allegation of non- payment of promotion arrears, Alabi said they are being paid through IPPIS.