A flashback video of Kaduna Governor Nasir El-Rufai where he expressed support for negotiation with terrorists contrary to his current stance has set tongues wagging. In the now-viral video seen by The Nation, El-Rufai stood as one of the loud voices that criticised the administration of ex-President Goodluck Jonathan shortly after Boko Haram insurgents abducted students of Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State. The video has sparked an outrage amidst mixed reactions, which have continued to trail the ongoing attacks and abductions of citizens in Kaduna State. He had said: “If one of these girls was Jonathan’s daughter, the story would have been different. “The only reason why these girls are still in captivity is because they are not the daughter of any important Nigerian and we know it. “If you say we are politcising terrorism, go and rescue the girls so that I will not have the basis to politicise it.” Asked if he was in support of negotiation, he had responded: “I am in support of every option, when you have life of a citizens at risk, you should not have any option on the table. You should reflect and listen.” But recently, The Nation reports El-Rufai vowed to prosecute anyone found negotiating with bandits on behalf of the State Government. El-Rufai also stated he will never pay ransom to bandits even if they kidnap his son. Kaduna has recently become the haven of kidnappers and bandits. While some have been killed, released, others are still being held. Meanwhile, many Nigerians have taken to social media to react over the trending video. Chucks Akunna lamented: “Under el-Rufai, gunmen have kidnapped everybody kidnapable – fathers, mothers, children, students, passengers & traders. Now nurses.” Former Aviation Minister Femi Fani-Kayode queried: “Do you remember this? Isn’t it amazing? Governor El Rufai said all this seven years ago and yet look at what is happening in our country today after GEJ left power! We warned you in 2015 but you would not listen. Sad! Sad! Sad!” Activist Deji Adeyanju said: “Guys, stop posting that old el-Rufai’s video. You can’t shame the shameless. These guys don’t give a damn.” Vincent Uzoma wrote: “Sometimes when our politicians talk because they need power they forgot that tomorrow they will be judged by their actions and statements that comes out of their mouths, just listen to El-Rufai few years ago and his statement today that the bandits should not be negotiated with.” Bangiss Peter stated: “Hypocrisy is what is been practiced by our politicians in Nigeria. “Now PMB is in power and he is a governor what then was he able to do concerning in security both in the country and his own state. Imagine those greenfield University students were your children. Watch ur tongue”.