A new governing council has been inaugurated for Babcock University, Ilishan-Remo, Ogun State to steer the affairs of the institution for next five years (2020-2025). The new Council is headed by the President of the Northern Region Conference of the Seventh Adventist Church, Pastor Yohanna Harry. The inauguration, which took place at the institution, was performed by the Chancellor of the University and President of the West African Central Division of the church, Pastor Elie Weick-Dido. The Chancellor advised members of the Council to discharge their functions effectively with passion and dedication to the service of God and humanity. He noted that at a time such as this, every institution requires the best practices to excel and drastically stave off competition. ‘“With about 197 universities in Nigeria, Babcock University requires your best input to continue to raise the bar of learning and training for maximum global impact.” In his acceptance speech, Pastor Harry said the Council would exercise its primary responsibility in the overall interest of all and sundry with let or hindrance. He added it would continue to determine the educational character and academic direction and integrity of the University to ensure that students of the institution have a high quality learning experience leading to academic awards which are subject to the application of appropriate academic standards. Also speaking, Prof. Tayo noted that he would, with the support of the governing council work to implement and fulfill the mission and strategic aims of the University, the Corporate Plan and the key indicators of University performance. He added that he would ensure that the University is financially sustainable and is using its resources  judiciously in the overall interest of its students and stakeholders. Other members of the Governing Council at the inauguration were the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Ademola Tayo; Deputy Vice Chancellor, Academics, Prof. Philemon Amanze; Deputy Vice Chancellor, Management Services, Prof. Yacob Haliso; Vice President, Financial Administration, Dr. Ilesanmi Akande; Vice President, Student Development, Dr. Sunday Audu; former 32nd President, General Conference of United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) Emeritus Professor Michael Omolewa; Abia State Commissioner for Education, Dr. Kanelechi C. K. Nwangwa and Elder Markus Dangana.