 On Saturday, July 14, 2018, Nigerian music star Davido eagerly expressed his desire to tie the nuptial knot with Chioma Rowland. The 28-year-old singer joyfully told his 19.6 million followers on Instagram that he can’t wait to be referred to as Chioma’s husband and spend the rest of his life with her. He wrote, “The Love of my life !! Can’t wait to spend forever with you,” under a picture of Chioma and himself. In a quick response on the same day in the comment section, the beautiful chef replied saying: “I can’t wait either. Love you.” This was the genesis of Davido and Chioma’s romance which became public knowledge in the same year after the singer threw a lavish birthday party for her and gifted her a Porsche car valued at N23 million. Davido and Chioma’s love story The Davido-Chioma love affair grabbed the attention of the world with the media monitoring every step of the partners. The pair became an item on the entertainment scene with Davido putting her on a track in his sophomore album, ‘A Good Time.’ Their success and affair grabbed headlines and many hoped for the duo to walk down the aisle. In 2019, exactly ten days after the introduction ceremony between their families, the singer officially proposed marriage to a heavily pregnant Chioma in London. And as expected, Chioma accepted the proposal. Months after, the lovebirds welcomed their first child together, Ifeanyi David, who became Davido’s first son and third child. Between 2018 and 2020, Davido had featured prominently at the weddings of his elder brother, Adewale, and lawyer, Bobo Ajidua. The weddings also featured Chioma as Davido’s fiancee and fans believed the two would walk down the aisle in 2020. However, the global pandemic withheld the plans. Chioma had tested positive for coronavirus and cracks in their union began spilling.  Unconfirmed reports had alleged domestic violence and abuse in the relationship but Chioma had rebuked those behind the rumour insisting there’s no iota of such in her affair with Davido. Nevertheless, she neither admitted nor deny if there were cracks in their relationship. The year 2020 ended without Davido’s relationship with Chioma culminating on the altar. The Other Women For the last nine years since Davido grabbed fame and fortune with his debut album, OBO, he had always been entangled with one lady or the other. All through his blooming career, Davido’s dalliance with females across different continents became legendary. There had been other women in Davido’s life even before he fell head over heels in love with the 26-year-old Chef Chioma. From Nigerian entrepreneur, Sophie Momodu to American lady, Amanda, and Guinean model Sira Kante, Davido had his hands in many pies. And not only did he frolic with the women, but he also went on to father two daughters – Imade and Hailey – with two of the women, Sophie and Amanda respectively. baby mamas and there are speculations that Chioma is carrying Davido’s third child. The most recent of many of Davido’s escapades has been gaining so much attention from all nooks and crannies. The father of three was spotted with an American model and video vixen, Mya Yafai. All about Mya Yafai Not many Nigerians knew Mya Yafai until February 2020. Yafai, who isn’t a newbie in the celebrity world, had been formerly romantically linked to American rapper Young M.A. The model, actress, radio personality, and YouTuber became the toast of Nigerian after a picture of her enjoying a cozy moment with Davido surfaced. In February 2021, Davido and his crew had jetted out of Nigeria to Saint Martin, a part of the Leeward Islands in the Caribbean Sea. He had taken several pictures, which he shared on his Instagram page but none of the pictures indicated that he was with Yafai. In the same month, Yafai was also spotted on the same island but not in the company of Davido. However, a picture of Yafai with Davido, indicated that the two were both on the Island at the same time and had met. If there’s a relationship between the two remains unknown as at press time.