Who are the criminals trying to set Imo State up for collateral damages by attacking police stations and correctional facilities? Obviously, they want the armed forces to vent their frustrations elsewhere on the common folks, who have no hand in the attacks. Of course, this column does not buy the street talk that the police and other security agencies have been overawed by the hoodlums who wish to see the state descend into anarchy. While the sacked IGP Mohammed Adamu pointed an accusing finger at the outlawed IPOB, the group has disassociated itself from the mayhem that has become the lot of the state. There is a joke in the social media that while the police are accusing IPOB for burning police headquarters and Correctional Centre in Imo State, a crime they have denied, the army is exonerating the Boko Haram from being responsible for the disappeared military fighter jet, even when the group has claimed responsibility. On its part, the government of Imo State has pointedly accused the former governor of Imo State, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, of orchestrating the mayhem in order to make the federal government declare a state of emergency in the state. In his response, the former governor asked the state government not to politicise the attacks, but instead has advised his successor, Senator Hope Uzodinma, to consult him for lessons on how to ensure the safety of the state and her citizens. Of course, Imo State has not been lucky with the quality of political leadership at the state level and that has affected the succession plans since 2003. The result is that the state has been exposed to persons whose pedigree and sources of wealth are shrouded in mystery. And wealth without work, has thrown up a desperate cache of political ragamuffins, who will not bat an eyelid to sell the state for lucre. On the present crisis, both the present and immediate former administrations have agreed that it is political ragamuffins that maybe holding the state by the jugular. In an interview with Channels Television, Governor Uzodinma claimed that the mayhem in the state is the handiwork of aggrieved politicians. His Commissioner for Information, Declan Emelumba, accused Rochas of attempting to use the violence “to repossess property government had sealed.” On his part, Rochas stated: “During my time as governor, Imo State was very peaceful and these security issues and agitations were on. We applied wisdom in the sense that we talked with the traditional rulers, the youth leaders and made them see reasons.” He went on: “as long as young men wake up in the morning and no job and poverty is ravaging the system, there is nothing the armed forces can do … the young men are coming out of schools, they are not getting jobs.” So while the present administration is pointing accusing finger at her immediate predecessor for organising the idle hands that are terrorising the state, the former administration is saying that the idle men are in abundance, even when they were in power. If we go by Rochas’s account, while he found a way to contain the ragamuffins, Uzodinma is incapable of doing that. According to him, when he was the governor “we collected more than 100 AK-47 rifles from the youths who came for exchange willingly, just by taking to them.” Of course, nobody will deny that Rochas has the gift of gab. As a governor, some of his greatest moments were behind the microphone, but I believe he was talking euphemistically when he said the ragamuffins surrendered their rifles “just by talking to them.” So, instead of “just talking to them”, the present administration has resorted to strong arm-tactics, and Rochas counsels: “engaging them with issues rather than this idea of bringing in air force and army as a first measure.” There is no doubt that Rochas should know what he is talking about, considering that he was at the helm of affairs for eight years. What he has not come clean is the kind of issues the governor needs to engage the army of jobless youths with. To gain that knowledge, he has asked Governor Hope Uzodinma to consult widely. In particular, the governor should consult him to learn how he handled IPOB, how he handled kidnapping, and how he handled agitators? But I doubt if Governor Hope Uzodinma will accept the Greek offer from his predecessor, considering the ongoing battle to repossess the assets former Governor Rochas Okorocha, allegedly gained corruptly in office, which has been seized by the state. While he was in office, this column wrote a number of articles, advising the then Governor Okorocha, to resist the temptation to turn the state to a private fiefdom, considering the information about the involvement of his family members in controlling every sector of the state economy. This column also strongly advised him not to succumb to the temptation to field his son-in-law as APC’s flag bearer, in the last gubernatorial elections, even when the ragamuffins around him were egging on. But, of course, he ignored us. Unfortunately, the carpetbaggers who surrounded him lied to him that he was a king, whose word was law, and he swallowed the bait. But when the house collapsed, the erstwhile praise singers scattered in different directions. Now that the state is buffeted by organised crime, the present administration is pointing fingers at those erstwhile carpetbaggers, who were living large without work, as the source of the mayhem. While it is left for the law enforcement agencies to unravel the criminals trying to foist a state of lawlessness on the poor citizens of Imo State, who are no less victims in the unlucky trajectory of governance in the state, the present administration must do all in its power to change the culture of poor governance in the state. Of note, Imo State is reputed to have the largest concentration of professors in the country, but unfortunately those who govern the state prefer to surround themselves with charlatans. There is also the intriguing fact that instead of setting up industries, the indigenes prefer to build hotels in the state. Perhaps, the governance models in the state, needs to change in other to change the orientation of the elite of the state. If this assertion is correct, then the solution to the challenges facing the state would have to come from the leadership in the state. The government of Senator Hope Uzodinma, would therefore need to change the philosophy of governance in the state. Even when his opponents deride him because of his emergence, through the controversial Supreme Court judgment, against Emeka Ihedioha, he can surprise the state indigenes with a superior performance in office.