Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, may have passed on, but his legacy through the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award, known in Nigeria as The International Award for Young People Nigeria, continues to impact the lives of many Nigerians.  ROBERT EGBE writes  Toheeb Olabisi Abdulsalam grew up as a timid and shy Lagos boy, who didn’t even have time for video games. He preferred to spend his time indoors. But all of that changed quickly when he enrolled for the International Award for Young People Nigeria. In the course of his Award journey, Abdulsalam’s true personality and potential came to the fore and he excelled to become a bronze and gold Award holder, as well as getting certified an Award Leader. Last Tuesday, he and five other persons shared their thoughts on the Award which was launched in 1956 and the life of its founder, The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, who died on April 9, 2021. The five others were Mrs Folake Fawunmi – Trustee, The International Award for Young People Nigeria; Mr Bello Oshoke Joseph – National Director, The International Award for Young People Nigeria, Mrs Nwakaudu Nkeiru – Award Leader, Okota Senior Secondary School, Lagos; Mrs Adewolu Oluwaseun – Award Leader, Avi-Cenna International School, Lagos and Mrs Lily Ibinyeibim Minimah – Bronze, Silver and Gold Award Holder. They recounted the remarkable impact of the Award and the legacy of its founder on countless young Nigerians. ‘Award impacted my life in different ways’ Abdulsalam, now a 300 level Agricultural Administration undergraduate at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, narrated how the Award changed his life. “The Award has impacted my life in different ways,” he told The Nation. “It has helped me to think out of the box.” Nigeria began a near-nationwide lockdown from March 2020 about a month after the first confirmed case of the novel Coronavirus in the country on February 27, 2020 and, like everyone else in the country, Abdulsalam’s life was disrupted. But he told The Nation that he excelled in the period by drawing on the skills and mental strength he acquired while participating in the Award.  “I’m a footballer but I had to think out of the box and look for a way to teach myself something new, which is karate,” Abdulsalam said, “Through the Award, I got my Black Belt title last year after receiving my gold Award. I was so happy. I was wowed, I never ever thought I would be able to achieve that within three years. His innovativeness didn’t end there. Abdulsalam pressed on and, incredibly for a Nigerian male, learnt knitting. This followed his choice of knitting as a skill to acquire during the Award. Nevertheless, he was wracked by doubts over whether he had made the right choice. But by consulting his Award leaders’ guides, he found the courage to continue. Abdulsalam said: “Under my skills I chose knitting. (But later) I was like how could I have chosen knitting? It’s for ladies, not for guys. But I persisted and now I make school cardigans and other similar attires for different schools. “I’ve always been very shy and reserved. I didn’t really like video games. But through the Award especially during the adventurous journey and the leadership skills I learnt, I’ve been able to build some social skills… “These are some of the values the Award has imparted in me. It has helped a lot.” Even his friends are amazed at the transformation. “Right now, in school, people are always like, ‘Is it this Award that has given you the courage and boldness to all of these?’” Abdulsalam said. The Award’s impacts influencing generations Like Abdulsalam, Mrs. Minimah also has positive stories about the impact of the Award and the life of its founder. Minimah got involved with the International Award for Young People Nigeria in secondary school, at age 13 when it was previously known as the Nigerian National Youth Award. She thrived and attained the three levels of the Award, that is the Bronze, Silver and Gold. Over 30 years later she’s still reaping the impact of the seeds the Award framework deposited in her. The Award impact, for instance, helped her cope during the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown.  “During the pandemic of last year, the Awards programme helped me to bring out the resilience in me and strength to cope, especially during the restrictions,” Minimah said. “It helped me to face challenges and overcome it, because when you are going through the Award especially the adventurous journey section, it equips you for life. It also helped me to develop new skills, you know, to adapt to the situation of last year.” Seeing the many benefits in her life, Minimah did not keep the Award’s gains to herself. “I had to equip my children too for life,” she explained, “because while we were restricted, I had to also inculcate some aspects of the Award in them; how to be physically fit and mentally sound and also how to overcome challenges. “So, it helped all of us to pull through and that was one aspect of the Award that I so much love and that’s why I’m so glad that I went through it because it would have been something else if I didn’t go through it.” ‘Award is a source of motivation’ For Award Leader and supervisor, Mrs Oluwaseun Adewolu, the Award helps to motivate and inspire kids. It has also helped her be at her best. Oluwaseun said: “As an award supervisor I’ve come to the full realisation that you haven’t really lived until you create a lasting impact on the lives and hearts of the generation behind you. “This generation has minimal role models and mentors who really understand the challenges that they go through on daily. In a world full of criticism and negative backlash, it is very expedient to have someone that they can rely on, someone that motivates them to achieve their goals, someone that has walked their path, and has success stories to share. “On my part I try, on a daily basis, to be the best that I can be. I try to let everyone know that no achievement is inconsequential. It has also helpedme to celebrate every small win. That’s the impact this has had on my daily life. It has also encouraged me to be filled with more gratitude for being alive to see what this generation is coming up with.”  The Award  The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award is a global non-formal education framework which challenges young people to discover their potential and find their purpose, passion and place in the world. It was launched in 1986 by HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, who died on April 9, 2021. Since 1956, millions of young people have taken part in the Award, in more than 130 countries and territories. The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award Foundation drives and supports the Award’s global growth, so more young people can take part. In Nigeria, The Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award operates under the name The International Award for Young People Nigeria.  The Awards is based on three progressive levels with each successive one requiring a greater degree of commitment and four sections of activities. Bronze is for those 14 and older, while Silver is for those 15 and older. Both require six months participation. Gold is for those 16 and older and requires a minimum of 12 months participation. To earn an Award, participants must dedicate at least one hour weekly for each activity they select. This involves Voluntary Service, Skills, where participants develop personal interests and learn practical skills, Physical Recreation, and Adventurous Journey, where participants develop an understanding of the environment, and the importance of working together in a team with a common purpose. It can be on foot, by bicycle, boat or on horseback by learning preparation, self-sufficiency and self-reliance.  Succession  Prince Phillip died on April 9, 2021 at 99 years to a flurry of tributes from around the world, including from President Muhammadu Buhari. On Monday, April 26, The Queen began responding to those who left tributes for the Duke. The monarch sent cards featuring heart-touching messages to each of those who left a tribute. Inside the card, which featured a large picture of the Duke, the Queen’s personal message reads: “I send you my sincere thanks for your kind words of sympathy on the death of my husband.” However, there is yet to be an announcement on the succession plan for the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award. A Trustee of The International Award for Young People Nigeria, Mrs Fawunmi, noted that like many great institutions in history, there’s always some sort of preparation for succession. “So, the same applies to the Duke of Edinburgh’s International Award,” she said, “Definitely the reasons that the Award was set up for, which is that young people were given a platform in order to achieve things they never thought possible within themselves. Those skills that benefitted their lives thereafter are still very much in demand today.  “His Royal Highness, the Duke of Edinburgh had a timeless vision for young people and that vision is still very much necessary today. The skills are a must have in order to face all these challenges and unprecedented times that young persons are living in today. “So, I would say because the qualities and values taken out of the Award by young people are still very relevant.” Is the Duke of Edinburgh International Award still relevant today? Like the other speakers, an Award Leader, Mrs Nwakaudu Nkeiru has no doubt whatsoever about the relevance of the framework. “Yes, the Award is still relevant today,” she said, “In fact, much more relevant today.”  ‘A man before his time’  How will the Duke of Edinburgh be remembered? Vey kindly, according to Mrs Fawunmi. She said: “He will be remembered very, very kindly, because of the legacy he has left behind for young people…He was a very humble person, especially as regards the Award, because he said, it’s got nothing to do with him, the achievements are the young people’s achievements, their efforts, and their hard work. And all he wanted was to create a source of skills set, a toolbox of skills that would enable them to challenge themselves, and help them to become responsible adults in the world we find ourselves in. Fawunmi described him as “a man that was before his time and was able to anticipate the challenges of the 21st century. My personal tributes to him is that he was a man of his time but also a man before his time and may his soul rest in peace.” For Minimah, Prince Phillip was “an epitome of change. I started the Award at 13 years and now I’m 45 years old and I’m still involved.” Nkeiru’s said Prince Philip was a hero and his memory, his legacy will live on. The International Award for Young People Nigeria, National Director, Mr Oshoke Bello, described Prince Philip as an inspirational founder who “saw ahead of his time.” “He was a strong believer in the infinite potential that young people possess.”  