The Action Alliance (AA) has said it is considering an alliance with a major party, to make impact in the November 6 Anambra governorship election. AA National Chairman Mr. Kenneth Udeze said this yesterday in Abuja in a statement by Mr. James Vernimbe, the national secretary. Udeze said it had become pertinent for the party to form alliance with another party and its candidate owing to the limited time it had for preparation. He said: “Due to time limit, we may consider an alliance with a credible candidate for Anambra election, or we shall do it alone. “In 2019 general election, we obtained not less than 10 legislative seats, which made history in the party. “Now we are targeting obtaining at least five state governorship positions, which will be possible either on our own or by an alliance with credible candidates from other parties. “We are ready to start with Anambra because it is one of the states where we have strong presence.” Udeze reiterated the need for peace and unity in the party to achieve its target of winning five governorship seats across the country in 2023. He said the party would begin data capturing of its members and ward executives at polling units across the country for proper documentation. “Thereafter, we shall go after mass mobilisation activities because we are the masses party. The concept behind the exercise is to help us connect with the masses, share information, opportunities, assistance and collective emancipation of the nation. “We are also making arrangements to set up foreign chapters of our party, anchoring the leadership to individuals who are known as rallying points in these foreign nations of the world. “We will also engage with our media platforms to give our vision the required attention and projection in the media and public space,” Udeze said. Former Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Rev Godwin Okonkwo has joined the governorship race. He declared yesterday in Awka on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), at the party’s secretariat. Okonkwo, also an Anglican Church priest, addressing APC executive members, said it was time Anambra State joined politics at the centre instead of playing ‘local league’. He added: “Anambra State cannot work without being at the centre. Time has come for the restoration of this state.”