Strong indications have emerged the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ado local government Area of Ekiti state has begun moves to suspend the Ado Ward 8 caretaker chairman of the party, Clement Afolabi, over alleged anti-party activities. Leaders of the party in the council have summoned the ward chairman to appear before a disciplinary panel and defend himself against allegations bordering on anti-party activities and other issues. The summoned was contained in a letter 27th April, 2021 seen by The Nation on Wednesday and signed by the Secretary, Mr. Temitope Oluwasola. The party accused the ward chairman of blackmailing the APC and Governor Kayode Fayemi-led government, adding he was being probed for his declaration as a coordinator of unauthorised group within the party in the local government. The letter reads in part: “Your anti-party activities have come to our notice and attention by your ward. “These include blackmail against the party and the state government, failure to attend meetings of the party, division of ward exco members into factions, as well as your confessional statement as a coordinator/chairman of an unauthorized group in Ado local government. “Consequent upon this and in line with the provision of article 21 of our party constitution, a committee was set up to look into the matter. “In view of this, the committee hereby invites you to respond to the afforestated allegations.” The party Chairman in Ado council area, Michael Akinleye, confirmed the action being taken by the APC leaders in ward 008 against the ward chairman. He described the party’s action as a right process to ensure members comply with the dictates of the rules and refrain from actions capable of igniting internal crisis. “It was a normal process in any political setting. It wasn’t that the party was out to witch-hunt anyone, but there were allegations raised against him from his ward and we only did that to give him a right of reply,” Akinleye said. But the embattled ward chairman denied all the allegations, saying he will respond appropriately to the party through his lawyer. Afolabi said he had never for once worked against the party, saying he remains a committed party member who believes strongly in the ideology of the APC. “All the allegations against me in the letter are not true. I am a committed party man since inception and I will not do anything that will affect the chances of the APC in Ekiti state and the country at large. “Only last Thursday, I presided over a well- attended ward meeting where issues relating to the development of party were discussed. I will respond appropriately to the party through my lawyer,” he said.