 Sterling Bank plc and other environmental conscious organizations have commenced multi-city beach cleanup exercise as a way to protect the environment. The multi-city beach clean-up exercise initiated by Chief Executive Officer at Sterling Bank Plc, Abubakar Suleiman, kicked off at Alpha Beach, Lagos during which members of staff and other environment conscious individuals cleaned up the beach. The event was opportunity for environment groups, corporations and volunteer groups to keep the beach clean. The exercise also involves engaging and empowering the community around the beach to constantly keep it clean  for the next one year. Reputable crowdfunding organization, giving.ng keeps the funds raised from Nigerians for the social impact project while environment conscious organizations, including the Rite Foods, Bonnie Bio, among others pledged support for the project. Suleiman had earlier announced  seasoned environmentalists as its governance board members. They are Taiwo Adewole, Bilikiss Adebiyi-Abiola and Akanbi Williams. In this role, they will provide support, guidance, and oversight to the continent’s most ambitious clean-up programme seeking to keep beaches clean and fresh on Nigeria’s extensive 853km coastal line, which cuts across nine states. Unveiling the committee, Suleiman said, “We are pleased to welcome Adewole, Adebiyi-Abiola and Williams formally. Their vast experience in recycling, environmental management and science will hugely benefit our movement of almost 2000 volunteers committed to keeping beaches clean and safe from a leadership perspective. And to be clear, we are not just cleaning beaches to feel good. We are protecting marine life, creating jobs in coastal communities and recycling waste to promote project sustainability”. According to him, this is about acting as one to better society, and I am humbled by the trust this represents. We will not solve all our problems with this gesture but will showcase what happens when the people take centre stage.” Adewole is Executive Director at Recycle Points, a waste recycling and social benefit venture based in Lagos. The seasoned environmentalist and waste management consultant hold a bachelor’s degree in Geography and a master’s degree in Environmental Resources Management from Lagos State University.