Members of the Rotary Club of Magboro New Town, Ogun State, have promised to do more service to lift the community. The club was chartered at the weekend. The club, which has 22 members at inception, is sponsored by the Rotary Club of Maryland and under District 9110, with Bola Oyebade as District Governor (2020/2021). The district comprises all clubs in Lagos and Ogun states, and has over 3,350 rotarians. Charter President Dupe Femi-Akodu promised that the club would do more community projects so it can be visible to the people. She said: “Rotary has no presence in this community before now so we plan to do more projects so that we can be more visible. We would try and touch the seven areas of focus in rotary in our giving back to society. “Rotary is a humanitarian club and I always tell people who want to join that you must have a heart of giving because we are but mere volunteers and receive no form of payment. If you have a heart of giving and is willing to give back to the society, join rotary because it is doing good in the world.” Oyebade, who urged people to join rotary, said: “Rotary club of Magboro New Town is one of the 11 clubs that was chartered in this rotary year and we are excited that this young club has done a couple of projects. However, we need to service the community more so we urge more people to join us so that communities will feel the presence of rotary. There will be more humanitarian activities to fill the gap which the government is unable to block. “Rotary is known for humanitarian services, and we appeal to people to found new rotary clubs, fund them and let us expand our humanitarian hand to the public.” Past District Governor (2015/2016) Bola Onabadejo urged members of the new charter to ensure their impact is felt in the community. “It’s a new club starting with 22 members; it is in a new area and there are prospects for expansion in membership and lots of service projects to execute in the neighbourhood; that is what Rotary is all about. The difference between us and any other social club is that the Rotary club executes projects that impact people’s lives positively. It’s not a social club where we just eat and drink, we do more,” he said.