Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has vowed to embarrass his former Deputy, Agboola Ajayi if the latter fails to return four officials vehicles to his office. Akeredolu said he would press charges against Agboola and other former political appointees who failed to return government properties in their possession. He said it was reprehensible for Nigerians to condone the practice by elected officials or political appointees to take government properties away when leaving office. The Governor, who spoke through his Senior Special Assistant on Special Duties and Strategy, Dr. Doyin Odebowale, said he did not buy any new vehicles after he was sworn in. He said he ensured the vehicles he inherited were refurbished. He said: “He has no right to steal if we want to use the proper name. Why does the former Deputy Governor he think he merits those vehicles and others do not? “Those vehicles are public properties. We have to stop this impunity. It is not only the Deputy Governor alone but all other political appointees. This madness must stop. “So they want to take the vehicles away and then we will use taxpayers money to buy new ones. There are many of them yet to return vehicles. Some have returned but others are still feigning they thought they will be reappointed. “We are waiting for the Police to act on the petition. We will press charges against them. Agboola no longer enjoys immunity we will press charges against him. He should return those vehicles. Are we now going to buy vehicles for the new Deputy Governor? “All these things are pure stealing. We have to challenge these people. If Agboola refuses to comply we will press charges. “At the end of Akeredolu’s first term, we sent letters to all political appointees to return government properties because nobody was sure of coming back. “We are going to unleash security agencies on all of them. They made calls to Agboola and he promised to comply but later he started barring their calls. “This is not decency and politics. Let Agboola returns the vehicles or we will embarrass him thoroughly.” Ondo Police Commissioner, Salami Bolaji, confirmed receipt of the petition. Salami, who spoke through the Ondo Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo Ìkoro, said he has directed an investigation into the petition.