The Lagos House of Assembly has voided the purported suspension of Surulere Local Government chairman, Hon Tajudeen Ajide. This was the outcome of a three-hour sitting to hear issues surrounding the suspension of Ajide. The Assembly also berated the councillors, stating the purported suspension was based on false claims. Nine aggrieved councillors last Friday claimed to have passed a no-confidence vote on the chairman. They later appointed Ajide’s deputy, Sulaiman Yussuf as ‘acting chairman’. The councillors are Barakat Akande, David Adebisi, Kehinde Fasasi, Philips Olubunmi, and Ijitola Olusegun. Others are Eric Otinwa, Ajala Ajibola, Kareem Abiodun, and Kazeem Bello. The feuding parties appeared before the Public Account Committee (for Local Government) led by Hon. Mojeed Fatai. The committee berated the councillors for taking the laws into their hands without following the laws guiding local governments. The committee said the councillors did not follow due process informing that a seven-man investigative panel must be put in place by Assembly before a council chairman can be suspended. “Councillors do not have the power to suspend or remove a council chairman. The law is very clear on that and it is important that our councillors should know the law very well,” the Committee said. The claim that Ajide misappropriated N60, 000, 000 was also found to be baseless as no extra-budgetary spending took place. It was also discovered N160, 000,000 originally allocated to the project had not even been exhausted. The councillors, moreover, expressed their grouses against the chairman, accusing him of starving them with funds. One of them (councillors) said when his wife fell ill and he sought the council’s assistance he got none. But the chairman said he was unaware. He also denied the councillors’ claim he denied them of their statutory funds and other benefits. The chairman also presented records showing what each councilor got their dues as at when due and each was also presented a car by the council last year that was befitting of their office. The House committee, however, urged the chairman to look into the councillors’ demands.