The Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Ahmed Idris, yesterday confirmed plans to reinstate the Inter-Ministerial Task Team (IMTT) of the Nigerian Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) that was assigned to improve the oil and gas metering infrastructure. The team, which was also constituted to improve the overall governance of the oil and gas sector, has not been in place in the last five years. The Federal Government had raised the team to develop a uniform approach to cost determination. It was also assigned to build human and physical capacities of critical government agencies. Specifically, the government had raised the team to develop a revenue-flow interface among government agencies. Meanwhile,  Idris, who  visited NEITI in Abuja, said the team would return to accomplish its objectives. According to him, “the committee will be resucistated. It will come back to life and it will continue to discharge its objectives that the government set that committee to achieve. Let me not be too optimistic, that results will begin to come soon”. The NEITI Executive Secretary, Dr. Orji Ogbonnaya Orji, noted the AGF came to the discuss the modalities for reinvigorating that team. He said: “That task team, to us means everything. We regret that in the last five years it hasn’t been very active . But with the AGF working with us, that committee will come back to life.” The Executive Secretary expressed the hope that the team would reduce to the barest minimum the chanced NEITI quarrelling with other agencies on the pages of the newspapers. He confirmed that the committee was put in place by the government to ensure inter- agencies dialogue to resolves issues. He noted that it was the reason that the NEITI opted for the collaboration with the office of the AGF. On the collaboration, Idris said “we are always supportive of what NEITI is doing. Equally, they a collaborating to make sure that whatever is due to government by way of revenue, royalties and fines do come to government. “We are supporting 100 per cent of what NEITI is doing. We will assist them to achieve their objectives”. He said the watchdog organization has a lot in common with his office, which attaches a great importance to what the NEITI is doing to ensure that government block revenue leakages and gets its full collected dues from the oil and gas industry. He said: “Let me say right from the beginning that this is a simple courtesy visit that I have paid together with my management team to NEITI. And it shows the importance we attach to the great work that NEITI is doing in terms of looking into revenues from extractive industries, that is supposed to come to government and ensure that sure revenues duly comes as when due and they are fully accounted for. “We have a lot in common because as a treasury, we do have an oversight  function on revenue coming to government, not just to Federal Government but to the federation. And that is also what NEITI is doing. NEITI is also working in the area of curbing corruption to block the leakages. “We are equally doing that. So, we are here essentially to strengthen our partnership and collaboration, and because we have common goal, I feel it is important the same way they visited us, about two weeks ago, that I visit them and then strengthen the relationship”. He noted that his office has no details of NEITI audit reports on oil and gas companies but it will assist the watchdog organization to achieve its goal. “On the details of the audit that have been going on on certain companies, the oil companies, we don’t have the figures but I know that NEITI is up and doing. “And they will keep doing their job with objectivity and focus, and we will assist them and collaborate with the to achieve them to achieve the objectives they set for this organisation,” he said.