 At last, governors of the south-east have harkened to the clamour of the people to organise an inter-state security outfit for the region. While they delayed, non-state actors like the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) tried to fill in the gap by establishing what they referred to as the Eastern Security Network (ESN), which the governors do not recognise. Also, insecurity in the region heightened, with rampant attacks on police stations and communities by armed men. So, the creation of a security outfit for the region known as Ebube Agu (the awe of the lion) is a most welcome development. Indeed, we consider it late in coming, but: “better late than never.” Without doubt, the south-east has its own share of the insecurity plaguing the country, whether it is attack by armed herdsmen, the insurgency by the separatist group like IPOB, kidnapping for ransom, armed robbery and banditry, challenges the federal security agencies are finding difficult to contain. The security challenges plaguing the region have left a yawning gap, which we hope Ebube Agu will fill to the expectation of the people. As we have maintained on this column, every region should be encouraged to set up a security agency that will complement the police and other federal security agencies. Such local brew will have the advantage of knowing the terrain, speaking the local language, and be in a position to furnish the federal agencies the necessary intelligence for efficient internal security. We hope that the south-east governors would learn from the trajectory of Amotekun, the regional security outfit in the south-west. One of the first things, is for each state in the region to enact enabling laws, as the south-east region as an entity is not known to law. By doing so, Ebube Agu would be streamlined, and perform within the ambit of the law. Again, enacting similar laws will enable the states have similar regulations, cadres, and paraphernalia, to ensure a measure of uniformity. The governors must also be willing to fund the organisation, and quickly get it on its feet to fill the gap. The recent security challenges in Imo and Ebonyi state are indicators of the seriousness of the situation. We recall that three police stations and a Nigeria Correctional Centre were sacked in Imo State, without any trace of those responsible. We believe that a locally based security agency would have been better placed to deal with that challenge. In Ebonyi, armed herdsmen also sacked communities without any opposition, as the Nigerian Police Force is spread thin to protect the people. Since Ebube Agu will be populated by locally based indigenes, the local environment would be better protected. In Anambra, former Govenor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, was recently attacked, while banks in the state suffered similar attacks. Also, Enugu and Abia states have not been left out in the orgy of violence in the region. Indeed, Abia State indigenes are so traumatised by the activities of IPOB that a week hardly passes without an incident, involving the separatist group. With Ebube Agu, the governors must devise a way to use it to contain the multi-faceted challenges facing the states in the region, especially those posed by the separatist group. To achieve that, the new security outfit must cooperate with the Nigerian Police Force, and other security agencies to secure the region. We hope Ebube Agu will be in place before the gubernatorial election in Anambra State in November, so they can complement the federal security agencies. We also urge the Federal Government to give the new security outfit every necessary support, for it to quickly come on stream, as the security situation in that part of the country is deteriorating.