Samuel Chukwueze has been shortlisted for the Spanish top flight’s Player of the Month for April prize alongside the Real Madrid and Barcelona stars. The Nigeria international will compete with Barcelona captain Lionel Messi, Real Madrid’s Thibaut Courtois, and Atletico Madrid’s Angel Correa for the individual accolade. Other contestants are Sevilla’s Fernando, Real Betis’ Claudio Bravo and Fernando Pacheco of Deportivo Alaves. Chukwueze was in terrific for the Yellow Submarine; scoring three goals in five Spanish elite division matches, while the 33-year-old Argentine superstar found the net on four occasions from the same number of outings. Meanwhile, Chukwueze has been listed in the Top 20 Player Ranking of the UEFA Europa League and he has now revealed winning the competition is his immediate target with Villarreal CF. “I would like you to tell me that I am going to win the UEFA Europa League, just tell me!” he implored Livescore Challenge. “I want to win the UEFA Europa League, thank you!”  ‘Samu’ is ranked 15th   in the official Player Ranking of the Europa League with 4780 points. However, his La Liga club will have to first eliminate Arsenal, the club he came close to joining five years ago, to reach the Europa League final. It is also the former team of Villarreal manager Unai Emery, who led Sevilla to three Europa League triumphs and has ensured his current club are unbeaten in 12 matches in this competition. Villarreal welcome the London Gunners today  with the return leg in England on May 6. Arsenal, in the meantime,  have been handed a major triple injury boost ahead of their crucial semi-final first leg against Villarreal. Speaking ahead of the trip to Spain, Mikel Arteta confirmed that all of his current injury absentees are now back in contention for the showdown with Villarreal. That means Arsenal could welcome key trio Kieran Tierney, Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alexandre Lacazette back into the squad while David Luiz is also expected to be available for the Europa League clash. 