 Mallam Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State is one governor who does not mince words in declaring his position on issues of the moment. He has come up with a disingenuous solution to the seeming insolvency of his state, as it is of other states. The governor believes that laying off workers would serve the purpose and free funds for capital projects. For him, the consideration of how the action would impinge on the wellbeing of the workers is not an issue. And at a time when inflation is at an all-time high and insecurity has kept those augmenting their paltry salaries with farming away from the field! The governor reeled out statistics to justify his action, “In the last six months, personnel costs have accounted for between 84.97% and 96.63% of FAAC transfers received by the Kaduna State government. He continued: “In March, Kaduna State had only N321m left after settling personnel costs…This does not include standing orders for overheads, funding security operations, running costs of schools and hospitals, and other overhead costs that the state has to bear for the machinery of government to run, for which the state government taps into IGR earnings.” This gloomy financial state notwithstanding, the sack of more than 4,000 workers from the 23 local government councils has raised more questions than answers. It has called to question the preparedness of political leaders in the country for high offices as they are quick to slash salaries or disengage workers whenever the economy is in trouble. Governor Rufai’s termination of the appointments of the workers without paying attention to his political aides is self-serving. Over the past six years since this administration has been in office, there have been strident calls for reducing the cost of governance and blocking leakages in revenue as a means of freeing resources for development. This has not struck the necessary chord with the leaders at the federal and state levels. In some states, the governors have more aides than the President, sometimes as many as 2,000. Politics is rated above the peoples’ welfare and the health of the state. This is unfortunate. It is even the more pathetic that the first point of wielding the axe is at the local government level. While it remains contentious if the local government councils constitute or should be regarded as a third tier of government in a federal setup, there is no doubt that they should be allowed to perform their constitutional roles of seeing to administration at the most basic level. They have been unable to contribute to the security of lives and property because the funds due them are mopped up by the states and staff are reduced to mere rent collectors. This has given the impression that they are largely redundant and could be dispensed with at any time. It could be asked, why did the Kaduna State governor limit himself to local government workers? Is he suggesting that the state machinery over which he presides is lean and efficient?  Mallam el-Rufai sees himself as a trailblazer of sort. In the club of politicians, he is regarded as brilliant and courageous, hence, when he takes action, others are wont to follow shortly thereafter. We hope this would not be the case on this matter. This is anti-people and even cruel. Snatching food from people at a time that life is so tough in the country is not something to endear anyone to rational governors. They have a duty to think of how to generate funds locally. Most of our governors are so lazy that they wait on Abuja to receive allocations monthly. As Senator Ike Ekweremadu dubbed it, this is nothing more than “feeding bottle” federalism. It must stop. In this, the people have a duty of engaging those seeking their votes at elections. They should grill the aspirants on what they would do to rake in sufficient funds for development. Merely sacking workers does not solve any problem. How many of the governors have a blueprint for improving on the business environment for would-be local and foreign investors? This is the challenge. As the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has cried out, those that Malam el-Rufal similarly laid off in 2016 are yet to be paid their entitlements. Yet, he arrogantly dismissed the due process as untenable. The civil service rules lay out a process for disengaging staff – who may be so discharged and in what circumstances. We are concerned about this flagrant disregard for system and process by a democrat. We call on Governor el-Rufai to immediately recall the men and women who have been so removed from office. Anyone elected by the people should have empathy for them. The governor’s retort that he was not elected to simply pay salaries of public servants does not show that he thinks highly of those who gave him their mandate. Even if he thought that was the only way out, which we disagree with, he ought to have been more concerned about the weight of the action he was about to take. The Kaduna State governor and his colleagues should realise that history has the record of all those who have occupied positions of honour. They will all be remembered for good or ill. This is Governor el-Rufai’s opportunity to shape how his administration and person would be remembered in decades ahead. He still has some time to present himself as an empathetic public servant, whether he accidentally found himself in position of authority or not.