Four branches of the Cherubim and Seraphim Church (C&S) in Ondo State have been sealed after the presiding Pastors were caught engaging in fetish activities. President of Ondo State Unification of Leaders of C&S, Primate Ade Ademisokun-Turton, who disclosed this at a briefing, said the churches were sealed to bar the pastors from tarnishing the image of the church. Ademisokun-Turton said any Pastor that required training would be allowed to come in. He said leaders of the C&S have settled their differences and are united as a body. Ademisokun-Turton, who spoke on his installation as Baba Alakoso of Unification of Leaders of C&S ,said his Deputy, seven council of elders and three Baba Aladuras would also be installed. According to him: “We may not be one in the past before, but now we are one body there were some people that want to join us and that is why we want to train them. Not too long ago, we sealed some Churches and they still remained sealed because they don’t know anything about C&S, we are not going to take that anymore. “Those who have accepted to be trained would be allow to come in. We have sealed about 4 Churches now for caught doing fetish because we have zero tolerance for fetish in C&S. “We believe we are the first Pentecostal Church in the whole of Africa and the Spirit of the Lord is still with us so the missing areas that have not been properly addressed by our leaders have been now readdressed. We now represent the new testament because those things that were taken for granted had been taken serious now. “We are making efforts to formally have a training school for our officials, it is not enough to have a calling but someone must be trained. We realize that where things are missing needs proper training to make a Church grow. “Also, discipline which was loose had been tightened and we want to improve on that. Not only that we are so very much concerned about our image and we are working round the clock for that. We realized that members of the public does not know that all C&S were absolutely one set of people. “We realise the importance of control and we have all agreed that there must be control through the Holy Spirit, we need to control our public image and integrity. We want the Church to be founded by those who knows the rudiment of the Church so that we will not be embarrassed.”