The Tony Elumelu Foundation is partnering the Project Management Institute (PMI) to support entrepreneurs and tech startups scale up by focusing on building skills for business generation. To this end, both organisations are partnering on PMI’s six-part series on “Idea to Reality: Project Management for SMEs”.   Each part holds monthly, and at the end, certificates will be issued to participants. The first session entitled: “Idea to Reality: Project Management for SMEs” held last year. Speaking during the fifth session, entitled “Idea to Reality: Power Skills”, the Business Development Lead, Africa, MI, George Asamani, urged entrepreneurs to up their skills. A Harvard University study, according to him, found that,” as much as 85 per cent of job success comes from having well developed people-centered capabilities – what we have often called “soft skills.” As technology continues to automate more routine parts of work, he maintained that a higher premium would be placed on talent who can effectively communicate, collaborate, and lead teams. In view of the critical role that small and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs) play in any nation’s economic development,Asamani said, it had become imperative that business owners leverage such power skills to optimise their performance. He added: “Technical skills, involving the use of knowledge and tools to complete high-level tasks, will always be an essential component of work. But the ways we work are also shifting rapidly, as technologies like artificial intelligence automate routine parts of work and practices like citizen development demystify practices like coding which were previously only accessible to those with highly technical skill sets.” He implored business owners to think about how they could build and engage an employee base that is ready to tackle the digital transformations. According to him, PMI has developed the Talent Triangle, a model for the ideal project manager skill set that includes a mixture of the capabilities needed to succeed. He explained: “The talent triangle focuses on the areas of leadership, technical project management, and strategic and business management. Each part of the triangle is of equal importance. “When you consider the challenges of the unpredictable nature of entrepreneurship and the technical skills versus power skills debate, you realise that technical skills are not enough neither are power skills.You need both to thrive on your entrepreneurial journey.” Asamani works with PMI’s network in Sub-Saharan Africa and a global team to engage with corporate and educational institutions across sectors – offering project solutions that develop skills, drives efficiency and deliver impact on the continent. He is also co-founder and entrepreneur mentor for London Business School’s Accel Awards initiative, which supports early stage entrepreneurs in Africa with grants, mentors and access to international markets. 