All is set for actress and movie producer Angel Ufuoma’s talk show, The Angel’s No Filters Show, to kick off. In a recent chat, the trained entertainment lawyer said: “I am so excited. This is my dream come true and I am glad that after so many years, it has come to fruition. The Angel’s No Filters Show is a talk show which aims to present and project positive viewpoints of cultural and business development in Africa and create opportunities by proffering solutions to critical issues and challenges in Nigeria particularly in the creative industry.” Ufuoma further disclosed some of the guests that will be on the show as the first season debuts on television. “Angel’s No Filters Show is an engaging talk show involving several entertainment celebrities including Uru Eke, Shirley Igwe, Jimmy Odukoya and Ifeanyi Kalu among a host of others airing their opinion on critical Nigerian entertainment issues; as well as bastions of the Nigerian business community proffering solutions to major economic and political issues.” Angel added that the show will showcase the Nigerian business community, major cultural institutions and celebrities in the film, music, fashion and culinary arts industries.  The Angel’s No Filters Show is produced by Pink Roof Studios Nigeria, in association with Blaze Channel USA, and hosted by Angel Ufuoma, a lawyer who also is a distinguished film producer, actor and International Marketing and Communications Executive. Following in the footsteps of her thespian mother, Princess Tina Amuziam, Ufuoma has produced several projects and featured in popular productions including Tony Abulu’s ‘Doctor Bello.’ Her personal productions include Superstar, and Spellbound. The trained lawyer, after a few years of practice, joined entertainment company, Black Ivory Communications with U.S affiliations as an Attorney and she quickly exhibited great promise especially in the areas of Copyrights infringement law and was sent by the company for further training in America. In the U.S, Ufuoma’s passion for film and acting was rekindled and she seized the opportunity to study Technique and Character Psychology with respected acting tutor, Susan Strausberg, and observed intense stage and dramatic study at the National Black Theatre, New York City. She also studied TV presenting, interviewing, poise and dialogue structure in preparation for her life-long passion of eventually owning her own talk show.