Former Nigeria  international Akin Akinsehinde  has described late Barnabas Imenger as a utility player any coach would  have loved to work with. Imenger, the former Lobi Stars Team manager died on the 22nd March, 2021 at the age of 48 after a protected illness and was laid to rest in his home town of Tse, Audu, Apir, Makurdi Local Government Area, Benue State on April 10th. Akinsehinde  and Imenger were teammates at the El Kanemi Warriors of Maiduguri and they were also invited to the Super Eagles at the same time in 1990 by former technical adviser Clemens Westerhorf Akinsehinde, who won FA Cup trophy with Imenger at El Kanemi Warriors in 1991/1992 season, said the former Lobi Star Team Manager was a very discipline man. He described his death as shocking, stressing that the former BCC Lion of Gboko striker would be missed by his family, friends and football family at large. “We both Joined the National Team (Super Eagles) in 1990. We were strikers for the national team and El Kanemi, were brothers only not from the same parent. At the time we were among the best strikers back home then,” Akinsehinde  told  NationSport. He added: “He was the best player anyone Coach or Club can ever work with. Very cool and disciplined in all ways you can ever think off. We will all miss him. He was too good and too Young to be missed at this time but God loves him better. May His Soul Rest In Peace.” Akinsehinde  and Imenger were among the home-based players that played important role in the Super Eagles’ qualifying games for both Nation’s Cup in 1994 and USA 1994 but both of them missed the finals selection for the tournaments. “I don’t feel too bad because I scored a goal in one of the matches that qualified Nigeria for both the World Cup and Nation’s Cup at that time which make me proud of myself and the team,” he added. Apart from El Kanemi Warriors of Maiduguri, Akinsehinde  also played for Kano Pillars, BCC Lions of Gboko,  KWARA Stars of Ilorin, New Nigerian Bank of Benin, NACB FC of Kaduna, ZAMTEX FC Gusau in Zamfara state and Kaduna GSD Rocks. He also laced his boots for SUR Football Club of Oman, Aha Aly FC of Lebanon, Rapid Vienna FC of Austria, ESMA Vienna Football Club of Austria, First Vienna Football Club of Austria and Zamalek FC of Egypt.