The House of Representatives member, for Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency of Plateau State, Haruna Maitala, who died in a  motor accident on Friday, was buried on Saturday at Dadin Kowa cemetery at about 2:15pm. The lawmaker died alongside his son and aides in the crash around 2:00 pm along the Abuja-Jos road. He was on his way to Jos for his first son’s wedding, it was learnt. A press release on Saturday by his Media Consultant, Joseph Adudu, said, “This is to announce the death of Honourable Haruna Maitala which occurred yesterday, 2nd April, 2021, as a result of a fatal car accident on his way to Jos from Abuja. “Until his death, Haruna Maitala was the member representing Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency in the National Assembly. “He would be buried this morning (yesterday) according to Islamic rites. “May God forgive his sins and grant him Aljanna fidau.” Reacting to the development, the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep Ahmed Idris Wase, in a condolence message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Umar Muhammad Puma, described late Maitala as a hardworking, dedicated and honest politician who died when his services were needed the most. He said: “I am deeply saddened as I join the people of Jos North/Bassa Federal Constituency and the entire Plateau State to mourn the loss of our brother and colleague, Hon. Haruna Maitala. “We have lost one of our illustrious sons, a loving father, a man of peace filled with wisdom and honesty. “We cannot question the Almighty Allah over what has happened, so I urge members of his family and his constituents to take heart and consider the death of Hon. Maitala as part of Allah’s decree. “I also pray to Allah to forgive all his sins while on earth and grant the departed souls Jannatul Firdaus,” he said. The Plateau lawmaker is the third member of the House to have died since February 9, 2021 when Rep. Ossy Prestige who represented Aba North/South died in a German Hospital, followed by Rep. Yuguda Hassan Kila who died at the National Hospital. The death of Maitala also brings to five, members of the 9th House of Representatives that have died since the house was inaugurated in June 2019. Mohammed Adamu Fagen Hawk (APC, Jigawa), Ja’afaru Iliyasu (APC, Niger), Ossy Prestige (APGA, Abia) and Yuguda Hassan Kila (APC, Jigawa) are the other members of the House that have died since June 2019. Similarly, the member representing Jos South/Jos East Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Dachung Bagos, described the death of Hon Maitala as a deep shock and a huge loss to his family, friends, colleagues, constituents, Plateau State and Nigeria at large. “Hon. Maitala has indeed written his name in gold and left his footprints in sands of time considering his immense contributions to nation building especially as a legislator.” Also, Dadin Kowa Youth Forum, Plateau State described the death as a big blow and a setback to the people and youths of the constituency. Their view was presented by the spokesman, Mohammed Bello Ibrahim in a brief chat with The Nation reporter after Hon Maitala was committed to mother earth at Dadin Kowa cemetery. The dignitaries that witnessed the burial, presided over by Mallam Sani Yahaya Jangre, included the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Gbajabiamila, his Deputy,    Wase, all the members from Plateau State, traditional rulers and friends far and near.