Earl Simmons, popularly known as DMX (Dark Man X), was born December 18, 1970 in Mount Vernon, New York, U.S. He was an American rapper, songwriter and actor. His father, Arnett Simmons was 19 and mother Joe Barker, 18, when they had him. He was the second child of his parents who had bore a daughter two years earlier. He was raised in nearby Yonkers and brought up in the Jehovah’s Witness faith. As a child, Simmons suffered greatly from bronchial asthma and had an abusive childhood. In a bid to escape abuse from his mother and boyfriends, he strayed the street of Yonkers and eventually was sent to a boys’ home. While there, he became partners with Ready Ron, a local rapper who was impressed by his beat boxing skills chose the name “DMX”, which came from an instrument he had used at the boys’ home, the Oberheim DMX drum machine; it later was also interpreted as “Dark Man X”. DMX got his start in the music industry in 1984. DMX was first sent to prison in 1986 after stealing a dog from a junkyard. DMX had been to jail at least 30 times in his life for multiple crimes. DMX was the father of fifteen children. He married his childhood friend Tashera Simmons in 1999 and they were married for eleven years. DMX had spoken openly about his addiction to crack cocaine, which began when he was 14 years old after he smoked a marijuana cigarette laced with the drug. During the late 1990s through the early 2000s, DMX was one of Def Jam’s top-selling artists, releasing five albums that all debuted at No. 1. DMX was featured in films such as “Belly”, “Romeo Must Die”, “Exit Wounds”, “Cradle 2 the Grave” and “Last Hour”. In 2000, he won a Soul Train Award and Sammy Davis Jr. Award for Entertainer of the Year – Male. On April 2, 2021, at approximately 11:00 pm, Simmons was rushed to a hospital in White Plains, New York where he was reported to be in critical condition following a heart attack at his home possibly resulting from an overdose. DMX was pronounced dead at 50 on April 9, 2021 after suffering cardiac arrest, according to a statement released by his family.