Oro, the third largest ethnic group in Akwa Ibom and the state government have disagreed over the name change and relocation of the Ibaka Deep Seaport. The seaport at conception was named Ibaka Deep Seaport. It was conceived by the administration of former Governor Victor Attah and was to be sited at Ibaka in Mbo Local Government. Mbo is one of the five local governments that make up the Oro nation. Others are Oron, Udung Uko, Okobo and Urueoffong Oruko. But the Governor Udom Emmanuel administration changed the name of the project from Ibaka Deep Seaport to Ibom Deep Seaport, thereby raising fears and discontent by the Oro people that the government has relocated the project from Oro land. Angered by the development, Oro stakeholders at the weekend presented a 14-page petition to the state government insisting that the project must be sited at Ibaka with its original name as conceived by the Attah administration. The Oro stakeholders, in an engagement with the state government’s technical committee on the implementation of the seaport held at the Oron Civic Centre at the weekend, said the Oro people would not be shortchanged. The President-General of Oron Union, Mr. Etim Ante, said the enduring history of Ibaka seaport cannot be dismissed. He said the Attah government in recent history initiated the project with site and name favouring Ibaka, which prompted Oro indigenes and beyond to purchase landed properties at Ibaka, in preparation for business opportunities at the port. Ante said Oro will not accept a seaport which does not properly accommodate and integrate the interest of the Oron people, whom he said have suffered neglect, even with being the “goose that lays the golden egg.” The Chairman of Oro Think Tank (OTT), Chris Abasi Eyo, reiterated the resolve of Oro people to resist plot to remove the seaport from its long known site. He said: “History won’t repeat itself in this instant case. Ibaka Bay is the most suitable natural harbour for Nigeria. Obong Victor Attah knew this very well, which was why he renewed the vision to have Ibaka Bay host a modern deep seaport in its truest sense in Nigeria. “Notwithstanding the attempt to deprive Oro of the benefits of its attractive location on the Gulf of Guinea, as long as God is the one who led our ancestors here, it is not over yet. “Despite being treated as political pariahs, we are a happy people; not even the broken political dreams or the noisy confusion of this life, can put out the Oro man’s light and happiness, because even those who betray him mourn for him in their closet-reflections. “Enough is enough, we are determined to give this one a fight.” The Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, who is also a member of the Technical Committee on Ibom Deep Seaport, noted that Governor Emmanuel was determined to actualise the project. He said government has neither changed the name nor the location of the seaport, urging stakeholders and communities in Oro nation to “bury their differences as their interests have been accommodated. “Akwa Ibom State under the able leadership of Governor Emmanuel has become the investors’ destination and is developing nationally and globally as a brand. Therefore the name Akwa Ibom or the name Ibom is gaining popularity in our country, in Africa and globally. The examples are Akwa Ibom State Polytechnic, Akwa Ibom State University, Ibom Air, thinking out of the amplification of the brand Ibom. “So let us come out of this tiny mindset; the seaport is off the coast of Unyenghe/Ibeno axis,” Ekuwem said.