  Corporate earnings reports generally show resilience by Nigerian companies in the immediate past business year, despite combined adverse effects of COVID-19 pandemic and national macroeconomic headwinds. From manufacturing, to banking, oil and gas, financial services, agriculture, information and communication technologies and healthcare among others, most active quoted companies reported appreciable earnings. As the March 31, 2021 deadline for the submission of audited report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2020 lapsed, most quoted companies at the Nigerian stock market had submitted their financial and operational reports. Timeliness, adequacy, comprehensiveness and reliability are key elements of disclosures at the stock market, major requirements that allow all stakeholders to derive optimal value from the operations of the companies. Extant rules at the stock market require quoted companies to submit their audited report and accounts not later than 90 days after the end of the relevant business year. With more than three-quarters of quoted companies operating the 12-month Gregorian Calendar as their business year, the first quarter of the following year is usually the peak of the earnings season. The board and management of each company present their scorecards showing value creation for investors, employees, consumers, governments and communities among other stakeholders. While various financial reporting and accounting laws and standards, corporate governance codes, pre and post-listing rules, corporate affairs laws and global best practices play major roles in ensuring that quoted companies adhere to the principles of full and trustworthy disclosures, perhaps the most important influence is the public scrutiny of these accounts and presentations. Quoted companies are not only required to submit their accounts to regulators and shareholders, they are also mandated to publish such reports in national dailies and on their websites, providing global access to all stakeholders to scrutinize such reports. A review of audited reports and accounts shows that quoted companies annually remit trillions of naira to government as taxes. Nigeria’s largest quoted company and Africa’s biggest cement producer, Dangote Cement paid N97.2 billion as taxes for the 2020 financial year. Between 2018 and 2020, total corporate tax payments by Dangote Cement was more than N237 billion. In the banking sector, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) Plc, Nigeria’s largest financial services company in terms of market capitalisation, paid more than N102 billion over the three-year period between 2018 and 2020. United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc also paid a total of N68.5 billion to government coffers as corporate taxes in the past three years. Zenith Bank Plc paid a total of N81.8 billion as taxes between 2018 and 2020. Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, highest-priced banking stock, paid a total of N41.1 billion over the past three year.  In the construction industry, Julius Berger Nigeria reported tax payment of N7.78 billion between 2019 and 2020. Lafarge Africa Plc also paid N6.7 billion to government coffers for the 2020 business year. One striking feature of the reports is that: corporate size determines tax liabilities, thus as companies implement strategic growth plans, governments can also expect increased taxes. For instance, Livestock Feeds Plc, an agricultural company implementing strategic turnaround plan, increased tax payments from N6.28 million in 2019 to N42.88 million in 2020. Africa Tax Leader, PwC, Taiwo Oyedele, said listed companies are generally more tax compliant due to their robust governance structures, the need for greater transparency and consistent public scrutiny of their affairs. President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, said public quotation and tax compliance have positive correlation because one of the main advantages of quotation is increased transparency in reporting of performance. “There are empirical evidence to the effect that increased number of quoted companies leads to increased tax collections. It is therefore necessary for the government to encourage quotation,” Amolegbe said. Oyedele however noted that while listing as a public company may improve tax compliance, it is not a sole justifiable basis for tax incentives for listed companies, although incentives may be desirable for other reasons. “Many countries are able to achieve very high voluntary tax compliance rate by both publicly listed and private companies resulting in high tax-to-GDP ratio,” Oyedele said. Chief Executive Officer, Sofunix Investment and Communications, Mr Sola Oni, noted that quoted companies are good sources of taxes for government because they cannot simply evade taxes. He called for tax incentives to quoted companies to encourage public quotation, as government will indirectly benefit from such listings. “Over the years, we have been calling on the government to use tax holiday as one of the ways to incentivize companies, especially small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to seek quotation,” Oni said. For quoted companies like Dangote Cement, the earnings season is a period of returns for all stakeholders. Already, the board of Dangote Cement has recommended payment of a dividend per share of N16 for the 2020 business year.  The increase in payouts to investors and government underscored the improvements in the performance of the cement giant. Key extracts of the audited results and accounts of Dangote Cement for the year ended December 31, 2020 showed that Dangote Cement’s Nigerian operations during the period sold 15.9Mt for the full year 2020, compared to 14.1Mt in 2019. This included both cement and clinker sales, which implied a 12.9 per cent growth for the full year 2020. Looking at the domestic sales alone, Nigerian operations sold 15.6Mt, up by 14.3 per cent year on year and resulting in an increase in market share. Revenues for the Nigerian operations increased by 18.0 per cent to N720 billion, due to increasing demand in the domestic market. The volume growth was enhanced by a successful innovative national consumer promotion “Bag of Goodies – Season 2” and lower rains in the third quarter compared to the previous year. The Nigerian business recorded strong earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) of N421.4 indicating a margin of 59 per cent. Dangote Cement posted a record high pan-African EBITDA of N71.3 billion, which went up by 49 per cent. During the year, the cement group commissioned its gas power plant in Tanzania. Group earnings per share was up by 36.9 per cent to N16.14. The report showed that Dangote Cement recorded strong performance not only at the top line but also at the bottom line, owing to cost saving measures. Despite inflationary pressures and foreign exchange volatility, disciplined cost control measures enabled the company to maintain a relatively flat cash cost per tonne. The cost control measures include improved plant efficiency, better fuel mix and general overhead optimization Chief Executive Officer, Dangote Cement Plc, Michel Puchercos said 2020 was a good year for Dangote Cement across board while several landmarks made 2020 a productive year such as the group’s maiden clinker shipment, maiden bond issuance and successful buyback programme. “We increased our capacity by 3.0 million metric tonnes in Nigeria, commissioned our two export terminals and commissioned our gas power plant in Tanzania. All these were achieved whilst we focused on protecting our people, customers and communities from the impact of the pandemic. “Dangote Cement recorded strong top-line growth supported by strong cement demand. Profitability was further bolstered by our disciplined cost control measures in what we believed to have been a highly inflationary and volatile year. These measures resulted in a 37.7 per cent increase in profit after tax to N276.1 billion. “I am delighted to report that Dangote Cement experienced its strongest year in terms of EBITDA and strongest year in terms of volumes. Despite a challenging environment, group volumes for the year were up 8.6 per cent and Group EBITDA was up 20.9 per cent. “Looking ahead, we have strengthened our alternative fuel initiative which focuses on leveraging the circular economy business model and reducing exposure of our cost base to foreign currencies fluctuations. We continue to embed Dangote Cement’s seven sustainability pillars into every aspect of our operation and culture. “We remain committed to keeping safe our staff and communities by being fully compliant with health and safety measures in all our territories of operation. We are focused on adapting to the rapidly evolving markets in which we operate,” Puchercos said. Dangote Cement is sub-Saharan Africa’s largest cement producer with an installed capacity of 45.6Mta across 10 African countries and operates a fully integrated “quarry-to-customer” business with activities covering manufacturing, sales and distribution of cement. Dangote Cement has a long-term credit rating of AA+ by GCR and Aa2.ng by Moody’s due to its market leading position, significant operational scale and strong financial profile evidenced by the company’s robust operating and net profit margins relative to regional and global peers, adequate working capital, satisfactory cash flow and low leverage. Beyond finance, public quotation also encourages corporate social responsibilities, with yearly reportage providing each operator with a sense of commitment to public good. For instance, sustainability report, another requirement for publicly listed companies, provides yearly impact of a company on health, safety and environment among other social developmental goals. Dangote Cement, in its recent sustainability report, stated that it regarded timely compliance with tax regulations, support for socioeconomic development, job creation and environment protection as core responsibilities alongside its business operations. “As the largest cement manufacturer in Nigeria, and one of the largest employers in Sub-Saharan Africa, we understand the challenges posed by the high rate of unemployment across the continent, particularly among the youth population. Throughout our operations, we have created jobs for thousands of Nigerians and Africans in nine other countries,” Dangote Cement stated. Besides direct employments, Dangote Cement’s socioeconomic impact assessment study on its operations in Nigeria, Ethiopia, Senegal and South Africa indicated that it sustained thousands of indirect jobs. “By paying our taxes responsibly and transparently, we support government’s plans for infrastructural development in our different markets. We also contribute towards the attainment of SDG 11-Sustainable Cities and Communities. We report annually on our tax payments to governments. This way, we are transparent about how we manage our financial obligations,” Dangote Cement stated. Public quotation clearly benefits all stakeholders, especially government, which not only achieve greater collection but at less costs due to high voluntary compliance by quoted companies. 