Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Engineer Influence, Calvin Hamilton has explained why his firm is leading the way in the marketing industry. Engineer Influence is a marketing and brand strategy firm created two years ago in New York City. Speaking with reporters via a virtual meeting from New York, Hamilton explained he was managing marketing and outreach for gaming influencers, companies, and entrepreneurs at 14. He also emphasised on how experience and early exposure helped develop the infrastructure for his own company. “At an early age of 14, I was already tapping into his potential for success. Even in high school, I was already working multiple internships and networking with leading experts of multi-channel networks on YouTube. “Upon graduating from high school I’ve helped grow multiple YouTube channels by well over 100,000 subscribers. “Gary Vaynerchuk (GaryVee) hired me to work as a Social Media Manager on his team, ‘Team GaryVee’ at VaynerMedia. “Working with such powerful companies helped give me the experience and foundation needed to develop the infrastructure for my own company, Engineer Influence,” he said. Hamilton also spoke on the challenges he encountered setting up his firm. “My biggest challenge when starting Engineer Influence has absolutely been patience. We are trying to solve a rather multi-faceted problem, or set of problems for that matters. “I’ve had to spend hundreds of hours building an infrastructure that can scale without sacrificing our service. “For all of the hours that I’ve spent working on groundwork, I’m not pitching prospects, closing new clients, working on press releases, or doing any of the flashy things you see on social media, but I’m just making sure that every client that walks through our door is going to have the best experience that we can afford to give them,” he added. Hamilton’s company has seen tremendous growth despite being just under two years old, working with digital celebrities and executives such as Ryan Serhant and Jim Kwik as well as companies like ScholarMe (YC S19) and CREE Buildings.