The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has renewed focus on sensitising Nigerians on its operational activities, policies and product guidelines for accessing intervention initiatives programmes for the development of the economy. It urged consumers, bank customers and business concerns especially those within the micro, small and medium scale brackets to take advantage of the window of opportunities for their business financial stability for economic growth. CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, at a two-day fair virtually held in Sokoto and Kebbi with the theme “Promoting financial stability and economic development” said: “We want Nigerians to take charge of the window of opportunities available to them through our intervention activities. Let them know how to access and benefit from the programmes which are meant for them.” Emefiele represented by the acting Director, Communications Department, Mr Osita Nwanisobi noted small and medium scale farmers had been the focus of the apex bank especially with reference to the Anchor borrower scheme. “We have a guideline that stimulates and explained how to access all interventions through the bank Development and Finance Officer so that customers can leverage on them without bottlenecks,” he pointed out. The apex bank Sokoto branch controller, Yusuf Baba, said the fair was aimed at deepening credit delivery policies to real sectors driving the economy to create employment, reduce poverty and create wealth for general economic stability.. “Our focus is to strategically attract attention on consumer protection through concerted efforts in order to to provide jobs and create wealth,” he stated. Presentations on consumer protection and payments management systems as well currency operations and development financing were made at the virtual fair. CBN Birnin Kebbi Branch Controller, Alhaji Abdullahi Maina Dantsoho, said the essence of the virtual platform was to sustain an established avenue that would promote sound financial footing for Nigerians who are into businesses. This, he said, would further strengthen and empower the national economy by boosting the GDP for stability.