Coalition of Civil Society Group on Wednesday carpeted Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, over comments on alleged printing of N60 billion by the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, to augment March revenue  allocation to states. Speaking at the Edo Transition Committee Stakeholders’ Engagement, Obaseki claimed that the Federal Government used quantitative easing to add N60 billion to the March revenue before being shared by the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC). The governor also alleged that the Federal Government is borrowing without a sustainable plan to sort out the debt load. But addressing a news conference on Wednesday, President of the coalition, Bassey Williams, and its Secretary, Abubakar Ibrahim, described the claim as being orchestrated by enemies of government just to whittle down the confidence Nigerians have in the Buhari-led administration. The group also said the claim by Obaseki and others are mere distractions, which is not needed at this time when the country is facing much insecurity and hunger. The group said: “We have watched with keen interest over time, and we won’t be doing justice to the entire nation if we don’t make effort to disabuse the minds of our citizens on the falsehood been peddled around by some individuals for political gains and to distract the government. It is unfortunate and we condemn the political dimension the issue has taken. “The issues raised by Gov. Obaseki and others; alleging that N60 billion was printed by CBN and the Federal Government to augment for the March 2021 FAAC allocation, is orchestrated by enemies of Government just to whittle down the confidence Nigerians have in the government and her effort to invigorate the economy. “After our due consultations and inquiries, our Group discovered that the allegation was just falsehood capable of distorting progress recorded and as a campaign to smear the effort of a performing Governor of the CBN. “Reports made available to us reveals that going by the money FAAC share, the funds are monies generated and domiciled in the federation account, and is usually shared to the states every month. “There was no evidence that the March allocation was borrowed which contradicts the claims of those saying March allocation money was printed. “We further discovered that all the states owe the CBN. These monies are bailout funds given to them to cushion the effects of the difficulties experienced by the governors in their bid to deliver on good governance.”