Rite Foods Limited has affirmed that it produces under high ethical standards and hygienic conditions in line with global standards. Its Managing Director, Mr Seleem Adegunwa, said the company compares favourably with other food companies such Leventis Foods Limited, UAC Foods and UTC. He said the company is also gaining market share in the soft drinks and energy drinks’ segment of the beverage industry. Adegunwa spoke during the Brand Academy organised for reporters in Ogun State by the company. He said the company has a rich heritage of quality, having started production in 2012. He said Rites Food is an institution that believes in hard work and dedication, adding that the company still has the potential for growth as it though the company has 20 percent of its plans earmarked for the future. Assistant Brand Manager, Rite Foods Limited, Boluwatife Adedugbe said the company, established in 2007, is a world-class,  Nigerian foods and beverages manufacturing company, and subsidiary of Essy-Ay Holdings Limited She said the factory, which began operation in 2012, is another community, with world-class equipment responsible for the production of sausage and beverage drinks. The reporters were taken on a factory tour by the Production Manager, Mr. Michael Ibikunle, which started at the state-of-the-art bakery that produces 27,000 sausages per hour and also the beverage factory which produces 37,800 bottles per hour. The tour rounded off at the energy section, which consisted of gas generators, and one mega watt solar. “At Rite Foods Limited, we intensify the trail with our Bigi soft drinks, the family’s favourities in the soft drink segment, and we have added other exciting variants now comprising the Bigi Cola, Bigi Orange, Bigi Apple, Bigi Bitter Lemon, Bigi Soda Water, Bigi Lemon and Lime, Bigi Tropical, Bigi Chapman and Bigi Tamarind, Bigi Cherry Cola, Bigi Ginger Lemon, Bigi Ginger Ale,” Adedugbe said. According to her, the Bigi premium table water is produced with global best practices in purification for hydration, freshness, and healthy living. She said the company has highly nutritious brands that included the Rite Sausage and Bigi soft drink variants, introduced into the market in 2008 and the Fearless Energy Drinks in 2017. “Since then, the brands have set the pace for others to follow, as the most preferred products by families nationwide, as well as addressing the market need of young pupils in schools,” Adedugbe said. She said it was the company policy to comply with regulatory bodies such as the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) and other national and international standards. “So, anything you see us producing is because somebody has made an order for it, if they don’t make order, we don’t produce because no customer will buy a product that’s not fresh, everybody wants to buy a product that’s fresh, some of the products are traveling far places like Onitsha and Port Harcourt, among others. “It’s important that customers are getting it fresh and also the customer needs to get it the same day because if it’s getting late people may not want to buy it, they are losing before it get to the distributor, before it gets to the retailer in just within ten days, it has to be fresh so that the person buying it would buy it fresh as the first day it was produced. “That’s to imply that we produce only when a customer makes an order, it has to be fresh, because some are going to majorly South-East, South-West, and South-South because we can’t go to the North for now because of the distance, it takes days to get to the northern parts of the country,” Adedugbe said. On transportation, she said the company has three models of transportation but blended the three models into one loading bay. She said the palletized was for those who actually want it, for the Eastern part of the country they dwell more on the containerized body, while the Northern part prefer using their vehicles, so irrespective of tribe, race and region, the company is ready to give what customers want.