 Oyo State Governor  Seyi  Makinde  has been commended for his giant strides in infrastructural development of the Oke-Ogun area of the state. This was the view of members of the Oke-Ogun Liberation Movement, a non-governmental organisation at its monthly meeting held recently in  Iseyin, Oyo State. Speaking  through  its President, Alhaji  Fatai  Azeez  Olayemi, the  group said it has noticed  with satisfaction Makinde’s effort so far in providing amenities for communities in the area  within the short period of his administration. Azeez said: “We are happy to witness the infrastructural revolution in Oke-Ogun under this administration. They were   things we clamoured for many years ago. As the major occupation of the residents is farming, the location of the Faculty of Agriculture and Natural Science of the Ladoke Akintola University in Iseyin is a plus. This will make farmers take advantage of researches in the university and change to modern ways of farming. “No doubt, mechanised farming will soon be the new normal. On roads, Moniya-Iseyin road, Iseyin-Ogbomosho road and Oke-Ogun Poly, Saki road to Four-Four have all been completed. This is a big relief to motorists, commuters, farmers and businessmen and women alike. In addition, Iseyin-Okeho road has been fixed to the joy of the people.”  Besides, the group observed that the government has rehabilitated Oyo State Agricultural Development Programme (OSADEP) that will engender development in the area just as it has commissioned Saki Command School, bringing quality education to the doorstep of the residents. However, it has appealed to the government to complete Saki-Ogboro road and link it with Ibadan Express road to help farmers transport their produce to urban centres. The group is also seeking the presence of a primary health centre in Aaba village on Ibadan Express  road  to attend  to  the health needs  of  residents of villages in the area. On the contribution of the group to the development  of the area Azeez said: ‘’ We have made our mark in the education sector by providing  GCE forms   for prospective students. This has been on for the past five years and we are planning to offer scholarships to students in higher institutions of learning. We appeal to the government to establish  an ICT Centre  and vocational institutes  where youths can  learn skills to address unemployment and youth restiveness. The group used the occasion to appreciate the government’s effort in employing many sons and daughters of Oke-Ogun as teachers in the last exercise. It gave kudos to the administrative style of Senator Hosea Ayoola Agboola in piloting the political affairs of the area just as Rauf Aliu Balogun was praised for his selfless service to the community. Finally, as  Oke-Ogun  is being opened up to the outside world, the group wants the government to fix the road from Ado Awaye  to Akinwumi  to help farmers transport  their farm produce, with the president saying  “After four-plus-four, it is Oke-Ogun.’’ 