Gunmen continued their reign of terror on security operatives on Wednesday. They killed policemen on duty and attacked public assets. The gunmen killed two policemen in Akwa Ibom State, raided a police station in Abia State, attacked some Naval Ratings in Anambra State and killed a couple in Ogun State. In Akwa Ibom, two policemen were killed by gunmen at a checkpoint in Urua Inyang, Ika Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The gunmen rode on motorcycles at about 7pm on Tuesday. The Akwa Ibom incident brought to five the number of policemen killed in the line of duty in the state in three months; four others were declared missing. An eyewitness, Inimfon Silas, said some of the policemen fled when the gunmen opened fire. The assailants carted away rifles and burnt a patrol van. But the police said the gunmen were stopped from attacking a division and that the two officers were killed on their way home. Silas told our reporter: “The armed hoodlums on several motorcycles stormed the checkpoint and shot the two officers dead. The others fled. The hoodlums seized their riffles and set their patrol van ablaze.” Spokesman of the State Police Command, Odiko Macdon, said the Commissioner of Police Amiengheme Andrew, was already in Ika. He said in a statement: “At about 7pm, some armed men on motorcycles, heading towards Ika Divisional Headquarters vicinity, armed with AK-47 and other dangerous weapons with the intent to attack the Division and set it ablaze met stiff resistance as the Divisional Police Officer and other officers on ground fought gallantly and repelled the attackers who took to their heels with possible bullet wounds. “Unfortunately, before heading towards the station to attack it, they ambushed and killed a woman police corporal, Esther Akpan, who had just closed from duty and was on her way home in the company of a police special constabulary, Isonuyo Effiong Paul and burnt the Volvo vehicle attached to the division. “The Commissioner of Police, who was at the Division for an on-the-spot assessment, condoled with the families of slain female officer and the special constabulary.” The main building at the Nkporo Police Station in Ohafia, Abia State, was set ablaze by some gunmen, who burnt burnt exhibits, including motorcycles and cars and freed suspects in detention. Police spokesman in Abia Geoffrey Ogbonna could not be reached, but a security operative confirmed the incident. Nkporo is the hometown of the Abia State Deputy Governor Ude Oko Chukwu. A popular hotelier in Ogun State, Kehinde Ibidunni, was killed by gunmen. His wife Elizabeth was not spared in predawn attack. Our correspondent learnt that the man, 63, and wife, 54, were killed at their 15, Tella Ojo Crescent, Atan-Ota in Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area, at about 3am. A girl who lives with the couple noticed someone trying to gain access to the house alerted Ibidunni. As he went to know what was happened, he was shot in the chest. The assailants gained entry into the building and shot the wife after giving her a beating. The couple’s son Olayinka told reporters that his parents were murdered less than a month after his wedding in Abuja. He said: “They stayed alone in the house. They have a little girl staying with them in the house for support. At about 3am on April 27, the girl heard some people trying to gain access to the house through the burglar proof. “She stood up, went to my dad’s room and told him that some people were trying to gain entrance. “When my dad showed up to check who the people were, they shot him on the chest. So, he died instantly. “After they killed him, they gained access into the house. They went into the room, met my mum, beat her, stabbed her and shot her. “They killed the two of them and after that, they scattered the whole house. They took the little money they could lay their hands on and left. “From what we know and what the police are saying, it is a case of assassination. We can’t tell what type of robbery led to killing husband and wife. I think it is a case of assassination. “The police were around all through. They took the bodies to the morgue. They told us that they have not laid their hands on any concrete evidence, but they are still trying to interview some people. We were at the station yesterday (Tuesday).” Olayinka described his parents as “peaceful and loving” and said their remains will be buried tomorrow. Police spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, could not be reached for comments. In Anambra, the State Police Command confirmed an attack on some naval ratings at a checkpoint near Enamel Ware Junction on the Onitsha-Owerri Highway by hoodlums on Tuesday. The spokesman Tochukwu Ikenga told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the command sent a response team to the scene at about 6pm following a distress call about shooting in the area. “The team went there to repel the attack. An investigation is still ongoing but preliminary investigation revealed that the hoodlums arrived at the checkpoint in an unmarked tinted vehicle” he said. Ikenga, who did not say whether anyone died in the attack, said efforts were ongoing to apprehend the attackers. He denied social media reports of an attack yesterday at the Bridgehead, Onitsha, assuring the public of the command’s resolve to flush out criminals from the state.