Bayelsa State governor, Senator Douye Diri and his deputy, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, on Saturday, paid tributes to the late Madam Eunice Tasie. Mrs. Tasie, who passed on at the age of 71, is the mother of Mrs Beatrice Ewhrudjakpo, wife of the Bayelsa deputy governor. Speaking during her funeral at Ibaa community in Emohua Local Government Area of Rivers State, Governor Diri described her as a virtuous and devout Christian whose invaluable contribution to the development of her family and community can never be quantified. His Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as saying that her demise came at a time her community and people around her needed to tap from her fountain of wisdom. He stated that the deceased lived a fulfilled life worthy of emulation, having championed the cause of women, particularly widows through her religious activities. Senator Diri, who noted that Bayelsa and Rivers states were one people with a common heritage, said he led a high-powered delegation to pay their last respects to Madam Tasie. The governor prayed God to comfort the bereaved family over the demise of their matriarch and grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. Also in an interview with journalists, the Deputy Governor, Senator Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, described his mother-in-law’s death as a great loss. He said death, which is an inevitable end, could come unexpectedly, and urged people to live exemplary lives. Senator Ewhrudjakpo expressed delight that his wife had positive attributes of her mother, which impacted positively on their union. In her tribute, Mrs Beatrice Ewhrudjakpo, who is the first daughter of Madam Tasie, said her mother was a role model to women. Mrs Ewhrudjakpo also said that she was a source of inspiration to her educational pursuit and marital life, describing her passage as a hard blow. In his sermon titled: “Escape for Judgment Is At Hand,” Venerable Eugene Nicholas encouraged people to turn to God in all situations as there would be no hiding place for evildoers on the day of judgment. Dignitaries at the event included Speaker of the Bayelsa House of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere and other state and national lawmakers, including Senators Moses Cleopas (Bayelsa Central) and his Bayelsa West counterpart, Senator Seriake Dickson who was represented by Chief Fyneman Wilson as well as Reps members – Prof. Steve Azaiki and Fred Obua.