 Hope brightens for tuberculosis diagnosis and treatment in Nigeria as a 16-Module Genexpert Machine is launched in Lagos. This will increase the testing and diagnosis capacity of TB, allowing patients to know their status without much ado. The 16-Module Genexpert Machine, the first of its kind in the country, was unveiled by the Federal Government, Lagos State Government and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) at the Diagnostics Complex of EL-LAB in Festac Town, Lagos. The state-of-the-art  machine, which is for molecular diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB), was purchased by USAID through its funded Sustaining Health Outcomes through the Private Sector Plus project (SHOPS Plus) for the government of Nigeria to facilitate case detection in the private sector. The machine was launched at EL-LAB Ltd, one of the leading indigenous medical diagnostic and research centres in Nigeria, with a view to closing the gap in TB case detection, notification, and treatment. EL-LAB is one of the 118 engaged stand-alone laboratories trained by SHOPS/PLUS and has been very active in PPM Mix activities in Lagos State. According to WHO, TB is a major public health concern in Nigeria with the country ranked sixth among the 30 high TB burden countries globally and about 15 percent of the global gap in TB case notification. Ayodele Iroko, the senior private sector advisor, USAID/ SHOPS Plus, commended all private sector partners that have remained committed to the proactive screening, testing, and treating of TB in their various communities. She also encouraged all engaged health professional associations to work tenaciously at expanding the pool of private-sector TB providers by scaling up engagement to include more of their members while facilitating efforts to integrate tested approaches into facilities service provision for ownership and sustainability. The National Coordinator, National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP), Chukwuma Anyaike, identified two main national goals as regards TB: to find the missing cases and to ensure all cases found are adequately treated. He applauded the efforts of the private sector partners, citing the increase in TB case finding and recent times but also emphasised that there is still a lot of room for improvement. Anyaike also stressed the need for more up-to-date statistical data on TB cases in Nigeria. Anyaike described the introduction of the 16-Module Genexpert Machine as a “milestone” and encouraged optimal use of the machine to achieve maximal results. He pointed out, however, that the mission goes beyond case finding, to ensuring treatment for all cases. He encouraged stakeholders to re-strategise and think outside the box in order to “fish out all TB cases.” Omosalewa Oyelaran, deputy director at USAID Nigeria office for HIV/AIDS & TB, also commended the efforts of all stakeholders and encouraged them to take up the challenge of finding and treating all cases of TB in Nigeria. She expressed her excitement about the launching of the 16-Module Genexpert Machine, stating that it will increase the testing capacity, allowing patients to know their status and be placed on treatment as quickly as possible.