The full implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) will give Nigerian companies preferential access to African markets worth $504.17 billion in goods and $162 billion in services. Access Bank Plc is carrying out cross-border expansions and enhancing its digital operations to serve over 1.3 billion ‘people targeted in the AfCFTA deal and harness business opportunities it presents. COLLINS NWEZE writes that AfCFTA will bring about new growth and profitability for banks and other industries ready to explore the benefits it brings.  The gains of cross-border transactions in Africa are fast rising. Still, the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA) is expected to make such benefits more pronounced in the years ahead. For many stakeholders, the AFCFTA offers significant opportunities for the private sector, especially financial institutions to expand into new markets, and seek new business opportunities. But the benefits from the AfCFTA deal to a financial institution or company depend largely on the level of preparedness undertaken by such institution in readiness for the trade pact full implementation. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele, last week urged Nigerian businesses to seize the AfCFTA opportunity to ensure that Nigeria serves as a significant hub for international and domestic companies seeking to serve the West, Central and East African Markets. Access Bank Plc expressed its commitment to be at the centre of the AfCFTA implementation process, providing banking services to the rising African population. The bank is expanding its operations across Africa to ensure that it is fully ready to meet the increasing banking needs of the over 1.3 billion Africans targeted in the AfCFTA deal. Access Bank has also unfolded plans to expand to more African countries as part of a strategy to support trade and finance in the continent and take advantage of the AfCFTA. For instance, Access Bank Plc recently entered into a definitive and binding agreement with ABC Holdings Limited to acquire 78.15 per cent shareholding in the African Banking Corporation of Botswana Limited (BancABC Botswana). The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals and customary conditions precedent, is expected to close before the end of this quarter. ABC Holdings is a subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange-listed group – Atlas Mara Limited. Access Bank Company Secretary, Sunday Ekwochi, described Bostwana as renowned for its quality sovereign credit rating and stability with the bank’s market entry expected to further solidify its strategy as, “a strong banking partner in key verticals across retail and corporate banking, including especially supporting trade-in payments across southern Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa more broadly.” Speaking on the deal, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe, said: “We remain committed to a disciplined and thoughtful expansion strategy in Africa, which we believe will create strong, sustainable returns for our shareholders and stakeholders at large, over the medium and long-term. “The establishment of Access Bank through this acquisition in the Republic of Botswana will position the bank to deliver a more complete set of banking solutions to its clients active in and across the SADC and COMESA regions. According to him, the transaction complements our recent strategic growth acquisitions in South Africa, Zambia and Mozambique. “We are building a bank of the future that Africans across Africa and the world would be proud of and look forward to welcoming the employees, customers and other stakeholders of BancABC Botswana to Access Bank.” BancABC Botswana is the fifth-largest bank in Botswana and is a very well-capitalised banking institution poised for growth and success in its local market. The bank has been perennially profitable, given an existing high-quality retail loan book with opportunities and scope for diversification and further expansion into corporate and SME lending. Continuing, Wigwe explained that across Africa, there is an opportunity for the bank to expand to high-potential markets, leveraging the benefits of AfCFTA. He said AfCFTA, among other benefits, would expand intra-Africa trade and provide real opportunities for the continent. He stated that the plan is for the bank to establish its presence in 22 African countries to diversify its earnings and take advantage of growth opportunities in Africa. According to him, Africa has enormous potential and there are opportunities for an African bank that is well run, that understands compliance and can support trade and the right technology infrastructure to support payments and remittances, without taking incremental risks. “We believe that we are best positioned to do all of that. Our focus is to become an aggregator in Africa and we are building a global payment gateway and providing trade finance support and correspondent banking across the continent. We are focusing on the key markets. “The approach would always be that in the country we wish to go to, that we have the right skills. We would not just be a drop in the country in which we are present, we would make sure that we have an impactful presence in each of the major countries in which we are present. “In doing this, we are also mindful of the country we are going to to make sure that it is of benefit to the bank. As we do this, we are working with our friends and partners. “We are diversifying our earnings away from volatile markets as well and we are orchestrating our operations from the global payments gateway and ensuring that using Access Bank UK, providing corresponding services from digital platforms, the overall profitability of our franchise,” he explained. Commenting further, on AfCFTA, he said the bank would use its digital framework to benefit from the continental agreement. “Coming to Nigeria, we think we need to continue to entrench ourselves in the local market because there is still so much work to be done. So, we are doing everything possible to satisfy our customers and also to ensure that our channels are adequately secured. We are also ensuring that our staff are very efficient,” the CEO said. According to Wigwe, Access Bank has invested around $60 million to acquire a stake in South Africa’s Grobank. Access invested both equity and debt in the South African bank, part of a regional expansion to tap into correspondent and trade banking deals on the continent. He said Access will expand trade finance capability within Grobank which is currently focusing on the agricultural sector in South Africa.  Access Bank has received regulatory approvals for the acquisition which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2021. In August, Access Bank agreed to buy loss-making Cavmont Bank from the Zambian arm of Namibian financial services group Capricorn, for a nominal fee of 1 kwacha ($0.0014). Access is restructuring itself into a holding company and has received approval from the CBN. Furthermore, Emefiele said AFCFTA will provide an opportunity for these young talented Nigerians to expand their services across the African region. Developing trade portals that could support instant sales of goods manufactured in Nigeria to consumers in other parts of Africa is one aspect that can help to support the creation of jobs in Nigeria and improve foreign exchange inflows for the country. Emefiele said Nigerian banks are already playing a significant role in expanding across the African continent. “I would like to encourage them to also leverage their presence in other parts of Africa, to support Nigerian businesses seeking to expand into new markets in Africa, by providing trade facilities to those with strong potentials for growth,” he said. Emefiele said the apex bank has taken considerable steps to improve the productive capacity of businesses, which would enable them to take advantage of export opportunities in Africa.  AfCTA Africa’s market size  The AfCTA trade bloc offers a potential market of over 1.3 billion people and a Gross Domestic Product size of over $3 trillion. According to The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), there is the potential for intra-African trade to rise to 15.5 per cent as a share of total African trade by 2022 compared with 10.2 per cent from 2010. The African trade pact aims to bolster intra-regional commerce by lowering or eliminating cross-border tariffs, facilitating the movement of capital and people, promoting investment and paving the way for the establishment of a continental-wide customs union.  Signed in Rwanda in early 2018, the AfCFTA is aimed at promoting the free movement of businesspeople, goods and investments across Africa – a market of 1.3 billion people. For Nigeria, the AfCFTA implementation plans included domestication of the AfCFTA Agreement, border enforcement and Rules of origin enforcement, trade facilitation and ease of doing business, production and service capacity growth, power and trade logistics infrastructure, market access, skills and human capacity development as well as quality infrastructure.  IMF speaks on AfCFTA  According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) report titled: The African Continental Free Trade Area: Potential Economic Impact and Challenges”, the AfCFTA has the potential to generate substantial economic benefits for African countries. These benefits include higher income arising from increased efficiency and productivity from improved resource allocation, higher cross-border investment flows, and technology transfers. Besides lowering import tariffs, to ensure these benefits, African countries will need to reduce other trade barriers by making more efficient their customs procedures, reducing their wide infrastructure gaps, and improving their business climates. At the same time, policy measures should be taken to mitigate the differential impact of trade liberalization on certain groups as resources are reallocated in the economy and activities migrate to locations with comparatively lower costs.  Earnings rise in 2020 results  Several innovations and expansion plans by Access Bank have led to an uptick in its performance in the full year 2020 financial results. Access Bank recorded gross earnings of N764.7 billion for the financial year ended December 31, 2020, which was a 15 per cent improvement from the N666.75 billion posted for the comparative period of 2019. Profit before tax grew by 13 per cent to N125.9 billion from N111.9 billion, despite the high cost of operating the enlarged franchise and the increase in a net impairment charge of near N43 billion arising principally from a Structured Trade Finance (STF) portfolio in the Access Bank UK. The STF impairment is one-off/COVID related and recoverable over the next 12-18 months against insurance cover from world-class insurers. Still, profit after tax (PAT) increased from N94.1 billion to N106 billion in 2020 due to a 32 per cent rise in operating income, which offsets the rise in impairment charges and operating expenses. Customer deposits rose by 31 per cent to N5.59 trillion in December 2020, from N4.26 trillion. Likewise, net loans and advances grew by 18 per cent to N3.61 trillion, up from N3 trillion in the previous year. The board recommended a final dividend of 55 kobo per share bringing the total dividend to 80 kobo per share. Also, the bank had increased recovery efforts, carrying out major write-offs and leveraged its sound risk management practices. These improved asset quality improved to 4.3 per cent, compared to its 2019 report of 5.8 per cent.