President Muhammadu Buhari on Saturday led other prominent Nigerians in paying tributes to the spokesman of the Pan-Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, who passed on earlier in the day. He was joined by former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, serving and former state governors and the human rights community. Buhari, in a condolence message signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr Femi Adesina, described Odumakin as dutiful and a person of conviction. Odumakin was President Buhari’s spokesperson when he ran for the 2011 presidential election on the platform of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). The President recalled Odumakin as “dutiful, and a person of conviction.” He expressed sorrow at his demise “when he had a lot more to contribute to society and the nation at large.” Buhari prayed God to “grant repose to the soul of the departed activist, and comfort all those who mourn him.” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was no less shocked by Odumakin’s demise. He commiserated with the wife of the deceased, family and associates and prayed that the Lord will “comfort the family, and bless his memory always.”  Ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo paid a condolence visit to the leader of Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, in Lagos on the death of Odumakin. Adebanjo, in a tweet, said Odumakin’s departure was “too heavy to bear” for him. Former President Goodluck Jonathan described the deceased as a great voice for equity and a courageous patriot. “He was a great asset for just causes whose considerable contributions to the growth of civil society is not in doubt. He also acquitted himself as a seasoned journalist and columnist who promoted egalitarianism and social well-being, in his regular essays,” Jonathan said in a condolence message to the Odumakins. He added: “Mr. Odumakin exits this world with rich democratic credentials, having played active roles in the years of activism that birthed and stabilised civil rule in our country. “As a cultural enthusiast, Mr. Odumakin lived his short life as a force to be reckoned with in propagating and protecting the interest of the Yoruba in the larger Nigeria social space.” Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar called Odumakin “my younger brother and friend.” He said the death of the human rights activist was a rude shock. He said: “Much as our heart grieves over this unpleasant development, we must take solace in accepting it as an act of God and acknowledge the fact that Yinka lived a life of purpose in defence of the ordinary people of this country and to enthrone a better Nigeria.” The Chief Edwin Clark led Southern and Middle Belt Forum of Nigeria described Odumakin as a fearless and courageous nationalist. The group in a condolence message titled “ADIEU OUR FEARLESS AND COURAGEOUS YINKA ODUMAKIN” and signed by Chief (Dr.) E. K. Clark, National Leader; Prof. George Obiozor, President-General, Ohaneze Ndigbo; Dr. Pogu Bitrus, President -General, Middle Belt Forum; and Senator Emmanuel Ibok-Essien, National Chairman, Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) said the news of Odumakin’s demise came to them as a rude shock. They said Odumakin was a backbone who in the past few years worked tirelessly to give the organisation both national and international visibility and recognition. They said: “Although he was an Afenifere chieftain, his commitment to building a Nigerian state where fairness, equity and justice reigns was unparalleled. “For Southern Nigerian and Middle Belt Forum, Yinka was a backbone who in the past few years worked tirelessly to give the organisation both national and international visibility and recognition. He also brought clarity and common understanding to the problems bedeviling our country, aimed at providing timely solutions to them. “Yinka has etched his name in steel in the anal of Nigerian history. He will, therefore, be remembered by all citizens as one of our greatest citizens ever.” For the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Chief Gani Adams, the deceased always spoke truth to power. Adams called him a gem and a dependable ally. He added: “We’ll all miss his voice. We’ll miss his commitment, we’ll miss is bravery because the late Yinka Odumakin’s fearless image loomed larger than what we can easily forget in a hurry. “He was a phenomenon that spoke truth to power. He cut a picture of an all-rounder, a media personage, an analyst and public commentator that had warmed himself to the hearts of many people.” The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) said much as its own views were always in disagreement with those of the interest represented by the deceased, their differences were  “on principle and not personal.” The ACF National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, said: “The fundamental difference is that the AFENIFERE group admits only descendants of Oduduwa as members while we in the ACF admit even descendants of Oduduwa who are northerners. “The nature of our membership, accommodating hundreds of ethnic groups, has made it very difficult to always agree with a group whose membership is limited to one ethnic group. “We continue to hope that the AFENIFERE will one day turn a new leaf and see issues not from the narrow and limited perspective of one ethnic group but from the broad perspective of a multi ethnic federal republic. “We had hoped that Odumakin would live long enough to work for and see the new day. His death today has robbed us of that opportunity. “We however pray for the CONDOLENCE of his family and his colleagues in AFENIFERE. We shall certainly miss him.” National President of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, Yerima Shetimma said: “It’s a great loss. Yinka was one of our finest, especially in the Arewa community. We have lost one of our best, a shining leading light in our struggle. ”It is a loss to the family and to the country. We lost Yinka at a time we needed him the most. I am still in shock. Akogun Tola Adeniyi, Chairman of Council Yoruba Global Alliance, said: “It’s shocking! It’s unbelievable! It’s absolutely a cruel timing! “Yinka Odumakin’s death is like a thunderbolt strike into the heart of Yoruba nationalism. Bold, bright and outspoken, Yinka was a study in courage and fearlessness. “His commitment to the Yoruba struggle for liberation and emancipation was never in doubt. He put his whole life on the line for the crusade. “He stood stoutly against the recolonization of Nigeria and the entire Nigerian indigenous Nationalities. “By his death, all the free peoples of the world have lost a roaring voice. The Yoruba nation has lost a champion, and all the Self-Determination Organizations have lost an icon.” The All Progressives Congress (APC) said Odumakin’s death was a loss of a patriot who was relentless in canvassing and serving the interest and progress of the country. The party’s Secretary, Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) Senator John Akpanudoedehe, said Odumakin will be sorely missed. His words: “The Yoruba nation and indeed the country has lost a seasoned public analyst, activist, politician and patriot who was relentless in canvassing and serving the interests of Yorubaland and the progress of the country at large. He will be sorely missed.” The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said: “The death of Odumakin is a huge loss to the nation and particularly the PDP, given his erudite contributions to national dialogue and relentless commitment towards the development of democratic ethos in our country. “Odumakin was consistently focused in fighting for a nation in which the principles of equity, fairness and justice will thrive in every sphere of our national life. “He dedicated his life as a journalist, human right activist and social crusader for improvement in every phase of  life in our country. “Indeed, if Yinka Odumakin had the last pint of blood in his vein and there was a need to drop same for democracy to be strengthened in our country, he would have readily made it available.” To Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, “Odumakin was undoubtedly a great nationalist, passionate leader and champion of a true Nigeria that would work for every citizen. “Odumakin as civil rights activist was selfless. He spent the greater part of his life in the service of humanity, particularly the emancipation of the Yoruba people, the development of the South West region in particular and the nation in general. “He stood firmly behind the attainment of constitutional democracy and fiscal federalism as the basis for sustainable development and lifting the masses out of poverty.” “As spokesman for the Afenifere, Odumakin made his mark and became a reference point as major voice for the development of the Yoruba race. He will surely be missed.” Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State said: “His roles in the enthronement of popular democracy as well as his fiery advocacy for the rule of law remain undoubtedly legendary. “We recall his fiery beginning in the struggle as the Publicity Secretary of Obafemi Awolowo University Student Union where he discharged his duties creditably. “He represented a memorable era having participated actively in the passion and action for a better Nigeria in his lifetime. Those left behind will find great inspiration in Yinka’s legacies to continue with the struggle. “To his immediate family, Yinka created an irreplaceable vacuum; he indeed left an open wound of scary spots for his colleagues with whom shared moments were always with eyes on a united Nigeria of Justice for all. “Even those who had reasons to disagree with Yinka on issues will feel the absence of intellectual engagements. Countless losses, indeed.” Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State said: “This is a very sad day. The Yoruba and indeed Nigeria have lost an illustrious son, a voice for the voiceless, a fearless and dogged fighter, and a leader who loved and served his people passionately. “For me, Yinka’s death is a personal loss. He was not just my comrade in the democratic struggle, he was a brother and a friend. He was firm in his conviction, focused and progressive-minded. Even when we disagreed, he was never disagreeable. “Our thoughts and prayers are with Joe, his widow, members of his immediate family, associates, and the leadership of Afenifere, at this trying period. We pray that God grants him eternal rest and gives the family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” Minister of Interior and former Osun State governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, said: “A dogged fighter for human dignity has left our realm. “May he find a joyful activity on the other side. Aamin. “Joe, family and friends, I pray for fortitude to bear this painful loss.” Former governor of Delta State, Chief James Ibori said: “Though Odumakin was not among my supporters, and our paths rarely crossed, that did not blind me to the fact that he was gradually becoming a credible voice for true federalism and fiscal restructuring which Nigeria needs badly. So, I always wished him well. Now, I will miss him very much. “Odumakin had come a long way from his University of Ife Students Union days, but he never disdained social activism. He remained an activist till the bitter end. “He was proudly a Yoruba and a Nigerian. He wished for a better Nigeria and was convinced that such a state would only be achieved through mutually agreed terms reached by components parts of the Federation, in the spirit of equality, egalitarianism, justice and fairness.” The Convener of the June 12 Pro-Democracy Movement of Nigeria,  Olawale Okunniyi, announced a seven-day mourning for the loss of Odumakin. Okunniyi said Yinka Odumakin was one the fiercest and most prolific comrades of the Pro-Democracy Movement in Nigeria, who fought the cause of a just and equitable Nigeria and therefore deserved to be immortalised by the Pro Democracy Movement. He said Odumakin worked relentlessly with the likes of the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi and the late  Dr Beko Ransome Kuti in the 90s to end  military rule in Nigeria. Odumakin’s wife, Joe, said he passed on yesterday morning “at the intensive care unit of LASUTH where he was being managed for respiratory issues due to complications from COVID-19 which he had recovered from about a week ago.” She expressed appreciation for “the outpouring of grief and sympathy from home and abroad as I mourn my irreplaceable soul mate.” She urged all to remain steadfast in the cause of the masses to which her husband dedicated his life. She said that burial arrangements would be made public in due course. “A part of me is gone. A part of me is gone. He fought hard at the intensive care unit. Pray for me to survive this. My love is gone,” she said. “He was okay before. He was recovering yesterday but he died this morning. I am at the intensive care unit. A part of me is gone.” Odumakin was 59 years old.