 SIR: Nigeria is no doubt facing a torrid time and tottering on the brink with unprecedented crises ranging from fluttering economy, high level of insecurity, insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling, armed robbery and ritual killings. These coupled with the effects of the Covid-19 epidemic, make a very deadly mix for our beloved country. News emanating from the country tells of grief, anxiety, fear, hopelessness, hardship, and uncertainties, resulting in widespread agitations for restructuring, devolution of power and dismemberment of the country by a few. Interestingly, despite the mirage of problems and anomalies Nigeria is confronted with today, most Nigerians still believe strongly in the unity of the country but with justice, fairness, and a Nigeria that works for every Nigerian. Nigeria has many problems, yet it is still the most populous black nation in the world with a population of over 200 million people and richly blessed both in human and material resources immersed in her peculiarity of diversities. Ordinarily, these exceptional attributes should be our strength; sadly, over the years our political leaders and managers of our common patrimony have turned these blessings into our albatross because of their selfishness, greed, lack of capacity and sheer wickedness. Nigeria may be at a crossroads, still disintegration is not the solution; the option of dialogue should not be mistaken for an opportunity for fragmentation because of politics and other parochial interests. Dialogue aimed at finding lasting solutions must happen without delay.  We have become a nation of ‘every man for himself’ hence there are parochial sentiments over national issues everywhere.  Leaders who should be at the fore of the gospel of national peace building and unity are propagating ethnic jingoism, ethnic and religious sentiment and divisiveness. These are clear indications that Nigerians haven’t learnt from past mistakes of the civil and tribal wars. The current situation cannot be allowed to fester. It is a task for Nigerians to ensure that it does not.  Sadly, the minds of our politicians are so fixated with the 2023 elections, blinding them to the reality of the vainness of their ambitions if, God forbid, Nigeria disintegrates. Governments at all levels should be more sensitive to the complexities and sensitivities of the Nigerian people. Our leaders cannot continue to play a game of chess with the nation with a time bomb ticking away on their laps. The President Muhammadu Buhari government must urgently plan for national dialogue where all fundamental issues affecting our country will be discussed and solution found in order to prevent an impending implosion. Mr President’s aloofness in the midst of dire national issues should be of serious concern to every Nigerian, including members of his government. Ola Rotimi, in his classic the Gods Are Not to Blame, says, “it is only a mad man who goes to sleep while his roof is on fire’. President Buhari must rise up to his duties and responsibilities. He must engage with Nigerians, show commitment on all critical national issues. The level of insecurity and melancholy in the land is scary. All public-spirited individuals must support and encourage the government to bring all Nigerian stakeholders to the roundtable for genuine conversations aimed at finding lasting solutions to our problems. Those Nigerians agitating for a break up should reflect on the effects afterwards because, the fragmentation of Nigeria might be the end of Nigeria union but won’t automatically take away those problems that led to a break up. It is sad to see leaders talking up disintegration as if it is a magic wand that will address issues of unemployment, proliferation of arms and attendant effect of insecurity. Nigeria is a beacon of hope to the black race; we must find hope, tenacity and belief that Nigeria will emerge from its crisis better and stronger. 