Famous Nollywood actor and model Pope Obumneme Odonwodo, popularly known as Jnr Pope, has shared his ordeals with a female domestic help. The father of three took to his Instagram page to recount how his dog, a lhasa aspo, was strangled to death by his domestic help. He advised people with domestic help to stay vigilant in the home front. The post reads: “My dog a Lhasa Aspo Was Strangled To Death By My Domestic Help In Our Absence………..” The caption of the post reads: “My Wife’s Instincts Recently Did Not Allow My Wife Leave The Kids With Her…….. Who Knows , Maybe She Was Practicing…….. God Forbid…….. “What Actually Is Wrong With These Domestic Helps , No Matter How Nice You Are To Them ; Them Go Still Do You…….. “This Same Domestic Help Conspired With My Cleaner Who Stole Bowls Of Egusi Soup And Stew From My Refrigerator….. “Everyone With A Domestic Help BE CAREFUL, Open Your Eyes ; Mind How You Leave Your Kids With Them ……Them No Get Joy.” Social media users have taken to his comment section to react to his post. Most of them corroborated his claims while asking he sends the help away immediately. bless.ingsjoy wrote: “Hmmmm… That means that the fire outbreak in your house last week is not ordinary, please send him away quickly before he gets hold of your 3great Nations…I mean your 3 lovely sons Biko!” talentedalex1 said: “Sir please send her packing and also to think u should just hire people who would come do their job and leave. No matter how kind u are to them, the ones with evil hearts will still be wicked to ur family. It happened to us in our house and we had to hire them, they do the day’s job and leave. Monthly they get paid.” kokoboss_design stated: “Ok ooo I taught am the only one on this table am creating a home studio for myself now till my baby grows very well, what my eyes saw last week Tuesday oo chi m ooo, but I won’t stop being nice to people.” juddie_13 tweeted: “@jnrpope you know say dogs no dey like witches and wizards… Am sure the dog they block her from operating that’s why she decide to kill am first and have her way… Or maybe she done tire to they take care of the dog with other house work.” stephnduka wrote: “How do people have this type of mind? Hmmm where is their conscience bikonu, this is sad.” Kimanani wrote: “Oh jeez! This is a horrible human being…” ruthantonia_ wrote: “Nawah, imagine strangling an innocent dog, she go fit kill human being be that o.”