Golf, like every other sports, is a veritable tool to facilitate unity among diverse regions, like we have in Nigeria, and that is the idea behind Unity Cup Golf Championship; the brainchild of current captain of Ikoyi Club 1938 (Golf Section) Dr. Meckson Innocent Okoro, and he found a worthy ally in Polaris Bank, sponsor of the three-day tournament that took place last weekend. He is broad-minded, a thinker and a doer. Anytime Okoro dreams, it must come to pass. Though it might take a while, and difficult atimes, as its always the case on the golf course, it is the result that matters. Okoro dreams unity, he dreamt oneness, he admire an opportunity to gather golfers from across the country as a unifying force. To achieve this, he came up with the idea of ‘Unity Cup Golf Championship. However, he also reasoned, “no matter how beautiful an idea is, it needs fund to succeed”. In an economic climate where Covid-19 pandemic has dealt many individuals and corporate organizations huge blow, funding such unique idea is sure to be tough. However, Okoro found worthy partner in Polaris Bank Nigeria Limited, a financial force in Nigeria’s banking industry. Golf, like every other sport, brings people together. In it, it does not matter whether you are black or white – from the North or down South – Yoruba or Hausa, Igbo or Fulani; it matters not whether you are a Christian or a Muslim or even a traditionalist. It cares less about your age; it does not matter whether you are young or old, come from a rich family or from a poor background. Once you step on the course, ‘you are a golfer’. Golf has the power to change the world and unite people. Golf creates friendships between people who would not normally communicate. Sports, just like golf, do not have a language. It does not need words; the attraction is the bonding it creates. That was the dream Polaris Bank bought into and with the Bank’s backing, Okoro set up a committee. He found Peter Eben-Spiff, a former Lagos Open Champion; a Golfer with numerous other trophies to show for his prowess in golf to lead his Planning Committee. Tade Adekunle: experience amateur and the current Golf Section’s Competition Secretary was with him on the Planning Committee, so also were others. Vice Captain, Tony Oboh. He was not only visible,  but active. Being a technical sport, MI, as the Captain is fondly called, brought in Falcon Golf Development Company, an agency that organizes and promotes golf. Being the first of its kind, Okoro tells whoever cares to listen that that the Unity Cup; the committee Inaugural tournament, will be a huge success. Barely one month in office, putting together such event, was definitely a herculean task, but MI remained undaunted. Well, with the machineries in motion, invitations were sent out to all Clubs in the Country. IV’s went to as far as Kano, to Jaji in Kaduna, to Eket in Akwa-Ibom states, NAF Golf Club in Kaduna were not left out. Even golfers from Riverine Bonny Island were glad to be invited. Golfers from IBB International Golf and Country Club in Abuja led by its Captain, Sola Awoyungbo in company of Julius Fadairo flew in early. Alex Shaiyen and 9-handicap Austin Aigbotsua were in his team. Expectedly, they all showed up for the mini golf festival. Okoro was happy, the guests were impressed. With the immense backing of Polaris Bank, the game was soon on auto-pilot. But the most interesting thing was the race for the tournament’s coveted trophy; the first of its kind in Nigeria. Naturally, in an event of this nature, names like; Tim Ayomike, Remi Olukoya, Ewi Akpata always pops up. Atimes, it’s easy to predict where the leaderboard would be heading in a tournament of this nature. Yet, golf can be unforgiving. But when the god of golf smiles on you, every bad shot turns positive, doglegs become open fairway and every bad putt finds the Cup. Golf is no respecter of name nor age, it has produced the least expected as champions and promoted the most unlikely winners across the globe. Now, Rotimi Obajimi is not an unknown quan tity in golf, not only in golf but in sports generally. He is a former athlete and former athlete coach; one that produce some of the most popularly athletes of yesteryears. For most part of 2020, golf was the last thing on the mind of the man. However, sometime in January, he returned to golf looking very fit though. Of course being an athlete, nothing less is expected. He headed to the course early Saturday morning, happy and friendly as usual, hoping for a good day on the Course. Playing off handicap-12, Obajimi cannot be discounted, yet not many will give him the chance of winning. After four hours on the course, Obajimi carded 81-gross score for 69-net. With the result, he is definitely the man to beat. By the time the last player holed out, no other golfer that came behind or before him could better his score.  He won. Everyone present was happy, the sponsor; Polaris Bank were elated, Okoro was impressed. Ladies and Gentlemen, Okoro roared into the dark dead night at the events closing ceremony, the “it’s been a wonderful week”, he said at the well attended gala night. “When you look at this country today, you’ll notice that there are challenges bedeviling us a country. Thus, we felt we should also do something that will help unify this country. Our belief is that if you play golf with someone for four-to-five hours there will be some kind of bonding that goes beyond religion, region and ethnicity. If we all take this message home, then we would have achieved some form of unity that should be built on”, urging everyone present to replicate the idea in their various Clubs. In his speech, the Chief Executive Officer of Polaris Bank, Mr. Innocent C. Ike was more forthcoming. “As a leading and innovative retail Bank in Nigeria, we are excited to partner with Golf Section and by extension, Ikoyi Club 1938”, adding that, “for us at Polaris Bank, this partnership marks the beginning of a historic journey filled with opportunities and shared benefits. Apart from helping to forge national unity, we will leverage this tournament for brand visibility, bonding and networking amongst Golfers from different clubs across Nigeria”, “the event’, he concluded will also promote family leisure and ultimately, social cohesion. With the speech, the maiden Unity Cup Golf Championship came to a thrilling end. But the message, analysts say, will continue to reverberate for time to come.