 As the country’s security crisis worsens, people in power continue to attribute it largely to alleged sponsors of terrorism, banditry and kidnapping who are engineering evil behind the scenes. This is a convenient narrative that blames saboteurs for the failures of the authorities. The Buhari administration should not focus on alleged saboteurs to the extent that it loses focus on the difficult socio-economic conditions that possibly fuel insecurity. It is noteworthy that the Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Kayode Fayemi, recently attributed the country’s security challenges partly to its 33 percent unemployment rate. This shows why the authorities should urgently pursue improved socio-economic conditions to discourage activities that encourage insecurity. Those who spread the sabotage narrative claim that politicians and government officials are involved. Two governors,   Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom and Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma, recently attracted attention by circulating the allegation. It is interesting that both governors are on the same page on this claim.  Uzodinma is a member of the ruling party, All Progressives Congress (APC), and Ortom is a member of the main opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Ortom, on April 15, in Abuja, spoke on “Insecurity in Nigeria: Restoring Peace, Unity and Progress,” at an event organised by the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Correspondents Chapel. He said bandits were operating in at least 24 of the country’s 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. This is an alarming figure, but it is unclear how he got the figure. Predictably, he made remarks about kidnapping for ransom, which has become a big issue. “There is another lucrative business in Nigeria with strong suspicion of connivance with government officials,” the governor said.  He added:  “The rise in kidnappings of all categories of people across the country is a dangerous trend. We don’t know who is telling the truth. But as it stands, there is a strong allegation that desperate politicians brought into the country foreign mercenaries to help them win elections. Unfortunately, after the elections were lost and won, the mercenaries were abandoned leading to worsening security in the country.” It is disturbing that kidnapping is regarded as a “growth industry” in Nigeria, based on the observation that it seems to have become a business, particularly for unemployed youths in many parts of the country. A study indicated that more than $18 million was paid as ransom to kidnappers in the country from 2011 to 2020, and the greater part of the payment was from 2016 to 2020 when about $11 million was paid. This implies growing profitability. Indeed, some analysts forecast that kidnap cases will increase in the country as a result of increased unemployment. This is a worrying scenario, considering that Nigeria already has one of the world’s highest rates of kidnap-for-ransom cases. Uzodinma, on April 23, in Abuja, told journalists that politicians were funding banditry to sabotage the Buhari administration. He made the allegation shortly after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja. “What people are doing is to sponsor crisis to the extent that those funding banditry are politicians…A situation where you will leave the ethical way of playing politics to sponsor banditry to bring down a government, we should rise up and condemn it – all of us,” the governor said. If this allegation is true, it is condemnable that politicians are sponsoring banditry. The case of a former chairman of Jibia local government caretaker committee in Katsina State, Haruna Musa Mota, who was arrested in February and arraigned for conspiracy, aiding and abetting and terrorism, shows why law enforcement agents need to pay attention to claims that politicians are involved in activities that fuel insecurity. According to a report, “Before his arrest, an audio recording in Hausa language went viral on the social media where the culprit was heard discussing with one of the bandits’ leaders over the abduction of Kankara students.” Notably, the mass abduction of students from Government Science Secondary School, Kankara, Katsina State, by suspected bandits, in December 2020, had generated a striking story about who is responsible for heightened banditry in the Northwest region. All Progressives Congress (APC) acting Deputy National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena had said in a statement: “Our security agencies have intelligence reports linking one of the Northwest governors to collusion and sponsorship of violent and criminal activities of bandits. I won’t give details because of the sensitive and security nature of the issue.” Five of the seven states in the Northwest are controlled by APC.  The governors are: Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna); Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano); Aminu Masari (Katsina); Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa) and Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi). The two other states in the geo-political region are controlled by PDP. The governors are Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Bello Matawalle (Zamfara). Though the APC spokesman did not name the governor allegedly sponsoring bandits in the region, he said enough to suggest the governor’s identity.  He listed PDP among “enemies of the country who seek political gains from issues of insecurity.” It is understandable that he pointed in the direction of his party’s main rival. It is also understandable that he seemed to have ruled out the possibility that the alleged evil sponsor could be from his own party. Is the allegation true?  The claim that a Northwest governor is to blame for the increasing cases of banditry in the region remains an allegation until proven. The question is: Where is the evidence? It is not enough to accuse politicians of sabotage without providing proof. The alleged involvement of politicians and government officials in fuelling insecurity would be scandalous, if proven. But it needs to be proved first. The problem with spreading unsubstantiated claims is the lack of concrete details, which is ultimately unhelpful. Facts are needed to prove the allegations of sabotage. Law enforcement agencies should not only investigate such allegations but also expose and prosecute the saboteurs in proven cases. The authorities should not give the impression that the alleged saboteurs are faceless or untouchable. In the final analysis, claims of sabotage, or even evidence of sabotage, cannot excuse the failure of the authorities to find a solution to insecurity.