 Barring last-minute changes, the Federal Government will soon reintroduce Cargo Tracking Notes (CTN) at the seaports to help address the growing spate of banditry, kidnappings and restiveness fuelled by easy access to guns across the country. The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has further directed the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) to undertake the responsibility of administering CTN.  CTN  The CTN’s objective is the collection of documents and processing of information, when exporting by sea to obtain prior information,  participation in security measures, statistics, and implementation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the World Customs Organisation’s (WCO) recommendations on trade facilitation and security.  Why the security measures? The country has been besieged by violence and conflicts which have claimed thousands of lives and property, no thanks to kidnappers, armed robbers, sea pirates, political thugs, arms traffickers and the extremist group, Boko Haram. Boko Haram has in the last 10 years killed over 25,000 people in Northeast, which include soldiers, women and children. These armed activities continue unabated, partly because of unchecked arms proliferation. These groups also use local arms, but their most sophisticated arms are imported, concealed and smuggled into the country via seaports and the porous land borders. These tragic developments have given the impression that the nation’s security intelligence has either failed or is heavily compromised.This, therefore, calls for new approaches to taming the monsters casting a blight on the unity and progress of the country. To stakeholders in the industry and experts, the sorry security situation in the country demands that technology be deployed in.  Rise of illegal weapons  It is estimated that 70 per cent of over 10 million illegal weapons in circulation in West Africa are in the country. In this light, the directive by Buhari to reintroduce the CTN has been regarded as timely. In Customs operations, activities of under declaration false declaration which lead to loss of revenue would also be curtailed with the reintroduction of CTN at the ports. A senior Customs officer, who does not want his name in print, blamed Customs agents for the rot in the port. “Although the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has made giant strides in recent years in terms of revenue collection, CTN will also assist the Service in eliminating loopholes in port operations as cases of false declaration and under declaration will become history. “The need for 100 per cent physical examination and numerous interceptions by different Customs units, is a result of non-compliance by clearing agents and some unpatriotic importers. This, would, however, reduce with CTN in place and the Service could channel its efforts to more productive aspects of trade facilitation, revenue generation and anti-smuggling activities,’’ he said.  Arms and ammunition intercepted at port  In 2017, 2,671 pump-action rifles were intercepted at the seaports. The guns were registered for export in Turkey as pump-action rifles for hunting but the manifests were changed in Morocco to become steel doors to enable the container gain entry into Nigeria. With CTN in place, security agencies in the country would have been able to see the original manifests from Turkey and intercept the guns before the ship berthed at the port.  Other countries using CTN  They include Angola, Benin Republic, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Democratic Republic Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Ghana and Guinea. Others are Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Mali, Niger, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Sudan and Togo.  What NSC says  The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC), Mr. Hassan Bello, whose Council handles CTN describes the development as “another instrument that will add tremendous value to shipping development”. “It will boost the revenue of the government in customs revenue collection in the sense that it will abate under – declaration and concealment. It will boost the revenue of NPA because there will be no more alteration of the manifests. It will boost the revenue of NIMASA because under – declaration of the weight of ships will not be there any longer,’’ he said. Director of Education and Research, the Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria (CRFFN), Dr. Alban Igwe, said the CTN remained the best answer to security challenges as it would improve the security and safety of the supply chain, profiling cargoes coming into the country. “The objective is to improve the security and safety of the supply chain and help us see the profile of products we are bringing in. It will help us know the origin and destination of cargoes and help us know our enemies,” he said. CTN is also a veritable source of data; some economic experts describe it as the best quality of the electronic-based platform that can reduce insecurity/banditry, Igwe added.