Given the security situation in the ever restive Niger Delta region, otherwise known as the Southsouth, the region is expected to emulate the Southwest and the Southeast, by establishing its own regional security outfit. But, it will not be easy for the multi-ethnic Southsouth with many languages, unlike the homogeneous Southwest and the Southeast, to speak with a common voice. For instance, it will be difficult for the governors of the Southsouth to agree on a local name, with the Ijaw, Urhobo, Ikwerre, Itsekiri, Ogoni, Kalabari, Ibibio, Anaang and Etche, among others, claiming to be the fourth largest ethnic group in the country, after Hausa/Fulani, Yoruba and Igbo. On a positive note, however, all the six governors now belong to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). With the emergence of the Western Nigeria Security Network, codenamed Amotekun and the Southeast regional security outfit, otherwise known as Ebube Agu, the governors may soon consider the idea of establishing their own security outfit. The restive youths and militants in the Niger Delta are still involved in pipeline vandalism, sea piracy, kidnapping and other criminal activities, thereby forcing many oil companies and oil servicing companies to relocate to Lagos and other peaceful parts of the country. Though when confronted with the deteriorating situation in Edo State recently, the PDP National Vice Chairman (Southsouth), Chief Dan Orbih dismissed the idea that it has anything to do with the party in power in the state. He said: “Security is not a state’s function, but the responsibility of the Federal Government, which has failed abysmally to secure the lives and property of Nigerians. Insecurity is all over Nigeria. Do not isolate the kidnappings on Benin-Ekpoma-Auchi-Abuja road. “Kidnappings happen across Nigeria on a daily basis, while Buhari’s government has not been able to address the challenge. Quite unfortunately, officials of government are now negotiating ransoms with bandits, kidnappers, terrorists and other criminals. This is sad; Buhari’s government has no capacity to address the security challenges that the nation and Nigerians are facing.” The crude oil and gas-rich Southsouth zone in the hitherto volatile Niger Delta region is notorious for militancy, sea piracy, youth restiveness, kidnapping, cultism, armed robbery and other criminal activities, thereby chasing away investors and investments from the marginalised zone. Niger Delta people, especially the youths, are still agitating for commensurate infrastructural development and empowerment of the people, in spite of the invaluable roles being played by the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) for the repentant Niger Delta militants; the Federal  Government’s interventionist agency, the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs, which has Senator Godswill Akpabio, a former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, as the minister. The Southsouth zone consists of six states of Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta (the three of which are more notorious for militancy and youth restiveness), Edo, Akwa Ibom and Cross River. The multi-billion dollars Dangote Refinery and Petrochemical Company in the Lekki/Ajah axis of Lagos State was to be located at Onne in Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State, with a large expanse of land already acquired, surveyed and being prepared for construction. But it was later cancelled and relocated to a secure location, Lagos, with the people of Rivers State and other Niger Deltans being the losers. In 2009, the administration of the then President Umaru Yar’Adua granted the repentant Niger Delta militants amnesty. The militants voluntarily surrendered a large cache of sophisticated arms and ammunition, as well as other dangerous weapons, uniforms of military personnel and policemen, gunboats and assorted charms. They agreed to turn a new leaf. The government, in turn, agreed to pay the former freedom fighters a monthly stipend of N65,000, which they are still receiving till date.  Many of them are still being rehabilitated and empowered through quality education within and outside Nigeria.