A faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State known as the Integrity Group has rejected the 61-member national revalidation/appeal committee recently set up by the party. The group specifically rejected the inclusion of Senator Khairat Gwadabe in the committee. It said that Senator Gwadabe is the elder sister of Kwara State Governor AbdulRaman Abdulrazaq. The registration and revalidation exercise led by Senator John Danboi  has been marred with crisis, leading to the rejection of the exercise by factions of the APC. In a statement, the group’s Director, Media and Publicity, Comrade Abdulrahoof Bello said that the appointment of Hajia Gwadabe is fraught with illogicality, nepotism and assault in democratic values. He said: “If the objective of the 61-member appeal committee is to rectify injustice that arose from the controversial membership registration and revalidation exercise in the state, then Hajia Gwadabe is unsuitable, otherwise the noble mission of the committee stands defeated on arrival.” The group said the appointment of Gwadabe amounts to the personification of injustice to Kwara State APC members, in view of her alleged role in the membership registration and revalidation exercise. The people also wondered, “to whom shall we report when justice lies in the hands that wronged? Here was a governor’s sister who worked in tandem with the Senator John Danboi-led committee to commit all sorts atrocities and impunities against the party’s interest. “On good authority, the appointment of Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq’s sister was a subterfuge to reincarnate the odious godfather politics already rejected by Kwarans with the popular votes given to our party in 2019 general elections. “As far as APC constitution allows us, if the national caretaker feels that it is only Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq and his family members alone that it could work with, then we need no soothsayer to predict that the APC is facing a prospect of self-immolation,.” The statement added that governor’s sister’s inclusion in the committee “could be likened to allowing a judge to sit in his or her own case”. The group called on the party’s national caretaker chairman to look into the matter.  