KOGI  State Governor Yahaya Bello has sought for assistance from France for the state’s development programme. Represented by Commissioner for France, Budget and Economic Planning Mukadam Asiru at the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF’s) meeting with the French Minister for Foreign Trade, Franck Reister, at the NGF secretariat in Abuja said nine sectors required urgent assistance. The meeting was at the request of the French Ambassador to Nigeria, Jèrôme Pasquier to discuss support to states and also seek areas of priorities where collaboration can be consumated. Agence Française De Développement (AFD) as an interventionist agency is developing rural transport infrastructure through the Rural Access and Agricultural Marketing Project (RAAMP) for a total amount of 200million EURO, which is co-financed by the World Bank. Kogi and 12 other states are beneficiaries of the developmental program. Ashiru said, the nine thematic areas of the new direction of government led by governor are fully in alignment with the broad focused areas.  “For instance, our priorities in Security, Agriculture, Funding of Governance, Public Service and Pension Reform are in line with your economic diversification drive and modernization of public services. Also, our priority on Education, Health, Human Capital Development, Entrepreneurship and Youth Engagement are also in sync with your aim of boosting Agriculture at the regional level, that is, creating an atmosphere of Inclusive Economic Growth. “Furthermore, all our thematic areas are in compliance with Environmental Sustainability and Resilience, which is similar to your goals of Financing the low-carbon energy transition and reinventing cities that are environmentally friendly. “The governor seeks support in all the state thematic areas, which he believes are well aligned with Agence Française De Développement – focused areas in Nigeria.” Also present at the meeting were the Chairman NGF and Ekiti State Governor; Dr Kayode Fayemi, Chairman Northern Governors Forum and Governor of Plateau State; Lalong who stood in for the Chairman, Governor of Oyo; Seyi Makinde, Governor of Edo; Godwin Obaseki, Governor of Cross River; Ben Ayade while some governors joined virtually. Also present were the Deputy Governors of Ebonyi, Niger and Enugu states. The DG Governors’ Forum, Head of Regional Economic Department, Nigeria and Ghana Pascal Furth, Country Director AFD, Pascal Grangereau. 