The Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal has struck out the name of one Dr Sunday Elusoji from its register for conducting himself infamously while attending to one Mr. Uwa Osagie at his private health facility Our Medical Centre (a.k.a Our Hospital) at No. 2, Jemila Road, Ikpoba Hill, Benin City. In a four-count charge, Elusoji, who is a registered Medical Practitioner and Consultant Surgeon engaged at University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH), Benin City, Edo State, was found guilty of a three-count charge of malpractice, operating his private clinic while under the employment of the UBTH and pretended to have managed the said patient at the UBTH by issuing a medical report using the letterhead of the UBTH. Although the patient eventually lost his right leg, the Prosecution Counsel could not prove the manner in which Elusoji administered the treatment on the patient caused the patient’s loss of leg. The patient (the complainant) had on the 10th of March, 2013, visited the said doctor after sustaining a gunshot injury to his right leg from robbers. The doctor however failed to take an x-ray on the patient to determine the level of damage before he carried out treatment on the patient. Also, instead of treating the patient in his primary place of employment, he managed the patient at his private clinic. While delivering his judgment in Abuja, Chairman of the Medical and Dental Practitioners Disciplinary Tribunal, Prof Abba Waziri Hassan, said: “There is no moral justification to an act of malpractice, the respondent ought to know based on his standing in the profession that his action is unethical. “This count has been established by the prosecution, and it is really so unfortunate that the respondent who is a Professor of Surgery in the School of Medicine will engage in such an unprofessional and infamous conduct in a professional respect. The tribunal finds the respondent guilty as charged under this count. “On count four, the tribunal finds that the respondent owns and operates ‘Our Medical Centre,’ admitted patients who by themselves deposed to witness statement on oath in support of a civil suit he filed at the High court, that is the witness statements on oath of Edna Ebasonah, Sandra Owie, both of whom attest to the fact that the respondent is the proprietor of the clinic. “The tribunal therefore has no difficulty based on the totality of the evidence placed before this tribunal – to find the respondent guilty as charged on count 4. His name is struck-off the Register.” In another case of a three count-charge against one Dr Adolphus Oriaifo, a registered medical practitioner and consultant surgeon at Ajayi Oriaifo Memorial Hospital at No 1 Felix Elema Street Off Reuben Agho Avenue G.R.A. Benin City, Edo State, he was found guilty of all the charges. The Tribunal noted he was manifestly incompetent and grossly negligent in the management of the condition of one Mr Augustine Dike, now deceased, between 17th and 29th of September 2013. He got six- month suspension. Other doctors – Silas Ochejele, Olaide Festus Bolaji, and Adeshina Jenrola- were not found guilty in their different case trials.