 It is with unstinted pleasure that I write this piece to rejoice with my friend and colleague, Ambassador Dapo Fafowora as he celebrated last week his 80th birthday presumably quietly as the coronavirus protocol would permit. Ambassador Fafowora is a product of a union of a Lagos lady and one of the scions of Ijesha aristocracy. There has always been reasonable amount of wealth in the Fafowora clan thus the name signifying the power of Ifa in attracting wealth. Like most Ijesha, Ekiti and Ondo people, the Fafowora before the advent of Christianity were devotees of the Yoruba divination god of Ifa. Most of them embraced Christianity with the same fervor when the white man and their African Christian colleagues brought the religion on the wake of the abolition of slavery and the slave trade and subsequent Christian evangelization of the people of Africa. Quite a few of the returnees from Freetown, Sierra Leone to Lagos in the 1820s and 1830s were Ijesha people and some of the Christian educated elite in Lagos traced their roots to Ijesha land. Western education came relatively early to Ijesha land after the Egbaland and the Ijebu areas. Fafowora’s father and his brothers were educated and Dapo Fafowora’s father was a middle level public servant. It was therefore understandable that Dapo went to school very early and by his teenage years, he was already in the oldest grammar school in Nigeria, the CMS Grammar school founded by Babington Macaulay, the son-in-law of Bishop Ajayi Crowther and father of Herbert Macaulay, the doyen of Nigerian nationalism. After secondary school, Dapo Fafowora went to the University of Ibadan graduating with a second class honors degree in History at the age of 23 which was a very young age at that time when it was usual for people in their late 40s to sit in the same class with young people like Dapo Fafowora to whom reading and writing were not forced but came with effortless ease. Graduating in 1964, just four years after independence came with boundless opportunities for a young man. He could join either the Western Region or federal civil service after competitive examinations. He chose the federal civil service and the foreign service which at that time was reserved for the best in intellect and carriage. Fafowora, tall and slim, self-confident and articulate was made for the foreign service. As a foreign service officer, he exploited the opportunities of the service to improve himself by earning a Master’s in History at London University’s School of Oriental and African Studies in 1966 and Doctorate in Philosophy (D.Phil.) in Trinity College, Oxford University is 1972. He had a stellar career as a diplomat, serving in Entebbe, Uganda and Istanbul, Turkey and finally as ambassador and Deputy Permanent Representative (DPR) of Nigeria to the United Nations under Professor Ishaya Audu, former vice chancellor of Ahmadu Bello University and a physician by training. He was at his post in New York when Shehu Shagari was overthrown by a group of army officers whose headship later emerged as Major General Muhammadu Buhari. As a civil servant and career diplomat, he did not think he had any reason to worry about his future as a foreign service officer but to his horror, he was retired at the age of 43 for reasons that he could not fathom. But in modern Nigeria, one could be marked down for whatever those in power or those who had access to men in power found unacceptable. It could range from one’s religion, ethnicity, lifestyle, looks, yes one could be cut down for being too handsome, too tall or short or for overconfidence or too much knowledge – what Hausas call “dogon turanci”. There were very few people who had a doctorate from Oxford in the foreign service or the entire civil service. Dapo Fafowora was therefore a victim of envy and jealousy by those who had opportunity to do him in and took the opportunity by hiding under spurious intelligence report concocted by a junior executive officer who had served under him when he was in London. Dapo Fafowora suffers no fool gladly and he was not averse to telling off subordinates under him who performed poorly by the standards expected of a foreign service officer. In his career, he also served briefly in the Cabinet Office that scouted him out as an exemplary officer during the turbulent years of Murtala Muhammed/Olusegun Obasanjo years. He was exposed to enemies‘daggers because of his high profile as a young officer in the civil service and he paid for his brilliance, integrity, bluntness characteristic of his upbringing by an Ijesha father to whom what mattered in life was honesty and speaking the truth no matter whose ox is gored. Life did not end for Dapo Fafowora after his retirement from the foreign service and the next 37 years afterworlds have been remarkable. He served as Director General of the Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (MAN) for some years during which time he spent time analyzing the impact of the annual budgets on the manufacturing economy of Nigeria. In this role, he became a self-taught economist whose views were as highly sought after as those of graduates of economics in Nigerian industries and higher educational institutions. He was drafted to his home government of Osun State in 1979 as Special Adviser to Governor Bisi Akande, a state that was rich in manpower but poor in natural resources. He was once a commissioner and acted as secretary to the government before bowing out having been chastened by the cut-throat competition and back biting characteristic of state government officials who had little to do and were themselves victims of frustration. From 1991 to 2020, Ambassador Fafowora has featured regularly as a columnist in one major national daily newspaper or the other and had also sat on the editorial boards of at least two national newspapers. He has shared with the younger generation, his views on our national problems of economic underdevelopment and national integration. He is quite in high demand in the lecture circuit in Nigeria particularly in the universities where he has been called upon to give convocation lectures pro bono. If he were an American retired ambassador giving all these lectures, he would be by now a rich man. He published what is regarded a classic on the foreign service of Nigeria. His memoir “Lest I forget: Memoirs of a career diplomat” gave an account of the problems of the foreign service and the need to protect the service from being flooded by non-career ambassadors. This problem has now overwhelmed the foreign service under President Buhari who has polluted the service with politicians of doubtful character. Dapo Fafowora had earlier published a book on “Sir Fredrick Lugard and Indirect Rule in Nigeria “which is a product of either his Masters or D.Phil. dissertations. Ambassador Fafowora is a devout Christian who plays the organ and worships at the Cathedral Church of Christ, Marina Lagos. He wrote “A venture of faith: An Official History of the Cathedral Church of Christ, Marina Lagos 1867- 2007”. He had also published “A History of the CMS Grammar School 1859 -2009”.  For his literary efforts and exertion, the Nigerian Academy of Letters in 2014 elected him an honorary fellow, one of a few Nigerians who have been found worthy to be so honoured.  He has been very active in forming an association of retired career ambassadors to articulate collectively the direction Nigerian foreign relations should follow and to help protect the integrity of the diplomatic profession. One thing that stands out about Ambassador Fafowora is his truthfulness, integrity and honesty of opinion. You may not agree with him but you cannot impugn his integrity and patriotism. There are not many people like him left in Nigeria who will offer his opinion whether whoever asks him likes it or not. What some find as cynicism on his part I find liberating. Ambassador Dapo Fafowora has no secret and he hates gossip and woe betide anyone who goes to him gossiping because he will expose the gossiper when he least expects it. He is fortunate to have married his beautiful wife who has given him wonderful children, male and female who have done very well in the professions at home and abroad. He is a patriotic Ijesha man. If not because of the general insecurity in the country, he would probably have gone to Ilesha for some Christian worship to mark his birthday but alas gone are those days in Nigeria when one could freely and safely travel. Ambassador Dapo Fafowora is a Yoruba patriot and a Nigerian nationalist and he sees no contradiction in being both. Happy birthday to you dear friend; you have made your mark and your life will remain a template for good upbringing, good education and excellent service to man and  to God. Felicitations.