 The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has recommended for things that can be done to make Nigeria achieve zero malaria status by 2025. This was contained in a statement  by the PSN President, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, to mark the World Malaria Day on April 25. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), between the  2000 and now, a lot of progress had been made in the malaria fight, saving more than seven million lives and preventing over one billion malaria cases. However, not much success has been seen in reduction in mortality rate since 2015. Hence the need to rejig the strategy. The PSN boss, insisting that Nigeria has the potential to eliminate malaria by 2025, listed four things that can help the country achieve the dream. One is environmental re-engineering. Since malaria is a disease of public health importance that is influenced a lot by the environment, PSN asked the government to work town planning authorities and discourage unauthorised constructions that disrupt waterways. Drainages must be covered to discourage forming mosquitoes breathing sites, it said. Another strategy is health education and promotion, a task the PSN boss said the National Orientation Agency (NOA) should embark on to enlighten the people to discourage habits that create breeding sites for mosquitoes. He said: “For instance, throwing empty food cans indiscriminately, overgrown bushes and blocked drainages around living homes. Prevention programmes like the distribution and use of long-lasting insecticidal nets, intermittent prophylaxis for pregnant women, evidence-based health education on the mode of malaria transmission, indoor residual spraying with effective insecticide should be facilitated by the government through the pharmacists.” It also recommended free malaria test and treatment for under-fives and pregnant women, stressing that early and accurate diagnosis is essential for rapid and effective disease management and surveillance. “Misdiagnosis allows disease pro-gression from uncomplicated to severe. An estimated 65 per cent of Nigeria’s population live in poverty. Though there is the national policy of Artemisinin-based combined therapy ( ACT ), which costs about N1,200, as the first-line treatment of uncomplicated malaria, data indicates that over 70 per cent of children treated for malaria in Nigeria received chloroquine or sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine ( SP) with an average cost of N200. “The government and corporate organisations should partner and provide free malaria rapid test kit and ACTs/SPs at community pharmacies for treatment for pregnant women and under-fives.” PSN also called for more funding for research and development (R&D), saying the COVID-19 pandemic experience has made it clear that there was little or no progress any society could record in solving healthcare problems without significant investment in R&D. Ohuabunwa added: “The government should consider our universities and research institutes as “cantonments” and fund them as such, to use our rich flora and fauna to create solutions for our healthcare needs, including malaria. The importance of T3: Test, Treat and Track strategy for malaria case management by pharmacists still remains crucial in eradicating malaria in Nigeria.”