Chairman Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts Clifford Ordia has explained how he escaped suspected bandits’ attack on his convoy along the Okene-Lokoja-Abuja road on Monday. Ordia, who represents Edo Central, said he was attacked twice by the criminals on the same day. He told newsmen in Abuja he narrowly escaped death when the suspected bandits opened fire on his convoy, while returning to Abuja from his hometown in Edo State. He said during the exchange of gun fire between the criminals and security officers attached to him, three policemen sustained bullet wounds. He said one of the wounded policemen is in a critical condition, but responding to treatment in one of the hospitals in Abuja. He said his personal vehicle was riddled with bullets though he was lucky to have escaped unhurt. Ordia recounted: “We were coming from Edo State, somewhere between Okene and Lokoja, when we met these suspected bandits. They opened fire on my convoy. The gallant policemen had to immediately return fire. “The other security vehicle behind had to immediately join them and they were able to repel the suspected bandits. “During the exchange, three of the policemen sustained bullet wounds. One of them was critically injured. We had to immediately rush them to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC), Lokoja, Kogi State. “They did their best and was able to stabilise them. I had to immediately call the Federal Medical Centre in Abuja to be on standby. One of the policemen had a bullet lodged close to his liver. “We met another setback around Abaji. There was traffic because of the incident and because we had to save the lives of the wounded policemen, we decided to make a move. “They opened fire on us. Some vigilantes had to join the policemen and they were chased into the bush. “That was how I survived that attack. If you see all my vehicles, you’ll see how the bullets damaged them. But I’m glad that we all survived. “I must salute the gallantry of our policemen. If given the right equipment, they can do a lot and protect Nigerians.” He called on the Federal Government to urgently restructure the security architecture. He lamented no one is safe anymore. He said something urgent must be done to restore order to every part of the country and protect the lives of Nigerians.