 Since the advent of the current democratic dispensation and perhaps in the country’s democratic history, only Mrs Patricia Eteh amd Hon. Mulikat Akande are the female National Assembly members to have risen to leadership positions. Unfortunately, Etteh’s leadership as the Speaker of the House of Representatives was short-lived as she was soon edged out in a power play she appeared not to have prepared for. And after the exit of Eteh, no other woman was part of the leadership until Nkiruka Onyejeocha came on board as the Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives. Today, she is the only woman sitting in the midst of men when the leadership holds a joint meeting. Incidentally, both the Senate and the House of Representatives have 10 principal officers each. In the House of Representatives where Onyejeocha holds sway as the Deputy Chief Whip, there are the Speaker, Deputy Speaker, House Leader, Deputy House Leader, Chief Whip, Deputy Chief Whip, Minority Leader, Deputy Minority Leader, Minority Whip and Deputy Minority Whip. Apart from Patricia Eteh who became the Speaker of the House of Representatives and Akande who once held sway as the House Leader, Onyejeocha, a trained Lawyer and former commissioner in Abia State, is the only woman to hold a principal officer position as the Deputy Chief Whip of the House. The fourth timer and one of the ranking members of the House said: “I was in the Sixth Assembly of 2007/2011, where we had the first leadership which was imposed, so to speak. And it is very regrettable because it was the first time a woman would become the Speaker of the House of Representatives. “But the men came with tricks and accused her of things she didn’t do, which they eventually came out to confess that she didn’t do. It is unfortunate that she had to be blackmailed to be removed. “The point is that after Eteh, Dimeji emerged, and that assembly was unique in its own way because members believed they brought their own. And, of course, in bringing their own, there were some issues because the party felt their choice was removed. “Of course, there was a gap in communication, which affected one or two things.” Speaking further on her experience, Onyejeocha believes that the Seventh Assembly was a time when the lawmakers really had their way in spite of what the party and the executive wanted. The House Deputy Chief Whip gave an insight into the emergence of the current Sokoto State governor, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal as Speaker of the House against the wish of the PDP leadership. She said: “The Seventh Assembly, which was under Tambuwal, was a different ball game altogether. The opposition came and they wanted their own. I am from the South-East. We worked for the party and gave it 100 per cent support. “This was the first time in the history of the Igbo nation that we didn’t bargain for what we were given. We didn’t even ask what was in it for us, and we gave everything, returning 100 per cent members of parliament to the Seventh Assembly, yet we were given the position of Chief Whip. “We protested and said we would not take that. The Speaker was zoned to the South West, and we said no. Having disagreed on the zoning arrangement, we decided not to follow the way of the party to elect either Hon. Muraino or Hon. Mulikat Adeola as Speaker. “The CAN, who were in opposition, rallied support from among us, brought Tambuwal and offered us the position of Deputy Speaker. That was how Tambuwal and Hon. Emeka |hedioha emerged as Speaker and Deputy Speaker. “The relationship between the executive and the legislature was a bit freaky after that, as they never saw him as their Speaker. But he held his ground as the Speaker of the Parliament, and Tambuwal was able to shine because he had our support. “During the Eighth Assembly, the party had their own candidate and then the parliament did what they thought was best for them.” Onyejeocha is however not comfortable with the tag of rubber stamp placed on the Ninth Assembly by Nigerians because of their resolve to work closely with the executive. She said: “We have been here, and so we were able to compare what the gain will be if we decide to partner with the Executive. And that was how people started saying the 9th assembly is a rubber stamp. No! We are not and we can’t be.” Offering explanation on the decision of the House, she said: “What happened was, having seen the friction between the parliament and the executive, we asked who is gaining and who is losing? “If you know you are not gaining anything and the nation also isn’t gaining anything, what do you do? We decided to do the best we could; to say yes.”  She explained that the position of Speaker, having been zoned to the South West and also micro-zoned to a particular state, it was left for the members to pick an experienced person for that position, hence the decision of many of the lawmakers to back the current Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, one of the most experienced lawmakers in the National Assembly, having served as Minority Whip, Minority Leader, Majority Leader back to back; to be supported by Ahmed Idris Wase, another experienced lawmaker and a fourth timer in the House. Incidentally, Wase was deputy to Gbajabiamila when he served as House Leader. She said: “We decided to do so accordingly in order to prevent friction. This was what gave birth to the tag: Nation Building a Joint Task, which is the motto of the 9th House of Representatives. One thing we had in mind was that if you have Buhari as President, who is saying I want to transform the nation, I want to fight corruption, I want to build bridges across board, I want to make sure that the projects that were started by the previous government are not abandoned, I am going to continue with it, then this kind of mindset needs a parliament that is willing to work hand in hand with you to make sure you deliver on all the proposals that you are bringing to them; to make sure that you deliver your dream, which is for a greater Nigeria. That is why we did what we did. “And having done that, how do we now keep this house together? We resolved therefore that there will be no partisan politics; there will no PDP, there will no APC. We are all representatives of the people, and this is the first time it is happening.” She believes that the decision of the 9th Assembly has paid off so far, saying: “So far, it has been good. And if you check the number of bills that have been passed in the last one year, we are not lagging behind. “Cross-check the number of motions that have been passed, we are also not lagging behind. Preventing coercion between the executive and the legislature, we are not lagging behind. “Unfortunately, some ministers don’t realise that the members of the parliament are not their councilors or their appointees but representatives of the people. That is why you see one or two face-offs. “Yet it has not derailed our commitment to nation-building, which many of us are trying to preserve. In my opinion, the Ninth Assembly is doing extremely well.” Her foray into politics, she said, was not something she planned but destiny had something in store for her. She said: “I was somewhere in America when l was informed that my family would host the governor, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, who is now my senator. I came back to join them and as God would have it, I became one of his commissioners. “However, on the day we were sworn in, he said something that struck a chord in me. He said that what we were all given were political appointments which were different from being a business person, where you have to be at your business. “He was even talking particularly to those of us from Lagos. He advised that every weekend we should go home and tell our people what we are doing in order to know whether we were doing the right thing and get feedback from the people. “Being a new person in politics, I took it like I was given an assignment. Every Friday, I would go to my village and call a meeting of stakeholders, including women, youth and widows, and interact with them. “It is instructive to say that before I was appointed a commissioner, every August, which is the traditional month for South-East women to go back home for the August meeting, I used to attend these meetings as a young married woman. “Whenever I went to the village, I would take clothes, salt, sugar and share to my extended family, the less privileged, the widows and other people in the community who had nothing. “I wasn’t doing this because of politics, because I had no interest in politics back then. But I was one with them and shared things to them. “After a while, I established a scholarship scheme to help the less privileged. I was not even a commissioner when I established the scholarship scheme. “After serving as a Commissioner, I went on to become a Local Government Chairman. “In 2007 when the then governor of Abia State moved to the Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA), I stayed back in PDP. Since I was used to the people, staying back without the former governor’s support wasn’t a problem. I wasn’t selling them any lies or false hopes.” So, how did she get to the House of Representatives? She said: “The traditional rulers came to me and requested that I had to represent them in the House of Representatives. I had finished serving as a commissioner and as local government chairman and was back to Lagos. I had resolved not to go back to my state and had gone back to my work, but they insisted. “When I agreed, the issue of PPA and PDP came up. I wasn’t going to go to PPA anyway, so I stayed back in PDP. At the end, it was easy for me because it was the people themselves that called me out. “I didn’t just come out to run. The traditional rulers from different zones in my local government came to Lagos to ask me to run for House of Representatives. I had their support because when I was local government chairman, I touched their lives. “When I was commissioner, I touched their lives. As a commissioner, I established skill acquisition centres across the zones and I connected with the traditional rulers. “After the community service I rendered to them, they believed that if I went higher, I would be able to represent them. “It will interest you to know that in all my elections, there has been no time the government in power supported me. I tell my people that when someone has gone to the primaries with you and you emerged elected, many of those you defeated naturally becomes your enemies. “Somebody who ran against you in an election will like to de-market you. Those people I ran against in the primaries leading to my first tenure always find a way to go back to the government in power to say, ‘It is not her; it has to be us.’ “But they are not the people who chose me. It is God, through my people, who put me in this position, so I’m not going to listen to them. I will still go to the same God, and God will use my people to vote me back. “I did not sell any brand to them and yet I am part of them. I had been part of them even before I came into politics. I didn’t just start identifying with them because I wanted a seat in the House of Representatives; I’ve been like this all my life.” Having won election to the House on three previous occasions on the platform of the PDP, she decided it was time to move to another party, apparently on the prompting of her people who still believed in her and gave her another ticket on the platform of the APC, which then was considered a no party in the state. She explained that “in 2018, the present Abia State governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, swore with his life that I would not make it; that I would not come back to the House and that a fourth term for me would be a taboo. “Thankfully, today, we have a senator from Abia State who is a fourth term member: Senator Aberibe who is Minority Leader of the Senate. We have Hon. Abonta who is also a fourth time member, yet the governor was adamant about me coming back to the House. “My people observed that in his own zone, he was giving his people tickets for fourth term and in our own zone, in our village, in our community, he was against their daughter. That was how I was convinced to leave them and join the APC. “At the time, it seemed like APC was not a strong party, and some of my colleagues even wrote me off. Some were of the opinion that I should have reconciled with my governor, but I stood my ground, believing that it is God and God alone that decides what happens to me. “I am a destiny child and nobody can dictate what happens to me. So I joined the APC and today, I have the House of Assembly member for my constituency from APC, l have a senator who is from APC, l have Hon. Ben who is also from APC; the same party they said was not strong enough. It is about the people deciding and it is about God.”