JAMB Registrar, Prof. Is-haq Oloyede, has announced the creation of a USSD code to further simplify registration process for the 2021 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME). Speaking in Lagos on Wednesday, Oloyede said the USSD code, which launches on Friday would help candidates get their codes just by dialing *55019*1*NIN#. He said: “We came together as a team to proffer solution by creating a USSD Code which will start functioning from Friday 30th of April. “The USSD code would be available to the student who is yet to send their NIN number to the number requested, they can get to send the USSD code which consists of *55019*1*NIN# then they get the Pin needed for further registration.” Oloyede said before the USSD, the registration was seamless but attributed hitches to errors by parents and candidates. While visiting some registration centres in Lagos, he was able to troubleshoot issues for some of the candidates. He told journalists there was a N50.00 charge to get the code after candidates send their NIN as SMS to 55019. However, many received error messages because they had no airtime credit or did not input the NIN with required spacing between the numbers. “Some of the students didn’t know that after you have send the code with a number at first then the number would be registered so if he or she attempts another number it won’t go unless they resolve the issues with the number and then attempt again with the registered number then the Pin will be generated for the registration process. “We have an open ticket on www.jamb.com so the student could also check for the reasons why the NIN number isn’t been processed with their phone. “If there are problems we will know because we are also receiving the company of the process on the database of the jamb,” he said. Oloyede accused parents of causing some of the problems by not allowing the candidates to register by themselves. He said he had encountered many parents who input the wrong data on behalf of their ward then claimed the process was not working, while on the contrary candidates were registering successfully on daily basis. As at the time of the interview, he showed registration data on the JAMB website that noted that 11,296 candidates had registered that day. Speaking on claims on the social media that the admission process at the University of Ibadan was fraught with fraud, Oloyede said it was false. He said UI was the most compliant university in the Central Admission Processing System (CAPS) set up by JAMB. “The matter of the University of Ibadan circulating the media of the institution jumping students has been false allegations. “We have checked thoroughly and monitored the process. So far the University of Ibadan has been the most compliant. The complaints of them jumping candidates are false. “Candidates are picked accordingly and if institution is caught in the act then we have the EFCC for thorough investigation. It is for this reasons we got linked with them and the police force,” he said.