The doctrine of Separation of Powers as propounded by Monsieur Montesquieu is central to the practice of presidential system of government. He had suggested that all three arms of government must operate with a high degree of autonomy to ensure that none bullies the other in the interest of the society. When, therefore, Nigeria adopted the presidential system in 1979, it was expected that the executive, legislature and judiciary would act as checks on one another, to prevent any from acquiring so much power that would corrupt the branch and the leading operators. This does not stop at the centre since distribution of powers is equally central to the federal system of national arrangement, especially in a plural society like Nigeria. As such, as it is at the centre, so it is expected in the federating states. However, this is hardly so in Nigeria. While the constitution has spelt out the mode of distribution of powers in the federation, this is hardly adhered to at the state level where most governors operate as emperors. They have reduced the state legislatures to mere institutions of government over which they preside. Any Speaker who attempts to assert the independence of the House of Assembly is quickly removed; otherwise, the legislature would be starved of funds. While the lawmakers have been quiet over this sorry state of affairs, the state legislative workers under the aegis of Parliamentary Staff Association have risen to challenge the system. To sensitise the legislators and the general public to their demands, the workers embarked on picketing the federal and state legislatures early March, warning that it was only the first step. They have since further contended that they would embark on full strike that would shut down the legislative chambers if they were ignored. Calling attention to the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution signed by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2018, and the Executive Order that followed, which authorised deduction of the money due the state assemblies from source and payment directly to them from the Federation Account, the workers said they had embarked on the measure with a view to defending the constitution as grundnorm that should be inviolable. We join the parliamentary workers in calling on the relevant officials and institutions of state, including the Federal Ministry of Finance and Budget Planning, the Budget Office and Office of the Attorney-General of the Federation to immediately give effect to the constitutional provision. It is trite that the constitution, being the supreme law of the country, and constitutionalism being the cornerstone of running the country, anyone who violates the tenets of the document should be dragged before the courts and appropriately sanctioned. For the failure to ensure that the independence of the state legislature is respected, the federal institutions to ensure that the Executive Order 10 released to give effect to the law are as guilty as the state governors. We support the workers, and by extension the state legislators who are likely using them as proxy that all legitimate means of bringing the executive arm of government to extend financial autonomy to the other two branches of government should be employed in ensuring compliance. All previous attempts to give effect to the independence of the legislature that would enhance quality law making and oversight have ironically seen several state legislatures teaming up with the executive in aborting the move. This time, it should be realised that the general public is with the parliamentary workers in their bid to restore the key kernel of the presidential system. The state assemblies should not only be free; they should be seen to be free indeed.