Three of the kidnapped students of Greenfield University, Kasarami Kaduna, have been found dead. Kaduna Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the development on Friday. He said remains of the three students were found on Friday in Kwanan Bature village, a location close to the University. Bandits on Tuesday night kidnapped an unspecified number of students at the institution located at Kasarami village off Kaduna-Abuja Road in Chikun LGA. They contacted family members of the victims and demanded a collective ransom of N800 million. The Commissioner said remains of the students have been evacuated to a mortuary by himself and Force Commander, Operation Thunder Strike, Lt.Col. MH Abdullahi. According to him: “In an act of mindless evil and sheer wickedness, the armed bandits who kidnapped students of Greenfield University, have shot dead three of the abducted students. “The remains of three students were found today (Friday), in Kwanan Bature village, a location close to the university and have been evacuated to a mortuary by the Commissioner, Internal Security and Home Affairs, and Force Commander, Operation Thunder Strike, Lt.Col. MH Abdullahi. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai has condemned the killing of three students as sheer wickedness, inhumanity and an outright desecration of human lives by vile entities. He went on to say that the armed bandits represent the worst of humankind and must be fought at all cost for the violent wickedness they represent. “Evil, the Governor further said, would not triumph over God-given humanity. He appealed to citizens to come together against the forces of darkness challenging national security and the very existence of the Nigerian State. “The Governor, on behalf of the Government and people of Kaduna State sent deep condolences and empathy to the students’ families and the university community, as he prayed for the repose of their souls. “The Government will keep citizens informed of further developments.”