 The first law of nature as the saying goes, “is the law of self-preservation.” This timeless principle was one of the lessons learnt from managing the ravaging Covid-19 pandemic, according to the top management of Nigeria’s top brewery, the Nigerian Breweries Plc. Making this disclosure recently was the Managing Director, Mr Jordi Borrut Bel. He spoke at the pre-Annual General Meeting briefing from his base  in Spain, while giving the scorecard of the company’s performance in the 2020 operating year. Speaking on the business performance of the operating year, an elated Borrut Bel said 2020 will go down in the annals of the company’s history as the best innovation year of the over 75-years-old company. According to him, the Covid-19 pandemic which had severe implications for businesses around the globe, NB Plc inclusive, tasked resources, energy and time just as many businesses literally buckled under the knees as a result of the headwinds imposed by the pandemic. Borrut Bel, however said it was heartening to note that the company was able to manage the fallouts of the pandemic in such a way that every stakeholder was not negatively impacted. Specifically, Borrut Bel said, while other companies cut jobs, NBPlc ensured that no member of staff suffered from redundancy of some sorts as all were actively engaged to boost their optimum performance all through the early days of the pandemic and beyond. Thankfully, he said the company’s policy of diversity at the workplace enabled it to get by during the ravaging pandemic. The NBPlc boss who hinted that the company’s stakeholders have a lot to be thankful for, said  the company recorded an improved performance, primarily driven by robust sales volume growth.  According to him, the significant increase in sales for the 2020 financial year despite the challenges of Covid-19 could be attributed to the company’s quest for innovation, adoption of e-commerce and other digital best practices to drive sales as well as the hard work and commitment of its staff. Borrut Bel listed some of the innovations to include the introduction of eco-friendly labels for NB non–alcoholic brands; category penetration with premium propositions through the launch of new Desperado Brand (Beer flavoured with Tequila), the launch of two new Maltina variants (Pineapple & Vanilla), change in package designs for some of our existing brands (Legend, Star Radler, Amstel Malta and Life ) to deepen consumer affinity; Introduction of new pack formats and SKU’s extension, product line extensions While noting that innovation will remain a major driver for growth in the beer industry, he reaffirmed the company’s commitment to remaining a leader in this field, introducing new products and ideas to drive market demand and meet the yearning of its consumers. The NB Plc boss further assured stakeholders that the company remains committed to not only keeping its balance sheet strong but ensuring that the health, safety and welfare of its employees, customers and partners are protected. Also speaking separately at the onsite meeting, Sade Morgan, Corporate Affairs Director, Uaboi Agbebakun, Company Secretary/Legal Director, Emmanuel Oriakhi, Marketing Director and Marcus Alves, Reporting and Accounting Manager all shared the different milestones recorded in the operating year just as they reiterated the need for continuous support from the company’s stakeholders ahead of the AGM scheduled for April, 22, 2021.