Gunmen on Saturday night abducted a 13-year-old boy, Gbolahan Ajibola, in Obada-Oko in Ewekoro Local Government area of Ogun state. The gunmen, who struck around 9pm, swooped on Ajibola’s family as they were about to enter their house within Destiny Estate in Obada-Oko. The attackers, who hid in a bush near the house, pounced on the family when Ajibola alighted from the car to open the gate. The Nation gathered the victim, his mother and grandmother were returning from their shop after attending the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) programme when the gunmen attacked them, beating them thoroughly before taking Ajibola away. The victim’s grandmother, Victoria, said the attackers were six, saying the kidnappers left behind their cloth in the bush in front of the house. She said: “The incident occurred around 9.30pm. We normally come back home every day around 8pm but the General Overseer of our church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye came to one of our churches in Adigbe area and we attended the programme. “Our shop where we were selling goods is very close to the church, we closed from the shop late. Whenever we come back home, it is the boy that usually opens the gate. “When the boy alighted from the vehicle to open the gate, the gunmen came out of the bush in front of our house and pounced on us. “The gunmen entered together with us into the compound of our house, two of them were outside while four came into the house and pointed their guns at us. They also beat us mercilessly. “One of them who covered his face spoke in Yoruba to us. He was the only person that spoke. They seized the boy’s phone and that of her mother and they took the boy away. “The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Obada came with his men to the scene of the incident and they have asked us to make official report of the incident which we have done.” Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi has confirmed the incident. He said: “Yes, it is true but the information I have with me is still sketchy but I will found more from the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Obada”.