The senator representing Lagos East, Tokunbo Abiru, on Wednesday moved a motion for the urgent rehabilitation of the Ikorodu/Shagamu and Ikorodu-Itoikin-Epe- Ijebu-Ode roads. The senator noted that federal roads in the district are in bad shape, urging the Federal Government to rise to the occasion. In the motion titled: “Motion On The Urgent Need For The Rehabilitation Of The Ikorodu-Shagamu And Ikorodu-Itoikin- Epe Roads To Further Bridge The Infrastructure Gap and Enhance Economic Growth In Nigeria,” Abiru said the roads are connecting Ikorodu and the Lagos East Senatorial District to other parts of the country. The motion on the deplorable roads is a response to one of the major requests by Lagos East constituents on the need assessment that was conducted by Abiru during the electioneering last year. He said: “Mindful that the Ikorodu–Shagamu road, which starts from Ikorodu roundabout terminating in Isale-Oko, Sagamu, Ogun State and the Ikorodu-Itoikin-Epe road starts from Sabo, Ikorodu and terminates in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, are Federal roads; “Further mindful that the Ikorodu–Shagamu road is an old alignment, and is one of the busiest roads in the South –West zone, which was constructed in the 1960’s before the construction of Lagos– Ibadan expressway and was a major route carrying traffic from Lagos towards the Northern part of the country; until the commissioning of Lagos – Ibadan expressway in 1978; “Convinced that the Lagos–Shagamu road still serves as a great commercial route for the South West, South South and indeed the whole nation with several commercial ventures and educational institutions situated in that corridor for example, Lafarge Cement, NNPC depot Mosimi, PZ, Knorr, several metal fabrication companies and Thomas Valley College and Christ Redeemers College; “Aware that the Ikorodu-Itoikin-Epe Road also which had previously been constructed by Messrs Taylor Woodrow Nig. Ltd. was completed and commissioned by the then Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon in 1975.” The Senate approved the prayers contained in Senator Tokunbo Abiru’s motion and additional prayers by other Senators. Co-Sponsors of the motion include: Senator Oluremi Tinubu (Lagos Central), Senator Aliero Adamu (Kebbi Central) , Senator Solomon Olamilekan Adeola (Lagos West), Senator Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun West), Senator Tolulope Odebiyi (Ogun West) and Senator Olalekan Mustapha (Ogun East).