The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Government to name Akure Airport after the late former Governor of Ondo State, Dr Olusegun Agagu. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the called was sequel to the adoption of a motion by Rep Mayowa Akinfolarinwa (APC-Ondo) and eight others on the floor of the House, on Thursday in Abuja. Moving the motion, Akinfolarinwa said that as a former Minister of Aviation, Agagu ensured that the six-year ban placed on flights to and fro Nigeria by the American Government because of poor aviation security was lifted. He added that the training of pilots started at the College of Aviation Technology, Zaria after seven years’ hiatus, occasioned by lack of trainer aircraft. The lawmaker noted that the late Agagu served in various capacities and demonstrated quality leadership to encourage others to dedicate their lives to service of the nation. The House thereafter urged the federal government to recognise Agagu’s selfless service to the nation, especially in the aviation industry, and name Akure airport after him. The House also urged the federal government to provide financial support to Ondo State government for optimum maintenance of the airport, while mandating the Committee on Aviation to ensure compliance. Meanwhile, the House has called on the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) to resuscitate the Agricultural Vocational Training Centre, Awo in Egbedore Local Government Area of Osun. While moving the motion, Rep Bamidele Salam (PDP-Osun), said that NDE had the mandate to use agricultural programmes as one of the means of combating poverty and unemployment among Nigerians. He said that NDE had established an Agricultural Skill Acquisition Centre in Awo in 2006 to create jobs for the unemployed youth in the area. Salami stated that the project was abandoned after several millions of naira had been expended on it, adding that it had remained so despite several demands and requests for its completion. He said that the present rate of unemployment in Nigeria demanded the deployment of all available means to tackle the menace. He stated that, if completed, the project would solve the problem of joblessness among youths in the area and thus contribute to reducing the level of insecurity in the state and the country at large. The house urged NDE to resuscitate, equip and put the centre in the area to use while mandating the Committee on Labour, Employment and Productivity to ensure compliance. (NAN)