 As part of efforts to promote oral health and celebrate the 2021 World Oral Health Day, Colgate, one of the leading toothpaste brands, has collaborated with the Nigeria Association of Dental Students (NADS) and the Nigerian Medical Students Association (NMSA) to reach out to 44 locations in rural communities across 31 states in the country. At each location, activities started in the early hours of the morning with oral health sensitisation walk. The Colgate team, dental students, and medical students combed densely populated areas around the activation points such as the markets and residential areas to raise awareness about preventing dental cavities and the importance of ensuring a good oral hygiene practice. Afterwards, participants had the opportunity to visit the Colgate Dental Checkup stand to have their mouth screened at zero cost by licensed and certified dentists. In Abuja, the team visited Paiko community, Gwagwalada, engaging families, market women and children. The team also conducted household calls to preach the message of adopting good oral care habit, which aligned with the 2021 theme: “Be proud of your smile”. According to the Chief Executive Officer, Colgate Palmolive Tolaram, Mr. Girish Sharma, this year’s World Oral Health Day campaign has the potential to transform the lives of many across the nation. Colgate’s partnership with NADS and NMSA made the impact even more far-reaching as it facilitated the possibility of simultaneously combing through the nooks and crannies of over 44 communities across 31 states in a day, Sharma said. “The target population reach for this exercise is over 18,000 for both adult and children, in line with Colgate’s 2021 goal of touching more than 2 million people through its free dental check-ups. Oral care is a very important aspect of the human overall health and wellness, and preventing cavity is one of the cardinal parts of enjoying a good oral health. It is therefore imperative to create awareness around oral care. “We are committed to proffering effective solutions to the spread of tooth cavities as well as aggressively promoting preventive oral care in Nigeria, which is why we decided to go national with the campaign to deeply penetrate the rural communities ensuring they also benefit from the free dental screening opportunity.” The president of NADS, Michael Adejumo, said   “We embarked on this campaign to support our brand, Colgate and to enhance publicity on good oral care habits across every state in Nigeria and around the world.” Also speaking, the president of NMSA, Dan-Buba Mohammed, said it is a responsibility of medical students and medical profession to be able to make health advocacy campaigns. “While doctors treat diseases in the hospital, medical students will be preventing the occurrence of these diseases,’’ he said