The statistics makes the mind  boggle. No fewer than 123,000 people  migrate to Lagos State daily at the rate of 86 immigrants per minute. This is, probably, the highest in any city in the world. The rate of migration into the state has, however, not been commesurate with the rate of infrastructural development in the mega city; hence, the  infrastructure have come under intense pressure, leading to the collapse of some of these facilities in a state whose population is estimated at over 23 million. Consequently, the Lagos State government has unveiled its plans to increase spending on infrastructure in this fiscal year, while also doubling its efforts to repair the damage inflicted on the commercial hub by protests last October, following the violence that climaxed the  #ENDSARS protest. According to the state’s year’s spending plan, capital projects will get 60 per cent of its proposed budget of N1.164 trillion, which is targeted at “massive infrastructure renewal and development’’. Permanent Secretary,  Federal Ministry of Works and Housing,  Alhaji Babangida Hussaini, while lamenting the state of infrastructure in Lagos,   when he led officials of the ministry on an inspection of roads and housing projects in the state, decried the parlous state of some of the national assets  in Lagos and pledged the Federal Government ‘s commitment to maintaining them. He said: “The decay has accumulated over the past 40 years, but with the commitment of the present administration they are being addressed.” He said the government has created opportunities such as the SUKUK projects, the presidential intervention funding and, the tax credit scheme to  fix these  decayed infrastructure. He also said the government’s plan to resuscitate the moribund Onikan artisan’s training school using The Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) to retrain the youth so that they could support professionals on site. The permanent secretary, who said the  visit was in continuation of the ministry‘s technical inspection of  projects that took him to Kaduna, Zaria and Funtua last weekend,  commended the speed at which renovation works was completed on the Third mainland bridge,  assuring that the ministry will continue to monitor and improve the integrity of the  facility . “The ministry’s headquarters is here (Lagos) and most of our facilities are still here and we need to maintain them. This is in tune with the Federal Government’s policy to set up the asset management of the facilities. It is always important to look at the assets, maintain and keep them. “A lot need to be done, it’s quite unfortunate that it costs a lot to maintain these edifices and financial factors have impeded the ability of the ministry to keep them in good shape but we are doing our best,” he added. Hussaini also promised that the government would repair the Airport link Bridge. The bridge, which runs over Toyota Bus Stop on the Apapa-Oshodi-Ojota-Oworosoki Expressway, was engulfed by fire when a tanker conveying 44,000 litres of diesel,  burst into flames in January.  Assessment of the burnt portion had shown that 200 metres of the rigid pavement of the expressway reconstruction being carried out by the Dangote Group was burnt. Also, the deck of the flyover was burnt and its pier badly damaged, raising fears of the structural instability of the bridge. The bridge had since being closed to vehicular movements, making motorists face daunting difficulties along the route. The PS, who said the rehabilitation  would begin before the end of this month, added: “The procurement process is already ongoing.” “The fund meant for this project is already in the budget; it is part of the emergency provisions. Technical evaluation and integrity tests have been concluded on the project. We are in the procurement process. So, by the end of March, the contractor will move to site,’’ he said. He described the bridge as the international link, saying that the Federal Government was aware of the difficulties being faced by the public due to its closure. “There is a need for us to display good maintenance culture in using public facilities. We also need to regulate the activities of tankers carrying petroleum products. I think we need to be more cautious; we can all see the extent of damage on this bridge; we can also see the impact on the people. The Federal Government is committed to the upgrading of infrastructure in Lagos State,’’ he stated. On the return to the ‘right of way’, by artisans, traders and others, he responded that the government has taken cognizance of that fact but insisted that they would be permanently removed. He added that the long-term plan to include beautification and lighting on the ongoing Apapa-Oshodi-Ojota-Oworonshoki reconstruction and rehabilitation project would eliminate encroachment on the right of way soonest. On the drag on the completion of Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, he said  compensation and relocation of utilities were challenges slowing down  the Lagos-Ibadan road’s project. It would be recalled that the Lagos–Ibadan Expressway is a 127.6-kilometre road connecting Ibadan, the nation’s largest  city and capital of Oyo State and Lagos, Nigeria’s   commercial capital. Describing the progress of work on the road as “impressive”, he added: “Actually this year,  part of the challenges we are having are compensation issue  and issue of  relocation of existing utilities. “These are what is slowing down the project, and that is why I’m here and I can see we have to really work fast to match the progress of work.  The date for completion of the highway is almost sacrosanct.” On the payment of compensation to affected property owners , the permanent secretary said: “Most of the houses affected (uncompleted structures and property) were behind the wall of the proposed interchange bridge at Lotto Bus Stop, which is under construction,  near the Redemption Camp on the expressway. He assured that compensation would be paid as soon as the committee in-charge completed its work, adding that about 40 buildings would have to give way. A lot of demolition and, of course, you have to work with the state government to address this kind of issue.  Overall, we are working fast, Hussain said. On whether the issues would not affect the delivery of the project in 2022 as scheduled, he said: “We have made provisions for the challenges so that we can be able to meet up.” “We have just concluded the technical evaluation. We have done the integrity test. What we are doing now  is the procurement process. I can assure you that the contractor will start work on the bridge by the end of the month because it is an important link road to the airport. “The bridge issue is an emergency work. Procurement will be concluded at the end of the month and the repair work will commence immediately,” he added. He lamented that the problem caused by tankers carrying combustible materials andthat there was the need for their drivers to be cautious. “You can see the extent of damage on the bridge, and it is not the first time that the government would be providing money to repair damaged piers  of  such burnt bridges,” he said. On the on-going works on Apapa- Oshodi Expressway, the permanent secretary said the Federal Government decided to opt for concrete payment because of the volume of traffic and cargo that are normally evacuated from the port down to the hinterland and is always important to have a good road. He said the Federal Government was working with Dangote Group to introduce the new technology as it would be in place for many years because the concrete paving and road network have been on focus for sometimes. On the postponement of Falomo Bridge repairs, the Federal Controller of Works, Lagos, Olukayode Popola said the decision to suspend the rehabilitation of the bridge was reached after a meeting with relevant stakeholders. He said the decision to suspend the rehabilitation of the bridge was reached after a meeting with stakeholders. “After consultations with relevant stakeholders, we decided to postpone the rehabilitation. A new date would be announced for the partial closure and commencement of repair works soon,” he said. He apologised to road users and the public for the inconveniences caused by the shift in date for the repairs. 