 Stress is the feeling of pressure or worry when there’s a problem or issue going on in a person’s life, it’s emotional or physical tension as the thought of the problems at hand makes one nervous,  agitated or  frustrated. It’s mostly how our body deals with  the challenge. So, it is not out of place to say  academic pressure causes stress to students Lectures to attend,  friends to catch up with, books and handouts to buy and  read, assignments to submit, tests to prepare for, exams to look forward to. The list is endless. Those are  the order of a student’s  life. But  not all students are fully equipped mentally to go through stress. Unfortunately, academic overloads, inadequate time to study, workload, exams, low motivation and high family expectations really drive  stress among students. However, fear of failure has been identified as the  major source of stress among undergraduates and this leads to  frustration which causes depression.  Stress can have both positive and negative consequences if not well managed. For those that can manage it well; they end up being knowledgeable on how to work under stress beyond the school walls. But for those who cannot, they  give in to drugs and alcohol and most likely fall into the clutches of depression. This affects them mentally and pushes some into suicide. Many researchers  in  the  field  of Behavioural  Science  have  carried  out  extensive  research  on stress  and  its  consequences  and  concluded  that  the  subject needed  more concentrations. However, it is important that  students  learn and obtain the essential knowledge  and  skills  in    to  make  them  contribute positively  to  the  development  of  the  nation  from  different aspects. Yet while trying to learn , they encounter many problems which increase their stress levels. Thus, learning  becomes difficult. According to research, the frequency of depression, anxiety and stress undergraduates was found to be  75, 88.4 and 84.4 per cent respectively. The findings of the study showed the prevalence of depression within the range of normal (25%), mild (16%), moderate (35.8%), severe (14.6%) and extremely severe (8.6%).However,  there is need for early detection and management of stress among  students. High degree of stress could have negative impact on students’ learning capacity, academic performance, education and employment attainment, sleep quality and quantity, physical health and mental health. Increasing students’ stress-management skills and abilities is quite important. The physical  symptoms  of stress include low energy,  headaches (migraines most likely),chest pain or rapid heartbeat, stomach upset, high  blood pressure , difficult breathing, insomnia, frequent cold among others. Behavioural symptoms of stress include: change in eating habits, either not eating or eating too much, procrastination and avoiding responsibilities, increased use of alcohol, drugs, or cigarettes, exhibiting  nervous behaviour such as nail biting,  and pacing. Psychological and emotional signs of stress: depression or anxiety, anger, irritability, or restlessness, feeling overwhelmed, lack of motivation, trouble sleeping or sleeping too much, constant worry, lack of  concentration, making bad decisions and others. Specialists have proved that there are some steps that can be taken to cope with stress.The main point is  finding time to relax, out of a busy schedule, eating good food,exercising the  body,listening to music,among others. Above all;  there is  always a reason to be stressed out either in school, or out of school. According to an expert: “Effective stress management helps you break the hold stress has on your life, so you can be happier, healthier, and more productive. The ultimate goal is a balanced life, with time for work, relationships, relaxation, and fun—and the resilience to hold up under pressure and meet challenges head on.” So no matter how difficult it is to manage the stress, being able to overcome will definitely help in building you up for the future stress overload. 