 House of Representatives member Prince Rotimi Agunsoye has tendered his stewardship as a legislator representing Kosofe District, Lagos State. At the Centre for Management Development (CMD), Magodo, where he marked his 59th birthday, the former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs donated empowerment items to constituents. The event was witnessed by party chieftains, elders, federal lawmakers and community leaders. He called for unity and harmony in the party at the ward, council and state levels. Agunsoye highlighted his achievements as a legislator and the projects he had either executed or attracted to the constituency. He said: “The was the 500 KVA transformer allocated to Abare, Ikosi – Isheri at a point in time. In addition is the training programmes for 200 women and youths at Hadassah Events Place, Emmanuel High, Ojota; a block of two (2) classrooms at Mosafejo Nursery/Primary School, Oworonshoki. The legislator listed the bills and motions sponsored by him. They revolve around the issues of sexual biolence, Police brutality and vices against women; failure of manufacturers of beverages to imscribe warning on containers of the attendant health hazards to consumers; National Electronic Health Record Bill; Immigration Checks and Control Along the Nigerian Territorial Borders, alleged registration and suance of PVC to Underage Persons, and the need to curb wanton killings, forceful occupations, proliferation of firearms, terrorism and other criminal cctivities. Others are the motion on the Need for Federal Government to Establish A New Shipping Line,  the Need for Security Operatives to Act on the Use of Social Media.  Others are the ‘Need to Educate and Encourage Herdsmen on the Benefits of Ranching,’  the Need for FCTA to Address the Perpetual Darkness in Abuja, the Need to Curb Incessant Deaths at Railway Crossings and the Need to Investigate the Sale of PHCN to Non-valuable Customers. In the House of Representatives, Agunsoye has served in various committees, including Defence, Human Rights, Diaspora, Civil Society, Public Petition, Sports and Delegated Legislation in the 8th Assembly. He was a member of the National Institute of Legislative and Democratic Studies (NILDS) representing the South West between 2015 – 2019. Other committees include Defence; Public Petition; Industry; Inter Parliamentary; Aids, Loans and Debt Management; Urban Development and Regional Planning; Water Resources. He is the chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Agunsoye had instituted constituency projects, including the Kosofe Federal Constituency Empowerment and Wealth Creation Scheme, empowerment programme for 200 graduates in job placement and skill acquisition in ICT, Cosmetology, Solar Energy, Agriculture, Fashion Design, Cinematography, Graphics/Printing, Catering & Hotel Management, Business Skills and Interior Designs, and skill acquisition program for 50 women. His constituency projects include two classroom blocks in Mosafejo Nursery/Primary School, Oworonsoki, Lagos. Agunsoye said he had assisted many youths to secure employment through the N-Power, FRSC, police and paramilitary recruitment slots from the Federal Government. 