University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) Vice-Chancellor Prof. Sulyman Abdulkareem has said the country’s health care system is facing serious challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Abdulkareem disclosed this on Monday while speaking at the 36th Professional Initiation for Batch B 2020 medical graduates of the College of Health Sciences the University of Ilorin. “Our country’s health care delivery was seriously challenged with the emergence of the COVID-19 pandemic. “There were no standard intensive care units and even the few ones available were overwhelmed,” he said. Abdulkareem, however, praised the government’s “frantic effort to bridge this gap with the provision of Molecular Laboratories and oxygen plants across the country.” He noted that at the height of the pandemic, the number of front-liners was not adequate to cope with the number of patients, adding that the induction of the 28 doctors would change that dismal picture. The Vice-Chancellor noted that their induction would increase the manpower resources in the health sector if those inducted stayed behind to practise in Nigeria. Abdulkareem urged the newly inducted medical doctors to avail Nigerians of their services for a while even if they had the intention of seeking greener pastures outside the shores of the country. He noted that many members of the university’s medical alumni were front liners in the United States of America, United Kingdom, other parts of Europe, Saudi Arabia and other countries. Prof. Olanrewaju Adedoyin, the Provost of the College of Health Sciences in the institution urged them to practise with dignity, integrity and honour, adding that a good name was better than silver and gold. He urged the graduates not to play God by keeping patients waiting unnecessarily but rather encourage their patients even when the situation looked gloomy and bleak. Adedoyin also commended the university management for providing infrastructure that would enhance the training of medical practitioners. He also commended the Vice-Chancellor for the construction of the Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory and provision of the Institute of Medical Research and Training (IMRAT) among others.