 SIR: It is unfortunate that the National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) was allowed to embark on an industrial action over issues of non-payment of salary while the president is on a trip to London to attend to his health. The NARD president, Dr. Uyilawa Okhuaihesuyi lamented that the partly $10 monthly hazard allowance agreed after a memorandum of understanding was signed with the federal government is yet to be implemented a year after, and this amidst the non-payment of salary to more than 2,500 of their members, despite their commitment to work during this pandemic era. Despite meeting with the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, all efforts to prevent the strike proved abortive. Also the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic embarked on an indefinite strike this week over alleged government refusal to comply with the earlier agreements reached with the union. ASUP President Anderson Ezeibe, lamented that the government’s nonchalant attitude forced them to embark on the industrial action. He also added that the lecturers grievance include non-implementation of the 2014 NEEDS report and non-release of revitalization fund despite assurance since 2014, as well as non-establishment of a commission to bridge regulatory gap in the sector, opaque operation in the deployment of the Integrated Personal Payroll Information System (IPPIS), non-implementation of the approved 65 years retirement age by some state governments. Members of the Judiciary Staff Union Of Nigeria also embarked on nationwide strike on April 6 following its demand for financial autonomy as provided in the constitution and a judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja which affirmed the relevant constitutional provisions in a January 2014 judgment. The union which had similarly embarked on a three-week strike in January 2015, over refusal of the government to comply with the directives now says the union will continue with the strike till their demands have been met. All the above incidents clearly portray the government as not only unserious but as one lacking focus. The health sector is very vital in the development and advancement of any nation in the world likewise the educational sector but in the case of Nigeria, the story is different. Bad governance, non-accountability and corruption has left the educational and health sectors in terrible states. The judiciary which serves as bridge between the legislative and executive arm of government is supposed to be autonomous to ensure diligent and efficient discharge of duties; yet this is far from being the case. Nigeria, supposedly a giant in the African continent is now a shadow of its past. In addition to battling with insurgency, inflation, unemployment, etc. due to bad leadership, we have little or nothing to show as a mark of advancement or development. The government needs to wake up and do the needful to bring an end to the industrial actions embarked by the unions. Prolonging the actions will no doubt spell doom for the nation and create a huge hindrance in the efforts of stakeholders, patriotic citizens, organizations etc. towards national development and advancement.  Bayero University, Kano.