 A former Dean, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Prof Abiodun Adeloye has  called for the strengthening of   national measures taken to prevent the spread of bird flu and strange  animal diseases. He said with animal diseases   found in several places, government needs to enact measures to prevent the virus from spreading and to reduce the risk of infection. He implored farmers with smaller numbers of poultry including chickens to strengthen their biosecurity measures in order to prevent further outbreaks. Biosecurity means protecting the economy, environment, and the community from the negative impacts of pests, disease, weeds, and contaminants. Biosecurity practices include: disinfecting, signage, maintaining boundary fences, checking for strays, restricting visitor and vehicle movements, ensuring all machinery brought onto the property is cleaned, good husbandry, ensuring purchases are from reliable sources, inspecting the flock or herd regularly, quarantining new stock. Nigeria has not been  free of animal diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza H5N1. Animal pests and diseases are a major threat to  the  livestock and poultry industries.  With the growing negative impact of climate change, Adeloye noted that  the possibility of more animal diseases emerging is  certain , advocating for measures to be  put in place to combat the spread of bird flu and minimise the risk of infection at poultry farms. According to him, hygiene measures were required before entering the property and the units as well as measures on one-on-one transport to and from duck and turkey farms. He said the sector has been empowered with respect to the outbreak of foodborne diseases and other related issues. Also, authorities should be able to receive communication with respect to foodborne illness incidents/outbreaks, as and when they occur, and take appropriate actions. Adeloye urged for a comprehensive Risk Based Inspection System (RBIS), including strengthening of regulatory requirements, routine testing, appellate testing among others. Meanwhile, the  Director General/Chief Executive Officer of the National Biosafety Management Agency (NBMA), Dr Rufus Ebegba has said that the Agency is working round the clock to ensure the completion and submission of the draft National Biosecurity policy to the Federal Executive Council (FEC), for consideration and approval. Dr Ebegba who said this when the Senate Committee on Environment visited the NBMA for an oversight function in Abuja noted that the Agency is also carrying out expert reviews of other regulatory instruments and possible validation such as the National Biosafety Guidelines on Genetically Modified (GM) Fish, tree, birds, animals and mosquitoes. “The NBMA will continue in the bid to ensure that her mandate is delivered and we will be doing so much such as processing of Biosafety Applications, nationwide Survey and Tracking of GMOs and Inspection of GMO Farms, companies and Research Institutes, Risk management plan and strategy development for protecting human and, animal health and the environment, Template development for Risk assessment, Establishment of National Biosafety Management Agency Data Centre and Integrated GMO Monitoring System, Participation in UN COP-MOP, among others”. While making his presentation on the overview of the National Biosafety Management Agency’s 2020 achievements, Dr Ebegba highlighted the achievements of the Agency in the past year 2020 to include, Creation of the Department of Biosecurity, organization of a National Stakeholders’ Consultative Meeting, drafting of a National Biosecurity Policy which was formally presented by the Honourable Minister of State, Federal Ministry of Environment, Sharon Ikeazor at a National Stakeholders meeting, among other very many and laudable feats which include development of various sectoral documents. 