But for the fact that the Honourable Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, aka Okunrin Rau, is an old friend, we would have reminded him of the late Gbolabo Ogunsanwo’s famous outburst that a ministerial toga is no excuse for mandibular walkabout. As usual, the implacably combative minister was in his “up and at em” mood which leaves no room for hostage-taking this past week. While warning his audience to steer clear of those fanning the embers of secession, Lai noted that many of the professors calling for the dismemberment of the country might end up as bread-baking journeymen in Togo if the situation takes a dire and nasty turn. A former professor slaving and sweating away in the scalding red hot tomb of a primitive bakery is not a laughing matter at all. And in the former German enclave of Togo, too? We hope that Debo Adesina, Nigeria’s new envoy in Togo, is taking note of the hordes of professorial illuminati that will illuminate Togolese bakeries as the Lugardian inferno consumes everything back at home. But what beats the imagination and is a source of perplexity is the fact that Lai’s fecund imagination could come up with no other profession to conjure his apocalyptic scenario but the image of a professor in back-breaking peonage in a faraway land. Is this a tear-away from the new pedagogy of the intellectually oppressed or its pirated edition? We will venture an answer shortly. Meanwhile, we can assure the venerable minister that if Nigeria were to unravel, there will be Nigerian ministerial beggars on the streets of Monrovia, absconding gubernatorial shoe repairers in downtown Ouagadougou and cashiered senatorial loafers wandering about the dark alleys of Conakry well ahead of professorial bread-boys. There may even be former distinguished Nigerian envoys slumming it out in some public toilets in torrid Bujumbura. It has already happened to Mobutu’s envoy in Poland who was living in a public toilet until he was mugged. It is possible that Lai Mohammed has not quite lived down his days as a campus journalist at the then University of Ife. Yours sincerely should know. A favourite pastime of those naughty boys of yore was taking a dig at their professors. There was a particularly savage putdown of Sam Akpabot by the Bullet magazine. The clever garbling of his name as Mr Abiokpat did not fool anybody, not the least the university authorities. The affronted musicologist began protesting from the rooftop until the editor was rusticated. He had to relocate to Liberia to earn his degree eventually. The late Professor Ade Adegite, an extremely brilliant lecturer of Chemistry, was a regular guest of the students’ papers that christened him “Dr Child”. The rumour mill had it that the nickname originally came from the Vice-Chancellor, Hezekiah Oluwasanmi, himself in sarcastic appreciation of the social escapades of the Sussex-trained don. He couldn’t care a hoot. On a typical day, the great man could be seen on a leisurely prowl of the female hostel puffing away at his Benson cigarette. If the honourable minister could find time from his onerous ministerial duty in these times of pantamic pandemic, yours sincerely promises to send him old editions of The Cobra, Spitfire and Bullet circa 1973/ 1974 to lighten the burdens. May be that will take his mind off fighting ancient and recent professorial demons.