  Some gunmen have killed two security guards at a petrol station in Akure, the Ondo State capital. In Imo, a Catholic Church priest was abducted, while, in Ogun, a 13-year-old boy returning from a Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) programme with his family was seized and taken away. One of the guards killed in Ondo was reportedly employed less than five days ago. The assailants attacked the newly established A. A. Rano petrol station at Customs Junction on Ondo Road on Saturday night. A supervisor Buhari Ashiru said the security men were found about 5.30am on Sunday morning when workers resumed duty, adding that the assailants did not break into the safe in one of the offices Police spokesman Tee-Leo Ikoro confirmed the incident, saying that an investigation had started. On Sunday morning gunmen abducted Rev. Prof. Izu Marcell Onyeocha in Ihube community in Okigwe Local Government Area of Imo State. The clergyman was reportedly taken away at Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway Onyeocha, a lecturer at the Imo State University, was said to be in transit from Enugu to Owerri when the incident happened.  He was driving his vehicle when he was attacked, a source said. Police spokesman Orlando Ikeokwu could not respond to enquiries from The Nation as his phone line rang out. The teenage RCCG member Gbolahan Ajibola was abducted on Saturday night in Obada-Oko in Ewekoro Local Government area of Ogun State. The gunmen swooped on Ajibola’s family as they were about to enter their house. The attackers hid in a bush near the house before pouncing on the Ajibola family as he alighted from the  car to open the gate. The Nation gathered that the boy, his mother and grandmother attended an RCCG programme and were going home when the gunmen attacked them, beating them thoroughly before taking Ajibola away. The victim’s grandmother said their attackers were six, adding that they left behind a piece of clothing in the bush in front of the house. “The incident occurred around 9.30pm,” she said. “We normally come back home every day around 8pm, but the General Overseer of our church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye came to one of our churches in Adigbe area and we attended the programme,” she said. 