ARM Pensions is a part of the Asset & Resource Management Group (ARMHoldco) with over 26 years’ experience in investment management. Among the top Pension Fund Administrators (PFA) in Nigeria, ARM Pensions has maintained a track record of reporting returns to their RSA Holders irrespective of the economic or market factors. Founded in 1994, ARM Pensions boasts of an experienced and top-notch management team and board membership who possess notable years of experience, having garnered their wealth of knowledge from prestigious institutions within and outside the nation’s shores. These high-profile personnel form the backbone of a business that works hard to ensure return on investment for the RSA holders who entrust them with their retirement assets.  Key achievements Since inception, the RSA Fund II and the Retiree Fund have consistently delivered positive returns with no negative or down years, successfully navigating major market dislocations, e.g., the 2008 financial crises and preserving capital in the process. Institutionally managed portfolios have benefited from the skill warehoused within the ARM Pensions management of the funds as historical annual returns achieved have been over 20 per cent to 30 per cent in a year, significantly higher than the long-run average inflation rate of c.12 per cent. ARM Pensions has also demonstrated leadership in co-managed funds; keynote example is out of three managers on a key defined benefit mandate in the power sector ARM Pensions delivered high returns in excess of c.20 per cent and assumed top 2 position in the leaderboard for FY 2020. With offices in over 17 states of the federation, an active social media presence and an efficient customer experience team in place, ARM Pensions ensures proximity to every one of her customers through their preferred communication channel. ARM Pensions is also known to pitch in and support their retirees in times of need and has over time, gained the trust of many who sing their praises on social media platforms. To further ingrain a desire to protect the health and wealth of their RSA holders, ARM Pensions provides value-added services such as the Run For The Future run/marathon event, which encourages everyone to stay fit and healthy; a retirement lifestyle planner which enables their RSA holders to see into their tomorrow to better plan for it today; and regular wellness and wealth management tips via numerous platforms amongst others. Now that the transfer window is here, ARM Pensions opens her doors to welcome RSA holders who desire to have a better tomorrow. To them, everyone deserves to be with a team that appreciates them, and each one has the right to move to more. Call 01-2715000 to enjoy the ARM Advantage.  ARM Pensions Digital Channels The ARM Engage mobile app (Downloaded via Google Playstore or Apple store). Hotline – 0700 CALL ARM, website – www.armpension.com, USSD (*597# or *7737#), Email (info@armpension.com) and Retirement Lifestyle Planner – Walk Into Tomorrow.