Titan Trust Bank Limited has clinched two international awards at the United Kingdom-based 2021 annual Global Brands Magazine awards. The bank emerged winner in two categories, beating other nominees to win the ‘Best New Commercial Banking Brand’ and ‘Fastest Growing Digital Banking Brand in Nigeria for the year 2021’. The lender clinched the coveted influential awards in less than two years of its commercial operations. The awards ceremony and presentation of prizes is billed to hold in Dubai Palm Jumeirah – Waldorf Astoria on December 3, 2021. According to the organisers, the award aims to recognise global brands achieving excellence in performance across a broad range of sectors while keeping its readers up to date on much-needed know-how of the branding world. Commenting on the feats, Adaeze Udensi, Ph.D, Executive Director, Titan Trust Bank, said: “As a bank, our mission is to make financial services easy and accessible to our customers. “Digital technologies for us hold an enormous opportunity for greater financial inclusion “As a bank with a mission to take advantage of the identified gaps in the banking sector and address the unmet needs of the retail mass market, SMEs and corporates, we recognise that the financial industry has evolved in recent times. And to be at the top, we need to be conversant with latest industry trends and developments. “This made us invest substantially in technology and develop fully integrated service models that enable our customers enjoy banking services through a wide range of channels. “Our digital banking platform is centered around the needs of our valued customers. This is because we understand customers’ needs are diverse and that is why we make each customer’s needs a priority in the design and development of our digital channels. “We exist because of our customers and we will continue to listen and transform their business ideas into a reality. “Therefore, we are elated and proud of this award and recognition of effort, because it highlights our continued strive for excellence in all we do and this will only give us the drive as a bank to continue providing the best-in-class services.”