The Plateau State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed hope that the crisis that has threatened the party in the state would soon be fully resolved. This is even as it accused the state governor, Simon Bako Lalong, of selling the birthright of Plateau people, particularly, in the appointment of members and officials of Federal Government Boards. The state chairman of the opposition party, Hon. Chris Adukuchili Hassan, while revealing what the party was doing to reclaim power come 2023 said they have been sensitising the people and trying to make them understand that, “the only political party that fits the people of Plateau is the PDP because it was founded by the Plateau people and it is the only party that promotes the Plateau spirit and struggle irrespective of tribal or religious affiliation.” He added, “the people on their own, have already realised that their greatest mistake was voting the APC into power and have made up their minds against a party that has brought them untold hardship; a party that has made them slaves in their own land.” On the PDP crisis in the state, the Chairman said a reconciliatory committee has been set up about six months ago for those that are aggrieved to ventilate their minds. “They have actually come and we have listened to them. The party at the national level has equally set up a reconciliation and strategic committee headed by Senator Bukola Saraki. “The committee is traversing the length and breadth of the country to ensure reconciliation amongst aggrieved members,” he said. He added that, “the PDP crisis was not only peculiar to Plateau but the country at large and that it was an indication that the party is the best amongst equals, stressing that people struggle to get the best and nothing less. “The people have realised that the PDP is the best and the only party that can take Nigeria out of the current quagmire to the Promised Land. “That is why there is an influx of people to the party. You don’t see that kind of influx to any other party not even the ruling APC. “Very soon, our issues would be resolved. As it is at the moment, we have attained 85 per cent in resolving our issues and I assure you that in few weeks to come all issues would be fully resolved.” Hassan also pointedly accused Governor Lalong of consciously relegating the interest of Plateau people to the background. According to him, “Governor Lalong has forgotten the Plateau spirit and struggle of the founding fathers of the state.” The PDP Chairman, while speaking to reporters in his office, noted that, “Plateau State is completely missing in the political power equation in the current All Progressive Congress (APC)’s government.” He alleged that Lalong’s position as the Chairman, Northern Governors’ Forum, “has also not yielded any positive result to Plateau as its people cannot be said to have benefited from any capital project from the Federal Government or have they been considered by way of appointment into key northern institutions established to serve as binding instruments of all the people that constitute the region. “What we are seeing today on the Plateau is surprising because every state has a struggle. “Our struggle is to promote unity and to bring about development. Our founding fathers pursued this cause. They were accommodative and that is why you have almost every tribe on the Plateau making the state a miniature Nigeria. “Successive governments have keyed into and followed the cause of our founding fathers. But what we are seeing on the Plateau today is surprising. “It seems the government of the day has completely forgotten the Plateau struggle. It’s like the present government has forgotten the ideals of our founding fathers.” He also vowed that, “the PDP would never relent in pursuing the Plateau heritage and struggle of our founding fathers. For whatever you do in life, you want to keep records on the sands of time. “For any person that is privileged to be in government, any person that is privileged to be anywhere in life, would want to keep records on the sands of time. “What record has the APC government kept? What do they want to be remembered for? Let the people consider this and juxtapose it with the performances of previous administrations, most especially during the PDP era and they would appreciate the PDP. “This is a state that had the National Chairman of the ruling party; this is a state that had six ambassadors; this is a state you could see preponderance of capital projects, this is a state that was proud of Chairmen of Federal Boards and Parastatals and so on. “But today, can you tell me of one Plateau man that is a Chairman of any Federal Board? None. The PDP government also opened up, created and built projects to the admiration of many. “Today, nothing is happening. But what we are saying is that even if you can’t initiate and build new projects, why can’t you maintain the old ones? Hassan wondered why, “in just a few months, capital projects were initiated and executed in some states other than Plateau in spite of the fact that its governor is the Chairman of NGF. In less than three months, the federal government built and upgraded the Kaduna Airport to international standard. “The Jos Airport is as old as any other airport in the country. If you look at the landmass, it can be of international status and it’s the reason why during our time, we wanted to open up the airport to an agro terminal so that at least, we can be exporting our farm produce. “Since the APC came into power, renovation of the airport has not been possible six years after signing the contract for the exercise,” he said