The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba, on Saturday commended Gov. Bala Mohammed of Bauchi state for ‘constantly’ providing logistic support to security agencies in the state. Baba made the commendation in Bauchi at the inauguration of the official distribution of 50 JAC pick-up vehicles procured by the state government for distribution to both conventional and non-conventional security agencies in the state. The IGP, who was represented by Johnson Kokumo, Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), Federal Operations, said that one of the logistic constraints facing the police force was inadequacy of serviceable vehicles. Kokumo said that it had been seen that vehicles used by criminals sped faster than that of security agents, and this had hindered their efforts at tackling them. He commended the state government and described the provision of the vehicles as a morale booster for the security agencies in the state. “I want to sincerely appreciate the executive governor of Bauchi state, Sen. Bala Mohammed, for his constant logistic support to the security agencies, particularly, the Nigerian Police Force. “One of the logistic constraints facing the police force is inadequacy of vehicles for visible policing, to enable members of the public feel the presence of the police. “We thank you immensely for ensuring that this anomaly is corrected,” he said He reassured the state government of optimal use of the vehicles by the police in the discharge of their statutory duties, by ensuring quality service delivery to the citizens. “The vehicles would be used just for the purpose they were procured,” he assured Kokumo said that the collaborative relationship between the Nigerian Police Force and all other sister agencies in the state, was appreciated and would be sustained. Earlier, Mohammed had said that the protection of lives and property was one of the cardinal objectives of his administration. He said that the distribution of the vehicles was meant to enhance security operations in the state, and a testimony of the state government’s concern to finding a lasting solution to the state’s security challenges. Mohammed said that no society would prosper amidst increasing number of criminal activities perpetrated on regular basis, by mindless and selfish individuals in the society. He said that the state government was tackling security challenges squarely, through active collaboration with various security agencies, traditional institutions and other major stakeholders. Mohammed appreciated all the security agencies for their efforts in curbing the high crime rate in the state. “Tackling security problems is a collective responsibility of all of us, therefore, citizens should cooperate with security agencies and report suspicious activities and movements to the nearest security post for prompt action,” Mohammed said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that on 31 December, 2020, Mr Umar Sanda, the state Commissioner for Finance, said that the government would purchase 50 operational vehicles, worth N759.5 million, for all the security agencies in the state. Sanda said that each of the pickups was purchased for N15 million, a clear testimony that the governor was responsive to the needs of the people. NAN reports that the vehicles were distributed amongst security agencies in the state with the Nigerian Police Force receiving the highest number at 16. The Nigerian Army 33 Artillery Brigade received four vehicles, The Bauchi State Road Traffic Agency (BAROTA), 4, Hunters ‘ Group, 4, FRSC 2, NSCDC 2 and the Department of State Security (DSS) 2. The Nigeria Air force (NAF), Danga security service 1, Peace and security Committee 1, Committee on Violence Against Women and Children got 1 and the Vigilante group received one vehicle each, among others. (NAN)