Following the socio-economic and political tension in the country, the Founder, Academy for Entrepreneurial Studies, Nigeria, Apostle Ausbeth Ajagu, has charged Nigerians not to only Pray for the redemption of the country but conscientiously work towards the ousting of anti-people leaders in both private and Public sectors. Ajagu who is also a clergyman made this known in Lagos at a just-concluded “One Billion Souls for Christ” crusade, organized by his Ministry (The Pentium Ministries) where he affirmed that though humans could everything to secure life and properties, howbeit, ultimate safety is of God, hence the need to yell to God for urgent intervention. The political economist maintained that the challenges bedeviling the country is beyond man, but all hope was not lost, because God can turn around everything for the best, but Nigerians must first have the right mindset and allow God to choose leaders to achieve His purpose. “The country is bad but it’s not God’s fault, though it’s God who installs leaders across the board, He Alone can undo them; however, we all must not only pray but we must work conscientiously with our senses intact, by electing Leaders who can deliver not those who pay their way into the seat of power and mess up later,” Ajagu maintained that only God installs leaders and Only him could remove them, howbeit, every leader must give account of stewardship to God. He said; “It’s God that install leaders through the instrumentality of man, He alone can remove them, so Nigerians to go back to God to give them better Leaders as Nations do from time immemorial. God is not yet through with Nigeria adding that the best is yet to come. Nigeria is blessed. The problem is we have not gotten it right from leadership. God Has the power to change everything. But we must have the right mindset and never allow men and women who doesn’t worth it to grab the reins of power, but we must work and pray for the right leaders.”
On youth restiveness, he affirmed that the Academy for Entrepreneurial Studies, was poised to give hope to young people by offering several correctional incentives to help ameliorate their plights, but the youth must have the right mindset regarding Divinity, humanity and Life at large. “Our ministry (The Pentium Ministries) held a Crusade, themed: “Dinner with The King” in FESTAC, Lagos, and every young person who attended the crusade and showed interest in running our entrepreneurship, leadership, mentorship and other trainings would be given 50 percent discount of total cost to learn any course of their choice we offer for Life. Such youths would also gain more of Networking, jobs opportunities, reference and recommendations even to travel overseas. We want to give the youths a reason to live and lead a Godly life instead of indulging in all manner of evil,” He urged young people to follow only selfless leaders who can deliver the expected end instead of sheepishly blustering for selfish individuals whose only interest are to amass wealth even for their tenth generation. “As elections draws nigh, I wish the youth would forgo the immediate and go for the ultimate. The ultimate is the end result which are the democracy dividends. If you go for the immediate fantasies and ecstasies, your future is doomed.” The political economist frown at the incessant defense mechanism Public office holders put forward whenever they fail, noting that leadership is not for everyone but for a few who are empowered by divinity to fulfill God’s mandate for humanity. “God is not the cause of insecurity, unemployment, and general hardship in the country, everyone has a divine assignment, we must find ours and run with it. As for the leaders, they must give account of stewardship one day because they are playing feudal roles. They may run from the eyes of men, but not from the Almighty,” he added.