By Emma Elekwa, Onitsha Anambra state government has warned Primary Health Care (PHC) centers in the state to desist from making financial demands from patients accessing family planning services in the facilities or be sanctioned. The Commissioner of Health, Dr. Vincent Okpala gave the warning in Awka at a Media Roundtable on Family Planning organised by The Change Initiative, tagged, “Improving Access to Family Planning Services among Women of Reproductive Age in Anambra State” Okpala, represented by the Director of Public Health and Disease Control, Dr. Uchechukwu Onyejimbe, insisted that family planning services were free in all government-owned health facilities as provisions were made for materials needed for the services. He however noted that government could not determine the fees being charged in private facilities, but appealed to them to be considerate in their charges to ensure patients with financial challenges were accommodated. He said, “Family Planning services are free, whether in Anambra or elsewhere. The PHC should provide free services to patients. Charging money without the knowledge of the ANPHCDA is fraudulent and sanctions will be meted out on defaulters. “Provisions are made for gloves, spirits, cotton wool and other sundry materials by the ministry free of charge and are distributed to all the PHC centers across the state. Other burden of charges in terms of transportation is borne by the ministry of health. “The N500 charge came up because Faith-based and private organisations were kicking against providing Family Planning services free in their facilities, saying they were not charity organisations and were responsible for all the materials they use. “Besides, private organisations provide 70 percent of health services in the state because 70 percent of clients who visit health facilities patronize private health organisations. So they can’t be overlooked. “That’s why we’ve severally invited them for stakeholders’ meeting to reach a compromise with them so as to see the need to assist us in providing these free services. So it’s a big challenge for Ministry to ask them to provide the services free.” The commissioner further noted that th ministry would appreciate partnership with organisations willing to assist, but insisted that such collaborations must be backed up by Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). “We’re not chasing away any organisation that wants to assist the state in any health intervention, including Family Planning. But we insist such NGOs must sign an MOU, including their mandate with the ministry to give it a legal backing,” he added. Earlier, The Change Initiative Family Planning Coordinator, Mr. Aneotah Egbe, said the event was targeted at supporting supervision, advocacy and social mobilization towards improving public maternal health.