Suspected Boko Haram insurgents have attacked Kwapre, a village in the Hong Local Government Area of Adamawa State, killed five people and abducted about 30 women. Our correspondent gathered Saturday morning that the insurgents also injured many others during the attack in the village Friday evening. Sources added that the insurgents, who were heavily armed, shot rapidly, scaring residents into surrounding bushes and destroying houses and other properties while seizing the women they could lay their hands on. A source, Innocent Geoffry, who lives around the affected community, said the residents had all gone off to where they felt they would be safe. “Right now, there is no single person in Kwapre, everybody has fled the community,” Innocent said on the phone Saturday morning. The member representing Gombi/Hong Federal Constituency, Hon Yusuf Buba Yakubu, said the attack was a bitter setback to a community striving to put Boko Haram insurgency behind it. He stated that the insurgents, who besieged Kwapre village in Garaha Ward of Hong LGA, killed and maimed unsuspecting community dwellers, destroyed homes and property and abducted some people. He added, “This latest attack on the innocent and peace- loving people of Kwapre is another senseless and cruel act of cowardice on a community that is renowned for peace, industry and serenity.” Kwapre is on the Adamawa-Borno borders near the notorious Sambisa Forest and it has come under Boko Haram attack a number of times in the past. A source said yesterday afternoon that some of those injured during the latest attack on Kwapre were receiving treatment at an undisclosed health care centre. The Police Public Relations Officer in Adamawa State, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, however told our correspondent that this is a Boko Haram incident and that he had no mandate to speak on it. The 23 Armoured Brigade Yola, under which jurisdiction the attacked village falls, was however non-committing, which was not surprising as the brigade usually prefers this kind of communication to be referred to the military higher command in Abuja.