 Like many contemporary Nigerian stars, Sebastian Brodericks’ name rang a bell in Nigeria and beyond in his heyday. His exploits, both as a football player and coach, speak volumes. Brodericks began his football career in 1956 when he featured for the Onitsha team in the Challenge Cup as a student. He joined the Lagos ECN in 1962 and was part of the winning side in 1965. He debuted for Nigeria in a 1-2 loss to Togo in Lagos during a qualifying match for the 1st All Africa Games on December 27, 1964  and was a member of the Nigerian team to the 1968 Olympic Games in Mexico. Particularly noted for his curving shots, especially from free kicks, he is a former national team player and an assistant to Clemens Westerhof who handled the Super Eagles in the early 1990s. Brodericks was the head coach when Nigeria won the maiden edition of the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 1985, thus, putting Nigeria on the global football map as the the first country outside Europe and South America to win a global football event. This, indeed, was the highpoint or defining moment of his career as coach. Brodericks recalls in tears, rather nostalgically: “There is no coach that has taken a team to the World Cup up to three to four times; my records are there; I went to China 85, 87 then 89. I think about four world cups (breaks down and cries)) You people will have to try to help me, I have suffered for this country, help me, it is so sad that I have to cry for the country to help me. It is so sad.” True, Brodericks needs help. According to his wife, he has dementia, eye problems, among other ailments. “My sight has been affected so I can’t see very well, my wife is the only person that is always with me helping me to do everything, there is a lot I can’t do without her. My children send me the small money they can so it has not been easy but God is with us.,” Brodericks reportedly said. It is sad. Sad indeed that someone who has evidently paid his dues would  be in the kind of pathetic situation that Brodericks is today. Yet, this was the same man who was happy about three years ago when he celebrated his 80th birthday. “I am a very happy man to have reached the age of 80. I give God Almighty all the glory,” he was quoted as saying. So what has suddenly gone wrong? Why did Broderick who was happy barely three years ago suddenly become a sad Brodericks? At 83, the former football star feels abandoned. There is no money to take care of routine bills; including medical expenses. But Brodericks is not alone in this. This road had been travelled by many other Nigerians, including footballers, thespians, journalists, police men, soldiers and what have you – people who had contributed immensely to the country’s development one way or the other and are now left to their devices when they can no longer fend for themselves. Here, Christian Chukwu readily comes into mind. As Brodericks recalls himself: “I don’t know what to say but look at what happened to Christian Chukwu until God brought people to help him.” A thespian, Iya Awero, would have been evicted from her apartment and perhaps squatting somewhere now if the Lagos State government had not been magnanimous to give her a three-bedroom apartment about two weeks ago. Brodericks has been benefitting from such magnanimity until recently when things nosedived. He has not been able to access his pension in the last three months because he missed the last verification exercise for pensioners due to Ill-health. Even the little job that he said the Adams Oshiomhole administration gave him, to build the U-13 team had been scrapped by the incumbent administration in Edo State. Much as we sympathise with Brodericks for what he is passing through, we are afraid the solution does not lie in making a case on individual basis for assistance by the government. The fact of the matter is that these things are happening because certain things are not working in Nigeria. Indeed, the Brodericks are still lucky because their names are household names in the country. There are countless other voiceless Nigerians who are passing through worse nightmares unsung. What we need to canvass is for the system to work and everyone would be taken care of. When this happens, all categories of old citizens would be entitled to certain facilities and benefits as of right. If, for instance, there is no issue with Brodericks’ pension, life would not have been as difficult as it is for him, despite the fact that pension here generally is nothing to write home about. People like him should receive medical care paid for by the state. They should be entitled to regular stipends to take care of some of their personal expenses, etc. We implore the National Assembly to expedite action on the pending bill to make life meaningful for our older citizens. People should look forward to a memorable old age, not with trepidation. Our older citizens do not have to live like beggars in the same country they had served diligently in their prime.