  Sterling Homes has introduced a structured payment scheme as the company restructured its operations to serve its customer better. At an event to mark the unveiling of the new face of the organisation and 11th Anniversary, Chief Executive Officer, Sterling Homes, Dr. Kunle Adeyemi, said the firm operated in the middle-to-upper property market, especially among Nigerians in Diaspora. “We are committed to helping individuals, Nigerians in Diaspora become landlords and at no extra cost, our process is seamless. We realise that anybody buying into our property whether the land or houses have a plan of moving into them in a short period or even those individuals that buy for speculative purposes. We deliver within the maximum time frame as captured in the contract.  We have set a standard for excellence. “We are playing in the prime and developed sectors in the market and in Lagos area such as Lekki, Ogudu, Surulere, Ikeja GRA and in few months, we will launch our brand in Port Harcourt and, indeed, the six geopolitical zone of the country to deliver exquisite homes for Nigerians. “We are also set to deliver to the upscale community in Ogudu 100 units of exquisite houses in 90 days. Indeed our new logo represents our new conviction to serve, deliver quality housing in record time. We have a flexible payment option that is structured according to our client’s income, so they pay with ease,” Adeyemi said. He noted that prior to the latest development, Sterling Homes has been involved in the development of estates such as Hebron Garden in Lekki, Havilah Park and Garden, Mowe, Oguin State, Moriah Park and Garden, Agbowa, Ikorodu,  Lagos State Government Housing Estate Agbowa, Lagos State Resettlement Centre Agbowa Industries and Caleb University, among others. On the challenges, Adeyemi decried government’s policy inconsistency  and the non-regulation of the sector. “We are struggling with policy inconsistency of government and poor regulation that make manufacturers for instance of cement a primary product in the sector increase their price causing upsets in our pricing and accounting system. Turn ­around time for titling and documentation is a major issue, poor infrastructure such as roads, electricity, water is a major issue as we ourselves providing such in all our estates, even though we pay tax to government,” Adeyemi said.