The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of VKS Group, Mr Onur Kumral has been honoured among Nigeria’s 100 most proactive, result-driven Chief Executive Officers in 2020. The honour was bestowed on Kumral by Guardian Newspaper in their 2020 Annual CEO series published on April 7, 2021. Kumral was honoured among top CEOs in Nigeria including Ebi Enaholo of Mainstreet Capital Investment, Chantelle Abdu of Mojec International, Gbenga Sokefun of Nigerian Robes among other eminent CEOs. Guardian Newspaper explained that what makes the honorees of 2020 edition unique stems from the fact that even before the emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic, Nigeria’s economy was fragile hence caused devastating impact on businesses such as downsizing, laying off staff in order to cut down cost, improve operational capacity and effective delivery on set target. The publication pointed out that despite the daunting challenges and dire outcomes on many businesses, the honorees were able to navigate their organizations to optimal operational effectiveness, efficiency and visibility. The Guardian said the CEOs made this possible through ingenious management practices, prudent management of resources, as well as excellent, proactive, and  innovative solutions and ideas in achieving set goals and objectives. Earlier in their letter of nomination to the MD/CEO of VKS Group, Guardian Newspaper noted that the honour on Onur Kumral is “based on available record of your remarkable accomplishment, exemplary leadership, overall contributions to the growth of the nation’s economy and VKS Nigeria Construction Limited’s position as one of the better managed corporate organization in Nigeria’s private sector”. Guardian Newspaper also stated that Kumral has been recognized as one of outstanding managers of humans and resources hence the honour. Meanwhile, in a related development, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of VKS Nigeria Construction Limited, Mr Onur Kumral has been nominated as Independent Newspapers CEO of the year 2020. The notification of the award was presented to Onur Kumral by the Managing Director/Editor -In -Chief of Independent Newspapers, Steve Omanufeme in company of the Chairman, Editorial Board, Donatus Duru on Tuesday when they visited VKS office in Uyo. In his remark, Omanufeme mentioned some of the remarkable projects undertaken by VKS Nigeria Construction Company which earned the CEO the nomination to include the 21-storey smart building in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital. Omanufeme commended the company for the quality of job delivery and its outstanding role in job creation in the State. In response, Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of VKS Nigeria Construction Limited, Mr Onur Kumral thanked the Independent Newspapers for the nomination. He appreciated the newspaper organization for acknowledging his contributions to the state and expressed the company’s determination to stay on track. Kumral who spoke on the features of the company’s star project in Akwa Ibom State, the 21 Storey building, said the building was constructed and fitted to compete with other smart buildings anywhere in the world. He noted “ExxonMobil came to check the building and couldn’t believe their eyes,  especially on what they saw technology-wise. The building could be compared to what we have in New York”. Offering insight to strides in investments by VKS, the Managing Director said the Syringe Factory in February 2021  hit a  daily production capacity of 1.2 million syringes, out of the projected 1.5 million. On flour Mill, which was initially fitted with the daily production capacity of 500 metric tons, the VKS MD explained that the company was able to expand its daily production capacity to 1200 during the Covid-19 Lockdown to satisfy increased demand. According to data made available by the Human Resource Manager of the Company, Mr. Ndiana Isong, VKS in less than five years of operation in the State has generated direct employment for 1,724 persons.