ALHAJI Garba Abubakar is the Registrar General/CEO, Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), an institution saddled with the onerous responsibility of registering public and private companies. A law graduate of the prestigious Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Abubakar joined the CAC in April 2004 as Principal Manager in charge of Compliance before his elation to the position of Registrar in January 2020. The Bauchi State-born technocrat who is well-travelled shares useful nuggets on developing the right work ethics at the workplace. He spoke with FRANCA OCHIGBO and FUNKE COLE. Excerpts:  HOW is your typical day like as the Registrar General of the Corporate Affairs Commission? My day begins around 4.30am; I wake up and pray the obligatory prayers as a Muslim usually in congregation then come back home. I do the normal recitation of the Koran which takes me till around 7am. Thereafter, I start getting ready for work. As I step into the office, I lose control of my personal activities because I work till 6pm. You have the typical one hour break which hardly happens anyway. The only break is to pray the afternoon prayer and come back. If there are no meetings on that day, I do the routine office work by attending to visitors, resolve issues, give guidance and directives where necessary and then order for launch. With the Covid-19 pandemic, there are restrictions, though there is a canteen in the Commission but they are not allowed to serve food in the manner they use to do. Usually the food comes by way of takeaways from the canteen, so I eat in the office then continue with my work till 4pm and go for another prayer come back to continue work till 6pm. Sometimes we are in the office till 9-10pm. Every Wednesdays, we do review. Before now, it used to be daily review but because of the new system deplored in January we were doing daily review in the evenings to identify the challenges in conjunction with the software vendors which usually take us till 9-10pm. We start by 6pm and finish around 9pm depending on the issues, where it becomes necessary we invite customers to join us to present the challenges they have encountered. The portal has achieved stability now we do not have so many issues again, now the reviews are only done once a week usually Wednesdays or Thursdays. Even when I get home I still do some approvals because restricted names have to be reviewed, names of limited by guarantees, names of association to be registered under a corporate trustees I personally review them. Even when I get home I still have to open my system look at these names, sometimes they are in hundreds. Sometimes I work even at home, I may not do it in a formal manner like I do in the office. This has been my routine in the last one year since I assumed office. What is your management philosophy? My philosophy is to carry everyone along and try not to take decisions alone. I consult, seek for advice and we try to carry everybody along so that everyone will be part of the decision making process not necessary members of management because sometimes you may identify one or two staff that may have good knowledge of the institution and they may give you honest advice. You consult them even though matters may end up with management. Sometimes outside this place if there are novel issues that deals with some of the statutory issues we consult as well experts. How did you come to work with the CAC? Provident has a lot to do with it. I was very reluctant coming to work at the CAC. In 2002 December, I was working for NICON Insurance and while I was on annual vacation, I met with the then Registrar General, El Mustapha. Incidentally, El-Mustapha was someone I knew very well because I had worked in his chambers before I got employment with NSITF then NICON Insurance. We exchanged pleasantries then he said why not come and join us at CAC. He asked what level I was and I said Senior Manager and he said you have gone far. Between that December of 2002 and October of 2003, I refused to go and see him because the way people see CAC then was negative, anytime you come you must have an insider to help process your work. So I asked myself why should I come and work with this kind of organisation.  I was reluctant because I was enjoying my work with NICON Insurance so I had no reason to change work. Around October of 2003, he met one of my siblings and was asking after me and he told my sibling I was avoiding him since the day he asked me to bring my CV. My brother now called to ask what happened and I told him I was not interested in the job, and my brother just said go and see him after all you did not ask for it. I went with my CV and was called for an interview and the rest as they say is history. I got the job by December 2003 I got the appointment letter. But because of the nature of my schedule at NICON I had to give three months’ notice. I remember what El Mustapha told me when I resumed. He said, ‘Abubakar if you want to enjoy this work you have to learn on your own, understand the work and how to apply the principles of this work.’ I really tried my best to understand the application of the law on practical situations. Some of my first assignments involved how to conduct and convey general meetings of companies that had issues, review complaints from customers which actually helped me. At any time you call me to do anything I don’t shy away from it and I try to do it selflessly because the ultimate objective at the CAC is that you have the responsibility to do your best, to deliver to the best of your ability. Whatever we do, posterity will judge all of us. That has been our guiding principle to be the best and deliver the best. Aside work how do you relax, hang out, unwind? My religion encourages building relationships, as such, I try to visit my siblings, friends that live in this city. Whenever I travel to any city and I have relatives there I try to see them. Do you play any game, do you go to the gym? I have my small gym at home which is what I use. Well, I’m married to CAC, I don’t know if CAC work will allow me to go and spend two hours in the gym. (Laughs). Even on Saturdays you have to work. If I don’t travel to my village which I do every fortnightly, at least I try to socialise by doing window-shopping. In summary, that is how I relax. What is your motivating factor in life? My main motivation is to deliver the best at all times. I am someone who aspires for the best and I am result-oriented always wanting to see continuous improvement, I set targets for myself, I don’t have rest of mind until I achieve that thing, that has actually been my drive. I try to ensure that whatever I and my team set out to do is accomplished and within a good time frame. My main motivation is to see things improving and you can only do that if you are part of the process, if you just delegate and don’t get involve in how the task is being carried out you might not get the type of outcome you actually want. I try to be part of the process, work and I try to teach because you cannot have quality manpower if they do not have clear idea of what they are supposed to do.  I have been here long enough and have acquired some experience, some of the knowledge I have I try to share it with my subordinates so that even if I am not there they will have the benefit of this knowledge. I always try to think out of the box, the typical way of we have been doing it this way I don’t accept that because if we have stuck to that we would not have recorded some of these milestones that we have been able to achieve within a very short period. With all you have said so far, do you find time to read books? I set time aside to read books in a typical day, usually weekends and sometimes I sleep while reading. The main book I read now is my Koran, that is my main motivator actually gives me peace of mind, I read feel relax because we are all in a learning process. I don’t just read the Arabic text I also read the English interpretation which tells you clearly what to do, it inculcates morals in you. There are other books that I also read which guides you in your actions. Apart from the Koran which other book are we looking at? I prefer autobiography because when you hear the stories of great leaders how they have impacted on people it shapes your own thinking and guide you on how to do things. There is this particular book that I cherish so much and still read it, it is about one of the most prominent Islamic leaders, they call him Umar Bin Abdulaziz. He was the leader of his community, his time came long after the prophet, during his period as the Calif justice was achieved. He ruled for less than two years but the impact he made within those two years was unprecedented. The book is close to eight hundred pages it gives you graphic account of how he was able to change the society. These are the kind of books that I read, not just that other books that have to do with Clinton, Obama books on some of our leaders in Nigeria, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, Ahmadu Bello, even General Buhari’s books all these gives you an insight and shapes your thinking. The thing about autobiography is you also learn from their mistakes, you see areas you need to avoid, it gives you an idea of how to steer the ship. What effort do you put into maintaining your looks? I don’t allow anything to bother me, I try to sleep by 10pm no matter what, except if for some reasons, either I had to go out because of something very important or I am held up in the office by 10pm I should be in bed. I try to rest at least minimum of eight hours sleep. Sometimes they say people that are provoked easily don’t keep malice that once they say what is in their mind that is all. What is your holiday destination? Bauchi. I go to Bauchi every December. Before I became the Registrar General I start my leave before the 15th of December and will not resume till mid-January but since I became the RG that has been difficult. If I’m lucky I have 10 days, I go to Bauchi spend my time with my friends, my relatives, and my mum and other relations.