 Akwa United first choice goalkeeper, Adewale Adeyinka has attributed his total concentration during games and determination to help his team winning every game to his outstanding performances in the 2021/2022 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) season. The Kwara-state born goalkeeper exhibited another exceptional quality in his team’s 3-0 victory over Lobi Stars FC of Makurdi in the MatchDay 18 clash at the Nest of Champions Stadium in  Uyo to increase his clean sheets in the on-going campaign. The former Golden Eaglets goalkeeper now topping the NPFL Most Clean Sheets chart with eight from 12 games he was involved since the commencement of the league. In a conversation with NationSport, Adeyinka is poised to be the best goalkeeper in the league this season and he promised not to get carried away with his recent form. “The secret behind my performance is just prayer and hard work. Again, I play every game as if it was the final. I don’t get distracted during games and I kept total concentration throughout the game until the referee signalled the end of the game. I will continue to do my best for the team and I pray to be the best goalkeeper this season,” Adeyinka told NationSport. The win against Lobi Stars  last Sunday propelled Akwa United to third position on the log with 32 points in 17 matches and Adeyinka is confident that the promise keepers have all it takes to win the league and represent the country in the continent nest season.  “My target with Akwa United is to win league for them. Akwa United have quality players and good technical crew under the leadership of Coach Kennedy Boboye. With the way we are playing this season we can go far to the extent of winning the league, and the worse that could happen is to be among the first two and play in the continent,” he added. Adeyinka was a member of the national under 17 team, Golden Eaglets in 2012 to 2013. He was part of the squad that played AFCON under-17 tournament in Morocco in 2013 where Nigeria came second after losing to Côte d’Ivoire, in the penalty shoot-out in the final. The 24 years old star missed the team’s final U—17 squad to the World Cup in the United Arab Emirate (UAE) in 2013 due to injury but he is still hopeful of playing for the national team at highest level. “My future ambition is to represent my country at the highest level which is the Super Eagles and to play abroad, especially in Europe,’ he said. Adeyinka started his football career at the Kwara Football Academy between 2008 and 2012 before moving to Abubakar Bukola Sakari FC in 2012 and 2013 seasons. He went for a trial at Latvia with Riga FC in 2014 before coming back home to join for Kwara United from 2014 to 2015. He returned to ABS in 2015/2016 season. He spent three seasons with Gombe United between 2016 and 2019 before he sealed a deal with Akwa United in 2019.