 Nigeria Professional Football League season for 2021 reaches the halfway stage this weekend across nine centres except for Enyimba whose tie with Enugu Rangers at the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium, Enugu has been put on hold because of their CAF Confederation Cup Group A tie at home to Entente Setif of Algeria. The first game of the weekend comes up tomorrow at the Agege Stadium, Lagos between banished Sunshine Stars and Akwa United by 4 pm. The Owena Whales are winless in their past 10 games  but they did win  this same tie 1-0 in Akure last season  as such, coach Gbenga Ogunbote-led side would be hoping for  their first win in 11 games . Similarly  at the Agege Stadium on Sunday, relegation-haunted Mountain of Fire Miracles Ministries (MFM) will face another troubled team, FC IfeanyiUbah. The Anambra Warriors needed a stoppage-time goal to end their winless streak against the Olukoya Boys last season. FC IfeanyiUbah are 19th  on the spot with 15 points while MFM are 15th with five points better. Kabiru Dogo’s led Lobi Stars  host Jigawa Golden Stars this weekend with The Pride of Benue currently at mid-table and eight points adrift of leaders, Kwara United. They will surely desire a win to begin their upward move to the top half of the table. At the Godswill Akpabio Stadium in Uyo Dakkada FC will entertain Rivers United in their second topflight meeting in their history. The Chosen Ones hold the ace with a 2-1  win  when  they met also in Uyo last season. It was their only encounter before the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic which forced the league season to be abruptly ended after 25 Matchdays last year.  . The Kwara State Sports Complex in  Ilorin will be agog on Sunday when fourth-placed Nasarawa United visit leaders, Kwara United. The Harmony Boys have won their last two consecutive games against Adamawa United (5-0) and Katsina United (2-1). Can they make it a hat-trick of wins against the Solid Miners? At the Okigwe Township Stadium in Imo State, Imama Amapakabo must rally up his Abia Warriors to put their nightmarish loss in Lafia to Nasarawa United behind them as they welcome Plateau United to their fortress. Before the eight goals thriller in Lafia, Imama had complained about his team’s lack of clean sheets but the five goals they conceded in Lafia won’t make him happy either. His strike force possesses the best attack in the league with 25 goals but they have shipped in 23 goals. They are the fourth-worst defence in the league. At the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium in Bauchi, Wikki Tourists will be seeking their first victory in three games when they welcome troubled Katsina United. They were beaten 2-1 at home by Kano Pillars in the penultimate fixture but they managed a face-saving goalless draw in Gombe versus Adamawa United. Katsina United otherwise termed the Changi Boys, were beaten 2-1 in Katsina by Kwara United, and with only five victories from 18 fixtures they are presently 18th on the log with 18 points. Despite their underperformance in the league, Baldwin Bazuaye-tutored side will look into the last fixture in Bauchi with renewed hope. They picked a 1-1 draw last season at the same venue and a repeat performance could mark their mini-revival in an abysmal season thus far. At the Dan Anyiam Stadium in Owerri, Heartland FC will host bottom-placed Adamawa United in a repeat of last season’s fixture played at the Okigwe Township Stadium which ended in a 5-0 win. The Naze Millionaires’ build-up to the game has been hindered by strike action of players over unpaid salaries and match bonuses. It was in a similar way they prepared for their last game against Kano Pillars which they lost through a debatable last gasp spot-kick in Kaduna. Kano Pillars will have honour of playing a second consecutive home game after their controversial victory over Heartland FC last week as the Sai Masu Gida will host Warri Wolves whom they will be seeking a first win over since 2014. Pillars have met the Seasiders six times after their 2-0 home victory of April 2nd, 2014 in Kano but they have only managed three draws and three losses including last season’s 1-1 draw in Kano. Kano Pillars are in the second spot on the table with 33 points from 18 matches while Warri Wolves are 16th  with 19 points and Sai Masu Gida will be more than eager to secure a first win over their bogey team in their seventh attempt.