Movement of Progressive Youth of Nigeria (MOPYON) has prescribed capital punishment for any public official found culpable of corrupt practice. The group also called on the National Assembly to enact laws to that effect. The National Coordinator of the group, Mr. Remigius Nwaonu, made the call in Abuja at the Progressives National Youth Leadership Colloquium and Awards organised by the group. Describing corruption as a desperate disease that requires desperate attention, the group said legislations with capital punishment would grossly help in the fight against corruption, especially among public servants. Speaking on the theme: “Sustainable the Buhari’s Leadership Style of Anti-corruption as a Political Culture in Nigeria: the Place of Progressive Youths in the New Nigeria,” the youth leader canvassed death penalty for corrupt practices. “On the fight against corruption, we request the National Assembly to enact an Act to pronounce corruption a capital offence punishable by hanging to serve as a deterrent to those going for various public services,” he stressed. Nwaonu faulted allegation corruption cases initiated by Buhari in the last six years were to witch hunt perceived opposition. He claimed the present administration has recorded successes in the war against corruption and “lootocracy which were done openly and defended openly by a previous administration”. The MOPYON leader challenged youths to set agenda and be part of the strategic 2023 discussions, stressing there is corruption in the overall framework of human existence in the society. He stressed the successes recorded in corruption fights by the current administration cannot be sustained if the future and successor of Buhari is not discussed, planned and prepared. Keynote speaker, Dr. Toe Ekechi, said while it is true that an accused is innocent until proven guilty; the party is morally bound not to encourage seriously accused members to fly the party’s ticket. He said though it has not been easy for Buhari, tremendous successes and huge gains have been recorded since 2015 when considered from a broad perspective. He pointed out that over 10 former Governors are facing various charges of financial rascality with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) while about two are already in jail and billions of naira has been recovered.