The Year 2020 had its peculiar challenges globally but beyond that, it was one experience the Super Eagles can’t forget in a hurry. For the first time in a very long while, the Eagles, failed to win any of its matches in a calendar year and lost 1-0 to the Desert Foxes of Algeria and were later held to a 1-1 draw by Tunisia in the two friendly matches played in October 2020. Then in the AFCON qualifiers in November, the Eagles blew away a four-goal lead to play 4-4 against the Leone Stars of Sierra Leone at the Sam Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin City before settling for another barren draw in Freetown days after. There was no gainsaying that the Super Eagles needed to be turbo-charged to start 2021 on the right footing. Thankfully, “33” Export Lager Beer was on hand to provide the right motivation for the Super Eagles as a responsible brand and partners of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Through its “Operation 3-3” campaign, the Super Eagles were ‘gingered’ to go for victories in their last two games for the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho to ensure their unbeaten  passage en route to  Cameroun. While many doubted if the Super Eagles could halt the eight-year unbeaten streak of the Squirrels at home, “33” Export Lager Beer was unwavering in its support and ensured the Gernot Rohr’s men delivered in Porto Novo courtesy of a lone strike by  Paul Onuachu. They then followed up with a 3-0 win against Leotho in what was their first game in Lagos after 20 years. “The passionate fans and consumers are beginning to believe in the ability of the Super Eagles to reach the summit of  the continental football and “33” Export lager beer will continue in its drive to build a solid fan base for the team irrespective of the stadium the match will hold because our brand’s desire is to continue to nurture friendship among Nigerians,” the Brand Manager, Rex Anieke, remarke  Even with limited opportunity for passionate fans to have access and watch the match in real-time at the Teslim Balogun Stadium owing to existing COVID-19 protocols, “33” Export lager beer, created a platform for fans and consumers to have a taste of the action with the 33Connect Fan Park some few kilometres away from the stadium; while some lucky fans and consumers emerged victorious in the ‘Predict and Win’ competition and were rewarded with quality prizes. “We are delighted with “33” Export lager beer for giving us this unique experience to connect with our darling team – the Super Eagles and also gave us these great prizes for just predicting the outcome of the game and answering other simple questions” one of the delighted fans stated, adding he was thrilled with . Now set to feature in the 33rd edition of the Africa Cup of Nation, no better brand suits the Super Eagles than “33” Export Lager Beer itself that has continued to deepen engagement with the Eagles, consumers and fans alike. Expectedly, passionate fans and consumers will certainly look forward to a bigger match experience with “33” Export Lager beer not just in Lagos, the host city of Super Eagles matches but cities across the nation as the brand continues in its desire to connect people via the football platform. “The campaign slogan, ‘Let’s Go Naija’ is for real and this is the best opportunity for passionate fans and consumers to stand behind and cheer the team to a glorious campaign at next year’s AFCON tournament in Cameroun. “The coming edition of the tournament no doubt is special to the brand, it is the 33rd edition, which resonates with “33” Export brand of beer and fans will no doubt look forward to the unforgettable AFCON thriller, courtesy of the brand of beer that connects fans with football,” the Brand Manager explained.