In early March, President Muhammadu Buhari ordered security chiefs to shoot anyone, other than security agents, wielding AK-47 on sight. He was doubtless frustrated by the inability of security agents to control the rampage going on in the Northwest. Responding to doubts that the president issued the order, perhaps after years of lethargy over the same problem, presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, quoted him as saying that drastic measures had to be taken, including shooting those who carry assault weapons illegally. Apart from the finer details of how to determine from a distance who is carrying AK-47 illegally, there were doubts the president could have issued the order. The president, however, soon dispelled all doubts. During an expanded meeting with security chiefs and traditional rulers, he shocked everyone by his lack of depth as he thundered: ‘‘But what surprises me is what is happening now in the Northwest where the same people, with the same culture are killing one another, taking their livestock and burning properties. As a result of that, we had a four-hour meeting of the National Security Council attended by the Ministers of Internal Affairs, Defence, Foreign Affairs, Service Chiefs, Chief of Defence Staff, the Inspector-General of Police, and others, and we gave clear instructions. One thing that got to the press which I read myself was that anyone with AK-47 will be shot. This is because AK-47 is supposed to be registered and it is only given to security officials. We closed the borders for some years but the intelligence report I’m getting on a daily basis is that those who are conducting the abductions, the killings and so on are still not short of arms and ammunition.’’ In the same March, shortly before he left for London for a medical check-up, the president also owned up to another tough talk on the criminal activities of bandits. This time, the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, a retired major-general, delivered the president’s message to the press. Paraphrasing him, Gen Monguno said: “On the issue of kidnapping and banditry, this menace still persists, especially in the Northwest and the North-Central zones. Mr. President has been very emphatic; he has stated very clearly that this problem must be brought to an end, but using the traditional methods that the armed forces have been trained to deploy. Mr. President has made it very clear to both the intelligence and operational elements that the first assignment will be to identify the leaders of these bandits, kidnappers and take them out, in order to restore confidence in those areas. Mr. President has said that he will no longer tolerate a situation whereby bandits and kidnappers are the ones dictating the pace and setting the tone and he will not also condone a situation in which our own operations are reactionary rather than being proactive.” First was the ‘shoot on sight’ order with all the attendant complications of not easily and immediately knowing who a security agent is, especially when miscreants of all sorts wear uniforms to perpetrate crime. There is also the legal implication and insinuation of such shootings, if they occur, becoming summary executions, instead of arresting and prosecuting the suspects. Then, second, was the tonal finality of ‘taking suspects out’, again when the expectation is that bandits or sponsors of banditry would be arrested and prosecuted. It is hard to draw a line between taking out and summary execution. Going by his military background, the president does not seem to be keenly aware of how dangerously his orders sound, how they jar the democratic sensitivity of Nigerians now used to elected governments, and how ultimately shortsighted and defeatist such draconian measures are. His aides, who should be aware of the damage the president’s orders could cause, have also become acculturated to the military way of doing business that they did not feel any qualms releasing the video of the president issuing the draconian orders. It takes a lot of sleuthing to discover the sponsors of banditry. It is intelligence-led. How do you take such people out with all its dangerous connotations of summary execution? It is clear what the president meant. If it were not clear that there would be no controversy over the president’s orders, his aides could argue that the controversial phrase meant simply jailing them and putting them out of circulation. According to the Collins English dictionary, “If you take someone out, you kill them, or injure them so badly that they can no longer fight or do anything to harm you.” It is doubtful whether that solution is a sound one in the circumstance, especially when Nigerian laws are adequate enough to tackle the matter, and arresting and prosecuting the suspects and sponsors will enhance the war against banditry, kidnapping and terrorism as a whole. There is no ambiguity about what shoot on sight means. But executing that order is fraught with a thousand and one landmines, and prone to a lot of mistakes and extrajudicial killings. Carrying illegal weapons and sponsoring banditry, given the dire situation in the Northwest in particular, have tasked the capability of security agents and pushed the peace, safety and security of the nation to breaking point. These problems and challenges require tough and urgent measures. But in a democracy, rather than in a military government, there are laws and precedents competent to handle the crisis the country carelessly and knowingly walked into. Abridging or distorting those laws must never be countenanced, notwithstanding the president’s difficulty in ridding himself of a culture he had embraced as a young soldier.  No one in government has till today explained why in negotiating the release of 110 abducted Dapchi, Yobe State schoolgirls in 2018, one of the students, Leah Sharibu, a Christian schoolgirl, was left behind. Since then, nothing has been heard from her except that she had been forcibly married off and may have had a child or two. She waited in vain for rescue by her country, a country that shirks her responsibility or has calloused ears. Who was to tell her that four years before her abduction, approximately a third of the 276 abducted Chibok, Borno State schoolgirls, would still be in captivity, virtually abandoned by their impotent and unfeeling country? These are some people’s children. Only the Nigerian authorities can tell why the country’s leaders can sleep well with those girls pining away in captivity. But it is not only in abductions that Nigeria demonstrates her impotence and confusion. Last week, in Bauchi State, a water vendor in Sade village, Talle Mai Ruwa, a resident of Darazo LGA, was seized from a police outpost by irate religious bigots and murdered and then burnt for blasphemy. His ordeal began with a misunderstanding with a young girl who accused him of blasphemy. He was arrested and detained by the police in the village. But an angry crowd stormed the police outpost and dragged him out and murdered him. The police did not ask for reinforcement and could not protect the middle-aged water vendor who was speculated to be mentally challenged, and once again the country failed one of its citizens. He was not the first, and no matter what anyone writes, he will not be the last to be murdered in cold blood, openly and provocatively. There will be more abductions, more extrajudicial killings, more schoolchildren taken captive, all as the country watches helplessly, in undisguised impotence. It would not be misplaced for citizens to wonder why their country had become so incapable of protecting them; and indeed has become adept at betraying them. But they will receive no answer, just as the abducted schoolgirls scattered in terrorist dens in and outside Nigeria will hear only silence from their distant, callous rulers immersed in the sophistry of whether to negotiate with kidnappers or not.