Dr Isa Pantami is currently Nigeria’s Minister of Minister of Com­munications and Digital Economy. He was nominated as minister and sworn into office on the 21st of August, 2019 in February 2020, Recently, some sections of the media had alleged that he is on the terror watch-list of the U.S. However, The Nation had reported that the minister denied the report alleging him having ties with the late Boko Haram founder, Mohammed Yusuf. He also vowed to sue the propagators of such misinformation. He said on his Twitter handle; “@NewsWireNGR your RETRACTION through your independent investigation, has been noted. However, investigative journalism requires the investigation before publishing, not after. Further, major publishers will meet my lawyers in the court on this defamation of character.” · Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) also known as Sheikh Pantami was born 20th October, 1972 in Pantami Ward, Gombe State, Nigeria to late Hajiya Amina Umar Aliyu and Alhaji Ali Ibrahim Pantami. · He started his education by attending a traditional School for memorizing the Qur’an, called “Tsangaya School, later joined the primary school in Pantami and Government Science Secondary School, Gombe. · He proceeded to Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, University (ATBU), Bauchi and bagged a Bachelor of Technology degree in Computer Science in 2003 and a Masters degree in 2008, before obtaining a PhD from Robert Gordon University, Aberdeen, Scotland. He also holds several professional degrees from various prestigious institutions. · Isa Pantami began his career at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University where he lectured Information Technology before joining the Islamic University of Madinah as Head of Technical Writing in 2014. · In 2016, he was appointed the Director-General/CEO of the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA). · Dr Pantami is the first Minister of Communications and Digital Economy after the re-designation of the Ministry’s name to include responsibilities for creating and formulating Policies for a sustainable Digital Economy for Nigeria. · He serves as a Member of Shari’ah Board of Jaiz Bank. He was also a Shurah member and Deputy Secretary-General of the Supreme Council for Shari’ah (SCS) in Nigeria. · Dr Pantami is a Jumu’ah Chief Imam who has been leading the Jumu’ah prayer for over 20 years in Nigeria and the United Kingdom. · He is an author of books on ICT, STEM, technology, politics & community reconciliation, religion and peaceful coexistence, as well as some publications in international journals. · He speaks Hausa, English, Arabic, Fulfude fluently.