Lagos State government last week rewarded at least 14 persons who distinguished themselves in their callings. These included Nollywood actress Lanre Hassan a.k.a Iya Awero, who was given a three-bedroom flat, and 13 teachers who got a brand new car each for outstanding performance. Iya Awero got the keys to her new apartment at the newly commissioned Prince Abiodun Ogunleye Housing Estate, Igbogbo, on March 24, for her contributions to the country’s film industry. The 70-year-old thespian expressed appreciation to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for the kind gesture: “I don’t know what to say. I am so short of words. I am so happy today. Thank you so much, my governor, may the Almighty Allah continue to bless you.” She is not done: “Also, deputy, thank you so much. I am so grateful. If anyone shelters you whenever you wake up, all you do is pray for the person. God will keep blessing, helping, and supporting you. This our land will be peaceful, God will fix Nigeria and take the country to greater heights. Once again I thank everyone for this gift.” We should understand why Iya Awero is this grateful. For her, the gesture came at the nick of time. It was like the scriptural equivalent of God meeting her at the point of her need. According to reports, Iya Awero was about being evicted from her rented apartment when the governor’s gesture came. So, she had every reason to be thankful to the government that saved her from the humiliation that would have attended such eviction. It is not the kind of experience anyone should wish for one’s enemy, especially at old age. More significantly, people like her who made millions laughed away their sorrows for decades should not be left to their own devices when in actual fact the government or philanthropic individuals could afford to put smile on their faces too at critical junctures of their lives. We commend Governor Sanwo-Olu for the swift response to Iya Awero’s plight. As the governor rightly noted, such achievers should not be left to their own devices at such a time when a little kindness was all they need to change their situation, and one of the best ways to demonstrate this is to appreciate and reward them while they are still alive. “We don’t need to celebrate them when they die, we can celebrate them while they are still alive. These are our Nollywood stars that have worked for over 30-40 years and they need to be celebrated. Congratulations ma. Thank you”, the governor said at the occasion. Similarly, we commend Governor Sanwo-Olu for the car gifts to the dedicated teachers. In Nigeria, teachers seemed to have had their best times in ages past. Despite the fact that they are largely instrumental to whatever many other persons have become in life, they have been relegated to the background for so long. Unlike in the past when they were appreciated and it was indeed dignifying to be a teacher, many of our youths are no longer interested in the teaching profession because they do not think there is a future there. This explains the dearth of born teachers in the country. Many of those teaching now found themselves there for lack of ‘something better’ to do. “Today, I celebrate the remarkable teachers who leave no stone unturned in molding lives, building character and preparing our students for a productive future. In Lagos State, teaching is not a thankless job and this annual Teachers’ Merit Award is a proof that Lagos will always reward excellent, committed, and diligent teachers”, the governor said at the Lagos State Teachers Merit Award 2020, held at Alausa on March 30. Governor Sanwo-Olu said virtually all that should be said for teachers at the occasion, including the benefits that the state stands to gain from institutionalising the annual award for the teachers. “We are cognisant of the essential role that teachers play in building a formidable society, which is why we are committed to rewarding exceptional teachers on a regular basis. This is one of the key strategies for the actualisation of the Education and Technology Pillar of our development agenda. We cannot thank our teachers enough for the passion they bring to the job and for inculcating in our children the values they require to excel as global citizens.” We can only hope that the teachers would reciprocate the kind gesture by rededicating themselves anew to their chosen profession. As the saying goes, to whom much is given, much is expected. The reward for hard work is more work. This is especially so that the Lagos State government is changing the outmoded narrative of teachers’ reward being in heaven. It would be more rewarding if other state governments and even the Federal Government can emulate this gesture by the Lagos State government, in order to have a more global dedicated number of teachers, leading inexorably to building a more formidable country, as education is the bedrock of national development.