The Minister of State, Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, has said the ministry will soon launch a web application called ‘Eye-Mark’ to track projects executed  with budget funds. Also, he said it is not true that the health and educational sector were underfunded. The minister made this known at the National Assembly (NASS)/Budget Office of the Federation of Nigeria (BoF) Retreat/Workshop on the Budget Process in Lagos State. “I don’t agree that the health sector and the educational sectors are not properly funded. What happens is that, most people who are analysing just take a look at what had been given under the ministry of health, or education. But when talking about the sector, there are fundings that are meant for those sectors that aren’t domiciled in those ministries. The Universal Basic Education (UBEC) fund, for instance, is not domiciled with ministry of education. TET-Fund is not domiciled with the ministry of education. “So, if you want to talk about the educational sector, you have to talk about what has been given to the ministry, TET-Fund, UBEC, and it doesn’t even stop there.  Ministry of Works is doing a lot of intervention in federal universities, doing roads and all, that is educational sector. Ministry of Finance, Budget and Planning has got schools where statisticians are trained, but the funding for that does not show in Ministry of Education,” he said. Also, Chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriation, Senator Jibrin Barau, said: “I have the fullest confidence that the 2021 budget will be well implemented and will go a long way to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerian people, and also bring about sound development that will take this country to the next level.’’ On the other hand, the Chairman House Committee on Appropriation, Hon. Muktar  Betara, said: “I have the fullest confidence that the 2021 Budget will be well implemented and will go a long way to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerian people, and also bring about sound development that will take this country to the next level.’’