The National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has commended the leadership of the party in Oyo, Ekiti, Ondo, Lagos, Osun and the Ogun States for the successful conduct of the zonal congress in Osogbo where officers of the party were elected in a free, fair and peaceful manner. The committee, in a statement by its secretary, Hon. Linus Okorie, noted the southwest PDP leaders disappointed people in the opposition who have been fueling division in the party and thought the zonal congress would end in chaos. The committee stated the maturity, peaceful disposition, unity, devotion, the good spirit of brotherliness and sportsmanship displayed at the congress deserved emulation by PDP leaders in other zones within the party. “With what happened in Osogbo, our leaders in the South West have demonstrated that the PDP can retake the South West in 2023 and that with the incompetence being displayed by the ruling party, a united and refocused PDP is a better option for the enlightened people of the South West,” Okorie stated. He recalled how the Reconciliation Committee waded into what looked like an unresolvable stalemate in the Southwest when the Fayose group insisted that there was a court case in which an order has been given for the congress not to hold. He said the committee, which at various times had to also appeal to Governor Seyi Makinde to concede the hosting of the congress outside Ibadan also ensured that the court case was not used to stall the congress. “While we hail all the stakeholders who have yielded to the pleas of the Reconciliation Committee to shift from their original position and made way for peace, we also want to emphasise that the success of the PDP southwest Zonal Congress is another achievement recorded by the National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee. “It shows that the committee has continued to break new grounds and record more achievements. The members of the committee feel inspired by the positive turn of events in the South West PDP that we are now reassured that we will fully reunite every State chapter of the party by the end of the second quarter of this year,” Okorie stated.