Fújì is a popular Nigerian musical genre. It arose from the improvisational wéré music, also known as ajísari meaning “waking up for sari”. The genre began as a modification of a traditional Islamic style of music used to wake Muslims up during the Ramadan fast in Nigeria. Ayinde Barrister is known as the originator of Fuji music.  Pasuma or Oganla 1 is a film actor, Fuji musician, Songwriter, actor and philanthropist. As a teen, Pasuma loved listening to King Wasiu Ayinde Marshall (KWAM 1) album ‘Talazo’ and he claims that the album inspired his decision to become a Fuji musician. The 53-year-old Mushin, Lagos born has 614k and 19.8k followers on his Instagram (verified) and Twitter pages respectively.  King Saheed Osupa (K.S.O) is a Fuji musician, film actor and Hip Fuji creator. Saheed Osupa started music professionally as a teenager in 1983. In 2008, he was declared the “King of Fuji Music” by Ayinde Barrister. The 51-year-old Ajegunle, Lagos born has 439k and 8.1k followers on his Instagram (verified) and Twitter pages respectively.  Sulaimon Alao Adekunle better known as Ks1 Malaika is a songwriter, singer and performer. He started playing and performing music from an early age in a quranic school in the suburb of Lagos known as Agege. The 48-year-old has 275k and 12k followers on his Instagram (verified) and Twitter pages respectively.  King Wasiu Ayinde Marshal (Kwam1) or K1 popularised a brand of the Fuji genre based on the work of the Fuji creator Ayinde Barrister known as Talazo Fuji that appeals to all age groups, irrespective of tribe and background. The 64-year-old Lagos born has 275k and 1,316k followers on his Instagram (verified) and Twitter pages respectively.  Abass Akande Obesere, also known as Omo Rapala or Papa Tosibe forced his way into the limelight through his unusual music style and slangs usage that throws his fans into frenzy. His song “Egungun be careful” which trended in 2020 was actually a remix of one of his old songs. The 56-year-old Ibadan born has 177k and 10.1k followers on his Instagram (verified) and Twitter pages respectively.  Popularly known as Queen Salawa Abeni, she began her professional career when she released her debut album titled: “Late General Murtala Ramat Mohammed,” in 1976, on Leader Records. It became the first recording by a female artist in Yoruba Songs to sell over a million copies in Nigeria. The 59-year-old, Epe, Lagos born has 125k and 836 followers on her Instagram (verified) and Twitter pages respectively.