The 1999 constitution recognises two arms of the National Assembly. The implication is that for any bill to become law, it must be passed by the Senate and the House of Representatives. This affects Executive bills and private member bills. Bills passed by both chambers are harmonised when there are areas of differences before being sent to the President for his ascent. The practice has often been that private member bills passed by each chamber are sent to the other chamber for concurrence. Such bills passed through the processes of legislation in the other chamber before it is passed and harmonised. Since the coming into being of the 9th Assembly, several such bills have been passed by the House of Representatives and sent to the Senate for concurrence. However, both chambers of the National Assembly appear to be working at cross purpose with the Senate refusing to concur with the House on most of its private member bills. There are over 1500 bills that have been tabled by members of the House with many of them awaiting committee reports while several others have been passed by the green chamber awaiting concurrence from the Senate. Several of these bills passed by the House and sent to the Senate for concurrence are still at the first reading stage while some are yet to be listed. Frustrated by this action, House Leader Alhassan Ado Doguwa said the House has tried to do its part and give concurrence to Senate private member bills, but the Senate has refused to do the same. While presenting about three Senate bills seeking concurrence for second reading, Doguwa said it was unfortunate that the Senate was not considering House bills the same way the House was doing to Senate bills. According to him, since the country is running a bicameral legislature, it is expedient on both chambers to work together and give concurrence to bills passed before such bills can come into effect “Mr. Speaker, I rise once again for the fifth time to present Senate Bill for second reading. As I rise to do this, I want to put it on record that this House take seriously the issue of working together with the Senate for maximum performance.  That is why this House has always given speedy consideration to bills passed by the Senate. Unfortunately, we cannot say the same thing about the Senate. We have quite a number of bills passed by this House which are still lying on the table of the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Rules and Business unattended to. This is a thing of concern to the leadership of this House. I want to appeal to the Senate to give urgent attention to bills passed by this House seeking concurrence. That is how a bicameral legislature work,” Doguwa said. Minority Leader Ndudi Elumelu said it was not appropriate that the Senate was frustrating efforts of the House. Deputy Speaker Ahmed Idris Wase said the Leadership of the House would take up the issue with the Leadership of the Senate. The Spokesman of the House, Hon. Benjamin Kalu, offered an excuse for the Senate not considering bills passed by the House, arguing that it may not be unconnected with the fact that more bills were coming from the House. Kalu said: “People have always imagined that there is a superiority kind of status between the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Constitution did not say so. If it said so, you will not see the House of Representatives always seeking concurrence (from the Senate) while the Senate will not seek concurrence (from the House). If one house is superior to the other; if the House is superior, we would just pass our bill and seek the president’s assent. The same is applicable to the Senate. It means that nothing from the House of Reps can scale through without the mandate of the Senate, and nothing from the Senate can scale through, no matter how beautiful, without the concurrence of the House of Reps. So, they are like twins and the cooperation of each other is highly needed. I don’t want to say there is a conflict. Maybe because of COVID-19, the speed of handling some of our responsibilities reduced. So, without making an excuse for the Senate, I think the volume of jobs is much, considering their limited number compared to us. We churn out more bills than them because our number is more, we are 360 and they are 109. What we use our number to achieve speed on will take them twice that same time to achieve.” Kalu continued: “We raised this agitation only to wake up the consciousness of the Senate; that they need to speed up their concurrence. If not, it might lead to the House of Reps also slowing down. But I don’t think it is deliberate because that is the way law-making works. We need you for our bills to go through and you need us for your bills to go through. Let us jettison that idea that there is a conflict and there is somebody sitting down there in the Senate stepping on the bills of the House of Reps; I don’t think it is so. This is one parliament – one National Assembly.” Kalu refused to admit that something was wrong between the House and the Senate but stressed that the position of the House must have been misconstrued. He said: “I don’t think you got the Leader clearly, he did not say that the Senate was deliberately stepping down our bills. I don’t think you got him clearly. I think that we are working together and though COVID-19 has affected our speed at the House of Reps. I am sure you know that most of our reports have not been considered because of COVID-19 and so many bills that we have proposed have not gone to a public hearing. I am sure that is what is affecting them too. If there is any other thing that is affecting them beyond that, it is high time they reviewed and looked at it for the interest of Nigerians.” A close look The majority of the bills that have received concurrence from both chambers have been Executive bills, while the House has given effect to more Senate bills than what they have received from the Senate. For example, some bills passed by the House in 2019 are yet to go for second reading in the Senate. Many of them are still at the first reading stage. Some of these bills include the Electric Power sector reform bills, Physically challenged empowerment bill, Students Loan (Access to higher education) bill, National Orientation Agency Amendment bill ad National Ear Care Centre, Kaduna establishment bill all passed by the House on the 10th of October 2019. Others include the Presidential Transition bill, the Labour Act amendment bill, Environmental Health Officers Amendment bill all passed on the 28th of November 2019 as well as the National Law Reform Commission bill passed on the 20th of November, 2019 among others. Also, the economic stimulus bill sponsored by Speaker of the House, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, is also yet to get the attention of the Senate. The stimulus bill was introduced and went through first, second and third reading in one day as a way of giving succour to Nigerians as a result of the outbreak of the Coronavirus. The bill was passed and sent to the Senate for concurrence before the lockdown in March 2020 following the spread of the Coronavirus. Even though the Federal Government has implemented the majority of the provisions of the bill using its own initiatives, the bill is yet to pass through second reading in the Senate. Some members of the House are not happy that their private member bills are not being given an accelerated hearing by the Senate and this tends to frustrate their efforts at delivering dividends of democracy to their people. Some members complain that when they introduce a bill and it is sent to the Senate, rather than give concurrence, Senators introduce a counter bill which they pass and is sent to the House for concurrence. Some members are quick to use the case between Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege and the member representing Ndokwa East and West federal constituency, Hon. Ossai Nichola Ossai, as an example. Hon Ossai’s bill for the establishment of a Federal Polytechnic in Kwale, which was passed by the House, was killed by the Senate in preference of a similar bill sponsored by the Deputy Senate President for the establishment of a Federal Polytechnic in Orogun. The House ignored protests by Hon Ossai not to give concurrence to the Senate bill and passed it. The President has approved the take-off of the Federal Polytechnic. The Senate also denied the House when they invited the President to appear before the House to brief them on the security situation in the country. The invitation was sequel to a motion sponsored by the Borno caucus in the House.  When it became obvious that the President was not going to honour the invitation, the Senate told the world that they never invited the President. Similarly, when controversy trailed the infectious disease bill sponsored by Gbajabiamila, an aide to the Deputy Senate President berated the House as a result of the bill and said senators would not give effect to the bill when it comes to them. Interestingly, as at the time of this report, the House had listed for third reading, three Senate bills whose second reading has already be taken, while one other went through second reading with Hon. Ben Mzondu insisting that details of the bills be presented to members when they are tabled for a second reading to enable them to do due diligence on the bills. Peering Advocacy and Advancement Centre in Africa (PAACA) Executive Director Ezenwa Nwagwu is not comfortable with the complaint from the House Leader and believed that he should have explored an internal mechanism for resolving the issue before bringing it to the floor of the House. He told The Nation that “the House leader can enjoy a brief moment of excitement with all of this grandstanding. Has he exhausted the internal mechanism of resolving issues of this nature internally? Considering also that his party controls the majority in both Houses. To give the impression rivalry or who works harder can only impress the uninitiated. The National Assembly indeed the legislature must co-operate to give Nigerians sunshine laws, motions that address the myriad of challenges we are confronted with at this time”. Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) Executive Director Auwal Musa Rafsanjani expressed concern over the complaint of the House while calling for proper synergy between both chambers. He called for unity of purpose and improved legislative processes in the National Assembly. He said: “The complaint by the House Leader raises a lot of concern among citizens with regards to the legislative activities of the National Assembly. Considering the pertinence of legislation passing through the considerations of both chambers of the National Assembly before passage and onward transmission to the President for assent into law, it is expected that the legislature would normally work in collaboration for harmonization and final passage of legislation. From the exposure of the House Leader, it can be gathered that there is a seeming inability of the National Assembly to synergise for speedy passage of legislation. What this invariably means is that law-making processes would be delayed unnecessarily. Such a development is counter-productive and unhealthy for legislative procedures.” Rafsanjani went on: “Nigerians are already distrustful of the legislature due to the non-pleasant narratives that have surrounded the conduct of National Assembly businesses overtime. Nigerians are mindful of the huge resources allocated to the National Assembly in recognition of its crucial role in our democracy. This discord and inability to work harmoniously would be tantamount to poor legislative adjudication and a waste of resources that should be diligently applied to ensure speedy legislative processes for the development of the country and its citizens. He argued that “what is even more worrisome is the fact that the leadership of the House of Representatives and the Senate, as well as the Executive, are of the same political party. One would naturally expect that such factors would lay the common platform for people to work in unison and in one accord. However, the exposition in the House last week only signals to the public a lack of coordinated approach to governance by the ruling party. “The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) is encouraging the Senate and the House of Representatives to put Nigeria and Nigerians above themselves and work as one legislature towards the achievement of the National Assembly legislative agenda. The National Assembly should always remember that Nigeria does not practice a unicameral but a bi-cameral legislature. Concurrence from both chambers is thereby needed for the passage of bills into law. It is in this light that CISLAC calls for improved synergy and collaboration between both chambers of the National Assembly not only in the process of law-making but also in oversight and representation functions. The Senate and the House of Representatives cannot afford to see themselves as different institutions which can work in isolation of each other. This is clearly against the spirit of a bicameral legislature and the democracy which the Nigerian constitution seeks to protect.” However, Senate Spokesperson, Senator Basiru Ajibola refused to comment on the development when The Nation contacted him for his comment. The Senator representing Osun Central simply said “no comment”.