 Aside being conferred with honourary degrees by tertiary institutions, it is not uncommon to find politicians getting conferred with traditional titles across the country. While some may just be able to boast of just one, there are some who can boast of more than six traditional titles conferred on them by their local traditional rulers and other community heads. They are conferred with traditional titles in recognition of their impact in the community and across the nation. Below are 10 Nigerian politicians, including former Governors and Presidents who have been conferred with traditional titles:  *President Muhammadu Buhari About seven years ago, the Enyi of Aba in Abia, His Imperial Majesty Eze Isaac Ikonne, honoured President Muhammadu Buhari, who was a presidential aspirant at the time, with a chieftaincy title: Ogbuagu 1 of Igboland which literally means the lion killer, a metaphor for a champion. Buhari in 2018 again picked up another title: Ikeogu 1 of Igboland (fighter for Ndi Igbo) in the Bende Local Government Area of the state with over 60 traditional rulers in Isiukwuato/Umunneochi constituency conferring him with the title. The Emir of Daura, Umar Faruk in 2015 appointed Buhari as Bayajidda the Second of Daura Emirate, his hometown in Katsina State. The President has also been conferred with the traditional title, Sadauki Gwandu by the Emir of Gwandu and chairman of the Kebbi council of Chiefs, Alhaji Muhamamdu Bashar. Traditional rulers in Igbere under the umbrella of Igbere traditional council, conferred the ‘Nwanne Di Na Mba’ (a friend in Diaspora) 1 of Igbere Kingdom title on Dr Ahmad Lawan.  Senator Rochas Okorocha, representing Imo West, was conferred with the traditional titles of “Owelle Ndi Igbo” and “Dan Jekan Sokoto” by the body of traditional rulers of the South East and the North, led by the Chairman of the South East Forum of Traditional Rulers, Eze (Dr.) Ezo Ukandu, JP and the Late Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Alhaji Muhammadu Maccido (CFR). Okorocha is also the Omorodun of Yoruba land; the Okala of Ehie; the Talban Gwagwalada and Uban Talakawa   Chief Whip of the Senate, Dr Orji Uzor Kalu, reportedly bagged the highest chieftaincy title in Ihechiowa community, Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia-North for his infrastructural strides in developing the community and senatorial district. The title “Ikenga Ata Igbo-Ukwu Umuzomgbo Ihechiowa” was conferred on the former governor by Eze Linus Mbah (Eze Udo 1), traditional ruler of Ata Igbo-Ukwu Umuzomgbo autonomous community.  The former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, was conferred with the traditional title of “Sadaukin Shinkafi” by Shinkafi Emirate Council in Zamfara.  *Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, holds honourary titles from many towns across the country. He is the Jagaban of Borgu Kingdom in Niger State, Aare of Ile-Oluji and Aare Ago of Egbaland. ‘Jagaban’ is a title conferred on the former Lagos governor by Halliru Dantoro, the late Emir of Borgu and one of the titans of the “second republic” politics. According to Dantoro, the title means “leader of warriors”.  The title was also birthed from the phrase “Ja a gabar Borgu”, which means a leader of Borgu city. In 1982, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar was given the chieftaincy title of the Turaki of Adamawa by his future father-in-law, Adamawa’s traditional ruler Alhaji Aliyu Mustafa. The title had previously been reserved for the monarch’s favourite prince in the palace, as the holder is in charge of the monarch’s domestic affairs. In June 2017, Abubakar was given the chieftaincy title of the Waziri of his homestate, Adamawa, and his previous title of Turaki was transferred to his son Aliyu. The Emir of Bauchi Dr. Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu and members of Bauchi Emirates Council recently conferred on former President Goodluck Jonathan the Jigon Bauchi title. Jonathan was conferred with the title during his visit to Bauchi to witness naming of Sabon Kaura to Miri Road after him.   Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare was also recently installed as the Agbaakin of Ogbomosoland in Oyo State. The Soun of Ogbomoso, Oba Jimoh Oyewumi honoured him with the title.  Hon Shina Peller As part of the celebration marking the 50th coronation anniversary, Alaafin of Oyo, Oba (Dr) Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, conferred Ayedero of Yoruba Land title on Hon Shina Abiola Peller, who is Club Quilox owner and member of the Federal House of Representatives representing the Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Iwajowa/Kajola Federal Constituency in Oyo state. 