Sometimes in 2016, Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike touched his wife’s chin at a dinner for movie stars. She held his hand. Softly. His dim eyes gazed into her eyes. She gazed at him too. They were sitting on red seats with a touch of royalty. Other guests, especially the movie stars who were the reason for the event, became spectators – momentarily. And they had an eyeful. His Excellency and his wife Justice Suzette were ready to shock all who may have thought the public display of affection would end at the mere holding of hands. Wike planted a French kiss on his wife. She responded sharply. Their eyes were closed as they savoured the sudden flight to dreamland. It was a short scene that ended before many could train their eyes on it. But it perhaps painted His Excellency – who is considered stiff and some could have vowed was incapable of such an open display of love – in another light. Like Wike, the name Emeka Ojukwu conjures imagery far from soft. On October 1, a film focusing on the life of the late ex-Biafran leader is likely to be premiered. The film is not concerned about Ojukwu the warlord, its headache is Ojukwu, the ladies’ man, the party enthusiast and lover of music. The Ojukwu filmmaker Onyeka Nwelue wants to reveal to us in his ‘Other Side of History’ is poles apart from the one we met in Ojukwu’s ‘Because I am Involved’. For a man who lived in Nnewi, Zungeru, Lagos, London, Aburi, Ahiala, Enugu, Yamoussoukro and Bingerville, ‘Because I am Involved’ fell short of the juicy details the public was expecting. Zungeru, a town now in Niger State, was the capital of the British protectorate of Northern Nigeria from 1902 to 1916. Frederick Lugard, a Colonial administrator, chose the town as the capital of Northern Nigeria over Jebba and Lokoja because of its central location. The British established a market, military barracks, hospital, among other things in Zungeru. Seven years after Zungeru became a capital city, Sir Louis Odumegwu Ojukwu was born. Years later, even though Zungeru was no longer the capital, it still held a lot of promises. Ojukwu, an Igboman from Nnewi, made it home and from there he operated a transport business, which soon made him Nigeria’s first millionaire. He gave birth to his first son, Emeka, in this town on November 4, 1933. He was 24. By the time Emeka, who later became the head of state of the defunct Biafran Republic, was to start school, his father shoved him to Lagos. In 1944, he was briefly imprisoned for assaulting a white British colonial teacher who was humiliating a black woman at King’s College in Lagos, an event that generated widespread coverage in local newspapers. London was his next port of call. It is the city where he was educated and also died. At 13, his father sent him overseas to study in the UK, first at Epsom College and later at Lincoln College, Oxford University, where he earned a Master’s degree in history. He returned to colonial Nigeria in 1956. On return from London, Enugu was where he came. There he joined the civil service in defunct Eastern Nigeria as an Administrative Officer at Udi. In 1957, within months of working with the colonial civil service, he left and joined the military as the second university graduate to join the army. He later led the Igbo into a long-drawn battle with Nigeria after the senseless pogrom in the North. When it was glaring that the secession battle had failed, he delegated instructions to his second-in-command, Philip Effiong, and went into exile for 13 years in Cote d’Ivoire. There, he stayed in Yamoussoukro, the political capital of Cote d’Ivoire and home town of his host, the late President Félix Houphouët-Boigny, who named it the federal capital in 1983. Yamoussoukro is also the site of what is claimed to be the largest Christian place of worship on Earth: The Basilica of Our Lady of Peace of Yamoussoukro, consecrated by Pope John Paul II on 10 September 1990. Ojukwu also stayed in Bingerville, the old capital of Cote d’Ivoire. While in Cote d’Ivoire, he worked as a supplier of granite to construction sites. He returned to Nigeria following a pardon and lived the better part of his life in Enugu after his exile years. But shortly after returning, he was in Nnewi to take a chieftaincy title, the Ikemba. Nnewi, the second-largest city in Anambra State, was his hometown. Foremost British writer Frederick Forsyth wrote two books on the late Biafran leader: ‘The Biafra Story: The Making of an African Legend’, an account of the war first published in 1969, and ‘Emeka’, a biography of the late Biafran head of state published in 1982. Unlike books and other stuff earlier done on Ojukwu, Nwelue’s film is going to focus on his life between 1954 and 1960. It is going to depict him “frolicking with different women and throwing parties for his friends, inviting highlife originator, E.T Mensah, from Ghana to play for him and Bobby Benson, singing at his birthday party”. The locations include Nigeria, Ghana, the US and Canada. The film is said to have been inspired by Uduma Kalu’s 2012 article titled “Ojukwu: Sexcapades of the Biafran leader”. “He has all it takes to attract any woman. He is from a wealthy family and was educated in Oxford. His voice is poetry and could spin women’s heads. It is said that he combines romantic poetry with love letters and deploys very soothing words for his women. No woman can resist Emeka’s aura and oratory,” said a statement by the filmmaker. Emeka is going to be played by Greg Ojefua. Chika Anyanwu will play Sir Louis Ojukwu. Makinde Adeniran will depict Wole Soyinka, Emeka Darlington will act as Chinua Achebe, Hero Daniels plays Chris Okigbo, Emeka Okoye plays Olusegun Obasanjo, Ugo Stevenson plays Philip Effiong, Jammal Ibrahim plays Yakubu Gowon and Emelie Obodoakor will appear as JP Clark. ‘Other Side of History’ is based on a screenplay by Nwelue and Odega Shawa. The film is produced by Lorenzo Menakaya for Blues & Hills Pictures Ltd.