 The African Youth Parliament on Thursday called on the  governments in Africa to disregard the various myths about COVID – 19 vaccines but rather take the vaccines to protect themselves against the virus. While calling on the Federal Government to take the lead in motivating other governments in Africa by ensuring that all her citizens are vaccinated, the organisation said it had set up the COVID – 19 Vaccines Monitoring Team to monitor government efforts in vaccinating Africans and stop the reported disenfranchisement of the less privileged citizens. The Speaker of AYP, Oladele Bamikole, stated these during a press conference to unveil its Head (Directorate of International Youth Events and Information, Communication and Technology), Rafiu Ishola with the theme: “COVID -19 Vaccination.” He said: “We want to indulge African Nationalities not to be receptive to the various myths about COVID – 19 vaccines rather take the vaccines to protect themselves against the virus. “It is important to emphasise that the various governments across Africa must make frantic efforts in vaccinating their citizens against COVID – 19 virus. We are aware of some countries that have deliberately disenfranchised indigent people from taking the vaccines.” “We would want the Nigerian government to take the lead in motivating other governments in Africa by ensuring that all her citizens are vaccinated. There should not be any form of discrimination in vaccinating Africans irrespective of their economic status because all lives matter.  “Our greatest concern is how best to convince Africans on the potency and efficacy of Vaccines in taming the further spread of the virus. “This is to inform the world that we have set up the COVID – 19 Vaccines Monitoring Team. The team is expected to monitor government efforts in vaccinating Africans. Every African must be vaccinated at the expense of our governments. “Our position became imperative in the face of doubts being expressed by African Nationalities on the efficacy of COVID –  19 vaccines aimed at taming the further spread of COVID – 19 in Africa. “There has been various reasons peddling around about the consequences of taking the vaccines. But we would not want to dwell on those negative stories in the interest of our fellow Africans.” The AYP also commended the efforts of the World Health Organisation in coordinating all the strategic efforts in producing the COVID – 19 vaccines.