Social media influencer, Japhet Omojuwa, has explained why he listed a former Minister of Education Dr Obiageli Ezekwesili as part of Alpha Reach’s directors, a company owned by him. The Nation had reported how Ezekwesili threatened to sue Omojuwa for unauthorised use of her identity by the blogger. Omojuwa was entangled in a controversy last week alongside some influencers for allegedly collecting money to run a campaign in favour of the detained Venezuelan diplomat, Alex Saab While Omojuwa denied his participation in the “free Alex Saab” campaign on social media, a report published by Buzzfeed said two persons working in his PR firm, Alpha Reach Limited, were recruited to participate in the campaign. Ezekwesili last week shared a copy of a complaint filed on her behalf by Femi Falana’s law firm, demanding full disclosure and public apology from the influencer over the fraudulent use of her name as one of the directors of the company in question. The company on its twitter page swiftly denied collecting money to run Saab’s campaign, adding that at no point was Mrs. Ezekwesili a co-owner. But in a response to Ezekwesili’s pre-notice, Omojuwa’s law firm Babalakin and Co Chambers, stated the influencer sought and obtained Ezekwesili’s consent before listing her as a director of the company based on “close relationship”. Omojuwa berated Ezekwesili for betraying his loyalty and services when she publicly denied having anything to do with the company. “Our client has a 10-year relationship with your client dating back to 2011. Our client had just completed the mandatory National Youth Service when he met your client, who took him under her wings and even assisted in paying part of his rent in Abuja in 2012. “The relationship began when our client visited your client’s house in Abuja in the company of Mallam Nash El-Rufai, upon her request. Our client enjoyed a triangular relationship with your client and Mallam EI-Rufai, whom your client used to refer to as her “brother”. “Both Mallam El-Rufai and your client were listed as Directors of Alpha Reach Company Limited when it was registered in 2012, with their full consent. “Likewise, our client recalls being seated at the suite of a respected man of God at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja, trusting your client with some very personal and painful stories. “At a point in our client’s life, your client was his most trusted person and confidant. Some people can attest to this fact, and they will, at the appropriate time and forum,” the reply letter partly reads. Omojuwa said that she was replaced in 2015 when everyone thought she would get a ministerial appointment from the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. He further stated his fallout with Ezekwesili may not be unconnected with his refusal to continue propagating her worldview about issues. “The relationship between your client and our client deteriorated because our client is no longer the impressionable boy who had just completed his NYSC in 2011. “He is a man who has earned his stripes and is no longer willing to fight proxy wars or be used to fight perceived enemies by a benefactor. He is tired of your client’s constant efforts to control his public views and tweets. “While he remains grateful for your client’s past contributions to his growth and development and is sad about the recent turn of events, our client is ready to use every piece of information at his disposal to defend himself and his future against your client’s ungodly allegations,” he added.