Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola on Wednesday re-echoed the call for state policing, saying governors should be allowed to control security apparatus in their states. The governor lamented that escalating insecurity was standing in the way of planned economic rebirth of the South West region. According to him, insecurity is making the people to sit on the edge. “Kidnapping, banditry, armed robbery and other crimes now connive to drive people away from their farms, make transportation of merchants and their goods and farmers and their produce to other parts of the country a nightmare.” The governor spoke at the 2nd Annual Colloquium of the Sultan Maccido Institute for Peace, Leadership and Development Studies, at the University of Abuja.  The governor’s comments are coming amidst rising call for state policing in the country following rising insecurity. Oyetola, while acknowledging the efforts of the Federal Government through the establishment of Community Police, said: “It is against this backdrop that we should situate and appreciate the growing clamour for state police. The response of the Federal Government with the establishment of community policing even though desirable, is still considered inadequate because it is still controlled from the centre. “Many governors have registered this inadequacy by establishing their own security agencies to assist the police. There is no doubt, however, that until governors are allowed to control the security apparatus of their state, we are not likely to have improved security in the country. “Governors are doing a lot in the area of security. The essence of government is security and welfare of the people but we have a contradiction here; you are saying governors are the chief security officers of their respective states but they don’t control the security agencies. You can’t give instruction to any of the agencies and they will carry it out. They will naturally want to consult with their headquarters. “Policing the entire country appears very inadequate. That is why in my view it is the time for the state to have their own police so as to control the activities of criminals, hoodlums and bandits.” The governor, while insisting that Amotekun – a regional security arrangement in the South West –  is a child of necessity, noted that the security arrangement is complementing the conventional security agencies to effectively tackle armed banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery among other crimes.