The relevance of background check has to be determined in line with what organisations stand to gain when they adopt background check or what they lose when they don’t adopt it. It is believed that 70% of organisational loss is always due to employee sharp practices. Organisations also recruit based on brilliance without running checks on their prospective employees. Some are employed as wolfs in sheep clothing. They defraud and misbehave to customers. Some even get to the extreme case of violence with co-employees. This is negligent hiring. If employees assaulted sue the affected organisations, pay damages. All these tarnish the image of such organizations. Background check has remained ever relevant and still relevant to organsations. Many of the organisations have embraced it but others still believe no employee can do any harm. The need to conduct background check is becoming non- negotiable for regular and other staff. The recent story that went viral about how a driver kidnapped three staff of a bank exposed the absence of due diligence on the staff. The driver background check suffers such fate. He organised the kidnap of the staff based on the information he had about them. Organisations that refused to embrace background check suffer such fate. It should be pointed out that when the economy takes a dip, insecurity becomes inevitable. People come up with sharp practices and cut corners to eke out a living. It needs emphasis that no organisation should take background check with levity for its workforce. The process of background check is not just based on assumptions on the facial outlook of the person. It is also not witch hunting but verifying claims. The claims of attending higher institutions are verified to determine their genuineness. We ensure we verify claims and contact previous employers about the character and competences of the prospective candidate. All these give us the true picture of things for the organization to take decisions. We have done background check on some employees and four previous employer’s stated same thing about the employee and this bordered and bad character and indiscipline. The truth is that the employee would perform worse if offered employment in the new place of employment except a definite change occurred. Background check is about claims verification, bringing facts and figures together. There are several assumptions about interviews that organisations make which affect them in the long run. Like Peter Drucker says that chances are good that within 1 year, hiring decisions are wrong. Background check is mainly about facts and figures as well as sourcing information. This is what organisations need to know. If organisations base decision on the performance of personnel during interview and later discover incompetence, lack of requisite skills etc, it hinders the growth of such organisations. It also means the employee would be fired and start the process all over again. If there is no due diligence on any staff, it hinders the growth of the organisation. We are putting technology in place now to run checks on new employees and that is why we developed EDUCHECK, A digital identity and documentation service. BCI runs through its database and verify the records for organisations. It is quick for organisations to base their decisions on data and not on face value. These are some of the changes coming into the industry. One of the biggest problems we have as a country is leadership. Leadership problem is an offshoot of the fact that most of our political leaders are not who they really claim to be. Many make false claims about their personality. When they get on the governance seat , they do things in the wrong way. One of the things that will bring sanity to our political terrain in Nigeria is when people call for diligence on those seeking elective offices. It is a growth thing and it will get to stage the populace will demand due diligence on political leaders. The process of demanding verification on political leaders is not yet in Nigeria unlike what obtains overseas but gradually, we are getting there. The future of background check is based on the fact that there is no aspect of endeavour that human beings are not involved. In all spheres, people are involved even with the use of IT. The future of background check is that you don’t relate with human beings on face value again. The future of background check is to know the true identity of people. Background check gives peace of mind as it is relevant to every facet of the society. It is discovered that in every gamut of corporate world, background check is inevitable. Background check reveals the true identity of people. It is now left to the populace to decide on the way forward. It is whether someone with nefarious past is given authority to occupy the seat of governance or not.