 The people of Anambra State were lucky last week. But for providence, some miscreants tried to put a permanent blot on the state canvas. They attempted to murder one of Nigeria’s best and brightest sons, Professor Chukwuma Soludo, a former Central Bank of Nigeria governor. His crime? May be for daring to express interest to contest the upcoming state governorship election later in the year. If it is, then the plotters did not want to take a chance, that the man could be defeated at the polls; rather, they wanted to be in charge of who should contest. What a shame. Yet, by some accounts, Anambra State, is the homestead of Gad, acclaimed as one of the 12 sons of Israel, which by biblical account, is God’s chosen race. Could it then be that in a poor imitation of the Jews on Good Friday, persons from Anambra State, wanted to murder one of their most successful sons, just like the Jews, murdered Jesus around the same period, 2,000 years ago? As I wrote on this page, some time ago, Anambra State is blessed with the best the Igbo race can offer, as well as some of the worst dregs of the proud race. They boast of the highest concentration of intellectuals, as well as the highest concentration of billionaires any state in the country can boast of. Amongst these money-men, are some of the most productive Nigerians; whether as industrialists, entrepreneurs or traders. Conversely, the state also boasts of many billionaires whose source of income are shrouded in mystery. Those who believe that having tons of billions in their bank account is an end in itself, even if they gave the devil their soul in exchange. It is this last group of conscienceless billionaires that the good Lord has somehow saved the state from their hands, since 1999, as they become exceedingly dangerous when they join politics. Since the birth of this republic, such billionaire-politicians have approached every gubernatorial election as a do-or-die affair. With the billions they acquired dubiously as their only credential, they treat election as a bandit enterprise. Indeed, should the major political parties in the state sell nomination forms for a billion naira, there would still be several aspirants on the ballots at party-primaries. But somehow starting from the start of the 4th republic in 1999, the state has managed to outwit the bandit-billionaires in the political chess game. In 1999, former vice-president, Dr Alex Ekwueme was able to ensure the emergence of Dr Chinwoke Mbadinuju, who was not a money bag. Mbadinuju who managed to survive for a term, could not however survive the political hurricane engineered by the late Ikemba Nnewi, Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu in 2003. Luckily for the state, Ikemba engineered the birth of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) which again snatched the state from the hands of the desperate billionaires who were ready to buy the governorship off the shelf, regardless of the price tag. Peter Obi, the APGA candidate though a billionaire, was hewed from a different wood from the desperadoes angling for a kill. While he changed the paradigm of governance with his gentle disposition, the tumultuous money-men pounced at the state at the next election. After swearing Dr Chris Ngige to a fetish oath, in other to tie the state’s treasury to their private bank accounts, they handed over to him a stolen governorship seat. To their chagrin, Ngige, ignored his oath and governed like a free born. To the consternation of Nigerians, the desperate billionaires bribed federal government officials, at the highest level, to allow them teach the governor a lesson. Again, Anambra was lucky, as the governor who had already signed his resignation letter under the force of arms was saved from a forced resignation. The state’s luck became permanent when Peter Obi was returned following his victory at the Supreme Court, against Ngige. Again, the desperadoes bided their time, as Peter Obi went about governing the state with a frugality that even his supporters considered strong handed. After completing his second term, to forestall the purchase of the state by the billionaire desperadoes, Peter Obi started an ingenious campaign that Ikemba Nnewi, had asked Anambrarians to do him the last favour of electing Willie Obiano the APGA candidate, as state governor. Somehow the gimmick worked, and Willie as governor worked hard to earn himself a deserved second term, even after falling apart with his benefactor, Peter Obi. Now that Willie’s second term is about to end, the nightmare of the state being hijacked by the bandit-billionaires has returned. Somehow, Governor Obiano appears to be angling for the former CBN governor, Soludo, and many believe he could become the APGA candidate and perhaps eventual winner of the governorship election. Many believe last week’s attempt to murder the former CBN governor was a desperate attempt to kill the project at its embryo. So, the police must find those involved in the dastardly act that snuffed life out of three policemen. Hopefully, the kidnapped state commissioner would be rescued alive. The security agencies should thoroughly drill those arrested, so that they can reveal their true sponsors, who should be treated as the law provides. For this column, all those involved in the attempt to murder Professor Soludo should be ashamed of themselves, for the needless calamity they wanted to foist on the family of Soludo, the people of Anambra and Nigerians in general. In an Easter period, when chastity should be the watch word, the bandits, whoever they are, have no qualms about the consequences of spilling an innocent blood. Yet, if there was a person eminently qualified to govern any state or even any country, Professor Soludo is that person. As Emeka Agbayi and I wrote in: Service Above Self (2008), Soludo studied Economics at the University of Nigeria, Nsukkka, and graduated with First Class Honours degree in 1984, as best graduating student. He was also best graduating student in the M.Sc. class of 1987. He crowned these with the Faculty Prize for the best graduating PhD candidate in 1988/89 academic year. This prodigious intellectual, became a full professor at the age of 38. Instead of praying for the Soludo solution, apologies to: service above self, some miscreants wanted Nigeria, and Anambra state in particular, to go into mourning. Luckily, God said no to their evil machinations. While there is a presumption that it could be those who harbour ill-will against the political aspiration of the former Central Bank Governor that had wanted to kill him, the police should as well look beyond them in their search. This column hopes that Anambra State’s luck will shine again at the next governorship election.