Windstorm has destroyed 100 buildings at Aguleri in Anambra East Local Government of Anambra State. The structures, including residential houses and schools, were mostly located at one of the Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDPs’) camps at Father Joseph Memorial High School, Aguleri. The Nation gathered that the storm also wreaked havoc at Justice Chinwuba Memorial Secondary School, Aguleri, forcing some of the pupils to study under the tree. A pupil, Chidera Udo, said they had returned from the Easter holiday to begin academic activities before the incident occurred. “We were in the hostel at night when a heavy wind started to blow off the roofs of the hostel, pushing out our doors. We had to run,” she added. The head teachers of the schools described the incident as shocking. They sought government’s assistance. The Head Teacher of Father Joseph Memorial High School, Rev. Fr. Anthony Okoye, said the storm rendered more than 2,000 pupils stranded. He said: “I’ve never seen such a devastating incident. Almost all the buildings in the school were affected, including refectory, teachers’ quarters, classroom blocks and hostels. “The pupils will soon start exams and there are no enough classrooms for them. We are calling on the government, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), churches and others to assist us.” The Head Teacher of Justice Chinwuba Memorial Secondary School, Aguleri, Mr. Emmanuel Anerobi, said: “I told the contractor when he was roofing this structure that he used substandard materials, but he did not listen. “Now look at our classroom block, the windstorm has carried it away. We are in a sad situation.” An alumnus of the school, Mr. Mike Meze, thanked God that nobody died. He, however, regretted that the windstorm destroyed the new structures recently built for the school by the Old Boys Association. He called for urgent government assistance to enable the pupils, especially those in junior and senior secondary examination classes, to resume studies in earnest. “We are really confused. We had planned that before the end of this year, we would have built a bigger structure here that would also have a sick bay. In fact, the government must act fast to assist the school,” Meze said.