Minister of Defence Bashir Magashi, a retired major general, easily attracts attention with his remarks seemingly meant to reinforce the country’s fight against increasing insecurity. For instance, he tried to boost the morale of counter-insurgency troops he visited at the Theatre Command Headquarters in Maiduguri, Borno State, on April 18.  “You should not be afraid of the bullet because it can even meet you in the house if it means you dying by it,” he told the fighters, adding, “But if you are not meant to die by the bullet, it will never kill you even at the heart of a war.” It is unclear how many of the fighters he addressed in such fatalistic terms were impressed and inspired.  His fatalism was out of place. His remarks were reckless. By implying that the fighters might be afraid, he unwittingly drew attention to their reported situation in the theatre of war. It has become clear that the military is ill-equipped, and poorly equipped fighters are likely to lack confidence in the face of better equipped enemies. As defence minister, he has a role to play to ensure that the troops are not only well equipped but adequately equipped. He should concentrate on remedying this critical deficiency, rather than exhibiting the mentality of a fatalist. In another instance, in February, Magashi had similarly said the wrong thing at the wrong time. Speaking to journalists following the mass abduction of students from Government Science College, Kagara, Niger State, he asked whether tackling the security crisis was solely the responsibility of the military.  “It is the responsibility of everybody to be alert and ensure safety when necessary,” he declared. He then went on to give what could be called a public lecture during which he defined the security role of members of the public. He said: “We shouldn’t be cowards. Sometimes bandits come with about three rounds of ammunition and when they fire shots everybody will run.” He wondered why “people run away from minor, minor aggressions,” saying, “We should stand and face them. If these people know that the people have the competence and capability to defend themselves, they will run away.” Understandably, many people interpreted his lecture as a promotion of suicide. Asking unarmed citizens to confront armed bandits didn’t sound like reasonable advice. Instead of addressing the security crisis that has given rise to widespread banditry, he ridiculously chose to shift the responsibility for protection onto those who demand protection from the authorities. What will he say next? He needs to watch his mouth.