With two to three pupils in any given class having learning disabilities, Head of Lakefield School, Badore, Ajah, Lagos, Mrs. Kemi Hamilton has said all teachers need to screen pupils for learning disabilities to ensure children get the support they need. This system is in place at Lakefield School, which opened its doors to pupils for the first time last October, while the COVID-19 pandemic raged. And Mrs. Hamilton said it should be the norm in both public and private schools across the nation. In an interview at the school, Mrs. Hamilton said: “Every teacher must know that one or two of their children would have learning difficulties. Once a teacher, as a professional, can identify that he might not be able help that child, we have special needs teachers who are trained to teach those kids.  But the main thing is for every teacher to be able to identify rather than write them off. “Every school either public or private must make sure they train their teachers to the level they can identify that ‘this child needs help in this area’. Once you can identify, the school can now decide can we cope? Can we help this child? There are still some learning difficulties that we cannot handle – when we talk about autism or Down syndrome – but there are some that we can handle as an institution.  But everything starts from being able to identify it.” Mrs. Hamilton said with the philosophy that every child can learn once teachers know how to get through to them, Lakefield School prioritises teacher training so they can reach every child at their level and bring them up to the required standard. Drawing from this, in admitting new pupils, the head of school said Lakefield School does not turn away children that may not meet its benchmark but provides interventionist measure to bridge the gap. As the school screens new pupils for its second session this week, this practice will still be in play. Mrs. Hamilton said this policy does not diminish the high standard the school has set for children to achieve.  Considering that the pandemic seriously disrupted schooling last year, she said even the best children had to re-adjust to regular schooling again. “In our school as much as we have our standard we still don’t write off children because every child can learn and every child matters.  Sometimes they have slow beginning but they pick up and knowing that most of them have been at home for almost one year so even a child that before the pandemic was actually a high flier most of them came back struggling, so all you need is a bit of patience, more work, extra project assignment to refresh their memory,” she said. Mrs Hamilton said capacity building of teachers takes place fortnightly in the school. She added that once travel restrictions caused by the pandemic eases sufficiently, the teachers would also be able to get international training. She said: “The teachers still go through their training every two weeks and calling up a professional to train your teachers you not just going to pay peanuts. “We train our teachers both at home and abroad.  I believe that in another year most of my teachers will be out of country for their training so that we can combine experiences and learning methodology so that we can achieve our goal that our pupils must be able to compete globally when it comes to education.” On how Lakefield School opened  for the first time in a pandemic-impacted year, Mrs. Hamilton said it was able to offer parents seeking value quality online education for free at a time many schools could not transit to e-learning. She said the school started with free online classes until it opened for physical classes to 21 pupils on October 2. The population has since grown to almost 100.