Bayern restored their four-point advantage over second-in-the-table Leipzig, courtesy of a thumping 4-0 win over VfB Stuttgart prior to the March international break. The record champions spent a week down in seventh after their Matchday 2 defeat to Hoffenheim, but have occupied a position in the top two since Matchday 4 and have led the standings all year. Save the odd mini period on pole, Leipzig have ranked as Bayern’s nearest pursuers throughout the winter months and into spring. They boast the meanest defence in the league with only 21 goals conceded across 26 matches, but have scored 30 fewer goals than Bayern’s record 78. Bayern have recorded 19 wins to Leipzig’s 17 and suffered four defeats compared to Die Roten Bullen’s six. There have been three draws apiece, including a six-goal thriller between the sides in Munich on Matchday 10.  Leipzig also held Bayern to a goalless stalemate in February 2020. In fact, they are the only team to have stopped Bayern from scoring in 76 competitive matches under Hansi Flick, who’s watched his team stick away 48 and 188 goals respectively either side of that solitary blank. Bayern’s ability to score at will is thanks in no small part to Lewandowski. He top scored in last season’s Bundesliga, UEFA Champions League and DFB Cup with 55 goals combined, and has added 42 strikes in 36 competitive outings to his scorecard so far this term. A whopping 35 of those have fallen across his 25 Bundesliga appearances, leaving him only five shy of Gerd Müller’s 40-goal single-season record of 1971/72, with eight rounds of fixtures remaining. Averaging a goal every 60 minutes of top-flight football, he was on course to end up closer to 45 goals for the campaign. However, a knee ligament injury sustained on international duty with Poland could force him to miss the entire month of April. Bayern’s remaining 43 Bundesliga strikes are split between Thomas Müller (10), Serge Gnabry (nine), Leroy Sane, Leon Goretzka (both four), Kingsley Coman, Jamal Musiala (both three), David Alaba, Joshua Kimmich (both two) and a further six players on one apiece.