BLESSING: Dear Omobola: My name is Blessing. I am the next-of-kin to my late husband, Okolie. He worked in Nigeria College of Aviation, Zaria. His date of first appointment was November 19, 2002. He was on Grade Level 15/5 before when he died on July 11, 2018; the  PFA is First Guarantee Pension Limited. I want you to help me get my late husband’s benefits. I am suffering with my five children. At the moment, we have no house to stay as the aviation agency had sent me out of the official house since August 3, 2019. I am appealing to the newspaper to help me and my children. You are my last hope. I have no job. Please help me. PenCom: You are required to provide your late husband’s RSA PIN to enable the commission investigate your complaint. My uncle died  in active service in August 2018, while working with the Nigeria Aviation, Zaria. His pension benefit has not been paid to his family up till date. Kindly use your good office to help us as the family is suffering. PenCom: You are required to provide your late uncle’s details such as RSA PIN, pension fund administrator as well as his name to enable the commission investigate your complaint. Solomon: My name is Solomon. I worked with Avis Nigeria from May 12, 2008 to March 25, 2020 when I resigned. My PFA, Stanbic IBTC Pension, has failed to pay my pension for the years I worked –  before exiting the company. Kindly help me reach them to do the needful. Thanks. PenCom: You are advised to  write a letter of non-remittance of pension contributions as well as provide proof of non-remittance, if available, to the commission, stating the company’s name, address and duration of non-remittance for your complaint to be adeded to. Inyang: I submitted an appeal letter, entitled: “An appeal for correction of monthly pension payment” to PenCom on April 5, 2019. Since then, I have not heard from the commission, even though I have made three submissions on the same matter. I am 69 years old and I need an increase on my benefit, to be based on short period of my public service. PenCom was given the docs to justify increasing my monthly pay. Kindly listen to me. PenCom: Information from our database reveals that your complaint has been treated and your monthly pension has been enhanced. Please liaise with your pension fund administrator for further details. Joseph: My name is Joseph. I worked at Vitane Pharmaceutical Nigeria Limited before I resigned in December 2019. My complaint is that the company refused to remit my pension contributions of April 2019 to December 2019 (nine Months). PenCom: You are kindly advised to write a letter of non-remittance of pension contributions as well as provide proof of non-remittance, if available, to the commission, stating the company’s name, address and duration of non-remittance for your complaint to be attended to. Dokun: My name is Dokun, next-of-kin to the late Farinmade, whose PFA is Premium Pension. He worked at the Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) from September 18, 1992 to June11, 2010 before his death. He was on salary Grade: GL 08/8. I wrote to the PFA and they said, ‘work-in-progress on payment’. But up till now, I am yet to get any payment from them. Note that the last letter dated May 31, 2006 to the deceased from PenCom, a following letter written by NIPOST disclosed that  N36,485,60 was paid into his pension account covering from July 2004 to February 2006. All documentations had been done in Abuja office of PenCom office since the death of the deceased, and nothing has been heard since. Kindly help me get my late brother’s entitlements. PenCom: A search on the Commission’s database indicates that this is a non-existing entry. This means that no report has been made on the deceased to the Commission. However, you are advised to return to the PFA and re-submit relevant documents for submission to the Commission. Anonymous: I want to remain anonymous. My PFA is Premium Pension Limited. My problem is as follows. On  September 16, 2020, I received a text message, saying: ‘Please be informed that people have received approval from PenCom regarding your pension benefit payment. Contact 09-4615700 for further information’. The next day,  another text message came as follows: ‘Dear member, kindly disregard the SMS received on approval from PenCom. This was sent in error. We apologise for any inconvenience caused as a result of this. Please, sir, help me to understand, who is fooling who, because the benefits are overdue to be paid. PenCom: Kindly ignore messages on pension payments, claiming they are from the Commission. PenCom does not contact individuals, only Pension Fund Administrators are allowed to contact retirees to notify them on such related issues. However, kindly furnish the Commission with your PIN for further investigations to be conducted.