 For the purpose of ensuring accountability, transparency and probity, the Lagos State Universal Basic board (LASUBEB) has trained workers on “Data-driven allocation of education resources and finance.” The training had in attendance the board members, management staffs, stakeholders and invited facilitators. Chairman, LASUBEb, Mr Wahab Alawiye-King, said the essence of the meeting is to also ensure that there is physical discipline, financial prudence, sincerity in business with customers and also making sure that all things are done in line with the law. The lead facilitator, Mr Kunle Ajiboye, the MD and CEO of Simpliapha consulting limited said that education is the bedrock of the development of any society and the government places importance on education both at the federal and state level, funding goes into education which requires management, production of qualitative Education, and also innovation in education. While addressing the participants, he said: “The most important thing I’ve mentioned concerning this training so far has to do with funding. Now there are operational issues around funding, alot of people do what is operationally correct and alot of people do what is expedient. howerever, does that motivation makes that action legal? are those actions actually in breech of the existing law? are there some of our conducts that appear okay and at the same time illegal? That is why we are here. At the end of the training, you must be able to decipher, you must be able to know how to take correct actions, you must be able to know when to say let me revert things to your boss, you must be able to know when to say let’s have this action properly documented.” One of the facilitators, Mrs Isioma Gogo Anazo CAMS, spoke on the meaning, and what money laundering is all about. She described money laundering as a victimless crime that is not committed against one person. It is committed against the nation or against a community. Someone is not committing it to one person but putting it in a state where he or she will enjoy it. Money laundering is not a stand alone crime but can be handled as a stand alone crime. Money laundering is a very important topic that does not stand alone and it has been in existence since 2000s. The people are to play major roles in helping the government fight against money laundering. Money laundering is not only in the banks, insurance company or capital market sectors, it happens in civil service too. In many cases, The objective of money laundering is just for the author to enjoy the money he’s trying to launder and the objective of committing the act is for someone to enjoy the profit of the money he’s trying to hide at the end of the day. 