 Kelechi Iheanacho was named as the English Premier League Player of the Month for March after scoring five goals in three league games and having an all-rounder stunning performances in the month under review. It was not all rosy for the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup winner and Most Valuable Player when he started his football career on the street of Nekede in Owerri, the Imo State capital. One of the central characters  that helped Iheanacho along the line is the Imo FA Chairman Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam  who ensured that the Leicester’s striker attended his first major tournament on the national  level shares some interesting anecdotes, reports Tunde Liadi “Kelechi Iheanacho is a player Imo FA should be proud of because he is our product,” Uchegbulam explained.  “I recalled in 2007 when they were selected for U-13 National Championship under the then Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) President, Sani Lulu; he was to lead the Imo U-13 with Chidiebere Nwakali. “But along the line, the Imo State couldn’t sponsor them for that competition. The then Director of Sports of the Imo Sports Council, Goddy Agbarakwe, said they should be disbanded because they had no money. “The Imo Commissioner of Sports then also said the same thing but Imo FA Secretary Godfrey Ndudi called me and pleaded with me that the boys were so talented that it won’t be nice to ‘waste’ them. I asked him what would be needed for them to make the trip to Abuja for the competition. “I personally gave out my N100,000 to take them to Abuja. I also handed them over to James Peters. I told Peters to please, accommodate Imo players for the competition and that I would refund the money as soon as I get to Abuja. He did just that and Godfrey Ndudi took them to the competition. I think they were attacked on the road to Abuja by armed robbers because they left very late. “They however got to the competition despite the challenges encountered and Iheanacho eventually emerged as the Most Valuable Player and he was selected from there with Chidiebere and two others from Imo State to form the national U-13 team. That was how the door opened for him. “I’m happy that, that decision allowed him to get national limelight. From there, he captained the national U-13 team on a trip to Europe. It was from there the opportunity came. Each time I see Kelechi Iheanacho, I feel so fulfilled that the money  spent on him and others then was never a waste. He and his former teammates may not know about this story because they were all young boys then. “I see it as a part of my contribution to football development. We were able to save the career of some exciting young players. We  wouldn’t have known what it would have been if he hadn’t gone to that competition? “I’m also grateful to then Imo Governor Ikedi Ohakim because when they went for that competition in Abuja, I came to Owerri to meet the Governor and I explained the situation of things to him. He said he didn’t know about it because the Commissioner of Sports didn’t inform him. He released N300,000 for us to send to the team Abuja immediately.” Despite his impressive display in the 2013 African U-17 Championship qualifiers, it seemed Iheanacho was not highly rated by the then Golden Eaglets coach, Manu Garba because Isaac Success and a few others were above him in the perking order. The Imo FA boss said that he had to break protocols (because he was an official of CAF at the cadet championship in Morocco) to have a brief chat with Garba in Marrakech for him to give Iheanacho a chance having used him sparingly against Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire. He hinted that Manu complained that Iheanacho plays to the gallery but after their conversation the coach was able to utilise him properly. Iheanacho was thrown into the fray from the start in their last group game against Congo DRC and the semi-final tie with Tunisia. He rewarded the Golden Eaglets handler with four goals from both games which they won 7-0 and 4-2 respectively. He scored five goals overall in Morocco before dazzling at the World Cup in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in 2013.  “Another story about the boy is that when they (Nigeria U-17 team, Golden Eaglets) went to Morocco for the CAF U-17 Cup of Nations in 2013. I was officially with CAF on assignment then at Marrakech. In their first game (with Ghana) Manu Garba benched him but he went on to score a goal in the dying moment as a substitute. It was the same in the second but he started the third group game. I had to break protocols and I sent for the coach and he came,” Uchegbulam explained further. “I asked him why he hasn’t been using him properly and he complained that Iheanacho’s game is so stylish. I told him to consider him because of his exceptional talent. He later asked him to dress up and told him to warm up. He scored two (three) goals in that game against Congo Republic. His performance opened the door of opportunities for him. “Kelechi has eyes for goals naturally. I’m so happy that he has lifted his game to the level that he could be recognised in one of the most important leagues in the world, EPL as the Best for the March 2021. As Imo FA Chairman, I am so happy about his progress.” The Imo FA boss further opined that he never doubted the talent of Iheanacho even when he was struggling at Leicester City and also missing out on the Super Eagles team to the 2019 AFCON in Egypt. Uchegbulam pointed out that Iheanacho’s will be well defined by the time he proves his former coach at Manchester City Pep Guardiola that he was wrong to have sold him in the summer of 2016-17 season. “He has a lot to do,” Uchegbulam noted.“ He is just starting until he proves Manchester City  was wrong to have sold him. He should prove Guardiola wrong by dealing with Man City anytime he  plays against them. “I will like to see him punish Man City just like Mohammed Salah, Kevin De Bryne and others proved Jose Mourinho wrong. He has a lot to do. Age is on his side. He should work harder to fulfill the promise he shown at his younger days,” he added.