The popular annual Jazz Festival, which was suspended in Rivers State last year because of the COVID-19 pandemic, has made a comeback. The Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mine and Agriculture (PHCCIMA) and organisers of the Jazz On My Mind festival, said they were ready to host the 2021 edition of the event when they visited the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Paulinus Nsirim, on Friday. The President, PHCCMA, Chief Nabil Saleh, the Convener and Managing Director, LikeMinds Entertainment Ltd, Mr. Chinedu Clinton Johnson solicited the partnership of the ministry for the festival. They said the festival, which began in 2012, was meant to showcase talents in Rivers to the world and demonstrate that contrary to negative impressions, the state was conducive for business investments. Nsirim said the unprecedented infrastructural revolution being carried out by Governor Nyesom Wike had opened Rivers for business. He said: “You look at the billions of naira that is being sunk to develop infrastructure here. It is because Governor Nyesom Wike, from day one wants to make Rivers State an investors’ destination of choice. So when people come from all over the world to Rivers, they see a state that is developed and opened for business.” Nsirim dismissed criticisms of the N10million gift Wike gave to artistes who performed at the reception the government held for the Grammy award winner, Burna boy. He said such gesture would help the beneficiaries to further develop their talents and encourage persons in the creative industry not to give up on their dreams. He said: “In other climes, such gesture should have been celebrated. I like to say that the governor wants to leave Rivers State better than he met it and that is why development like this is happening in his tenure. “Rivers state has never gotten a Grammy award winner before. There is a spiritual import to Burna boy winning Grammy award. What is happening with the likes of Burna boy is because of the leadership that is present in the state”. Nsirim expressed optimism that the Jazz On My Mind event billed to take place on May 1 in Port Harcourt would bring many investors.