The Board of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc (Transcorp), Nigeria’s largest listed conglomerate and a leading investor in the Nigerian energy sector, through Transcorp Power Ltd, Trans-Afam Power Ltd, Transcorp Energy and owners of the iconic Transcorp Hilton Abuja, has announced the appointments of Mr. Victor Famuyibo and Mallam Ahmadu Hamman Sambo to its Board of Directors. The Group also appointed Vincent Ozoude, as MD/CEO of Trans-Afam Power Ltd and Mr. Peter Ikenga, as MD/CEO of Transcorp Energy Ltd. Famuyibo worked with multinational companies such as UAC Nigeria, Heineken International and Nigerian Breweries Plc, where he led numerous teams to drive strong employee engagement. Mallam Sambo has over 30 years’ work experience in the Private and Public Sectors in Nigeria and the United States.  He retired as Group General Manager in charge of Group Finance for the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). He is a Member of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Board of Accountancy, and State of New Hampshire Board of Accountancy.  He is also a Member of the Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants and National Association of Black Accountants. Ozoude  joined Transcorp Group from General Electric (GE) Inc-Sub Sahara Africa, where he was Sales Director, covering the entire Sub-Saharan Africa for General Electric Power Generation Services portfolio.  A graduate of Chemical Engineering with Masters in the same field from Enugu state University of Science and Technology, Vincent is leading Transcorp’s recently acquired 966MW power plant asset, Afam Genco, which comprises of Afam Power Plc and Afam Three Fast Power Ltd. Ikenga  brings with him, a wealth of global professional experience, having directly developed and managed major Oil, Gas and power assets and operations in multiple regions including Nigeria, Brazil and the United States of America for Shell Nigeria and Shell International.  Prior to joining the group, Peter was Refining Director for an Indigenous Oil and Gas operator in Nigeria. On the appointments, Chairman of Transcorp Group, Mr. Tony O. Elumelu, said:  “Transcorp has made a succession of important recent business acquisitions, consolidating our position in the power, oil and gas sectors, demonstrating our commitment to Nigeria’s economy and the rapid advance in our integrated power strategy.  We are delighted to complement these with further investment in human capital.  These announcements illustrate the depth, diversity and quality of experience of our leaders”.