 Nigeria is today confronted with an existential crisis of multidimensional proportions. Not only are her peace and stability gravely imperiled but her continuous existence as a cohesive territorial entity faces severe stresses and strains. Even as the situation degenerates daily, both the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are preoccupied with ruinous inanities and flimsy distractions. Yet, this is at a time when all hands should be on deck and focused on redirecting the ship of state away from an imminent disastrous shipwreck and back to a saner and safer course. The grave security crisis, which has made the entire country a veritable killing field as a result of religious extremism, intolerance and violence; communal clashes, banditry, kidnapping, rape, cattle rustling, herdsmen terrorism among others has whittled into insignificance the President Muhammadu administration’s modest accomplishments on the socioeconomic terrain. Yet, as the vast majority of Nigerians endure the pains and pangs of hunger, joblessness, avoidable diseases, homelessness and other indices of poverty, individuals, tendencies and factions within the APC are preoccupied with the 2023 general elections. They are embroiled in energy-sapping intrigues and maneuvers to seize control of the party structures at all levels so as to place them in a vantage position to fly the party’s flag for various offices come 2023. Thus, rather than being focused and exerting all efforts at confronting and transcending the current socioeconomic, political and security crises, the APC does not even have a stable leadership presently. It is being run by the Extra-Ordinary National Caretaker and Convention Planning Committee headed by Yobe State governor, Mr. Mai Mala Buni, which is currently superintending what it describes as a membership registration and revalidation exercise. If as is being speculated the party is unable to hold its congresses and National Convention in June as previously scheduled, it means that members of the APC, including public office holders at all levels, will continue to be distracted by preparations for the intra-party elections with no definitive dates in mind as regards when they will hold. Unfortunately, the opposition PDP is no less distracted and faced with serious internal organizational schisms arising from conflicting interests with respect to the 2023 elections.  Rather than learn from its calamitous loss in the 2015 elections and its defeat again n 2019, the PDP is obsessively preoccupied with returning to power in 2023 without undertaking the necessary task of rejuvenating itself organizationally, ideologically and morally. Hence some of its governors are warring against each other while others are in bitter conflict with the Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The PDP has so far been unable to play the role of an effective, credible and productive opposition, which offers an attractive alternative programmatic agenda to the policy direction of the ruling party. Even from the example of states governed by the PDP, there is no indication that, if the party returns to power at the centre in 2023, it will offer better governance than it did during its earlier 16 years in office. For both the APC and the PDP, the preoccupation appears to be with where the next President will come from rather than on how power will be utilized to rescue the country from the humiliating grip of protracted underdevelopment. True, where the next President comes from is important given the geo-ethnic and religious realities of Nigeria but even more critical, perhaps, is the socio-economic agenda of political parties and their capability to productively utilize power to achieve accelerated national development. Neither the APC nor the PDP, in my view, has demonstrated any inclination towards the seriousness of purpose, discipline and hard work necessary for charting a new, purposive, result-oriented policy direction for the country. It is against this background that the convening this week in Abuja of 30 groups representing labour, civil society, peasants, farmers, students, academia and other interests across the country to chart an alternative policy discourse and praxis for Nigeria is welcome. Out of this summit was born a new organization, ‘The Peoples’ Alternative Movement’, which intends to metamorphose into a mass workers and laboring peoples’ political party. A statement signed on behalf of the new organization by Professor Toye Olorode, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN) and comrade Jaiye Gaskiya, indicated that its purpose is to work towards “wrestling the country from the grip of a rainbow coalition of dishonest, corrupt and reactionary politicians currently driving the country to a shipwreck through mass corruption and exploitation of the primordial fault lines for personal fortune”. In a refreshing departure from the prevalent discourse of divisive ethno-religious rhetoric, the emergent group promised to “replace despair with hope by uniting the working people and the masses beyond the narrow prism of ethnicity and religion with the hope of attaining a new Nigerian renaissance”. This, the movement plans to achieve through “a socialist ideology tailored to transform the neo-colonial Nigerian economy” that will lead to the building “of a new country based on justice, equity and protection of the dignity of mankind irrespective of ethnicity, faith or creed. We shall make Nigeria great again and put the country back on her status as the giant of Africa”. The prime motivation of the movement is portrayed by its lamentation that Nigeria today is characterized by “extreme poverty, arms proliferation, religious intolerance, the rise of hate and ethnic nationalism” and consequently “moving towards social upheavals, due to exploitation of the people, greed and avarice of a spineless political class that has reached its wits end”.  Does the group not sound utopian and its goals unrealizable given the sordid realities of contemporary Nigerian politics? To that poser, I would refer the reader to the declaration by the late political economist, Paul Baran, that “But each idea not yet realized curiously resembles a utopia; one would never do anything if one thought that nothing is possible except that which exists”. But have attempts to form a third force to confront both the PDP and APC not floundered in the past? Reference here can be made to the effort by former President Olusegun Obasanjo before the 2019 election, which came to nothing or the coalition of presidential aspirants – Dr Oby Ezekwesili, Omoyele Sowore, Fela Durotoye, George Moghalu etc – which also failed abysmally. These were based on personalities or such amorphous and concretely meaningless factors as age. This emergent movement is based on ideology and a concrete socioeconomic agenda. Others would say that efforts by such progressive, mass oriented groups failed to make an impact when they sought to organize politically in the past. They can learn from past errors and aim at succeeding this time around. The point is that an ideologically focused and disciplined group should be encouraged to challenge the sheer complacency, ineptitude and arrogance of the current dominant parties. In a lecture he delivered to commemorate fifty years of Nigeria’s independence in 2010 at the University of Lagos, the renowned political scientist, Professor Okwudiba Nnoli, denounced what he described as “the tyranny of petty bourgeois discourse in post-colonial Nigeria”. He pointed out that the dominant discourse in Nigeria has focused almost solely on issues such as revenue allocation, federalism, religion, military rule, Creation of states, federal character, ethno-regional conflicts and zoning among others. According to him, “Hence one never hears of any discussion of how to modernize production that is based on local Nigerian need and traditional consumption pattern. No questions are asked about the lack of improvement in the implements like the hoes used by the vast majority in spite of the tremendous strides in science and technology since these instruments were used by our great, great grandfathers. Similarly, the vast majority of our people live in the same type of houses as their great, great grandfathers in spite of advances in architecture and building technology”. Professor Nnoli asks further, “Is it not the responsibility of politics and the state to assist the people in the rural areas and elsewhere in the country to apply science, technology and creativity in the production of food to satisfy their needs and traditional consumption habits at increasing levels of modernity using local and, therefore, available resources; construction of shelters for self and family, using local and, therefore, available resources; and the creation of modern health products, again using local and, therefore, affordable resources? How to carry out all these tasks certainly deserves political discussion”. These questions posed by Professor Nnoli go right to the root of Nigeria’s protracted crisis of poverty and underdevelopment. If the emergent ‘Peoples Alternative Political Movement’ helps tilt public debate towards such alternative, problem-solving discourse, it would profit the polity immensely. The path ahead of the movement is indeed a tasking and arduous one demanding hard, backbreaking work as well as immense organizational capacity. One can only wish them well.