 Many police stations have been attacked by hoodlums in the Southeast this year, with officers killed. Here is a highlight of some of them. On January 8, three policemen were attacked at Onueke Police Station in Ezza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. On January 23, two policemen were killed after gunmen invaded a police station in Aba, Abia State. On February 1, hoodlums, numbering about 20, razed the divisional police station at Omoba, headquarters of Isiala Ngwa South in Abia, killing a policeman and looting the armoury. On February 4, a police station was burnt at Isu, Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi. On February 5, two policemen were killed at the Umulowo police division in Obowo Local Government Area of Imo State. On February 23, gunmen attacked Abayi police station in Osisioma Ngwa Local Government Area in Abia, killed a policeman, looted arms and set the station ablaze.  On February 24, hoodlums killed a police officer and razed a patrol vehicle in Ekwulobia, Anambra State. On February 25, a policewoman was shot when suspected hoodlums attacked a police station in Aboh Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo. On March 1, a police station was attacked at Iboko divisional police station in Izzi, Ebonyi. On March 9, a police station was burnt at Ihitte-Uboma Local Government Area of Abia State. On March 18, an unknown number of policemen were killed in Ekwulobia, when gunmen attacked various locations. Two staff members of the Nigeria Correctional Services (NCS), Awka, who were escorting inmates to court in Ekwulobia were gunned down. On March 20, hoodlums attacked the divisional police headquarters at Isiala Mbano in Imo, shooting sporadically. No life was lost.On March 22, three police officers attached to the Abiriba police division were killed in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia. Their rifles were also taken away. On March 31, three policemen attached to the former Central Bank of Nigeria governor, Prof Charles Soludo, were killed in Isuofia, Anambra.