Two-time African champion and former Commonwealth Games gold medalist, Blessing Okagbare tops the list of Nigeria’s entry for the World Athletics Relays tagged Silesia 21 in Poland on May 1 to 2. There were worries over Nigeria’s participation following the crisis rocking the leadership of Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) but with the release of the final entries by WA yesterday, Nigeria has been listed among the African countries expected to feature in the 4 x 100m, 4X400m and mixed relays races at the tournament. In list of entries, Enoch Adegoke topped the list of the men’s 4x100m race while others in the team include Alaba Akintola, Usheoritse Itsekiri, Jerry Jakpa, Divine Oduduru and Seye Ogunlewe. For the men’s 4x400m, Team Nigeria is made up of Sikiru Adeyemi, Rilwan Alowonle, Timothy Emeoghene, Samson Nathaniel, Ifeanyi Ojeli and Chidi Okezie. Okagbare topped the list in the women’s 4x100m as well as hurdles sensation, Tobi Amusan while others are Ese Brume, Tima Godbless, Grace Nwokocha, and Joy Udo-Gabriel. For the women’s 4 x 400m, they are Uwemedino Abasiono, Patience Okon-George, Opeyemi Oke, Glory Patrick, Imaobong Uko and Osareti Usembo. Nigeria’s mixed relay team has Timothy Emeoghene, Patience Okon-George, Ifeanyi Ojeli, Chidi Okezie and Imaobong Uko. Meanwhile, Double Olympic champion Elaine Thompson-Herah, three-time world indoor champion Pavel Maslak and African 100m champion Akani Simbine are among the big names on the final entry list for the World Athletics Relays Silesia 21. The entries published yesterday indicated that 127 relay teams from 37 countries will compete in Silesia. Many other global stars also feature on the entry lists, including world 400m silver medallist Anthony Zambrano of Colombia, Belgium’s Borlee brothers, world 800m bronze medallist Ferguson Rotich and his Kenyan teammate Emmanuel Korir. Spain’s Angel David Rodriguez, who turns 41 later this month, is the oldest athlete listed for the event, while 17-year-old Nigerian sprinter Imaobong Uko is the youngest.