A Lagos State University (LASU) student, Idowu Oluwaponmile has lamented the extortion of N153,000 from him by policemen from Owode Egba Division in Ogun State. Oluwaponmile, who said the incident occurred on Saturday around Isiun area of the state while he was going to Ibadan, Oyo State, alleged that the policemen collected the money through a money transfer agent at gunpoint. The young man said the rogue cops led him out of the car, asked what he did for a living and he told them he was a student before they proceeded to ask him to unlock his phone. “I refused but they threatened to kill me if I didn’t cooporate with them. They brought out a shocker, so I obliged. The officers asked me how many bank accounts I had and how much was in each of them. “I told them I had two, GT Bank and Union bank. “So, I opened my phone due to the threat from them and upon going through it, I was asked to pay the sum of N1,000,000 but I told them I didn’t have up to that amount. “Later on, they asked me to open my bank App, where they saw a balance of N288,000 and told me they would collect N250,000 out of it even without telling me what I did wrong. I begged them that I needed the money for some things; they insisted on collecting N150,000. “Then they asked me to give them my ATM card; I said I didn’t have it, so they took me to a Paga shop they have connection with. The Paga man collected a fee of N3,000 after negotiating from N5,000. On a final note, I did a transfer of N153,000.” “The transaction receipt of the money transferred showed Ajayi Abayomi Oluwafemi with account number 0131834643 with Union Bank as the receiver of the extortion.” Oluwaponmile said after the transfer, the agent requested that he deleted the debit alert he received as well as the transaction receipt from his app but he refused, accusing the agent of being a collaborator in the crime committed by the policemen. The Nation gathered that the suspects were operatives of the Police Mobile Force (PMF) Squandron 16, Abeokuta and were alleged to be notorious for extorting motorists on that axis. Their identities were given as Inspector Sunday John, Sergeants Jimoh Asimiya and Solomon Adedapo. Ogun police spokesman Abimbola Oyeyemi said the three policemen who carried out the extortion have been detained and the money retrieved from them.