PRINCE Hameed Adejoro Ajijola is the Chief Executive Officer of Hobs –OOF Health Systems Ltd, a Lagos-based health management organisation. In this interview with KUNLE AKINRINADE, he spoke on his lifestyle especially his love for wristwatches, issues affecting healthcare delivery in the country among others. Excerpts:  What are your hobbies? I love reading, listening to music and traveling. I like seeking knowledge, so I read extensively on research works and history. What does fashion mean to you? Fashion means a lot to me because it says a lot about who you are. There is a popular saying that you are addressed the way you dressed. I like to dress moderately but always make a statement with my look. Do you have a particular fashion style? Well, I dress according to my mood and time. If it is casual, it has to be designer. My key designers are Polo by Ralph Lauren, Tommy Hilfiger, Giovani, Giogio Armani andVan Heusen. If I am on native wear, it also goes with accessories to compliment my looks. How do you unwind? When I was a bit younger, I loved going to clubs because I love dancing. But now I just sit at home and listen to music with red wine or a bottle of champagne. Once in a while, I do visit my friends at Ikoyi Club, Country Club or Polo Club. Do you have a particular hangout spot? Polo Club Ikoyi, Farm city, and Ikoyi Club. How much time do you spend with your family? Most times, we travel out of the country for vacation. Sometimes we visit resort centres in Nigeria for the weekend. We regularly visit Four Point Hotels and Eko Hotels for swimming. What are your most prized fashion items? My most prized fashion item is the wristwatch. I have a collection of top-range wristwatches 25 pieces in number. I love shoes too. I have Louis Vuitton, Tom Ford, Gucci Princetown, Versace, Salvatore Ferragamo, Polo by Ralph Lauren. I also have perfumes too. As a healthcare management expert, what are your plans for your community? There are about 15 public health centres in the whole of Ibeju-Lekki. What can the number do for the mass of people living in the area comprising over a hundred villages? We have just one health centre each in Eleran Igbe, Akodo, Iberekodo, Magbon Alade, hence, my plan is to inaugurate and upgrade existing health centres to cater to the medical needs of the teeming population in Ibejuland. I will do these by bringing in development partners to turn around health care delivery. Also, I intend to empower people through proactive skills acquisition centres to make people self-sufficient by acquiring crafts and providing them with job tools. I will also try to provide scholarships for brilliant indigent students and subsequently fix them up for jobs. A lot of people hinge unemployment on government, but the private sector also has a role to play in providing jobs in the society. These are some of the issues I intend to address not as a political leader but as a monarch. We can create fish farms and markets for people to buy from fish sellers and other products, and that will help in developing Ibejuland. I also intend to influence the construction of major roads, especially in Eleran Igbe area. I intend to bring on board a microfinance bank to assist locals with funds to start up or expand their business. This would no doubt discourage people from joining the bandwagon in land grabbing activities to the detriment of their future and the community at large. How close are you to tradition and culture? I am a lover of culture and tradition. I know a lot about my community and even the Epe Division where we belong to. If people don’t manage their cultural artifacts well, such heritage would be destroyed in no time. We have the Ibeju Agbe site which is the spot where the founder of Ibeju first stepped his foot when he came to the town. We also have a place where the crowns worn by our forebears are kept as well as the burial sites of past monarchs of the town and all of these heritage sites would be preserved. What roles should traditional ruler play in governance? Kings must be non-partisan in order to ensure fairness in dealing with people of various backgrounds in society. On the other hand, the government should carry monarchs along in developmental initiatives, especially in the provision of basic amenities, because doing so would enable the government to know the people better as well as their needs, instead of carrying out projects that may not sit well with residents. However, being a king is a call to serve the people, and that is why I am not so desperate to become king because it’s a call to serve. For example, a monarch should have a say in the siting of projects in his domain so as to further dissuade any misgivings on the part of residents. It is my vision to push Ibejuland to such a point that it would compete favourably with other major towns and communities in terms of industrial development. What do you think should be done to promote healthcare delivery in the country? It is sad that only five per cent of the country’s population is captured under the healthcare delivery system we are currently operating in Nigeria, leaving the rest to their fate. The five per cent belong to government workers and a fraction of the private sector, leaving other people uncovered. The funniest part is that those uncovered are the ones who need the healthcare service more than anyone else. If I am working and I am collecting a salary, definitely when I fall sick, I will be able to go to the hospital and afford to take care of my medical bill. But those who don’t have jobs and the retirees, who would take care of their health? But the health management organisations (HMOs) are there for people to access Even the established HMOs and those coming up in the private sector, what they are doing is just poaching clients among themselves. If a company signs up with HMO A today and later feels uncomfortable with the firm’s service, it would move to HMO B and might even leave HMO B tomorrow for HMO C without giving their workers an opportunity to make choices.  A healthy workforce is a healthy nation. There should be a paradigm shift from HMOs focusing on firms at the expense of workers for whom their services are meant for. This is the reason I intend to put in place community health insurance for residents of Ibejuland when I succeed in becoming a monarch. I will do this by identifying prevalent health challenges in the area as well as the age distribution of people in order to know how best to attend to their healthcare needs. Why are you contesting the Onibeju stool? I am an indigene of Ibeju, Lagos State.  I am from Bade Osa Oniwonlu Royal Family and I am one of the major contestants for the Onibeju stool in Ibeju-Lekki Local Government Area. A committee is already handling the selection of candidates. I believe that I have what it takes to manage the affairs of my community. Apart from being a prince and lover of culture and tradition, I possess the educational qualification with a BSc in Economics and MSc in Business Administration as well as a member of the Institute of Management and a public health management practitioner, among others. Besides, I am running a company with hundreds of employees, so I know how to manage people. Do you think you have an edge over other contestants? My chances are high and I believe in transparency. I have tried my best to visit the kingmakers in Ibejuland just to introduce myself and share my vision with them as a contestant and not to buy them over.  The visit was just to share my plans for our great community with them. What are the plans you have in mind for the community if you become the monarch? I have always been more passionate about adding value to the people of Ibeju even right from the time of the deceased monarch, Oba Salami. I think that people still do things in old fashion way. I have looked at the education and health sectors and how our community is still lacking in these areas. How many Ibeju indigenes work in the federal and state civil service? I have been to Eleko and Amen Estates where residents of these eyebrow estates get whatever they want within their environment. But how many of those living outside of these estates can have access to such facilities like the estate residents? We have more than 100 private estates in Ibejuland right now and others like the Dangote petrochemical company and deep seaport coming up. So the question is what do the indigenes or residents stand to gain from the presence of these companies in Ibejuland? Therefore, the wellbeing of indigenes and residents of Ibejuland and what they should benefit from hosting these private firms and industries and development going on there is my primary concern and will definitely be topmost on my plans if I am chosen as the new monarch of the town.