It’s no more news that Nigerian celebrities are sitting on loads of money, as those with huge followers on their social media accounts and YouTube monetise their pages. So, each passing day, they continue to prove they earn big money doing their jobs and live expensive and lavish lifestyle of international celebs. Popular celebrity Bar man Cubana Chief Priest acquired a new 2021 Toyota land cruiser Worth in January 2021 Pascal Chibuike Okechukwu, who resigned from Cubana Groups as General Manager in 2020, has bounced back as he acquired a 2021 Toyota Land Cruiser worth about N42 million. He and some of his friends took to their Instagram handles to share pictures and video of the vehicle. Popular social media comedian, Obotuke Timothy, famously known as Sir Balo, took to social media to announce the replacement of his wrecked SUV. The comedian, who lost his former car to an accident in December 2020, acquired a new one in January 2021. In a post, which Sir Balo shared on Instagram, he stated how he survived the accident and acquired a Benz, reported to have cost N16m. Comedian, Freedom Okpetoritse Atsepoyi, popularly known as Mr. Jollof, joined the league of expensive car owners as he acquired a brand new Range Rover Jeep in March 2021. The crooner of “Them go hear word”, “Everywhere Stew” and “Doings”, which have become known slogans across continents, was excited to share the news. He shared a video dancing alongside a friend in celebration of his new car. Celebrating the arrival of his new car on his Instagram page, he wrote: “The Eagle has landed”. Days after award-winning Nollywood actress Funke Akindele-Bello acquired a brand new 2020 Lexus Super Sports LX 570, her husband Abdulrasheed Bello, popularly known as JJC Skillz, bought a brand new 2019 Bulletproof Toyota Land Cruiser SUV too. The super thrilled couple took to their respective Instagram pages to share the great news. The accompanying message that follows the video reads: “To God be the glory Tear rubber part 2. Thank you to our family and friends. My wife @funkejenifaakindele @sceneonetv Subscribers/ @amen_estate_lagos @omoghettothesaga. Everyone that has and will support the Bello family. I pray God answers all your silent prayers. Amen.” Popular Instagram comedian and actor Chukwuemeka Emmanuel Ejekwu popularly known as Mr Funny acquired a posh Mercedes Benz SUV jeep in April 2021. The stand-up comedian also known as Oga Sabinus announced this on his Instagram page. He shared a photo of himself posing in front of his new ride while he announced his recent achievement to social media users. The super excited comic star, while acknowledging his new car also thanked God and his fans for the journey so far.