General Overseer of the Victory Life Bible Church International Apostle Lawrence Achudume has urged Nigerians to choose tested administrators into positions authority and not just mere politicians. He said as the 2023 electioneering campaign is gathering momentum, Nigeria needs “administrators with credible track records and not politicians with crowd”. Apostle Achudume, who spoke yesterday while rounding off the church’s extra-ordinary convention with the theme, “The Verdict”, said if Nigerians want the desired change, they should stop voting people into power due to their large followership, but based on what they can offer. “What we need is for Nigerians to choose leaders with intelligence; leaders who are business-minded, not leaders who are money-minded or those who come to office and think they are doing us a favour and begin to throw crumps at people. “We need credible leaders and administrators at the helms of affairs, even as ministers, governor or president. Not those who have followers, but those who can do the work of building the nation,” the general overseer said. Lamenting the fact that there are too many beggars around, Apostle Achudume said Nigerians should learn to work with their hands. Akwa Ibom State Governor Emmanuel Udom, who was the special guest at the event, attributed the success so far recorded by his administration to the power of vision backed by prayers and hard work. He, therefore, urged people to always follow their vision with actions and hard work to achieve success, saying: “When you persistently pray about your vision and work hard towards it, you will achieve success.” Udom said whatever God has called people to do, they must do it diligently and consistently. He said: “For instance with my meagre allocation, there is no way I could have paid salary and still build the Ibom airlines, which today is making wave. It is a miracle and a result of vision backed by prayers and hard work. “When you have vision, keep working and praying about it. It will surely lead to success.” The governor added that the state government would soon launch the regional arm of the Ibom Airline while two new additional air buses would be purchased to upgrade the airline by the time he would be marking the second year of his second term in office.