 The Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB) has said it is not in a race to actualise 100 percent local content in the oil and gas industry. Its Executive Secretary, Simbi Wabote, who made this known, said if the Board intends to implement the Nigerian Content Law fully, then it would have to stop oil production in the country, develop non-existing capacity and then restart production again. “Minimum Nigerian Content levels for various industry activities were set in the schedule of the NOGICD Act like in areas of engineering where we had 90 percent target; we have surpassed the target and we are doing 95 percent and even 100 percent in some areas. In the low voltage electric cables production, we have also surpassed what the Act prescribed. Similarly, there are some areas where we have not met the set target,” he explained. According to Wabote, one of such areas is LNG, which uses specialised and proprietary technology for something like the pressure vessels and the funding are often tied to technology. “However, I want to clarify that NCDMB is not advocating 100 per cent  Nigerian Content in the oil and gas industry. If we are to implement the Nigerian Content Law 100 percent, we will have to stop oil production in Nigeria, develop non-existing capacity, and then start production again,” he said. According to him, Section 53 of the NOGICD Act mandates that fabrication and welding must be carried out in the country.  He however noted that the country lacks enough dockyards where the hull of big vessels such as the Egina FPSO could have been fabricated from scratch. “Ninety-five percent of our construction in the oil industry is steel, yet we do not have a functional steel mill in Nigeria. The oil and gas industry depends on sectoral linkages, including the power sector, to deliver and some of those sectors are not well developed. Local Content is a marathon race and not a sprint and that is why NCDMB enforces the law with pragmatism,” Wabote added.