 The University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK, is at the cusp of returning an Oba of Benin Bronze head, which acquisition, its current university curators confessed, was “extremely immoral”.  It was looted from Benin City, Nigeria, in 1897, by British soldiers, at an age when international outlawry, veiled as “colonialism”, was in vogue. Neil Curtis, University of Aberdeen’s head of museums and special collections, said of the Benin sack and loot: “An ongoing review of the collections identified the Head of an  Oba as having been acquired in a way that we now consider to have been extremely immoral, so we took a proactive approach to identify the appropriate people to discuss what to do.” But the Benin outrage was only a tip of the many raids on the treasures of subdued people worldwide, thus prompting the university and other museums curating these awesome troves, to return them. Again, Mr. Curtis said of his museum’s decision to right that epochal wrong, and return those stolen treasures: “The University of Aberdeen has previously agreed to repatriate sacred items and ancestral remains to Canada, Australia and New Zealand — aside from Africa, peoples in the so-called “new world”, subjugated by the empire builders of the old, who near-wiped out their victims and carted away their treasures. But even among the subjugated, the Bini were so deeply plundered, from the 1897 British expedition, that their bronzes, and other works, seem to dominate the looted artifacts museum market, so much so that, as a BBC report put it, “a number of museums have been discussing the Benin bronzes in their collections in recent years, amid support for the creation of the Edo Museum of West African Art in Benin City to display returned items.”  What a priceless trove! Aside from the “might is right” outlawry of that epoch, rather shocking was the permissive ethos that created a flourishing high-end-of-the-market auctions, where the original looters and plunderers exchanged these works of art, for hefty cash, with public and private museums, as well as private art collectors. It might come a bit late but it is a thing to cheer that the children of the looters of yesteryear are now assailed by the moral rottenness of their forebears. Prof. George Boyne, the University of Aberdeen principal and vice chancellor, put it thus: “It would not have been right to have retained an item of such great cultural importance that was acquired in such reprehensible circumstances,” he told BBC, adding that “we therefore decided that an unconditional return is the most appropriate action we can take, and are grateful for the close collaboration with our partners in Nigeria.” That is the right step to take; and so is Nigeria’s cooperation to take back what is rightfully its.  Said Lai Mohammmed, Nigeria’s information and culture minister: “The reaching out by the University of Aberdeen and eventual release of the priceless antiquity is a step in the right direction.  Other holders of Nigerian antiquity,” he added, “ought to emulate this to bring fairness to the burning issue of reparation.” Reparation — that is a right and proper call.  Aside from facilitating the quick return of these artworks, Nigeria should demand monetary reparation as compensation: to assuage the original anguish; and as “interest” from the gains grossed by the plunderers and their patrons, over more than 100 years. But even beyond compensation, Nigeria can turn these stolen art into sustainable tourism wealth.  Egypt just opened a new home for its age-old Egyptian mummies, hitherto out in the open elements.  Nigeria can tap into this expertise in preservation and packaging, to turn these returned cultural troves into new wealth. So the National Commission for Museum and Monuments could think of setting up specialised museums, in the native areas where these art were originally stolen, and arrange that money made from these museums, after deducting federal tax, are ploughed back into developing those areas.  That would go a long way to righting, in real terms, the dire evils of the past. Still another key lesson Nigeria can learn from the returned antiques is the imperative of preserving and maintaining what you have.  Nigeria’s maintenance culture is nothing to crow about.  If those art had not been stolen, it is perhaps a moot point what state some of them would have been by now — if they are still in one piece. So, if those regaining these art learn to preserve them, we would have turned dire adversity into glittering prosperity.