The year 2021 is definitely going on an amazing note for some Nollywood actresses as many have been acquiring their dream cars. Being able to maintain an expensive lifestyle in the movie industry certifies the fact the industry is a lucrative one going by the number of Nollywood actresses who are able to afford expensive cars. Actress Elizabeth Aishat Anjorin, who features predominantly in the Yoruba movie industry, took to social media to specially announce to her fans that she is the latest member of the G-Wagon gang. The entrepreneur who posed gallantly beside her car gave all the glory to God for her latest addition. Yoruba movie Actress, Biodun Sofuyi Okeowo famously known as Omoborty, acquired two cars on the same day. Omoborty narrated she woke up on the morning of Wednesday, January 13, stepped out of her house, only to see two big SUVs parked in front of each other alongside a gigantic cake-shaped stack of cash. This is how Omoborty became the proud owner of a beautiful Lexus SUV and a luxury Mercedes-Benz SUV at the same time. Popular actress, Georgina Ibeh, started 2021 with a nice gift to herself as she took to social media to flaunt it. On February 6, Mercy Aigbe was surprised to receive a brand-new Range Rover HSE as a birthday gift. The actress was given a brand-new Range Rover HSE by popular businesswoman, Mummy Glee. Mummy Gee took to social media to post the presentation of the car captioning it: “Today I gifted my yummy brand ambassador @realmercyaigbe a sxy RANGE ROVER HSE …..Thank u for all you do @realmercyaigbe thank you for being a lovely person to work with… I hope you love your post birthday / early valentine gift from me.” On February 5, actress Destiny Etiko, acquired a new Toyota Land Cruiser Prado. The 31-year-old actress shared pictures of the car which has a customized number plate “Drama Doll” on her Instagram page. Sharing photos and video of the car, she wrote: “An extra baby added to my garage. MULTIPLE INCREASE ONLY. Thank your Lord. WWUDD.” On February 25, Nollywood actress Uju Okoli acquired a brand new Lexus. Uju’s colleaque Georgina Ibeh took to social media to share the good news on her behalf. She wrote: E CHOKE oooo …. Super Proud of you Boothang @officialujuokoli … You have worked so hard and deserve a da*n good ride to ease off all them stress … Congratulations My Friendship @officialujuokoli More wins baby , May God keep uplifting you beyond Human Comprehension. On February 9, actress Toyin Abraham bought a new Mercedes Benz Brabus for herself. After having one of the most profitable movies of last year, the actress said she decided to gift herself something she had always wanted. On February 11, Toyosi Adesanya bought herself an expensive new car. The news was shared by colleague, Olayinka Solomon who took to social media to congratulate Toyosi writing: “Mummy mi @adesanyatoyosi_ileyemi am super happy for you ma,thank you for loving me from day1,Thank u for all the advise,i can’t love you less am so so happy it will never be ur coffin INSHA ALLAH.” On February 2, Tonto Dikeh added a new Bentley to her fleet of cars. Taking to social media, Tonto’s friend, @Pretiwomannn_official announced the news. She posted: “Congratulations @tontolet. Let me pose with your car.” Popular Nollywood actress, Funke Akindele, better known as Jenifa gifted herself a brand new Lexus Super Sport car worth million. The actress, who was recently announced as one of the Nigerians that made it to the Forbes ‘100 Icons list for Africa, adds a new whip to her collection of cars. Taking to Instagram to make the announcement, Funke Akindele’s husband, JJC Skillz who was present during the purchase of the car wrote: “Congratulations @funkejenifaakindele Hard work pays my darling. Congratulations for your new ride. Thank you to all the jenifans”