A lecturer at the Department of Education, Benson Idahosa University (BIU), Prof. Nora Omoregie, has said social vices have become the bane of education in the country, stressing that the system should be overhauled. Omoregie spoke during  the Ninth Inaugural Lecture of the institution. She delivered a lecture entitled: “Educational administration and the quality of the products of the school system.” She noted that a sound  educational system  was needed for the production of quantitative and qualitative human resources required for the economic growth of the nation. She maintained that education in every nation was the key to national development. She noted that its major role was the preparation of the workforce needed in every segment for the development of the nation. The professor of Educational Administration said the importance of education could not be overemphasised regarding nation building and development. She said the secondary school system in Nigeria had been rendered ineffective because of irregularities in the curriculum. According to her, the learners, the teaching process and the teachers need to be repackaged. “The secondary education which is the pivot of the entire education system is fast losing relevance because of examination malpractice, cultism, immorality, drug addiction and other vices. Repackaging the curriculum, thorough scrutinisation of the teaching process which include class size, conducive environment, facilities, audio visual materials, among others is quite essential,” she said. She said she noticed irregular trends in secondary school students’ enrolment for terminal examination in Edo State. “In the past, I noticed irregular trends in secondary school students’ enrolment for terminal examination in Edo State. A situation where students were abandoning their schools to enrol in “Miracle Centres”  for West African  Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE), National Examination Council Senior School Certificate Examination (NECO) and even Junior School Certificate Examination (JSS III). Schools in rural areas  as well as few private schools in the city were used as those centres,” she said. She noted that lecturing must be consciously done with the hope of producing quality products. She said at  the point of entry,  school administrators should present orientation for the students on study techniques. Omoregie urged the Federal Government to make  the teaching profession  attractive to boost  the morale of all those currently teaching in all levels. She  also called on government to provide adequate funds for education. She added that assessment of students should be based on sound parameters. The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Sam Guobadia,  represented by his  Deputy, Prof. Johnson Oyedeji, thanked and congratulated the lecturer, noting that inaugural lectures were avenues for scholars to educate the public in research and learning. He also lauded Omoregie for her contribution and dedication to academic work in the institution.