Coalition of Benue State Civil Society for Peace and Good Governance has faulted the claim that over 70 people were killed in the Konshisha Local Government Area of the state by men of the Nigerian Army. While exonerating the Nigerian Army of any wrongdoings in the area, the CSOs insisted that contrary to claims by a faceless group, the Army had carried out its operation in line with its rules of engagement. The group said its position came after it carried out an independent on-the-spot and fact-finding assessment of the troubled area. The army is currently undergoing operation in the area to recover arms carted away by some criminal elements that killed 11 of its personnel on lawful duty last week. The group, in a statement by its National Chairman, Dr Elijah Shima and National Secretary, Rev Tergnu Nyamvia, urged the Army to sustain the onslaught and recover the missing arms. The coalition described the group, Shangev-Tiv Assembly Club House, Gungul which it noted had raised the alarm of killings of 70 locals by men of the Nigerian Army in Konshisha as not only faceless but also a mouthpiece of the late militia leader, Gana’s group. “As civil society organisations working for peace in Benue State and other parts of the North Central states we are worried about the reports circulating on social media and other media platforms by one group under the name-Shangev-Tiv Assembly (STA) Club House, Gungula group which claimed to be in Konshisha Local Government Area of the state,” it said. The coalition added: “This faceless and unpatriotic group made several spurious and wide allegations of human rights violations against the Nigerian Army. They went further to claim that 70 people were killed. “In line with our mandate, we proceeded to the local government area and visited most of the affected villages to ascertain the veracity of this information before making our findings known to the general public. “Surprisingly, after several enquiries from locals and elites in the affected local government, we discovered that there is no group with such a name. “We  suspect that the so-called Shangev-Tiv Assembly (STA) Club House, Gungul, is the media department of the late Gana-led militia group, whose foot soldiers killed 11 of our gallant troops in cold blood. “Having gone round the troubled area to ascertain things for ourselves,  we can state that apart from bad elements that were killed during engagement with the troops, no innocent person was killed. “We appeal to the Nigerian Army to sustain the onslaught against these criminal elements.” 