 You do not need a strong nose to perceive the aroma of coffee. Why? The beverage itself has a strong aroma that wafts in the air, travelling miles on end, causing people to look over their shoulders and wondering who is taking coffee around them? You smell the coffee before it gets to you. Just as Nigerians are smelling trouble before it happens across the country these days. It is one day, one trouble, leaving the country in ruins. The smell of trouble is so strong. You do not need to be an intelligence operative to know that our country ails. It ails from self-afflicted crises because our leaders have left undone what should be done. Critics have shouted themselves hoarse over the state of things. They have called on the government to check the country’s drift into the Hobessian state of nature where life is short, nasty and brutish. It seems the government has no answer to this humongous challenge that is threatening to divide the country. Despite all the telltale signs staring us in the face that if something urgent is not done, we may rise up one day and behold a balkanised country, President Muhammadu Buhari prefers to engage in platitudes. This not the time to talk, it is the time to act before what we all dread most happens. As a people, we are not united on the oneness of our country. There has been no other time in history than now that Nigerians, among them the lettered who ordinarily would have opted for one Nigeria, are singing discordant tunes on the country’s unity. They have come out to call for their own ethnic nations. Is that the problem with Nigeria? Is division the solution? Are we not better and stronger as one? Why all these sudden agitations by ethnic nationalities for their own nations? Has Nigeria failed them? Is Nigeria a failed nation? Is the President helping matters with his handling of the situation? Is the President aware of the seriousness of the mess we are in as a nation? Has he shown leadership in the true sense of the word? Leadership has a lot to do when a nation is in dire straits as we are in Nigeria now. The nation needs leadership of purpose; a leadership that will unify the country and not divide it through acts of omission and commission; a leadership for everybody without beholden to anybody. This was what the people thought they got with the coming of the President in 2015 when he uttered those classic lines: “I am for everybody and I belong to nobody”. He has not lived up to his word which is expected to be his bond as not only a soldier, but a general to boot. The country is giving way at the seams. It is on the precipice and just a little tip, it will tumble over. The root of all the problems we are facing can be located within Buhari’s leadership style. The President has to wake up to realise that he has an enormous challenge at hand. He has to act  now or forever lose the country that he fought to keep as one. If that happens, history will not be fair to him. If the educated, the not so literate and stark illiterates are coming together in the crusade for self determination then something is wrong somewhere. If the lettered who should restrain the others are joining them, it shows that all is not well within the system. It is no longer a case of us against them; it is more than that – the ethnic nationalities are up in arms against the government. It is not a south versus north thing anymore, though that is there somewhere below the surface. The immediate challenge is the shortcoming of the government, which cannot hold the country together. The people expected more than this from Buhari, but what they are getting beggars belief. Is this the same Buhari, who sought office on three occasions before getting it on the fourth try? What blueprint did he prepare for running the government? Does it mean that all the years he was contesting election, he had no idea of what to do if he had won? It is not often that you see all sections of the country rising against the government. This is one of those rare occasions that people forget tribe, tongue and religion to take their government to task. In unison, they are saying: Mr President, the country is burning; rise up and do something. There was nothing the President did not say he would do if he got into office. Security and the economy were top of his agenda. Today, security is in tatters. Bandits, terrorists, kidnappers, insurgents, robbers, rapists and other criminal elements have taken over the land. They rule not only the underworld, but also the open world, making life terrible for the people. With a general as President, things were not expected to be like this. These things can only happen in a country where there is no leader. We have a leader, but we are not feeling his impact. He  takes donkey years to react to developments. We saw it at the outset of the Coronavirus pandemic in 2020, and we are seeing it now in the breakdown of law and order across the country. Thirty nine students of the College of Forestry Mechanisation in Kaduna were abducted over four weeks ago and up till today, they are still in captivity. What do you say of Leah Sharibu, who has been in captivity for three years under the watch of a president who promised to finish off Boko Haram on coming to power? Instead, Boko Haram has become stronger under him. The Northern Elders Forum (NEF), which played a major role in Buhari’s ascendancy, captured the nation’s mood aptly in a television interview by its spokesman, Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed. Describing Buhari’s governance style as too slow, he said “Nigerians must rise to take strong initiatives as citizens…since the country can no longer rely on the President or the  governors. Not even members of the National Assembly can address the challenges of Nigeria. The truth is that there is enough reason to question the efficacy and legitimacy of the Nigerian state, in terms of its commitment to protecting the people…” If opportune to meet the President, what will he tell him? Stating unequivocally, Baba-Ahmed said: “I will say sir, please wake up and smell the coffee, this country is falling apart. It is in serious danger; it is going down under your watch. You swore in 2015 and again in 2019 that you will protect the citizens, the territorial integrity of Nigeria. Sorry sir, you are not doing that, doing it well or you are not doing it at all”. Nobody can fault this submission, no matter how much that person loves the President. Buhari leaves things  to go bad before he acts. For instance, it took the invasion of the Imo State Police Command and Owerri Correctional Centre on Easter Monday by hoodlums for him to fire Inspector-General Muhammed Adamu whose tenure he extended by three months in February. He also footdragged before removing the immediate past Service chiefs only to compensate them with ambassadorial jobs. What happened in Imo on Monday is a wake up call to the President to use his remaining two years in office to redeem himself and his Presidency, otherwise history will not be kind to him. The signs are already manifesting. 