Anthony Joshua and Tyson Fury will be presented with as many as four offers for their £200million mega-fight. The heavyweight world champions signed a contract for the fight last month but no date or venue has been agreed. But following his six-country, four-continent world tour, promoter Eddie Hearn has secured several offers which will now be put to the fighters and their teams. “At the end of this week both fighters and their teams will be presented with all the options and offers on the table, of which there will be multiple ones,” Hearn told Sky Sports. “We are in a good place. I saw John Fury’s comments; it’s almost as if they don’t want the fight, they talk it down instead of talking it up. We are quite aware that there’s been a global pandemic, we’re quite aware it’s not easy but we’re out there every day grafting to get it done. “There will be three or four offers to be presented this weekend and it’s over to them. The teams will discuss which one they want to take. [For] the dates of those fights, the same thing applies; two fights this year, it is a summer fight and that’s what we’re working towards. “I’m as confident as ever this gets done. I know that there are some negative people out there and people that believe we can’t pull it off, but we spend a lifetime pulling things off, and I believe we will get this done, and I believe you will see this fight in the summer. “The next step is to basically get everybody to agree to the venue and the date, and they’re going to have multiple options to choose from. There’s no other fight for Tyson Fury. There’s no other fight for Anthony Joshua. This is the fight. Everyone accepts that.” Fury had indicated the fight was in doubt last night when he indicated there was a three-day deadline to secure a host venue. His dad John has also cast doubt over whether the contract his son and Joshua signed meant anything. But Hearn is confident the fight will take place in July with Saudi Arabia the frontrunner to play host. Fury’s promoter Frank Warren, however, played down expectations.