The best graduating student of Achievers University in Owo, Ondo state for the 2020/2021 academic session, Mariam Oluwadamilola Oloko, has said that her father thought she was sleeping around on campus. Speaking in an interview with journalists in Owo, Oloko said she didn’t make her father proud during her primary and secondary school days as she never took her studies serious. Oloko stated for her father, “female education should stop at the university.” She however said it was a lecturer, Mr. Oyindamola Oyewole, that saw potentials in her and encouraged her to study hard to earn good grades. Oloko stated she focused on her studies and never go partying of had boyfriends on campus because she hate distractions. According to her: “I never went partying. I did not go to club in my four years stay. It was just my books. My friends will go out but I will always stay back. “I only go out to buy chicken and chips, I don’t go to parties and do not have time to date guys. “I am not saying you cannot do both but I don’t like distractions. I like to stay focus. It was not easy turning down guys but now the boys can come. “My dad did not go to school but he likes education. For his daughters you must stop at the university. During my primary and secondary school, I didn’t take learning seriously. I didn’t make my daddy happy. ” I was an average student because I wanted to be an average student. It was just why do I have to stressed myself. It was just pass and go. It was just like let me pass and go. “In the university, my dad thought I was sleeping around. He thought I was scamming him but my mum tried a lot to raise money for me. My friends called me names and said I was a proud person. “My daddy is paranoid and protective. He has the belief that guys always come around women. “That was why he thought I was sleeping around. He thought I came here to waste my life and I hope I have proved him wrong. “Daddy will not give you money to buy clothes. He will just turn his heads but he gave me good money for my convocation which means he is happy. “I wish to get a scholarship to study for my masters and doctorate abroad then come back to impact knowledge. “If the scholarship did not come then it is left for my dad to decide because I cannot raise money myself. I am tired of stressing my mum.”