The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) yesterday distanced itself from the alleged diversion of the Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) or petrol to neighbouring countries. In a telephone interview with The Nation, its National Vice President, Alhaji Abubakar Maigandi, said the volume that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) allocates to its members is so negligible to be diverted. His words: “The little volume we get from the depots is what we take straight to our petrol stations. It is not even enough for us to sell. What are we selling if we are the ones diverting the petrol?” Meanwhile, the Department of Petroleum Resource (DPR’s) Head of Public Affairs, Mr. Paul Osu, whom The Nation dialed his phone for response to the allegations,, did not respond. There are allegations about marketers who smuggle petrol to Niger Republic, Chad, Cameroon, Togo and Republic of Benin. The illegal fuel business is fuelled by the Petroleum Support Fund (PSF) that subsidises the petrol in Nigeria. The subsidy makes it far cheaper in Nigeria than in its adjoining countries. The cheapness has culminated in the diversion of the products from Nigeria and creating scarcity instead of surplus. According to analysts, other countries are feeding fat on Nigeria’s subsidy while its citizenry groan under petrol scarcity. For instance, as at 29th March, 2021, Global Petrol Prices data indicated that the “average price of gasoline around the world is $1.11 per litre”. But the data reflected that it was $0.406 (N166.054) per litre in Nigeria. In Togo, it was 0.763 per litre. In Republic of Benin it was 0.906 per litre. It was 0.930 per litre in Chad and 0.927 per litre in Ghana. In Mali, it was 1.204 per litre. There was no record for Republic of Niger. Meanwhile, the IPMAN National Vice President Alhaji Maigandi said the big players that get higher volume of allocation from the NNPC are the Major Oil Marketers Association of Nigeria (MOMAN), Depot and Petroleum Products Marketers Association (DAPMMA) and then the NNPC Retail outlets. He noted that “although independent marketers sell about 80 per cent of the product in Nigeria, they get lesser allocation of petrol from NNPC depots. “It is MOMAN, DAPMMA and NNPC Retail outlets that get the highest quantity of the supply from the NNPC NNPC depot”. Maigandi said “independent marketers buy petrol from NNPC and private depots. We cannot get our actual full volume from NNPC”. He lamented that the Department of DPR was reticent about the private depots that were selling petrol for N157 per litre instead of N145.75 per litre. The DPR, he said, would rather wield the big stick against independent marketers that sell PMS above pump price. Commenting on the petrol market at the Easter period, he said there was low demand for the product, perhaps, due to paucity of cash in the country.