Medical scientists have explained why people should broaden their understanding of how COVID-19 vaccines work. Allaying fears about the safety of taking COVID-19 jabs, experts reiterated that vaccines are generally safe and effective. Side effects after vaccination are normal, they insisted. These were some of the highpoints of discussions at a roundtable on “Journalism, Pandemic and Vaccines: Where Do We Go from Here,” organised by the Nigeria Academy of Science (NAS) at Sheraton Hotel and Towers, Lagos. It was organised, in conjunction with Vitafoam Nigeria Plc. In his presentation, “COVID-19 Vaccines: To Take or Not to Take,” Prof Oyewale Tomori, chairman of ministerial expert advisory committee on COVID-19, said it is quite misleading to compare efficacy results of vaccines when it is apparent that the different tests and trials are not conducted in the same clime. Stressing that it is safer to be vaccinated, the renowned virologist said people need to know that immunity against COVID-19 does not start immediately after vaccination. According to him, it typically takes about 10 days or two weeks after a person is fully vaccinated for the body to build immunity against the virus that causes COVID-19. COVID-19 vaccines help our bodies develop immunity to the virus that causes COVID-19 without us having to get the illness, he explained. Therefore, it is possible that a person could be infected with the virus that causes COVID-19 just before or just after vaccination and then get sick because the vaccine did not have enough time to provide protection, he cautioned. Prof Tomori also added that sometimes after vaccination, the process of building immunity can cause symptoms such as fever in some people, adding that these symptoms are normal and are signs that the body is building immunity. To be fully vaccinated, each person will need two shots of some COVID-19 vaccines. For a COVID-19 vaccine that requires two shots, a person is only considered fully vaccinated two weeks after taking the second shot; while a person is regarded fully vaccinated two weeks after getting a COVID-19 vaccine that requires only one shot, he said. He also warned that a person is not fully protected if it has been less than two weeks since the shot, or if there is still need to get a second shot. In all instances, Tomori said it is better to keep taking all prevention steps, insisting that even after a person has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19, it is advisable to keep taking precautions in public places. Presenting a paper on balanced reporting of complex science, Dr. Olayinka Oyegbile, a media consultant, said journalism and science are two different disciplines. Journalism is an art while science is science, he said. However, journalism and science share an agenda, which is to dig up evidences to produce facts from experiments and research so that the outcome they present is credible enough to gain acceptance, Oyegbile said. They (journalism and science) do this through various values and means, he stressed. “The journalist is first and foremost an interpreter. He/she takes verified information and analyses and then tell what such information means to those concerned. This is why today we have journalists covering various spheres of life: we have environmental journalists, health journalists, economic journalists, political journalists, science journalists, sports journalists, arts and culture journalists and so on.” On how to balance the reporting of science, Oyegbile enjoined reporters to always read widely, especially books that can help them to have deeper knowledge about science issues generally, adding such acquired knowledge helps in comprehending and breaking down of complex science issues. He advised reporters to identify genuine scientists from attention seekers and cultivate a healthy relationship with those that are committed to scientific research, insisting that journalists are better off if they always take advantage of training opportunities that abound. President of NAS, Prof Ekanem Braide, said the yearly roundtable is necessary because it affords the Nigerian science community the opportunity to interact with journalists on emerging national issues that can be addressed by applying science and technology. She said the public needs to be enlightened about COVID-19 issues, especially the benefits of non-pharmaceutical interventions when enforced.