Miscreants suspected to be hired political thugs on Saturday invaded the North-West Zonal Congress of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) held at Kaduna International Trade Fair ground, scattering the event. It was not clear what caused the chaotic situation, but there were insinuations that supporters of key contenders were responsible for the development that led to the destruction of ballot boxes and chairs. The major contenders for the position of National Vice Chairman, Northwest include Sen. Bello Hayatudeen Gwarzo, Aminu Wali and a candidate of former Governor of Kano State, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso. A source told our correspondent that some supporters loyal to Sen. Kwankwaso were responsible for the chaotic situation the congress turned to. The source hinted that the thugs had already taken over the venue even before the commencement of the congress and “when they foresaw the possibility of their leader losing out, they became aggressive and turned things upside down”. “Some miscreants from Kwankwasiyya group, Kano, disrupted the PDP North West congress against the aspiration of a loyal PDP member from Kano who is not in their group”, the source said. Meanwhile, the former Minister of Information, Prof. Jerry Gana, was yesterday readmitted into the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) alongside five other prominent former members who earlier left the party from the North Central Zone. Recall that Jerry Gana had left the PDP for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) sometime in 2018 to contest for the presidential election on that platform. Others who were also readmitted at the Zonal Congress of the PDP which held in Makurdi, the Benue State capital, are Barr. Humpery Abah, Amb. Esther Audu, Hon. Adakole Ijogi and Amb. Bagudu Hillson. In his speech on behalf of the other readmitted members, Gana, who was one of the founding fathers of the PDP, thanked the leaders of the party for readmitting them back into the party they were privileged to found. “We are happy to be back,” he said even as he thanked Senator David Mark and others who variously led the reconciliation delegation to them and ensured they gathered back into the PDP.