  Amos Oludiran Fashesin, who exits as permanent secretary from the Osun civil service on Thursday, is not your run-of-the-mill evil — sorry,  civil — servant; whose ubiquitous venality blights the public space. Rather, he is the quintessential public servant, imbued with tact, devotion to duty and clear loyalty; and without whose bureaucratic nous the government cannot drive public policy, ensure sane governance and leave indelible legacies. That pristine tribe, of transparent and devoted bureaucrats, were feared extinct, after the civil service reforms — that turned deforms — of the Babangida years. Even then, the IBB-era shocks, that bred latter-year bureaucratic venality, graft and sleaze, only climaxed the “with-immediate-effect” retirement gales, of the Murtala-Obasanjo regime (1975-1979). That pre-purge tribe drove the great Western Region bureaucracy.  Under the great Chief Simeon Adebo, that civil service helped Chief Obafemi Awolowo to deliver his life-changing human development policies. That gave the West a decisive head start, among the original three federating regions. Fashesin and O’YES (Osun Youth Empowerment Scheme) are a throwback to that classical era and temper: a missionary bureaucrat tap into a visionary policy.  But more on O’YES presently. The loyal bureaucrat, helping to drive a key developmental policy, with a passion that goes beyond the call of duty, might mark the peak of Fashesin’s career; as he retires as permanent secretary, Osun Government House and Protocol. But the beginning was much humbler.  Fashesin had, in 1986, earned a second class upper in Agricultural Economics, from the University of Ibadan (UI). Yet, in 1990, he joined the Oyo State Primary School Management Board (PSMB), as a lowly level 4 clerical officer!  But that wasn’t even his dream job.  With his degree, he had hoped to make a glittering career in banking.  Still, thespians talk of small actors, never small roles. Indeed, Fashesin proved a zestful and consummate clerk, in his lowly position, though he had transferred to the Osun civil service, at the state’s creation in 1991. In 1993, Elder Femi Adelowokan, who later became head of service and secretary to the Osun State Government (SSG), felt piqued enough, by Fashesin’s humble post, to take his file to Governor Isiaka Adeleke (aka Serubawon) for higher conversion. With that, Fashesin got pole-vaulted from clerical officer on Grade Level 04 to higher executive officer (HEO) on Grade Level 08.  But he would not be admitted into the administrative cadre — the policy-shaping arm of the civil service where he rightly belonged, by virtue of his qualifications — until April 1995. But whatever Fashesin lost during his early career trough, he got compensated by those he called “destiny helpers” — his seniors, pleading the case of their cherished and trusted subordinate.  That helped to propel him to the peak of his career, despite the odds. In 1993, Adelowokan, then his boss at Planning and Budget, facilitated Fashesin’s conversion, from the clerical to the executive cadre. In 2010, new Governor Rauf Aregbesola, in a hurry to drive his core development policies, had asked Elder Segun Akinwusi, then the head of service, to make out a three-name shortlist to pick from.  But Akinwusi told the governor he had his dream candidate: Fashesin!  That led to the O’YES career-crowning glory. On 31 March 2021, under Governor Gboyega Oyetola, 22 days to Fashesin’s retirement date, the ace bureaucrat got romped from coordinating director, Government House and Protocol, to substantive permanent secretary, bossing that department. It was a glorious career photo-finish that doesn’t get more dramatic! Besides, that career peak speaks to the life tenacity of a man that read primary six thrice, not because he was a dullard but because the elder Gabriel and Funmilayo Fashesin, his late parents, could not fund secondary education, for their brilliant son. And to the steady hands of fate, that blessed him with Joseph and Alice Awe (of cherished and blessed memory), his kind uncle and wife, who took him in, funded his education between 1974 and 1992, and pushed him to fulfil his manifest destiny. Now, o yes — the O’YES story! Ripples crossed Fashesin’s path, on field research to Osun, for a book in the works, on the Aregbesola governorship years. Of course, the Osun Youth Empowerment Scheme (O’YES), a novel youth volunteer, training and empowerment scheme, was the flagship, among the slew of other human developmental programmes of that era (2010-2018). It grabbed the attention of the World Bank and birthed a nationwide, World Bank-powered variant called Youth Empowerment Support Services Operation (YESSO), which Osun integrated with O’YES, to develop its youth. But with the progressive take-over of the Federal Government in 2015, O’YES also inspired the Buhari Presidency’s N-Power job volunteer scheme. The O’YES implementing committee members were Femi Ifaturoti (chairman), Mrs. Folake Adegboyega, then commissioner for Women Affairs and later, Youth Engagement and Empowerment (O’YES mother ministries back then), Kola Omotunde-Young, Gbenga Odulaja and Femi Oyedele.  Col. Enibukun Oyewole (rtd) was — and still is — the O’YES Commandante, taking care of the cadets’ para-military drills and character building. Fashesin, as O’YES state coordinator, was the most senior career civil servant on the implementation committee.   But he would own O’YES with zest and rare verve, which went beyond the call of duty. He would take the “gospel” of O’YES to the senior executive course (SEC) 41 (2019), of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), where he earned the prestigious mni (member, National Institute).  That alone, with his illustrious service record, could have cemented his status as a civil servant of class and dash. On O’YES, at NIPSS, he would produce illuminating literature and exhilarating discourse.  That brilliant outing, aside from peer awe, earned him recommendation as putative directing staff, for NIPSS — which could come handy, post-retirement from the Osun service. Fashesin, in the eye of Osun’s last two governors: the one approved his NIPSS training; the other made him permanent secretary, 22 days to his retirement date. Aregbesola: “Fashesin was very cerebral, efficient and effective in assigned duties.” Oyetola: “The appointment [as permanent secretary] was in recognition of his long-standing commitment to duty, hard work, competence and loyalty.” By Fashesin’s own expression: the service was fair to him, just as he too was fair to the service.  That could well be a refreshing remake of J.F. Kennedy’s famous quip: ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country. That mutually beneficial code, steeped in the best tradition of patriotism, should fire younger career officers to excellence.  Fashesin’s glorious trail clearly shows the way.