 For many banks, investment in technology comes with great rewards. Such investment has become more pronounced in today’s world where major aspects of banking operations are technologically-powered. That explains why digital banking is making huge inroads into the financial services sector bringing flexibility, safety and convenience to e-payment users. The deepening integration of digital technologies into almost every facet of people’s lives has transformed the way they communicate, socialise, learn do business and conduct financial transactions. Hence, banks are not only competing for the mobile apps space, but launching new ones targeted at enhancing the banking experience of large pool of their customer base and bringing services closer to the people. Banking apps are not only retaining users with push and in-app notifications but also attracting prospective users who want improved banking experience and better security of transactions. United Bank for Africa (UBA), which has invested heavily in technology, recently launched a new mobile app,  all improving its   profitability. The move is also in line with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor, Godwin Emefiele’s directive to banks to provide seamless and secured banking services. The new UBA Mobile banking app was equipped  with benefits and features that give customers increased control and accessibility to carry out transactions with ease. UBA’s Group Head, Digital Banking, Kayode Ishola, said  the app was tailor-made to give customers what they want, how and in the way they want it. Reeling off some of the features and benefits of the app, he said a lot of investment in cutting edge technology and attention to details was put into the new UBA mobile app. Ishola said: ”The new UBA Mobile App is your personal finance manager built with a distinctive user interface that will change the face of banking. With this app, we are reimagining banking as our engagement has moved from being channel-based to being platform-based. The speed of the platform has been made to match the speed of light as we have cut down significantly on the number of processes expected to carry out your transactions. UBA’s Head, SME Banking,  Sampson Aneke, said that apart from the fact that the app has been created with journey that has a high-level of intelligence – as it can work based on frequent transactions, it can also speak to the specific country where it is being used as the new mobile app runs concurrently in the 20 countries of UBA’s operation interacting in the different languages and cultures in line with the specific needs and regulation of the country in focus. “This all-encompassing platform which boasts of a new user interface because of its sleek, modern nature of delivering seamless experience across several devices; can be used as a budgeting tool, loan application and also allows customers view their expenses according to their various categories such as the amount spent on data within a particular period;” Aneke added.  UBA’s chatbot LEO hits one million users  UBA innovative banking include  UBA’s chatbot LEO which now boasts of over one million users. According to the Group Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, United Bank for Africa, Kennedy Uzoka the bank has strong management and un-matched commitment to service excellence. He said these qualities have helped the bank to deploy innovative solutions that place customer’s first, using cutting edge technology for their collective satisfaction and excellent banking experience. For instance, in 12 months after LEO was launched, it won several awards, including the Euromoney Award which aptly validates his dominance in the digital banking space. Euromoney is a globally renowned organisation which appraises more than 20 global product categories, best-in-class awards and the best Banks in over 100 countries around the world, recognising institutions that have demonstrated leadership, innovation, and momentum in the markets in which they operate. With ever-increasing customer expectations of quick service and near real-time transactional support, UBA committed resources to Artificial Intelligence (AI) a year ago, birthing Leo, a Banking Chatbot that helps customers carry out key banking transactions anywhere, using mobile devices and personal computers. The bank has ensured significant investment in the digitalisation of  its activities and processes, particularly the LEO. “Our commitment to customer service excellence is translating to strong, operational and financial efficiency,” Uzoka said, reiterating the bank’s commitment to continue to put customers at the forefront of its activities. “We are focused on adding value to the customers as we strive to give them an excellent experience at all times. We do this by having a vivid understanding of our customers and their specific needs, and by effectively monitoring their satisfaction through the feedback mechanism, and more importantly, making valuable improvements from their feedback. I am pleased to see we are increasingly becoming the bank of choice for individuals and businesses across Africa,” he said. “Our customers are increasingly asking for mobile services that make their lives easier, and Leo is becoming a growing choice for his convenience and personal solutions,” says Austin Abolusoro, who heads Online Banking at UBA As a demonstration of his leadership capability, under Uzoka’s watch, UBA has expanded across the continent and beyond, meeting client’s global banking needs through its presence in London, New York and Paris. In 2019 alone, UBA launched operations in Mali and upgrade its operation in the United Kingdom. On March 1, 2019, UBA launched its full banking operations in the United Kingdom, an expansion move that further consolidates its unique positioning as the first and only Sub-Saharan African financial institution with banking operations in both the UK and the US.  Profitability, total assets take a leap forward  All these played out positively for the bank as seen in its full year 2020 results. Key extracts of the audited report and accounts of UBA for the year ended December 31, 2020 showed that gross earnings rose by 10.8 per cent to N620.4 billion in 2020 compared with N559.8 billion recorded in the corresponding period of 2019. The bank’s total assets also grew by 37 per cent to N7.7 trillion in 2020. Despite the challenging business environment during the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant effect on economies globally, the bank’s profit before tax rose to N131.9 billion compared with N111.3 billion in 2019. Profit after tax rose by 27.7 per cent to N113.8 billion compared with N89.1 billion in 2019. On the cost side, operating expenses grew by 10.1 per cent to N249.8 billion, as against N217.2 billion in 2019, well below average inflation rate of 13.2 per cent for the year, thus reflecting the bank’s cost effectiveness. The balance sheet also showed that UBA recorded a remarkable 24 per cent growth in loans to customers at to N2.6 trillion while customer deposits increased by 48.1 per cent to N5.7 trillion, compared with N3.8 trillion recorded in the corresponding period of 2019, reflecting increased customer confidence, enhanced customer experience, successes from the ongoing business transformation programme and the further deepening of its retail banking franchise. United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc’s total assets last year leapt two spaces to N7.70 trillions from N5.62 trillion in 2019, about 37 per cent increase. The balance sheet performance is reflective of the overall performance outlook for the pan-African banking group. Market pundits are placing a “buy” note on UBA on the heels of the 2020 performance. UBA has the highest upside potential among the five stocks recommended by Cowry Asset Management Limited as the stock market reopened last week. Despite operating in a highly challenging environment affected by COVID-19, UBA was able to record an impressive nine months results as of September 30, 2020, and stakeholders have been confident the results would be improved when the full year 2020 results are published. The pan-African financial institution reported a growth of 5.9 per cent in gross earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2020, despite the difficult operating environment. UBA grew its gross earnings by 5.9 per cent from N428.7 billion in the nine months of 2019 to N454.4 billion in 2020. Net interest income rose by 17 per cent to N186 billion compared with N158.9 billion. Impairment charges printed at N11.476 billion, up from N6.663 billion in 2019.  Analysts predict share price could double in 2021  Analysts at Cowry Asset Management believe UBA’s share price could nearly double over the next financial year.  Cordros Capital, an investment banking group, stated that the performance of UBA belied the COVID-19 pandemic, given the bank’s strong growths in both funded and non-funded incomes. The balance sheet also showed that UBA recorded a remarkable 24 per cent growth in loans to customers at to N2.6 trillion while customer deposits increased by 48.1 per cent to N5.7 trillion, compared with N3.8 trillion recorded in the corresponding period of 2019, reflecting increased customer confidence, enhanced customer experience, successes from the ongoing business transformation programme and the further deepening of its retail banking franchise.  While the paid up capital remained unchanged at N17.1 billion, total equity funds rose from N597.98 billion in 2019 to N724.15 billion in 2020, driven mainly by increase in retained earnings and other reserves. Uzoka said that despite the pandemic,  last year was important for the UBA Group, as it gained further market share in most of its countries of operation. According to him, the bank ended a very challenging year on a reassuring note as shown by double-digit growth in both top and bottom lines. Despite the tumultuous impact of the pandemic globally and across UBA’s 23 countries of operation, the group created N519 billion additional loans as it continued to support customers and their businesses. He outlined that customer deposits grew 48.1 per cent to N5.7 trillion, driven primarily by additional N1.8 trillion in retail deposits, assuring that as a global bank, UBA remains well capitalized and determined to successfully drive financial inclusion on the continent through innovative products and vast network. Group Chief Financial Official, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Ugo Nwaghodoh said the persistent low interest rate environment in 2020 exerted significant downward pressure on margins, notwithstanding, the bank’s interest income for the year grew by 5.7 per cent to N427.9 billion, driven by 8.2 per cent and 7.5 per cent year-on-year growth on interest income on loans and investment securities respectively. 