 The Chibok community yesterday pleaded with the Federal Government to reopen the Government Secondary School in Chibok that was destroyed by Boko Haram. Seven years ago, 276 girls were abducted from the school. Some of the girls were said to have escaped and others were rescued by the military but about a hundred of them are still believed to be with their abductors. The abduction attracted the international communities, which led to various protests with the demand to rescue the girls and reunite them with their families. The community, under the umbrella of Kibaku Area Development Association (KADA), said in 2016, former President Goodluck Jonathan pledged N500 million to rebuild the school with state-of-the-art facilities but to date, the school remains closed and incomplete. KADA Director of Media and Communication Dr Allen Manasseh in Abuja during a virtual meeting held to commemorate the seventh anniversary of the abduction of the Chibok schoolgirls, said: “We demand the Federal Government under the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari as the Commander in Chief of the armed forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria ensure our demands are met without further delay. “Bring back our girls without further! Provide a full report on the status of all investigations, operations and missions to bring back the remaining 112 Chibok girls, (Leah Sharibu, and all other abducted citizens), including the release of General Ibrahim Sabo fact-finding Committee Report. “Provide psycho-social support for traumatized Chibok and other affected families and immediately reopen a properly resourced and staffed Chibok Desk at the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs to keep parents informed and to provide support to families of abducted children. “Complete and reopen the Government Secondary School, Chibok. In 2016 the Former President Goodluck Jonathan administration pledged 500 million naira to rebuild the school with full state of the art facilities. Till date, the school remains closed and incomplete. We demand the completion of the school, its re-opening and a full investigation into the funds released and the safe school initiative funds targeted for the school as announced by former UK Prime Minister, Mr Gordon Brown who till date remain the highest official that visited the school.” He went on: “Report on the whereabouts of Halima Ali, a captive Chibok girl who was able to recently speak to her father repeatedly and named all the girls she met at her holding facility and other family members on the phone in Feb. 2021 and who was allegedly in the hands of authorities but has not been heard from again, all necessary proof from her parents to have spoken with her, again and again, have been made available to all government and its security apparatus. We demand their immediate release to their parents in any form they are found, we are ready to receive and rehabilitate their daughters. “We demand that the rescued girls be opened up to freely interact, share their experiences, write their stories. Some of the rescued girls who buried their dead colleagues need to be allowed to reveal the identity of the dead ones for their parents to have closure on their daughters. The trauma of continued waiting, while their children would never return, is unjustifiable by every standard. “Provision of trained security personnel for schools and accountability for the status and progress of the Safe Schools Initiative. We cannot continue to see case after case of children being abducted from their schools. We demand adequate security for all public schools including emergency response training of staff on early warning protocols. Provide an update on the funding and status of the Missing Persons Register program at the National Human Rights Commission and ways in which the Victim Support Fund has been applied to support victims of the insurgency in the NE including the families of the Chibok girls, the Chibok community, other conflict-affected communities, and the education of children with no access to local schools. “Therefore; we call on all our partners and supporters advocating for action for the past seven years, the BBOG movement, CSOs, foreign Governments, NGOs, and Multinationals to keep pushing for a logical end of seven years of advocacy with the final return of our girls to ensure CLOSURE by rescuing them and disclosure by releasing and revealing all facts and truths that have been gathered around the abduction of our girls. We will seek international support and call upon international bodies and governments to ensure that the Nigerian government keeps its promise to bring back our girls. “We want an end to this waiting, an end to the trauma of the girls and their parents, and an end to numerous questions, unanswered by Bringing Back Our Girls, Now and alive.” Chibok girls, Leah Sharibu, others are not forgotten, says minister The Federal Government yesterday said the Chibok girls, Leah Sharibu, and others kidnapped are not forgotten. The government assured their families that plans are ongoing to rescue them from their captors and also prevent further kidnap of students from schools across the country. Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouq said relevant ministries and agencies were working to ensure the rescue of those still with their captors. She said: “As the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, it grieves me to have to mark this 7th anniversary of the abduction of the Chibok girls. “Our government came into power with a public mandate to control the insurgency in the northeast that led to the Chibok girls’ abduction and to fight the corruption that hampered the rescue effort, which corruption created the deprivations that have made the Northeast a breeding area for terrorists. “We have achieved a lot, but significant work remains for all levels of government. Half of the Chibok girls have been rescued and reunited with their families and have resumed their education. “We will continue working to bring back those left behind. Local, State and Federal government readiness to respond to attacks on schools is greatly improved. We are working to prevent such attacks from occurring in the first place.” She continued: “I cannot speak openly about the security strategies and measures, but I can assure you that your government holds the safety and security of its citizens as our sacred duty. We are fighting a regional tide of criminality and violent extremism in partnership with others. “Let me assure the parents of the Chibok girls, Leah Sharibu and other abductees, that this government has not forgotten you. We have heard your demands and the responsible ministries and agencies will respond on behalf of the government. “All our children deserve an education. Our country needs them to be educated for our development. No one should have to choose between school and safety. We will employ all our efforts to give every Nigerian child the opportunity to rise out of poverty and attain their ambitions through education.”