 Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said his administration will rebuild the sinking Adeniji-Adele Estate (Phases 1-4) on Lagos Island. Other areas to be regenerated and renewed, according to him, are Idumagbo Avenue, Ojo Giwa Street, Swamp Street, Anikantanmo Street and the popular Pelewura Market, which will be reconstructed to a modern facility. He said Jankara would be remodelled to house a multi-purpose youth centre. Sanwo-Olu spoke yesterday when he laid the foundation of the new Massey Street Children’s Hospital. The regeneration of Adeniji-Adele, Oke-Popo Tapa streets was also launched. He said Lagos Island would be turned around because his government was driven by the desire to build a formidable and equitable state with productive and healthy citizens. Said he: “These projects are an integral part of the Greater Lagos Vision. They present another unique opportunity to advance the cause of Lagos and improve the well-being of Lagosians. “The construction of the New Massey Children’s Hospital reflects our determination to bridge all gaps in the health sector. Due to the steady and increasing number of patients, who daily throng the hospital to access medical services, the capacity has been overstretched and must be upgraded to provide quality service for patients.  “Guided by the Second Pillar of our T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda, which encompasses Health and the Environment, we are rebuilding, remodelling  and repositioning Massey Children’s Hospital into a seven-storey, 150-bed, ultra-modern and fit-for-purpose paediatrics programmed and emergency general hospital. “It will provide secondary integrated care services and acute care for inpatients and outpatients in line with international best practices. It will also help to engender significant reduction in infant and maternal mortality. “Adeniji Adele, Oke Popo and Tapa streets are being reconstructed as part of the Lagos Island Area North Action Plan. It demonstrates this administration’s commitment to an inclusive and non-discriminatory development agenda for Lagos State. We are honoured by the trust reposed in us, and we will continue to seek new opportunities to respond to the infrastructure needs of Lagosians. “When completed, the roads will improve road connectivity, unlock the perennial gridlock in this area with resultant reduction in travel time, eliminate the flooding often experienced in this area, enhance property values and further improve business and economic activities on Lagos Island.” Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi described the hospital as the first major project in the health blueprint strategy of the Sanwo-Olu administration. According to him, the 150-bed, multi-disciplinary paediatric hospital will sit on a 4,000 square-metre of land, and will be built to take care of staff welfare. The Massey Street Children’s Hospital was established in 1914 as the first General Outpatient Clinic and Referral Centre in Lagos State. It was converted to a full-fledged paediatrics hospital in 1961. 