 The National Association of Telecommunications Subscribers (NATCOMS) yesterday said the one-month extension for the National Identification Number (NIN) registration by the Federal Government is not enough to capture all Nigerians. He said rather than affixing a timeline to the exercise, it should be allowed to go on for December 31, this year. Its President Mr Adeolu Ogunbanjo, in a telephone interview, said in view of the huge number of the people that do not have NIN, it would be difficult to achieve in one month. He said: “Only 51 million linkages have been done so far, and that is on the average consumer having three SIM cards per person, meaning that about 17 million to 18 million Nigerians have actually done their NIN links. “We have about 120 million subscribers with about 220 million linkages to be done, we have only done 51 million at the centres, and they are very slow due to poor connectivity from network operators. “So, we are saying extend it to December 31, to enable everybody to register and all documents such as drivers’ license and bank accounts will now be linked appropriately,” Ogunbanjo said. Ogunbanjo, who noted that the one-month extension of the exercise would not be sufficient to capture the over 200 million subscribers in the country however, advised subscribers to link their SIMs with their NINs and to avoid being sanctioned.  In a separate interview, Timileyin Kolade, a student attending University Matriculation Examination (UME) preparatory lesson, said he needed the NIN to register for the exam but lamented that it had been difficult to get registered due to the crowds at the enrolment centres. Timileyin said he had discussed with his mother and she had agreed to give him N2,500 to do the registration. “I need the NIN to link retain my SIM but most importantly, I need it to be able to further my education because without it, there will be no UME form for me. So, the short extension is good for those of us who are yet to be registered and link our SIMs.’’ Mrs Adejoke Akomolafe, said the extension would enable her to register her two kids for NIN to be eligible for the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) examination. She lamented that efforts had been made several times to get the child registered but due to school activities it has been difficult but with the extension, she would squeeze out the time. But SIM vendor in Computer Village, Ikeja, who gave his name simply as Ikechukwu, said the extension will further deepen the woes of his business. Ikechukwu said the sale and activation of new SIM cards was put on hold when this exercise started, a situation he said has affected him terribly. “This is the fourth month that the government suddenly woke up and suspended the sale and activation of new SIM cards. Things have remained in a stand still situation. Had I not also learned skill in phone repair, I would have been begging for food now. It is very bad. When government makes policies, there are unintended consequences. When these are known, government should make amends,” he said. It would be recalled that the move by the Federal Government to get citizens to secure the NIN and link them with their SIM cards was first announced in December 2020. A two-week period was prescribed for the exercise, but after it was clear that the time window was insufficient the government, however, extended it to February, and then April 6. The Federal Government through the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) had in December 2020 directed telecommunication subscribers to obtain their NIN and link them with SIM cards. The NCC had earlier announced April 6, as the deadline for Nigerians to link their National Identification Numbers (NINs) to their SIM cards, but the exercise was extended to May 6. 