Minister of Police Affairs, Mohammad Dingyadi, has clarified President Muhammadu is yet to consult the Police Council over the appointment of acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Usman Alkali Baba. The Nation on Tuesday reported President Muhammadu Buhari appointed DIG Usman Alkali Baba as acting Inspector-General of Police (IGP) with immediate effect. Announcing Baba’s appointment, Minister of Police Affairs, Muhammadu Dingyadi said it is in line with Buhari’s determination to rejig the security architecture and ensure security challenges bedeviling the nation are brought to an end. Speaking on Friday while featuring on Channels Television Politics Today programme monitored by The Nation, Dingyadi noted absence of the president stalled the process of consulting the Police Council. He assured once the President returns to the country, he will set the machinery in motion. Checks by The Nation shows the Police Council is composed of the President, Governor of each state, Chair of the Police Service Commission, and the Inspector General of Police. It is mandated to provide general supervision of the police, oversee its organisation and administration, and to advise the President on the appointment of the Inspector-General of Police. The Minister said: “Mr. President by law has been asked while appointing the Inspector-General of Police to consult the police council. “Mr. President has not yet consulted the Police Council and that is why you have seen that the person he has appointed now is in acting capacity. “So he is making arrangement to consult the Police Council and as you are aware Mr. President is not in the country at this material time “So as soon as he comes back, he will set the machinery in motion to do the necessary processes provided by the law to consult the police council in this direction…” he added. When asked what happens if the Police Council disagrees with the President on choice of the new IGP, he said: “Well, I am not sure… I don’t know but this kind of thing has never happened before… “Before the President makes an acting appointment or makes a decision on an acting appointment, he must have made his own home work. “What the Police Council will be after is ensuring that the right person is brought on board. Somebody who is capable, somebody who is a professional, somebody who is qualified and experienced. “And I want to believe that the Governors who are members of this council have all the confidence in Mr. President and they know the kind of person he is and I don’t look at that direction at all in this process… I think Mr President should be able to convince the police council in this decision he has taken.”