Royalty is indeed sweet, the respect, allure, and grand opulence that comes with it soothes the heart but royalty is innate. He might have been dethroned by the Governor of Kano State Dr. Abdulahai Ganduje but the blue blood in his veins still flows with much ado. Former Emir Sanusi Lamido Sanusi still commands much respect among all sundry. The reason he is being accorded that much respect even when he ceases to be the emir ancient Kano Emirate still raises concern as his influence keeps looming large like a wildfire. To some, his dethronement is politically motivated while some are indifferent but in all, he was a crusader for good governance and also spoke against the ills militating against the attainment of a just society. One year after his dethronement saga, his popularity has transcended the shores of Nigeria more and Nigerians accorded him more respect like the Emir. Any functions he graces, his entrance is always grande with a display of royal opulence. The royalty in him keeps oozing out at every point. His royal entourage and presence can hardly go unnoticed. Last Saturday at the installation of his close ally high Chief Kola Karim as the Agba Oye of Ibadan Land at the Popo Yemoja’s palace of the Olubadan of Ibadan Land, the Economics graduate from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaira made another successful outing with a grand reception at the Olubadan’s palace. When he arrived in a Black Benz in the company of his royal aides, decked in his regal white turban, white and yellow patterned inner-wear, and a black and white dotted robe, his presence changed the atmosphere. He calmly walked down into the palace to sit beside the Olubadan and Ooni of Ife Oba Ogunwusi Adeyeye as guests came to pay homage to him. “He will keep speaking against issues that affect the growth of the northern part of Nigeria. He would be 60 in the next few months; plans are already in place to give him a befitting 60th birthday celebration amidst pomp. He would forever be revered and respected for his giant strides in uplifting his people,” a source said.