The Chief Medical Officer of Lagoon Hospitals, Dr Olakunle Onakoya, has warned that poor-quality health care could cause more harm to a patient while receiving treatment in hospitals. Onakoya advised that patient safety should be a fundamental obligation of medical practitioners. He gave this advice at a press conference when his organisation earned, for the fourth time, the Joint Commission International’s Gold Seal of Approval for Hospital Accreditation by demonstrating continuous compliance with its internationally-recognised standards. “When you come to hospital, you will be expecting quality health care but there is a lot of evidence that shows that a hospital could be a very dangerous place. You could get infections you didn’t come with. Patients might receive the wrong medication because of a mix-up and many people have been known to have a wrong operation done. Meaning so many detrimental errors can happen in a hospital. “One of the things quality accreditation does is to make sure that you have the policy in place to guard against this error and other unfortunate events. It is a process you volunteer to offer because no law says you must undergo it but it ensures you have the policies in place to guard against these unfortunate events. So, Joint Commission International (JCI) USA, being a world’s leader in healthcare accreditation compared our services with what is accepted as first practice in other parts of the world and honoured with this gold seal. It means that we on the part with other accredited hospitals anywhere in the world. The services we offer might be different but regards to the quality services we operate on a world standard.” Speaking on the re-accreditation, th Chief Executive Officer of Lagoon Hospitals, Dr Olujimi Coker, said the Gold Seal of Approval is a symbol of quality that reflects an organisation’s commitment to providing safe and effective patient care. “Lagoon Hospitals underwent a rigorous survey, during which a team of JCI expert surveyors evaluated compliance with hospital standards related to a variety of areas, including the International Patient Safety Goals, patient assessment and care, anaesthesia and surgical care, medication management, patient and family education, quality improvements infection prevention and control, governance and leadership, facility management, staff qualifications and education, and information management. “The Joint Commission International representatives commended Lagoon Hospitals for passing the more than 1,200 measurable elements (quality KPIs) to become to retain its status as a quality improvement organisation. This achievement demonstrates a commitment to patient safety and quality Lagoon Hospitals is the only Nigerian or West African Hospitals to be accredited by the Joint Commission International (JCI) four consecutive times and one of two in Sub-Saharan African to be so accredited.” Coker advised Nigerians to belief, trust and investment in the country’s healthcare sector. “We all have to learn to that we are self-contain because of the billion dollars that leave at the shore of Nigeria to abroad. if we have invested that in Nigeria, we could have been able to produce our vaccine and develop the health sector. The only people who can solve Nigeria healthcare problem are Nigerians.”