  The Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) yesterday called for immediate convocation of  a National Conference and declaration of emergency on security in the country. The PDP said that  with  “security challenges  getting out of hand”  and anarchy brewing in the country, the possibility of elections holding in 2023 was hazy. It said the national conference on security and state of emergency were important to save “our democracy” since the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)  has “shown clearly its incapacity” in protecting lives and properties in the country. PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus stated this in his opening address at the party’s emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting in Abuja. But Katsina State Governor  Aminu Masari differed with the nation’s main opposition party on the need for a state of emergency. Masari pointed out that the agencies, like the military, needed to effectively implement such policy were already overstretched. National Chairman of the PDP Uche  Secondus, who received a confidence vote from the PDP leadership   during  the NEC meeting had  lamented that anarchy had been  let loose on the people with the government unable to provide any matching resistance. He,  therefore,  charged leaders and stakeholders in opposition parties to rise to the challenge posed by the festering insecurity with a view to “saving  our democracy and the country.” The PDP chairman  said: “The need to save our democracy and country has become necessary as nothing, not even 2023 is realistic if security issues are not adequately addressed. “Having shown clearly its incapacity, the APC led-government has swallowed its pride and now invited the international community to come and help out. This ought to have been done long ago instead of pretending and spilling innocent blood. “For us as opposition, any sacrifice to stop the endless bloodletting of innocent citizens should be activated, including but not limited to the immediate convocation of a national conference on security for comprehensive and all-embracing deliberation on the future of this country.” In a communique released after the meeting by its  spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP also   cautioned party members at all levels to be wary of agents of division whose objective is to destabilise the PDP. Ologbodiyan  was referring to an allegation of financial mismanagement leveled against the leadership of the party by a former member of the PDP Presidential Campaign Committee,   Kassim Afegbua. Earlier yesterday, Masari told reporters after  meeting with the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, in  Abuja, that  state of emergency  would  not achieve the effect that Nigerians desire now in the fight against insecurity. He reasoned  that the security structure and personnel that would be used to execute state of emergency requirements were already overstretched. The governor   called on all  Nigerians to be involved in the task of finding peace and security for the country. Masari asked: “How can state of emergency solve the problem? You have a situation where the military in all the states is overstretched. So, the responsibility of securing this country is ours, all of us. Also yesterday,   the Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Judiciary, Mr. Onofiok Luke,   explained why the Federal Government has  not been able to curb the security challenges in the country. Luke said the agencies  charged  with security  do not have a well-coordinated leadership command. His words: ”One thing is clear, there is a lack of leadership. We don’t have a coordinating leadership to lead us to where we have to get to. Everybody seems to be operating independently.” Masari  had after meeting with the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, in  Abuja, argued  that a state of emergency  would  not achieve the effect that Nigerians desire now in the fight against insecurity. He reasoned  that the security structure and personnel that would be used to execute state of emergency requirements were already overstretched. The governor called on all  Nigerians to be involved in the task of finding peace and security for the country. Masari asked: “How can state of emergency solve the problem? You have a situation where the military in all the states is overstretched. So, the responsibility of securing this country is ours, all of us. “We have a problem that everybody has a role to play and we had better play it. The  security situation of this country is beyond partisan politics;  it’s a national concern for all of us.” 