Former NBA star Obinna Ekezie has always dreamt of building a standard one of a kind basketball academy in Nigeria and decades after thinking up the idea as a teenager far away in the United States of America (USA), he has achieved it.  Growing up in Nigeria, the young Okezie was hungry for basketball but he could not get a standard basketball court to grow his passion, until he got to the US. Ekezie, 45 said, “When I was growing up I picked up interest in basketball at the age of 15 but there was really nothing on the group to help me develop. There was no coaching, there was no grassroots programmes. So it was a big struggle until I got to the US where I saw an indoor facility like this and I was so excited and I was sleeping in the facility every night practicing because I really wanted to make it to the NBA.” That experience propelled him to dream of building a standard basketball center that would cater for the need of youngsters interested in the sport as a form of developing the game in Nigeria and Africa. And on Monday, 5th of April, Ekezie and his wife, formally declared open to the public, the Organised Basketball Network academy (OBN) located at the highbrow Lekki Ajah area of Lagos state. Present at the launching of the academy were former Nigeria Basketball Federation president Tijani Umar, Stephen Ibelli who is the Public Affairs Officer, United States Consulate General, established basketball players and up and coming players among others. The academy boasts of a standard basketball court with close to seven rims, a sports medic department and studio. Also, there is a standard score board and state of the art rest rooms for both male and female. The academy is open for both male and female players which comprises U-14s and U-18s. Ekezie said OBN is an ideal platform for talented young basketball players who have the dream of playing at the highest level like the NBA. “The reason why I decided to do this for Nigeria and for Africa is because I didn’t have this when I was growing up. “For those of you that may not know, I left Nigeria in 1993 to go to high school in America because I wanted to play basketball and I played two years in high school on a partial scholarship. “And after that I went to the University on a full scholarship where I played basketball and studied Mechanical Engineering and Business before I was drafted to the NBA where I played five years and then eventually played in Europe for three more years before I retired and came back to Nigeria. “So during my time in the NBA I had an injury while playing for the Atlanta Hawks. At that point in 2004 I decided that I wanted to do something for my country. I wanted to build a basketball academy in Nigeria. I came back to Nigeria and bought a big piece of land in Port Harcourt where I grew up but due to the trouble in Port Harcourt back then so I decided to settle here in Lagos.” An elated Umar said: “It’s beautiful for me to be here today because this is our dream that we shared with Obinna since he came back from the USA after his career in the NBA. “Today we are very proud that Obinna has placed his money where his mouth is and we have this wonderful edifice. “What is important for us is to learn from the lessons Obinna has shared with us that we have an organised structure for the development of these kids in basketball and in life. So it means here we are going to begin to have kids on the ages of 12 to 18, something we never had, something Obinna never had until he went to the US. “He has brought those things here now and what is important here is that we have the opportunity for these kids to grow very fast. “W hat Obinna has under one roof we never had when we were playing, this is absolutely marvelous.” The young players, who could not wait for the center to be opened for play, took to the facility to have a feel of it.  The players, comprising of 18 girls and 18 boys competed in three-pointer actions, basketball dunking competition and a full cut match. Ekezie, who had made his mark in basketball representing great clubs such as Atlanta Hawks, L. A Clippers, Washington Wizards, Vancouver Grizzlies of the U.S. and many other leagues in Europe added. “Nigeria youths are talented in the areas of sports, music, art and entertainments. “If we create that platform for them to excel, indeed the sky is just the beginning for them to soar.” He said that the OBN Academy would also be delighted to work with the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF). “OBN Academy is targeted at improving children’s skills in basketball and education. “The academy is ready to expose young ones to quality basketball facilities, which is not available anywhere in the country for young players to learn the game. “The players will also gain more experience through basketball lessons from experienced foreign and domestic.” Way back in Atlanta, the 6-9 Ekezie was Atlanta’s third-leading scorer through four preseason games with 11.8 points per contest. He was second in rebounding at 7.3 per game and the team’s leading field goal shooter at 48.8 percent. Ekezie entered the league in 1999, when the Vancouver Grizzlies drafted him out of Maryland in the second round. He played for four teams in his first three seasons, also suiting up for Washington, Dallas and the Los Angeles Clippers.