The General Superintendent of Holy Spirit Mission, (Happy Family Centre), Bishop Charles Ighele, has called on the federal government to shun divisive polices and body language so as to ensure sustainable peace in the country Ighele gave the charge in a chat with members of Association of Christian Correspondents of Nigeria (ACCoN), who paid him a courtesy visit at his residence in Akonwonjo, Lagos as he clock 66, said that the underlying problem that is facing the country is hinge on increasing spate of social inequalities across the country. Ighele said “there is a class war currently going on in Nigeria. The rich have eaten the poor enough, and now, it is the turn of the poor to eat the rich. “The government needs to go take urgent action by jettisoning divisive polices and body language, so as to ensure peace in the land. No nation grows by the philosophy of who you know, rather, by who is qualified”, he said. He said that social institutions like banks, army, police, others should be made inclusive rather than exclusive, adding that no nation grows by the philosophy of who you know rather than who is qualifies. Ighele noted that Nigeria currently lacks all the indices that make great nations of the world He said: “Nigeria is currently lacking all the indices that make great nations of the world. The only panacea that would liberate Nigeria from the status of a failed nation, is when a a strong benevolent and nation builder is enthroned as leader. The Nigerian elite know nothing of nation building, but nation funds accumulation”, On social decay witnessed in the country, Ighele said Nigeria has become more uncivilized than it used to be, adding that the whole system took a u-turn to the bad side, when the military took over the mantle of leadership in the country. Speaking on the eroding quality of education, the bishop noted that without sound and solid education, a country or people cannot progress. “Education is key. Education equips you on how to at issues. Without education that is solid and sound, the country or its people can go nowhere”, he said. The Bishop advised President Buhari to write his name in history, by making right the wrongs witnessed during his administration. He said: “a nation which has failed can rise again. I want President Muhammed Buhari to succeed in office, but at moment, the president has reached the peak of his capacity, and he should seek ways to increase his capacity. The president should consult other nations on how they extricated their nations from their own problems.” The cleric noted that Nigeria’s political structure has been configured in such a manner that honest youths and well-read Nigerians cannot penetrate into politics. Bishop Charles Ighele, who was born in Warri, Delta State in 1955, officially became the Presiding Bishop of the Holy Spirit Mission in January, 1997, after the Founder, the late Bishop Michael Marioghae handed the mantle of leadership of the Church over to him in December, 1996. He was consecrated a bishop on December 4, 1998. He is happily married to Rev. Carol Ighele (nee Marioghae). The union is blessed with children and grandchildren.  