The Ebube Agu security outfit launched by the Southeast governors is a waste of resources, the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) said on Tuesday. The group said another vigilante outfit was not needed since it had already set up the Eastern Security Network (ESN). But, the founder of the Movement for the Actualisation of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Ralph Uwazuruike, said the ESN only exists on social media. He added that IPOB lacked the power to set up such an outfit. IPOB spokesman, Emma Powerful, in a statement, said the governors “belatedly announced the formation of an abstract security outfit called Ebube Agu to secure the zone…” “How can you launch a security outfit without first assembling the personnel and equipping them? “When Amotekun was formed, it was not an abstract. The personnel and their equipment were handy. When our leader floated the gallant ESN, the men were on the ground. “How then did Southeast…governors announce a security outfit without any personnel? Or were they under any pressure to hurriedly make the announcement after years of foot-dragging and deceit? “Whether or not they were under any influence,…there is no need for them to form another security outfit in our land since we have our formidable ESN. “They woke up from their slumber rather too late. We have gone beyond that stage unless they are on a mission to sabotage ESN. “Any other security outfit formed in Southeast will crash because ESN is already on the ground and living up to expectations. “ESN was floated based on the clamour by our people, and they have since thrown their support behind the outfit. “Forming another regional security outfit is suspicious, and needless waste. The governors failed our people when they needed their protection. It’s already late. “Biafrans will not be deceived by this purported Ebube Agu security outfit which is a huge joke. “Southeast governors set up the outfit probably to fulfil all righteousness or to spy on ESN to curry favour from their Fulani slavemasters. “We, therefore, warn our youths to have nothing to do with the so-called Ebube Agu security outfit, which was ostensibly formed to sabotage IPOB and ESN. “Anyone who neglects this warning and thinks he can hide under the cloak of Ebube Agu to spy on ESN should be prepared to join his ancestors. “The protection of all Biafrans is our priority and we are prepared to sacrifice anything to achieve this. We are aware of terrorists’ plans to decimate indigenous tribes in Nigeria… “But IPOB and ESN promise them that no inch of our land will be given to terrorist herdsmen in the Southeast.” Uwazuruike said ESN is an illegal outfit formed by a proscribed group. Speaking when he featured on ‘Your View’, a programme on Television Continental (TVC) on Tuesday, Uwazururike said only the Southeast governors can establish a security outfit for the region. He said: “There is nothing like ESN. Nobody believes in ESN; that was just an internet affair – social media network. They did that on social media. “Nobody recognises ESN. I do not recognise ESN, personally; because nobody has the right to provide security for me when it is not legal; when it is not with the force of the law. “You do not have more security than Ralph Uwazuruike as an individual in the Southeast. I’m willing to donate 5,000 men and women to the Southeast governors to work with them without interference.” Uwazuruike said Ebube Agu is the recognised security outfit for the region. “No individual, no matter what you are, without consultation should establish a security outfit for the Southeast. It doesn’t happen. “It is only Ebule Agu, established by the governors, that is recognised as a security outfit for the region. “It is only the governors that have the authority to establish a security outfit for the Southeast. “No individual has the right to establish any security outfit for the region,” Uwazuruike said.