The lawmaker representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency II in Lagos Assembly, Jude Idimogu, has said the Southeast is not ready to produce the next President because it remains divided politically. Idimogu urged the zone to align with the centre before it can stand a chance to vie for the presidency. The lawmaker spoke at a rally organised by his Abundance United Movement (AUM) to endorse national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for President and Lagos Speaker Mudashiru Obasa for Senate. Idimogu hails from Imo State. He said: “I am Ibo but from what I have seen, the Southeast is not ready for the presidency. Right now, APC is at the national level, but how many APC states are there in the Southeast? Power is not given a la carte, you must work to get it. “Things would only work for the Southeast if the PDP can take power there because the zone has been loyal to the party but, as of now, the zone is not ready.” Idimogu described Tinubu as the best to rule Nigeria from 2023. He described Tinubu as a great achiever following his record as Lagos Governor. According to him, the APC leader is the most qualified person for the presidency in the next election. He said: “Tinubu has shown me great love, especially when you consider my history of moving from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the APC. “He has been committed to my political ambition. So, I felt that the best thing is to say thank you by encouraging my people and supporters to pray for him to become president in 2023. “We are also doing this on behalf of my great Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, who is also aspiring to be Senator of Lagos West in 2023. He has a lot of achievements and he is one of the best 10 lawmakers in the country as at today.” Idimogu, who said everyone and zone has the right aspire for any position in 2023, insisted that Tinubu remained the best person to rule Nigeria from 2023. He added: “Tinubu has made a lot of people, and some of us have benefited from that. He has been fighting for democracy in Nigeria. “Tinubu has people all over the country. He is a detrabilised Nigerian and I have not seen anybody that would be like him.” Idimogu’s wife, Roseline, who noted there can’t be voting without women, said: “We are happy because we will work with Jude Idimogu to ensure Bola Tinubu and Mudashiru Obasa to realise their ambitions. “Everybody loves Tinubu, he is a man of unity and he loves to help the less-privileged. I want to advise the women to support the APC and Tinubu as he will make Nigeria a better place.”