Dr. Philips Nto is the Provost, Abia State College of Education (Technical) Arochukwu (ASCETA). In this interview with Sunny Nwankwo, he speaks on his exploits in the institution, especially in the area of welfare and infrastructure. The former Commissioner of Finance under former Governor Theodore Orji’s tenure also speaks on why it is imperative for tertiary institutions to incorporate vocational training into their curriculum to combat the challenge of graduate unemployment.  It has been five years since you assumed office as Provost. How has the journey been? When I assumed office as Provost of the college in 2016, I encountered a lot of challenges. The college was in a state of total disrepair infrastructure-wise and academically. The staff were also seriously ill-motivated and the whole place was overgrown with weeds, looking like an unkempt zoo. The perimeter fence was gone. There was no electricity because it was cut off from the national grid. Staff morale was very low. To restore the environment and make it conducive for academic activities, therefore, became my topmost priority. Through the assistance and support of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, we were able to fix a few things, especially power supply, security and the perimeter fencing. The college is today running on pre-paid meter. Almost three decades after the establishment of the college in 1993, no graduate has been sighted with the original certificate of the college because none was available before my coming. My administration has finally broken that jinx. We have signed the certificates of all the graduates up to 2015. It is on record that before the present management, the college did not undergo any accreditation exercise for over 13 years until I assumed office. Again, through the fatherly support and assistance of Governor Ikpeazu, the college approached the National Commission for Colleges of Education (NCCE) and was able to get accreditation for almost all its courses. Our goal has always been to ensure that students who graduate through this college can be proud to say that they had an all-round education. We ensured that all our first year students and the ones I met on assumption of office had the usual academic ritual of matriculation ceremony which was not done many years before I took over. I know you are a graduate and can relate to the excitement of a matriculation ceremony which the students of the College were denied over the years. Let me quickly add here that I met a college that was blacklisted by the Tetfund because of diversion of funds. Thankfully that has been reversed. Your reappointment must be a confirmation of your performance during your first term. What will you consider your signature achievement? Like I said earlier, poor infrastructure was one of the major problems of the college because it looked like a glorified secondary school. Most of the buildings were those erected by the foremost educationist, Alvan Ikoku, when the Aggrey Memorial Secondary School was founded in 1931 and were no longer habitable for human beings. However, I decided to tackle that problem head on. We started and completed the School of Arts and Social Sciences Building, those of Business Education, the College Auditorium, School of Science Education as well as the College Library. Would you believe that the college operated without a library? These buildings can be described as architectural masterpieces. Currently, the School of Education and the General Studies buildings are nearing completion alongside the landscaping of the college, which is on the verge of being completed. We also renovated and fully equipped some existing buildings and hostels. Before now, the college was blacklisted by Tetfund and we struggled to restore their confidence in us and from our performance, we have sustained and leveraged on their confidence to attract more interventions to the college. Let me use this opportunity to commend Tetfund for all its assistance. To answer your question, I believe that my signature performance is the infrastructural development in the college and the restoration of academic integrity and stability. In any case, some of these questions will be better asked the students and staff. What will you consider the greatest challenge to your performance generally? My greatest challenge then was lack of infrastructural development and of course, the irregular payment of salaries, but thank God that for a year and more, the State Government has tried and made almost regular the monthly release of subventions to the college. The governor has since been living up to the promise he made despite the dwindling revenue from the federation account occasioned by low price of crude oil. Secondly, low student enrolment is another big challenge which makes it practically difficult to generate internal revenue. You are aware that the college is located at the border town of Arochukwu; hence, most of the link roads were in deplorable conditions and virtually not accessible. But thank God that our governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, has rendered palliative measures on some of these federal roads to Arochukwu, in addition to the rehabilitation of the Akwa Ibom side of the roads. There are fears that Colleges of Education certificate may no longer be relevant in the system. How correct Is this? It is correct to say so but for us in ASCETA, we are being proactive. We have put structures in place and have initiated moves to invite the NUC to come for resource verification to solidify our relationship with the Michael Okpara University of Agriculture, Umudike and the Abia State University, Uturu, for the purposes of award of degrees in education. All these are being done with the intention of making government convert the college to a University of Education, Entrepreneurship and Technology, to cater for the teaching needs of our primary and secondary schools. This is also aimed at leveraging on the entrepreneurship and technology skills of Abians. We are optimistic that we shall succeed in that regard. How do we address the issue of graduate unemployment vis-a-vis the institutions of higher learning? There is a serious unemployment challenge in the country which has led to increase in social vices like terrorism, banditry, internet fraud, kidnapping, armed robbery, etc. All these are traceable to inherited colonial curriculum, which is no longer useful in present day Nigeria. We inherited study of English, mathematics, Chemistry, etc. They were good then but no longer relevant to the needs of the society. Nigerians are supposed to be talking about skill acquisition and individual talent development but that is not what we are doing currently. There are so many graduates who studied English, mathematics and chemistry, etc but they are far from getting employed because they were not developed skill-wise. Our curriculum should be structured in such a way that the talents of our youths are identified and developed irrespective of what they studied in the tertiary institutions. I call on all tertiary institutions’ administrators to make skills acquisition a compulsory study in their institutions, so that talents could be identified and developed along with the course of study. That is why in ASCETA, we have made it compulsory that no matter what course, a student studies, skills acquisition must be compulsory either in catering services, landscaping, leather works, metal works and fabrication including computer repairs, food preservation, painting, woodwork, mason etc. On graduation, the student must have a skill that will make him an employer without waiting to be employed by government for jobs that are elusive. Do you subscribe to the suggestion that we should halt the establishment of tertiary institutions and what are your reasons? Nigeria as a country doesn’t have enough tertiary institutions- whether private or public. From my little findings, we have fewer than 600 tertiary institutions, which is grossly inadequate for a country with close to 200 million population, with more of the population among the youth that are still doing their first, second and third degrees. Compared to the US which has a population of fewer than 400 million people but with tertiary institutions of close to 6,000;this is grossly inadequate. Some may say those we have are grossly underfunded; the level of infrastructural decay in especially the public schools is immeasurable. Let me use this opportunity to call on the federal government to increase the education tax from one percent to five percent because the one percent, which is used to fund Tetfund, is inadequate. With this, Nigerian tertiary institutions would no longer have much funding problems. Also, I recommend that budgetary provisions on education be increased by both states and federal governments to fund research, especially in these institutions. Telecommunication companies should be charged to increase their tariff, so that the additional funds can be used to fund university education, especially ICT for the possibility of curtailing physical contacts in lecture halls in line with COVID-19 protocols. Another area of concern is the proliferation of universities by some politicians. These universities are set up not necessarily to adequately impart knowledge but as a mark of status symbol. This is not a good sign. I pray that what is happening to public primary and secondary schools in the country should not happen to the tertiary institutions.  The NUC should take a critical look at this area. Conscious of the above, I do not however personally advocate the idea of establishing more universities when the ones we have are still underfunded and under-utilised in terms of student enrolment. There is no institution in the country with a student population of up to 60,000. Opening more will entail spending more in the payment of staff salaries, allowances and other recurrent expenditure. Rather, government should fund the ones we have adequately and increase their capacity to train more students like we have in some universities in nearby African countries.