  Leaders must be cautious in their utterances to prevent escalation of violence in the country, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) said yesterday. It was the highlight of the communiqué of their National Executive Council (NEC) meeting yesterday in Kaduna. The meeting was presided over by its chairman Chief Audu Ogbe. Ogbe, also cautioned Northern youths against the call for attack on Igbo business interests in the North, in the face of attacks on Northerners in the South East. The meeting received parents of the 39 kidnapped students of College of Forestry Mechanization Afaka, Kaduna and  promised to take up their plight with Kaduna State and the Federal Government. The communique read by National Publicity Secretary Emmanuel Yawe said: “The Forum announced the setting up of Arecon Intergrated to serve as a business arm and industrial hub since the Forum itself cannot engage in business activities. Already contacts have been made with the Minister of the FCT and some governors of the North who have promised land to facilitate the takeoff of Arecon Ltd.  “On insecurity, the Forum expressed displeasure with the state of affairs in the north and in the country in general. The Forum condemned the activities of insurgents, kidnappers and bandits in the north saying that their activities are killing the peace and progress for which the north was noted for when the  founders of the region were in   power. “The Forum decried the utterances of some actors and leaders who have sought to inflame regional, ethnic and religious passions out of the current situation in the country. The Forum called on Nigerian leaders to exercise restraint in their utterances in the current circumstances. “The Forum regretted that the kidnapped students had remained in captivity and the Kaduna State government has not done much to get them released. The Forum agreed to take up their plight with the state government and the Federal Government too. “The Forum also received reports on the unfortunate killings of some northerners in the Southeast that seemed suspicious. “We call on security agencies to investigate these killings and fish out the culprits. We also warn our youths who have suddenly started distributing messages on the social media calling on reprisal attacks on Ibos and their business interests in the north. We the Arewa Consultative stand against all lawless acts of selfhelp and call on all northern youths to stop such evil plans. “They do not enjoy our support.The Arewa Consultative Forum believes in dialogue and consultation as a way of bringing peace and normalcy back to our troubled region and nation. We, however, condemn the payment of ransom and call on the bandits and insurgents who are holding other citizens as hostages to desist from such ungodly acts. “No religion that is practised in Northern Nigeria permits such sinful acts like holding other human beings as hostages for financial reward,” he said. 