Jose Mourinho is once again out of a job, with Daniel Levy finally pulling the trigger on his most high-profile coaching appointment and dismissal since taking charge of Tottenham Hotspur, but just why did the Portuguese coach struggle with his players again? It was almost a carbon copy of his time with Manchester United, only without the trophies, as player discord once again forced the hand of Mourinho’s employer, with it telling only a handful of players posted messages of thanks to the former Porto coach. “We just need to be on the front foot a bit more,” Gareth Bale explained to Sky Sports after Spurs’ victory over Southampton. “We want to attack, we’re a big team. “We have great players.” This, unfortunately for Mourinho, is a recurring theme of his career since leaving Real Madrid, with his negative tactics almost taking on a life of their own, no longer merely the way out grinding out results as was the case at Chelsea, but rather his go-to move. Modern players are different, they like an excuse As Mourinho has racked up more and more failures in recent years, he has emerged as more and more of an easy target. Whilst in the dark closing days of Mauricio Pochettino’s tenure at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium, it was the players who were blamed for results, with Mourinho it was very much a case of the coach being at fault, and modern players love that.  One of the advantages of Mourinho’s early career was that he was still working with players of a previous generation, those who wouldn’t necessarily accept excuses for poor performances, and they had a level of professional pride to ensure they gave everything on the pitch, even if their coach had been critical of them. The modern player, by and large, is different and loves having a ready-made excuse to keep them out of the firing line. As soon as things began to sour at Spurs, all the criticism was over the playing style and methods of Mourinho. This wasn’t unfair as the football was awful, bordering on criminal, but it didn’t take much for the players to down tools, knowing Mourinho would take the flak. Spurs’ team wasn’t actually that good Harry Kane and Son Heung-min are perhaps the only two elite players at Tottenham Hotspur right now, and neither are at the level you would consider to be world class, irrespective of Kane’s incredible record of tap-ins and converted penalties. Gareth Bale is perhaps the only world class player at Spurs right now, but let’s be clear, those days are very much in the past, with the Welsh national team now his primary focus. Mourinho inherited a team that performed way above it’s potential with Pochettino, especially the defence, but then the Portuguese coach set about isolating some key dressing room figures. Dele Alli, Danny Rose and Davinson Sanchez all fell victim to Mourinho’s rather unique style of man-management, with all three having been crucial players for Pochettino. 