Anambra State appears to be peculiar when it comes to politics. The state, for instance, arguably parades the highest number of wealthy and influential men in the land. As the state marches towards another governorship election in November, this is the time to display their wealth and influence in politics. In less than ten months, the electorate will be exercising their franchise again to elect a successor for Governor Willie Obiano, who was elected in 2014 on the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA).  Obiano will vacate office on March 17, 2022, after serving his two tenures. The PDP, for instance, has been angling to take back the state it lost to the APGA almost 16 years ago. Similarly, the APC, with the array of political heavyweights in its fold, has equally been trying to put up a fight in the key Southeast state. Ahead of the PDP primary, scheduled to take place on June 26, some formidable aspirants have already lined up for the party’s ticket. The date is in line with the guidelines released recently by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Though, about 11 persons have declared interest to vie for the party’s ticket, only about six or seven of them are seen as serious contenders. They are, Chris Azubogu who currently represents Nnewi North/Nnewi South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency in the National Assembly; Dr Obiora Okonkwo, the Chairman of United Nigeria Airlines; Dr Winston Udeh, a lawyer and surveyor; Godwin Ezeemo, the Chairman of Orient Group of Companies; Valentine Ozigbo, former Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Transcorp Nigeria; and Dr Godwin Maduka; a medical practitioner based in the United States. For example, Udeh, who is also based abroad, has been trying to curry the favour of party fateful to gain their support or cooperation. While making his intention known to the party recently, he donated 21 Toyota Sienna vehicles to the chapter. The Nation also gathered that he has concluded arrangements to bring over 20 vehicles again for all the members of the party’s exco in Anambra State, led by Sir Ndubuisi Nwobu. Another contender, Ezeemo, actually kick-started the donation of vehicles to the party, when he gave Nwobu and his executive a brand new Hummer bus last year. Since then, the PDP has continued to harvest vehicles and other incentives from those trying to get the party’s ticket. The battle for the party’s ticket promises to be a tough one. Nwobu and other party stakeholders believe the party is ready for the stiff competition ahead. The PDP is consulting widely for strategies to recapture the state it lost 16 years ago during the November governorship election. But, the major stumbling block towards realising its dream is the issue of zoning. Besides, some of its chieftains are unrelenting in making sure that the present exco is removed, to create a level-playing ground for all the aspirants during the primary. Such chieftains see the commanding influence of the former Governor Peter Obi, who was the vice-presidential candidate of the party during the last general elections, as a slap on their faces. The Nation gathered that some of the party heavyweights like Senator Joy Emodi, Chief Chris Uba, Chief Mike Nwakalor, Prof. ABC Nwosu among others are being shoved aside by some who think they own the party. One of the chieftains from the Anambra Central senatorial zone, who pleaded for anonymity, said “if they don’t carry such people along, what we are doing is balderdash”. He added: “Let me give you an example, you cannot win any election in Anambra North without Senator Joy Emodi and Chief Nwakalor of Nteje. These two are political oracles in the area. “Anybody that says he or she can do it without Emodi is a dreamer. She is a woman of substance, class and a bulldozer. Not only that; she has the means also. So, forget those who think they have arrived on the political scene of Anambra State. If our party wants to get it right, the time is now to bring everyone together and chart a way forward. Otherwise, their efforts will come to nothing.” Obi, who insisted on zoning when he was bowing out as governor on the platform of APGA, has made it clear that the PDP ticket is going to an aspirant from Anambra South. The ruling APGA also holds the same position on zoning. Anambra South senatorial zone comprises seven local government areas. They are Aguata, Ekwusigo, Ihiala, Nnewi North, Nnewi South, Orumba North and Orumba South. Among the top contenders for the PDP ticket from the zone are Azubogu from Nnewi, Ozigbo from Aguata, Maduka from Orumba South, Ezeemo from Aguata and Dr Udeh from Orumba North. Many top party chieftains, however, have sympathy for Dr Okonkwo, who is from Anambra Central. How they are going to engineer his emergence amidst the zoning question remains to be seen. Senator Uche Ekwunife, who represents Anambra Central at the upper chamber of the National Assembly, is also interested in running. But, she is caught in the zoning conundrum; she is originally from Aguata, Anambra South, but married to a man from Anambra Central. Interestingly, in all her political life she has been representing her husband’s constituency in Anambra Central. She equally has another hurdle, which may work against her in securing the PDP ticket; her gender. Observers believe it will be impossible for Anambra to choose a woman as its next governor. Be that as it may, the zoning arrangement is a big dilemma for the party ahead of the June 26 primary. The Nation gathered that it would be difficult to tell an aspirant like Okonkwo to step down after he has heavily invested in the party. Most of the PDP juggernauts in the three senatorial districts are said to be rooting for Okonkwo and Azubogu. Other stakeholders, including members of the state exco, are silent on the zoning because of personal interests. The state chairman, Nwobu, told The Nation that the party has not taken any decision on that. “We are still making consultations,” he added. However, he insisted that the major priority of his executive is to avoid rancour in the party, by organising a free, fair and credible primary in June. A chieftain from Anambra Central, Sir Chris Chikwelu, said the priority of the party is to produce a candidate that is capable of winning the election in November and not zoning. He told The Nation that every governorship aspirant on the party’s platform should be given his or her inalienable rights to vie for the ticket and that nobody should be disenfranchised on the altar of zoning. Chikwelu said the party executive has not zoned the ticket to any particular district, “because in a democracy, people should be allowed to exercise their rights”. He said zoning is an internal arrangement of each political party, and that it appears to have been foisted on the state by the last administration. Chikwelu, who is popularly known as “ichele”, said what the PDP needs is somebody with the capacity, influence and character to win the election in November. He added: “Anambra State has suffered untold hardship in the hands of the present administration, ranging from the abandonment of projects to insecurity, kidnapping, rape, child trafficking among others. The issue of zoning should not arise and it is likely to throw up mediocrity into the system. Let them allow everyone who has come out to contest for fairness and equity.” From what is playing out already, the PDP may not get it right through zoning. Analysts believe the party would be playing into the hands of the ruling APGA and the APC, if it decides to stick to zoning in choosing its flag bearer for the November 6 governorship election. 