The coronavirus pandemic unleashed a wave of economic challenges. Most countries are trying to keep their heads above water and donor agencies are having problem securing enough funds from their sponsors, hence humanitarian efforts have been adversely affected in many parts of the country. GRACE OBIKE writes on the effects of these on internally displaced persons.  Before the pandemic, the Durumi, Area 1 Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) camp in Abuja, the Federal Capital, was the go to donation centre for individuals, foreign and local non-government organisations and diplomatic offices like those of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Israel, USA, South Africa, Britain and Iran. They were in the habit of storming the centre with money and truck loads of food, clothes and drugs, among other essential items. But all that is now in the past, according to the Public Relations Officer of the camp Umar Gola, who said that things have changed drastically since the outbreak of the pandemic. Donors have restrained themselves and even the few who turn up are afraid that they could contract the virus from the camp. Gola said: “It is as if COVID-19 originated from IDPs with the way people avoid us. When we call our donors now, they tell us that they cannot come or risk sending someone to us at this period because the virus is everywhere and we should not mix with the people that are coming to us. “Between 70 and 75 per cent of the donations we get are from foreign donors, and now they are worst hit by the pandemic. They have stopped helping us for almost 13 months.” He said before the outbreak of the pandemic, most of them in the camp had three meals a day. “But now, if you find someone that can afford two meals a day, it means the person is doing something that supports him. “Most of the people in the camp no longer eat twice a day. Some now eat three to four times a week and supplement the rest with water, which brings stomach pains.” He said at the moment, the only help they get is directly from nature, “because we are in fruits season and we are surrounded by mango and cashew plantations. Our women and children are always there eating. Right now, at least 50% of our people are living off fruits.” Thirty-two-year-old mother of eight, Hajara Suleiman, said she was always excited whenever she heard that visitors were coming to share food to the children in the camp. “I made sure that all my children were present and I ensured that they got food because it meant that I would not have to bother about what they would eat for the rest of the day. I also would take a spoon or two from each child and that would be it,” she said. Unfortunately, she said, such goodwill is now hard to come by. “Now we hardly get a visit in a month. So my children and I now rely solely on cashew and mango for survival.” She said before the pandemic, the IDPs were in the habit of gathering together often because people were always visiting and bringing donations. “They used to bring food, clothes and even sanitary pads. But now with no visitors, we can’t afford things as ordinary as sanitary pads. Those with children will rather feed their children with the little money they have. “Our only saving grace now is cashew. I take six of my eight children with me every day and we spend the whole day in the cashew plantation within the vicinity of our camp. We eat the fruit for food and sell the dried nuts at N250 per mudu (about 1.3kg). “At present, it is the only thing that is saving us from hunger. When I sell it and collect the N250, I buy corn for food and return the next day. And if I don’t find buyers by the end of the day, I collect the corn on credit and pay back when they come.”  Why aid is drying up A report issued by Western Union Business Solutions and titled ‘How NGOs can tackle post COVID-19 challenges’ says: “As quarantine closures are slowly lifted across the country, life is beginning to return to normal for many industries. The same cannot be said for NGOs, who are being hit particularly hard by the economic effects of the pandemic. “As job losses, slowed sales and other financial challenges continue, it is proving to be difficult to raise or even maintain donations.” Another report published by Siraj Datoo in Bloomberg on May 17, 2020, titled ‘COVID-19 Could Mean the End of Small Charities’ stated that charitable organisations around the world have suffered in recent months with income and fundraising streams drying up as tens of millions of people lost their jobs or faced greater financial difficulty. It added that about 53% of donors said they plan to be giving more carefully during the pandemic but will continue to still donate, while 20% said they will stop until there’s a return to economic growth, according to a survey carried out for Dunham+Company.  How NGOs in Nigeria are coping For medical humanitarian organisations like Doctors Without Borders Nigeria, COVID-19 has also had a serious impact. The Country Representative, Dr. Simba Tirima, explained that countries that mostly provide aids to Africa are being affected by the disease. He noted that several issues had emerged from the lockdown, saying: “Remember that during the lockdown, there wasn’t any travel, and usually, we rely on certain experts from the west to come and help. “Not that we don’t have experts here, but there are specific specialties we rely upon in terms of international staff that would come and help manage our humanitarian interventions, and at one point, that was not possible, so we relied on our host country staff to do some of the work. “In terms of impact on our humanitarian operations, we had to be resourceful and say to ourselves, what do we have in the country that can help us keep serving the communities that we do? “We actually looked and realised that maybe we have expertise in the country that we can rely on, so some of our operation centres started focusing more on what we can do with host country staff. “While there are some specialties we cannot get, which is unfortunate, we need surgeons in some specialties. We do have surgeons in Nigeria, for example, but there are maybe some programmes that need very specific things, and at one point, we were not able to get those. “For instance, we have the Noma programme in Sokoto and we almost always get surgeons from outside. We also get plastic surgeons and our goal is to build capacity in Nigeria so we pair them with Nigerians. Some of those opportunities might be lost.” In Maiduguri, Borno State, the Restoration of Hope Initiative (ROHI) is a non-profit making organisation that implements education, child protection and livelihood programmes in internally displaced persons’ camps in the Northeast. Its Public Relations Officer, Nice Dibal, agreed that the pandemic had brought hardship to the global economy which has led to the folding up of many activities and downsizing of many organisations. “However, for ROHI, the story is slightly different,” she said. “We have not directly downsized our office and our project has not been withdrawn. For us as an organization, most of our funding comes from UN organisations like UNICEF and OCHA. “However, the COVID-19 pandemic has limited the number of projects we are implementing. “Before 2020, we had other donor funded projects. Although it ended with the hope of renewal, the project could not continue evidently because of the pandemic and the global economic crisis. “Also, there are limited calls for proposals due to the pandemic, making the competition amongst organisations very tough.”  Life in camp since outbreak of pandemic Admitting that members of the camp had enjoyed some donations at the beginning of the pandemic,  Hajara Suleiman said: “The government assisted us with palliatives at the beginning of the pandemic. I received a small bag of grains, five sachets of pasta, a bottle of vegetable oil and small bag of rice. I managed it and it lasted my family nine days.” Gola on the other hand insisted that the donations were not made by government. He said the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) only escorted the TY Danjuma Foundation who took truck loads of food to camps around Abuja. He added: “Some of these foreign NGOs are not known to us. They just send their representatives in Nigeria to bring us things. “At other times, we just receive calls from individuals abroad who tell us that they saw our stories online and sent us money. But since the pandemic, we have not even received their calls not to talk of donations. “We have a 10×40 container, part of which we converted to a clinic and the other part as a labour room. About five or six women were delivered of babies in the camp yesterday, and they used nylon bags as hand gloves, for you to know the extent to our suffering.” Hajara on the other hand said: “Life has changed since the COVID-19 pandemic began. We have not met anyone suffering from the virus but we believe in its existence, because if it did not exist, we won’t be going through what we are going through today with people avoiding us so much as if we are the virus itself.”    What might bring change Gola believes that although the FCT government has been telling them for years to return to their states of origin, Borno and Yobe are still not safe and they are not about to risk their lives. He said: “What we are hoping and asking the government to do is to relocate us to some parts of Nasarawa State where we can farm. We don’t want to return to the Northeast because there is no security. My village Madagali in Adamawa State is right now is a no go area. “You cannot go past the boundary of the village for about four to five miles and come back alive. We can only go out to get firewood when military men escort us. They will first open fire on the bushes randomly for like 30 minutes before our people are allowed to go search for firewood. And they will only be given an hour to get it and come back. “Some people from some parts of my local government had a church in Italy buy a huge piece of land for them in Nasarawa, built two-bedroom houses for each family, fixed solar for them, built a school, church, mosque, football field for the children, paid teachers for 20 years and kept a white man there to supervise the teachers. They were given cars, including a bus for any emergency, and they were given Total cards, so they don’t have to buy fuel with their money. “That is what we want from the government. We have told the government about this on several occasions, they keep telling us that they will write a letter to the President, but till now, nothing has happened.”