Noah Dallaji, founder of the African Children Talent Discovery Foundation (ACTDF) speaks with reporters in Lagos on how policy makers formulate programmes that will reduce unemployment and guarantee comprehensive welfare for people under a democratic government. Excerpts:  You often talk about poverty alleviation and empowerment. How can we overcome the challenge, in view of the state of things in the country? I must tell you this is a serious issue that is at the heart of major leaders across the world. Poverty and empowerment are two major concerns that are at the opposing ends of the economic equation. At ACTDF, we believe poverty can reasonably be tamed through economic empowerment of the people but the concern is the modality. You realise that we have had so many poverty alleviation programmes yet the situation is now really bad and we must rise up to do more either as individuals, corporate entity and the government at all levels. Recent figures from the stats office are worrisome, unemployment is a major issue worsened by the recent Covid-19 pandemic. So, the onus is on all concerned to devise a more realistic empowerment programme that can actually tackle the scourge and create many more jobs. I think a key issue here is strategic reforming of the economy by spending more in critical sectors that can create jobs. At ACTDF, what we have done is to select young people and given basic skills according to their interest through our skill acquisition programmes in various vocations and empower them with what they need to start their businesses. We have also looked out for widows and the less privileged and after assessing their situations, we give them the necessary empowerment tools to begin again. And we are doing our bits in scholarships to verified indigent but brilliant students. We provide classrooms to many local communities that need them, water and medicare in rural communities. And if you look carefully, you will also discover that our activities transcend Nigeria, extending to other African countries including Ghana, Gambia, Kenya and Cameroon. In a nutshell, poverty alleviation should be a central issue in our economic policy, a constant, and properly addressed by a well designed empowerment programme. This is why poverty reduction has been a major concern of the United Nations for some time now, from MDGs to the current SDGs programmes. You know each of the programmes has fifteen years lifetime. That should tell you the importance attached to the issue of poverty alleviation. If you ask me, I want to believe the cooperative empowerment model is the best for us, a programme that gives out money and tools not to an individual but as a collective, thereby doubling down on accountability. The idea that it’s government money and you can spend it anyhow is the major problem.  But more fundamentally is the question of taking a second look at our educational system which should now emphasise technical education rather than this tendency towards so much theoretical without correlation to the needs of the job environment. If you ask them in the industry, you will understand why technical education is now imperative. We need to do more in maths, science and technology, so that we can have many more small scale industries, even owned by families like in Germany and India, producing quality stuff that are being exported. I also understand the need for basic infrastructure to run a decent economy. We surely need restructured, efficient and qualitative technical institutions where young people are trained to do so much with their brains and hands to sort out the lack of productivity in our economy.  I am convinced it’s time to have a rethink on this important issue to tackle unemployment and poverty in a more realistic manner.  Your organisation was also involved during the Covid-19 pandemic. What was the experience? It was clearly a tough experience, but we thank God we were able to support the people in need to keep hope alive. That was the major concern. It was a scary moment in history; a situation we never experienced before, we were all in dire situation because the virus was a threat to humanity. Survival, you recall, was also an issue, covering major aspects of our lives. We read the situation carefully and what we did was to go to the local communities around Abuja for sensitization since government was doing well at the metropolitan centres. So, we were in educating the local people on preventive methods as laid down by  health experts. We produced face masks and took sanitizers along which we distributed to the people. We also gave out some quantities of palliatives which the people appreciated. Unfortunately, we lost many people across the country even some who were close to us. But thank God that the vaccines came sooner than expected and we are all better for it. Yet I think we must all be mindful of the challenge brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic which alerts us to do more by providing more for our health institutions for greater delivery. As a Grade C Ecosoc member of the United Nations, what benefit has this relationship brought to ACTDF and Nigeria? The starting point here is that our advocacy and extent of humanitarian work earned us this recognition. It is a good thing because it does not come on a platter; you have to work for it. On the benefits, well, I think the relationship has added value in our advocacy programme. It has also afforded us the opportunity to share ideas with global leaders on issues of common concern. Coming from Nigeria to attend the annual UN general assembly in New York, I think, is a good thing for our image and responsibility as a responsible corporate citizen. So, we’ve had so many remarkable interactions over the years at such global convergence of great minds and thinkers, policy experts and world leaders. One unforgettable memory is that of the 2012 Summit in Rio de Janeiro in Brazil, where the challenge of climate change was well articulated to save humanity. I remember ACTDF flew 25 participants, including our ambassadors, who are mainly top names in Nollywood and artistes, to the Rio summit. Again, the UNGA 2019 was also memorable for affording us to take active part and made useful contributions at its side event beaming the searchlight on eradicating poverty in African countries. We could not attend last year because of Covid-19 restrictions. I think such exposure avails us the opportunity to mix and learn new trends on the ever evolving issues and dynamics shaping the world and of course, those complex challenges facing humanity. All said, I think I should share with you my disappointment that in spite of the challenges, it does not seem we are taking the issue of climate change seriously in the country and this should bother us. How has it been running the ACTDF? Well, it has been pleasant; we are making the right marks we envisaged and assigned to ourselves at the outset. This does not mean we have not had challenges or disappointments but the good thing is that we have been focused and moving on to do in greater dimension the real causes which influenced our birth. So, we have tried to live up to that expectation on the issues and causes we set out to address. You know the  challenges in running an NGO like ours, it could be very challenging especially in an environment like this and the associated social problems which we must rise to tackle but we have kept faith. What really was the impetus to start the ACTDF? Let me go straight to the point; it’s all about my passion. You know getting out of school, meeting different people and at different levels, especially the local environment and condition where I grew up, I came to the conclusion that doing something important that focuses on the challenges of the youths with major bias for those who are talented but lack opportunities to realise their God-given talent was a good thing I could do to make a difference. You know it’s like asking former President Barrack Obama why he chose to do community organising, instead of pursuing career in the corporate world in Chicago back then. So, the understanding was clear to me that we cannot all be in government or do the usual thing of going into banking, finance or even engineering, which I could have chosen, anyway. I believe we can serve in different ways and enhancing humanity. So, I was propelled to do the NGO thing as a matter of interest and the inherent passion to be useful not only to my immediate community in Bauchi State, but across the country. And looking at our history, I think we have succeeded largely in this regard and we hope to do more.  Your operational theme revolves around talent discovery. How do you do this? What are the strategies? Thank you. Yes, we are quite conscious of this talent thing when we set out and it has since been at the forefront of our activities. As I said earlier, the concern was how we can help young people with talent to realise their potentials in life and be able to move up the ladder of progress. We observed that so many young people have natural abilities but hindered to discover themselves or those who were aware of their natural gifts but do not have the opportunity to express themselves and make the necessary impact in society. So, what we do is to find a way to discover these talents and develop them to fulfill their manifest destiny. One thing we also realize and I want to talk about is the fact that not everybody will eventually go to the university before they can make a difference in life. I am not preaching against education which is basic in life but we cannot sacrifice talent on the altar of education alone. We have to find a balance that ensures that anyone with talent who may probably not have the opportunity of obtaining a beautiful certificate does not suffer because of that limitation. Many of the renowned footballers, musicians and globally acclaimed sports men and women never had much of education but discovered their God-given talents and became global icons. So what we do in this regard is to organize competitions, which we tagged “Unleash Your Talent Show”. We usually organize such competition across the geopolitical zones leading to a grand finale where cash prizes are given to categories of winners and the very best are eventually showcased to the world through our various development programmes. Our  competitions have produced many footballers now playing in Europe and we have also discovered talents now famous in the entertainment industry. Again, we believe in empowerment. Our empowerment programme based on a well tested process have benefited many in the form of scholarships or through recommendations we make based on merit of talented young people into key institutions where technical and other life changing education and privileges are impacted on them. We also have collaborations with individuals and institutions at home and abroad from which many youths who passed through us have benefited and their lives transformed. And of course, we are very much involved in mentoring as a key method of reorientation of the youths to see that they can do so much if they can be focused and never being influenced by their peers who are probably involved in anti-social behaviours. And from here, we give them the necessary empowerment to believe in themselves and make impact in life. So, you’re right, talent discovery is a major component of our operations and we are glad we have been able to do some works that have earned us recognition at the United Nations.   