AIICO Pension Managers Limited (AIICO Pension) is a Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) that prides itself in its customer-centricity and ability to offer competitive returns on investments. It has, therefore, has set for itself a vision to be the most efficient customer-centric PFA in the country. AIICO Pension’s investment funds cater for the retirement savings needs of employees in the large corporates and SMEs (Funds I-III), informal sector (Fund V), retirees (Fund IV) as well as corporate pension schemes. Over 200,000 Nigerians entrust their retirement plans to AIICO Pension and they actively manage retirement benefits for thousands of retirees. The company has a balanced investment strategy, which has ensured that it has performed well above industry average return on all funds, according to the recently released peer performance report posted on the website of the National Pension Commission (PenCom). Though it is a mid-sized player in the industry, the company has distinguished itself in its ability to deliver superior investment returns comparable to, and in some cases, surpassing the performance of the bigger PFAs. Its team of experts in capital market, money market, funds management and real estate will put to bear their dexterity in portfolio management to competitive advantage in returns on clients’funds without compromising their safety. In compliance with the code of corporate governance for licensed pension operators, AIICO Pension is guided by internationally accepted principles of good corporate governance and with the provisions of the Pension Reform Act 2014, rules, regulations and guidelines issued by the commission. The company’s directors focus on best practices as it relates to the pension industry. They emphasise  transparency and efficient implementation of rules and regulations set by PenCom, and laid down structures and processes to be used to achieve optimal governance while placing premium on economic performance and market integrity towards creating wealth for the stakeholders. AIICO Pension’s philosophy centres on people and it has a team knowledgeable in their business areas, ensuring that its customers  have their comfort in retirement. The company has online registration, verification of account balance, access to quarterly statement and access to retirement planning tools such as pension calculator and portfolio tracker. At AIICO Pension, customer is king and that is why it has made provision for relationship officers, an interactive website, call centre and customer care centre. Its mission is to create through diligent endeavour, the most memorable value yielding and enduring customer relationships in the industry. The benefits of opening your Retirement Savings Account (RSA) with AIICO Pension include competitive returns on investment, monthly transaction and balance notification via sms or email, 24/7 online access to account information, dedicated relationship officer, provision of industry updates and information quarterly statement of account, quarterly newsletter, online pension tools, excellent benefit administration, and branches/service centers nationwide. It is not too late to have one’s RSA managed by a PFA that is sensitive to your needs. To switch one’s RSA to AIICO Pension, visit our website (www.aiicopension.com/switch) or call our call centre on 0800 AIICOPFA (0800 24426734) AIICO Pension was incorporated in April 2005. Our website is: www.aiicopension.com. Social handles are @AIICOPFA (Twitter) @aiico-pension-managers-limited (LinkedIn) @aiicopfa (Facebook and Instagram)