The over 17 million yawning gap in the nation’s housing sector can be tackled if private estate developers continue to make concerted efforts geared towards addressing the shortfall, Mr Triumph-Abatan Oluwayomi has said. Speaking at a public forum recently, Oluwayomi, who sits atop as the Managing Director of ATCO Homes, a fast-growing real estate firm, said there are different affordable housing and real estate investments opportunities available to low income earners. While noting that government is trying their best but cannot give everything, Oluwayomi noted that, “Government has put in place enabling laws that will make any one win, but it all depends on the drivers to engage those laws in a meaningful and productive ways, the real estate sector in Nigeria is thriving.” According to Oluwayomi who is also the president/founder of Arrow Leadership Development Foundation (ALDEF), “Aside selling land, we are interested in the happiness and fulfillment of clients dealing with us, I often share with the staff that our goal is service and not gains. That is the reason we energetically drive ‘Reality to a wealthier life!’ mandate of ATCOHOMES.” As part of efforts to contribute their quota to ease the housing challenge, Oluwayomi said his firm has mapped out plans to build 10,000 housing units in the next five years across Nigeria. Already, he disclosed that he has acquired large expanse of land at different locations for the purpose, adding that over 4,000 plots have been laid-out for prospective subscribers and intending homeowners. With this, he stated that Nigerians could become landowners in the new Lagos city of Ibeju-Lekki for as low as N800, 000, starting with an initial deposit of N25, 000. “By the end of 2021, we are looking at 30 estates. At the moment, we have 12 estates’ portfolio settled. Five more are going through documentation right now. In the next five years, we want to capture Abuja and Port Harcourt,” he said. To drive mass land-ownership and home-ownership, he disclosed that the firm has put in place a payment plan of two years with zero per cent interest on the land cost. In another case, he said there was promotion on-going in which  a gift of Toyota Corolla car is put in place anyone  that  purchase, at once, three and above plots from one of the estates, Nation’s View Estate, located in Shapati, Lekki, Lagos According to him, payment for the land or housing units is structured in such a way that any subscriber could pay for two years. He stated that his firm would leverage on private money to fund the estate development, noting that government does not have all the money to fund housing provision. On land documentations, the managing director of ATCO Homes assured every subscriber peace of mind, pointing out that all lands secured by his firm have genuine documents. 