 The Office of Auditor-General of the Federation (AuGF) is one of those offices underrated in Nigeria. While many know of the Accountant-General of the Federation and many qualified civil servants would do anything to have the appointment, not many think much of anyone appointed to the office of auditor-general. Yet, it is an important position expressly provided for in Sections 85 and 86 of the 1999 Constitution. The auditor-general is invested with the power to cause the accounts of all agencies of the Federal Government to be audited annually and submitted to the National Assembly. By the arrangement, he is insulated from the wide powers of the executive branch of government and made to relate more freely with the Public Accounts Committees of both houses of the National Assembly. However, much of the expectations from the office are not met. Many ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) of the Federal Government fail to cooperate. Some fail to submit their accounts, others prepare them shoddily. They show a disdain to the office by ignoring audit queries that would make it possible to draw up the report for the National Assembly. This has built up into a monster. There are massive leakages in public accounts, with so much being siphoned by shadowy characters who find solace in the failure of leaders of the executive arm of government to wield the necessary stick. The latest report of the auditor-general is something that should stir anger in many Nigerians. As made public by the House of Representatives in March, about $21 billion or N526 billion could have been lost to leakages in the MDAs. This is indefensible under a government that pledged to stamp out corruption in public places. As Abdullahi Abdulkadir pointed out when he moved a motion in the House of Representatives in March, the losses were recorded “due to leakages, financial misappropriation, under-reporting and falsification of records.” This is damning. We expect the Federal Executive Council to have felt embarrassed by the report, especially as it was supported by a forensic audit by a leading audit firm, KPMG. This is one report that must not be swept under the carpet. Politicians are known to have looked away from corrupt practices of their colleagues over the years, either because they are as guilty or due to party camaraderie. Yet, Nigeria continues to swim in debt, infrastructure remain decrepit, educational institutions are held back in the 20th Century standards, agriculture business is still conducted with hoes and cutlasses and unemployment is at an all time high. The government has a duty to ensure that every Naira due the country is paid into the national coffers and spent for development of human and material resources. The National Assembly should wake up to its responsibility. It should stand up to the executive in ensuring that the MDAs submit to the constitutional imperative of accountability and transparency. Any unit of government that fails to cooperate with the auditor-general in a year should be denied appropriation until it has fully accounted for what was allotted to it the previous year. Nigerians do not deserve the punishment served them year after year. A country the size of Nigeria and blessed with so much resources should not be the poverty capital of the world, ravaged by diseases and its people living in squalor. Nigerians too should realise that they have a major role to play in compelling all arms of government to perform the functions assigned them under the constitution. In the instant case, the parliament must be made to get to the root of the matter. The sum involved is too huge to be allowed to go the way of previous scams. All civil society groups should get involved in canvassing recovery of every kobo frittered away by those in authority. If Israel could drag serving Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to court, what holds Nigeria from holding those in authority to account? President Muhammadu Buhari should walk his talk on corruption. Nigerians want to know what really happened in connection with this $21 billion.