 The ongoing effort by the House of Representatives to move quarantine from the exclusive legislative list to the concurrent legislative list, in the 1999 constitution, is commendable. Being in the exclusive legislative list, state governments are restricted from making laws to regulate the emergencies associated with pandemics like COVID-19. The present Quarantine Act 1926 (amended in 1954) is not only a colonial relic, but gives state governments limited powers to make regulations based on the act. So, the earlier the amendment is made a law, the better for the country. But to pass the proposed bill, the 1999 constitution has to be amended, and the rigours of its amendment require the cooperation of the other arm of the National Assembly and two-third state houses of assembly. Perhaps, the House of Representatives, the Senate and the state houses of assembly can take advantage also to move a number of items listed in the exclusive legislative list to the concurrent legislative list, as they amend the Quarantine Act. The import of moving the Quarantine Act to the concurrent legislative list cannot be over-emphasised, considering the experience with COVID-19. For instance, with enabling legislature in place, a state government can quickly contain the spread of an epidemic in a local community or a local government, or even the state. As we all witnessed recently, the primary means of restricting the spread of an epidemic is the restriction of movement, and without the capacity to make such a law, the disease is allowed to keep spreading, until the national government intervenes. Of note, during the consideration of the general principles of the bill, many members expressed their support. In his presentation, Abass Tajudeen, the sponsor of the bill said: “The essence of this bill is just to confer constitutional authority on state governors to enact laws on quarantine as it affects them. The benefits of the bill include, among others: devolution of constitutional powers to enact laws on quarantine from the exclusive authority of the Federal Government to the state government, in line with the principle of federalism as enshrined in the Constitution”. On his part, the Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechuckwu, urged the House to also amend other relevant sections of the 1999 Constitution that will guarantee devolution of powers to the states. With regards to the Quarantine Act, Okechukwu said: “I think this bill to amend the constitution regarding quarantine provisions comes within the range of actually making it possible for us to have a handsome approach in the management of communicable diseases.” We agree with the minority leader that there are other provisions of the constitution which need to be amended to gift states economic powers and even the enabling laws to protect the states. Out of the 68 items listed in the exclusive legislative list, many Nigerians consider a lot of the listed items an aberration in a country that prides itself as a federation. For instance, one of the most pressing items that should equally move to the concurrent list is the police. As efforts are being made to contain COVID-19, most countries are already getting ready for any possible future outbreak of another pandemic, and Nigeria should not be a laggard. We urge both the federal and state governments to prepare in advance, by getting their laboratories ready. Nigeria must also join the league of countries with the competence to produce vaccines. The present crisis should be a wake-up call to rejig our health sector. The starting point is to amend the Quarantine Act, so that states can prepare in advance according to their capacities.