At least three former army chiefs have a lot of explaining to do on the federal government’s purchase of weaponry since the country’s security crisis began about a decade ago. That was the takeaway when the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, on April 12, finally honoured the invitation of the ad hoc committee of the House of Representatives investigating the government’s procurement of arms and ammunition from 2011 to date. He had failed to honour its invitation on three occasions.  According to a report, the army boss “explained to the lawmakers that his inability to honour several invitations of the committee was due to other engagements on internal security.”  The report said:  ”He, however, refused to apologise to the committee, noting that his explanation was sufficient.” Lamentably, he exhibited a lack of respect for the committee.  He should have acted with a sense of courtesy. He is expected to concentrate on tackling worsening insecurity in the country, and should have understood that the legislative investigation was also aimed at dealing with mounting insecurity. Notably, the committee was mandated to review the purchase, use and control of arms, ammunition and related hardware by the military, paramilitary and other law enforcement agencies. Its chairman, Olaide Akinremi, was reported saying Nigeria spent about $47.387 million on arms in 2019. On the investigation, Lt. Gen. Attahiru told the committee to focus on his predecessors, saying he “took over the mantle of leadership barely two months ago.” According to him, “Issues of procurement that you so demand to know were done by specific individuals. I will rather you call these individuals to come and explain to you very specific issues.” His predecessors, relevant to the legislative investigation, were lieutenant generals Azubuike Ihejirika, Kenneth Minimah and Tukur Buratai. Ihejirika was army boss from September 2010 to January 2014, three years and four months; Minimah from January 2014 to July 2015, one year and six months; and Buratai from July 2015 to January 2021, five years and six months. Interestingly, in August 2014, Ihejirika had faced an allegation that he was a major Boko Haram sponsor. It was an incredible allegation, considering that he had been the head of an army fighting against the Islamic terror group. It was baffling that the allegation came from Dr Stephen Davis, the Australian negotiator who had worked with Nigerian security agencies in connection with the rescue of the Chibok schoolgirls abducted by Boko Haram in April 2014.  The State Security Service (SSS) said the ex-army chief was innocent. Also, in January 2016, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) seized an Abuja estate said to be owned by Ihejirika, who was among ex-military top brass probed concerning a $2.1 billion arms scandal involving a former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki. Increasing insecurity fuelled by terrorism, banditry and kidnapping, continues to expose the incapacity of Nigeria’s military. National Security Adviser Babagana Monguno was thought to have given clues as to the cause of the military’s ineffectiveness when he was recently reported saying that “huge sums of money” approved for the purchase of weapons were “missing” and the weapons “were not bought.” He later claimed he had been “quoted out of context.” The import of the remarks he disclaimed is that the military is ill-equipped to tackle the escalating insecurity.  It is understandable that federal lawmakers are investigating the government’s procurement of weaponry in the face of an alarming security crisis. Claims that the armed forces are poorly equipped to fight insecurity are not new.  For instance, Lance Corporal Martins Idakpini of the 8 Division, Sokoto, of the Nigerian Army, dared to speak truth to power in a 12-minute video that went viral in June 2020. He had criticised the military leadership for failing to provide adequate weapons to fight terrorism. Also, in two other videos, soldiers involved in the war against terrorism had claimed that the army was ill-equipped to defeat the terrorists. In one video, a former theatre commander, Maj. Gen. Olusegun Adeniyi, was seen and heard telling troops that “it appears the people we are fighting have more firepower than us.” He was court-martialled for embarrassing and ridiculing the armed forces. It is obvious that an ill-equipped military is a non-starter. But President Muhammadu Buhari, who is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces, has failed to address the issue decisively. Lt. Gen. Attahiru has indirectly stated that his predecessors should be held responsible for the ill-equipped armed forces the new service chiefs inherited. It was a subtle attack.  It remains to be seen if those concerned will be questioned in order to get to the bottom of the matter. Apart from the ex-army chiefs, other ex-service chiefs are relevant to the investigation by federal lawmakers. The chiefs of air staff in the period were air marshals Mohammed Dikko Umar, Alex Badeh, Adesola Amosu and Sadique Abubakar. The chiefs of naval staff were vice admirals O.S. Ibrahim, D.J. Ezeoba, U.O. Jibrin and Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas. Also, the chiefs of defence staff were Air Chief Marshal Oluseyi Peterin, Admiral Ola Ibrahim, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh and General Abayomi Olonisakin. Beyond finding out why the military is ill-equipped, despite billions of naira approved for procurement of weapons over the years, and punishing those who shortchanged the military, there is an urgent need to make the military better equipped. In particular, the war on terror has gone on for too long. It is more than a decade since the military launched its counter-insurgency operation, and Boko Haram continues to terrorise the country. Tragically, it looks like a war without end. There are disturbing allegations that the war on terror has become an inspiration for corruption in the military and political leadership; and those benefiting materially from it do not want the war to end. This may explain the situation in which the fighters are poorly equipped. The failure of the military leadership to adequately equip the military, in the period under investigation, is indefensible. It suggests bad leadership by bad bosses.