People of Abacha community in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State have urged their new traditional ruler, Chief Godwin Odiegwu to seek for peace and other virtues capable of uniting the town to enable him render quality service to them. Traditional Prime Minister (Onowu) of the town, Chief Paul Omofia gave the advice during the presentation of the monarch at Ukwuora Iro Olisa Square, the ancestral selection place for all monarchs of the town. Odiegwu, an Onitsha based business mogul replaced the former monarch, GBC Mbakwe who was among the three royal fathers their certificates of recognition were recently withdrawn by the state government following their trip to Abuja. The community, through Abacha Development Union (ADU) had during its annual end of the year meeting, passed a resolution declaring vacant the monarch’s seat after the former monarch was rejected by majority of indigenes over non performance, violation of custom and tradition, unpopularity, among other reasons. Omofia expressed gratitude to God and Governor Willie Obiano for restoring peace and harmony in the town and the state in general, appealing for the people’s support to ensure the monarch excelled. Also speaking, President General of the community, Mr. Ifeanyi Obata enjoined the people to cooperate with the town union executives and the state government to attract developmental dividends to the community. “The community cannot continue to witness vacuum in the traditional ruler’s institution. We solicit for your support and cooperation for the new traditional ruler,” he said. On their part, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Chief Ikemefuna Okoye, an indigene of the town, and woman activist, Amb. Uche Okeke urged the monarch not to disappoint the people by carrying everybody along, just as they called on government to give the monarch maximum support for him to succeed. The newly elected monarch, Chief Odiegwu thanked the community for the confidence reposed in him, calling for support to enable him enjoy peaceful reign which, according to him would translate to growth and development of the area. The event witnessed display of various colorful masquerades, as well as women and youths of the community rendering melodious tunes to the delight of the dignitaries. When contacted, former monarch whose sources said had left for oversea trip neither picked his calls nor replied text messages sent to him on the matter. But a close relation told newsmen that the move was handwork of enemies to the monarch who had vowed to make the town ungovernable for him. “As far as the monarch is concerned, all that had happened are deceit and idiotic as most of the major actors in the whole incident are sworn enemies of the traditional ruler who has sworn to make the town ungovernable for the monarch,” the source said.