The Governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has approved recall from suspension, his suspended Chief of Staff, Dr. Anthony Agbazuere. This was contained in a statement issued by the Chief Secretary to the State Governor, Mr. Onyebuchi Ememanka in Saturday. Ememanka who didn’t disclose reasons for the recall of the suspended Chief of Staff said that Agbazuere’s recall was with immediate effect. Agbazuere was suspended from office by Gov. Ikpeazu after a video showing him (Agbazuere) spraying money on selfstyled Onitsha based prophet, Chukwuemeka Ohanemere, AKA Odumeje in his (Agbazuere’s) office. An action that attracted wide condemnation by members of the public who faulted Agbazuere’s action not only as a public office holder, considering his office and the fact that the state government has made Abians to understand that the state is suffering paucity of funds. Ememanka in the statement also disclosed that the governor of the state also approved the immediate dissolution of the State Executive Council. “All those affected by this dissolution are to handover all government properties in their possession, together with their handover notes, to their respective Permanent Secretaries. “The Governor expresses his deep appreciation to these men and women for their services to the people of Abia State, and wishes them well for the future,” the statement read. Meanwhile, it was gathered that some of the serving commissioners have started lobbying for reappointment by the governor who is expected to announce the new nominated commissioners names to the State House of Assembly for confirmation by next week. Unconfirmed reports have it that Commissioner for Works, Bob Ogu and a few others including the Education commissioner, Kanaelechi Nwangwa are likely going to make the list of new commissioners’ based on their performance in the office while their is uncertainty about the reappointment of the Trade and Investment commissioner, Cosmos Ndukwe among others who may not make the current list of commissioner nominees.