Senator Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano Central) has said zoning the presidency was not in Nigeria’s constitution or constitution of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Shekarau, who was answering questions on which region should produce the APC presidential candidate in 2023, said the APC has no zoning formula. He, however, noted that despite being unconstitutional, it was the fairest thing to do as politics is concerned in this country of diverse cultures and religions. The former minister of education was elected Kano State governor in 2003 and re-elected in 2007. He was a presidential aspirant in 2011. The senator addressed reporters yesterday in Kano where he presented his scorecard since becoming senator in June 2019. He said: “There is no provision in the APC constitution that zones power. Not in the country’s constitution either. It is in the PDP constitution that it is written that power (presidency) shall rotate between the north and south. “So, zoning is about equity or fairness and a sense of belonging. I am a northerner from Kano, if today I become a presidential candidate and I pick a running mate from Bauchi State, will that not amount to madness? “So, we crave for fairness and justice for our diverse regions and tribes, and sometimes religions too. So, zoning is about balancing the equation, by checking and calculating the interests of everyone. “There is no state in Nigeria today that does not have up to 100 persons who are qualified to be president. So let us stop this sentiment that the president must be my tribal man. Obasanjo was president, did he change the lives of the entire Yoruba people? Jonathan was president, did he change the lives of the entire Bayelsa people? Buhari is president today, is he changing the lives of the entire Daura people? No! So, it is not a matter of where you come from. “We all have to search for a person and put him under scrutiny, not that he must be your tribesman. The guiding principle is fairness and justice to all -the Constitution of Common Sense.”