The new Chief of Defence Staff, Major General Lucky Irabor, on Friday took over the command of the Armed Forces of Nigeria as the 17th Chief of Defence Staff, with a charge to ensure that Nigeria remains one united country. Outgoing Chief of Defence Staff, General Gabriel Olonisakin, who gave the charge during his official handover at the Defence Headquarters, urged Irabor to give his best to ensure that “Nigeria remains one peaceful, indivisible country.” Highlighting the achievements of the military in the last five years, the outgoing CDS recalled that “at the inception of the current administration of President Muhammadu Buhari, the Boko Haram terrorist group held sway in parts of the Northeast Nigeria, where the sect occupied 20 out of the 26 local government areas in Borno State. “Our immediate challenge on assumption of office was to flush out the Boko Haram and restore Nigeria’s sovereignty over these occupied territories. ”Gratefully, with the support of the political leadership and indeed all Nigerians, the armed forces of Nigeria, under my leadership, was able to reclaim all territories that were then under the control of Boko Haram.” He continued: ”While the terrorism/insurgency by Boko Haram remain a security issue the country is grappling with, the armed forces is equally engaged in assisting the government in addressing other security issues in line with our constitutional roles. “It gladdens my heart that the incoming Chief of Defence Staff is very familiar with these security challenges, having previously served as Theatre Commander, Operation LAFIYA DOLE, Commander Multinational Joint Task Force and, above all, the immediate past Chief of Training and Operations at the Defence Headquarters. “There couldn’t have been a better choice of a seasoned senior officer who will hit the ground running as the Chief of Defence Staff. “I must state that while the Armed Forces of Nigeria, under my leadership, grappled with some operational and logistics challenges, the DHQ has made some modest achievements aimed at improving operational capacity, logistics and welfare needs of officers and men serving in the Defence Headquarters. “In terms of organisation, some directorates of the DHQ were upgraded to departments to make them more impactful. Some of these are the former Directorate of Civil-Military Affairs, which has been upgraded to a department to scale up our non-kinetic operation.” Olonisakin added: “I am confident that General Irabor will lead the Armed Forces of Nigeria to build on what we have been able to achieve in the past five and a half years and take the Armed Forces of Nigeria to much greater heights. ”I urge you to continue to give your best to ensure that Nigeria remains one peaceful, indivisible country.” Irabor, in his remarks, solicited the support of Nigerians to tackle the current security challenges, adding: “We are all aware of the security landscape and should join hands to take security to all the nooks of the country.” He promised to give the right leadership that will inspire the armed forces.