Since assuming office for a second term, how has Governor Yahaya Bello justified the confidence reposed in him by the people of the state? Just like his campaign programme ‘Doing More’, he is doing more for the good people of the state. Recently, a good number of tractors and other farming equipment were procured by the State Government and distributed to all the local government areas for massive agricultural production.  Immediately he took his oath of office on the 27th of January 2020, just a few months after COVID-19 started, which has become a big issue affecting a lot of economies around the world. But, we are trying to find ways round it by ensuring that we boost agricultural production in the state as much as we can. Also, road projects are ongoing in the state. In the next couple of weeks, the popular Ganaja Flyover is going to be flagged off so that work can commence in earnest. Also, the Kabba Township road is just a few weeks away from being flagged off. The good news about that particular road is that the fund for it is available already.  The only thing is just to mobilise the contractors to move to site and start construction. So, a lot of things are currently going on in the state. Within the second term also, he has fulfilled the obligation of ensuring grassroots participation in governance by conducting a very free and fair local government election that was hugely successful. One historic thing about the election was that the party fielded women as vice-chairmanship candidates and they all emerged as elected vice-chairmen in the state. Also, 35 percent of the councilors are also young ladies and women.  Also, each of the 21 legislative councils is being led by a woman in the state. So, the governor has done a lot and that is why the National Council of Women in Nigeria are trying to give him a very special award very soon in the next few days to honour him for what he has done  for the womenfolk in the state.  So, he is doing a lot in all the sectors of the economy, youth empowerment, agriculture, infrastructure, healthcare and other areas.  So, I can say he has been justifying the confidence reposed in him by the good people of Kogi state. How has the state been fighting COVID-19, especially now that the second wave is causing more havoc across the world? We have succeeded in sensitising the good people of Kogi state. The best weapon to fight COVID-19 as far as we are concerned is through sensitisation. When the people know their responsibilities and what they should do to keep themselves safe, it will help in ensuring that the pandemic doesn’t ravage the state.  We are still on the fact that there has not been a single case in Kogi state. All those other ones declared by the NCDC are controversial and we have rejected those figures in clear terms.   As far as we are concerned, we will continue sensitization. Before any other state, we built our communication pillars on COVID-19 and ensured that we are telling the people the right thing about the virus. That is what is working for the state. We have our state of the art isolation centres. We are not saying COVID-19 doesn’t exist, we are only saying that the way it is being marketed and promoted is unfortunate and it is designed to ruin the economy of the country if we are not careful about it. Before the governorship election, there were complaints by some members about disunity in Kogi APC. How united is Kogi APC now? Those complaining are those who are not seriously on ground to know what was happening. Under the leadership of Governor Yahaya Bello, APC has been in good hands. It is not out of place for people who are not on ground with the party members and leadership, who think they can stay in Abuja to complain that there is no cohesion. We had ward, local congresses and state congress, we came to the national convention. There is no single legal tussle because of that. It shows that our people have come to accept the leadership of the governor. He in turn, is piloting the affairs of the party very well. We are cohesive and we are going to work with APC members and leaders to ensure that we deliver Kogi state and also join our compatriots across the country to deliver the nation to APC, so that we can continue to consolidate on the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari. The Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) in its reports last December said that Kogi state overtook Lagos in investment flow in Q3 2020. How were you able to achieve that? We put in place structures that could encourage investors to come into the state; structures like our tax administration system is such a very friendly one to investors.  We were also able to banish the ghost of insecurity in the state with the beautiful job done by the governor with Operation Total Freedom. That has been able to give confidence to investors to bring their investments into the state. Also, our massive investments in agriculture have also been yielding a lot of results.  Unicane is generating billions of naira on yearly basis. They are in Kogi state and their major raw material is cassava. The investment drive in the state is such a massive one because of our policies and commitments to secure and protect the interests of our investors. That was the magic. What is the state government doing in the area of employment for youths? We noticed that part of the problem which we are facing in the state, which is also a national problem, is the overpopulation of the payrolls of local government administrations by people who have no business being in the local governments.  Those people who were giving them employment letters thought they were doing them a favour but they were actually killing the system financially. What we are doing presently is to boost agriculture. That is the way out.  That is one sector that can take thousands of our youths of the streets.  We are committed to doing that. We are also doing a lot by creating a full-fledged ministry for Solid Minerals to be able to find a structure of engaging our youths, to be able to participate. Also, the government is putting in place structures to be able to be a participant because the ways the National Laws are operated in Nigeria is that the mineral resources on your lands are owned by the federal government. We have to be a player; we cannot just keep quiet and say it is owned by the federal government again. We are devising a way of participating. If private companies could participate, it means states could also form corporate organisations that can also participate and take advantage of that. We know that is going to take a lot of youths off the streets.  We are hopeful that President Buhari is going to fulfill his promise of ensuring that Ajaokuta Steel works before he leaves office. That was why we have decided as a state to strategically position ourselves to feed that industry with the university that is going to commence academic calendar this year; that is the Confluence University of Science and Technology  established by the present administration. Many Nigerians are wondering that why do you have two state-owned universities in the midst of scarce resources? The Kogi state University at Ayi gba is a conventional one; this is a specialised university which we want to use to feed our industries.  We are going to have Ajaokuta Steel; we have Iron and Ore at Itakpe; we have Obajana Cement Company at Obajana. We have quite a lot of these companies. So, we need engineers that will be trained in our institution and in that environment to be able to feed those industries. These are some of the things that we are doing and we know that it is going to create a lot of job opportunities for our youths.