Instagram personality and brand influencer, Diiadem born Adeola Adeyemi Chizoba has been unveiled by Hush’D Makeover as their brand ambassador. The unveiling took place in Lagos at the company’s office on Tuesday, January 5, 2021. According to the Chief Executive Officer of Hush’D Makeover, Abiola Ahmed the choice of Diiadem was an easy one as her ideals resonate with their company’s aspiration in the beauty and skincare business in Nigeria. “Our brand is a physical representation of being comfortable with your choice of complexion and to also let people know the importance of wellness. Over the years we have come to realise that we have a larger base of feminine customers, so we decided to sign someone that can represent our brand comfortably,” Abiola Ahmed said. She is an ambitious woman who is passionate about beauty and skincare. She understands the importance of looking after your skin despite a hectic schedule which makes her happy to work with us. We love her fresh sense of style, upbeat spirit and like us, recognizes the importance of self-care. Welcome on board Diiadem! We look forward to doing great things with you as our ambassador,” she added. Diiadem who is the CEO of Beauty by AD and a former model and video vixen also shared her excitement and joy for being named as a brand ambassador of a prime beauty brand. She said, “I feel deeply honored to be appointed Ambassador of Hush’D and at the same time, I am fully aware of my responsibilities. During my time as ambassador, I will exert my efforts to bring everyone closer to the vision of the company. I firmly believe that I shall have the friendly cooperation and full support from the Hush’D Team.” Ahmed Omotunde Abiola is a name that not only resonates with pomp and pride in the beauty industry in Nigeria, her company, Hush’D Makeover is one of the shining lights of the industry. They have defined the landscape with their unique products and services that have clearly placed them at the apex of the ladder. Abiola Omotunde Ahmed is an experienced entrepreneur skilled in leadership and management, with an affinity for beauty and style. She launched Hush’D Makeover Limited, Nigeria’s Leading skincare and cosmetology company with varieties of cutting edge and effective beauty products, based on her vast experience in the skincare and beauty industry in 2015. She holds a degree in Office Technology and Management from the Federal Polytechnic, Auchi and a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from London Metropolitan School of Business and Management. Abiola Ahmed started Hush’D Makeover Limited in 2015 as an extension of her passion. According to her, “My primary goal for Hush’D Makeover Limited is to make men and women feel beautiful and comfortable in their own skin. What has followed is a string of amazing products, which has given our customers a feeling of proud confidence in their skin.” She holds a degree in Office Technology and Management from the Federal Polytechnic, Auchi and a Masters in Business Administration (MBA) from London Metropolitan School of Business and Management. 