Two camps of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State have clashed over a petition to the National Judicial Council (NJC) and the Chief Judge of Rivers State against Justice L. Ngbor Abina, the Judge of Okirika judicial division sitting in Port Harcourt. The petition written and signed by the caretaker chairmen of the APC loyal to the Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, accused the judge of flagrant abuse of judicial discretion against the APC in a suit between Sunday Hawkins and the party. The petition read by the CTC Chairman, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni Local Government Area, Dr. Christian Ogbowu, claimed that Hawkins was a blood relative of the judge and that there was no way the party could get judgement in her court. The chairmen said with the kind of affinity between the judge and the claimant, no one should have told the judge to recuse herself from the matter in the interest of justice. They appealed to the chief judge to reassign the matter insisting that the claimant and the judge are first cousins. The chairmen said: “We note that Mr. Sunday Hawkins (1st claimant) in suit no. PHC/3464/CS/2020 against APC pending before the High Court of Rivers State is a blood relative of the presiding judge, Justice Abina Ngbor and there is no way on earth we can get justice in her court.” But in a swift reaction, the Golden Ben Chioma-led CTC loyal to Magnus Abe, referred to the petitioners as faceless persons and interlopers. Chioma said in a statement: “We wish to state unequivocally that these persons so called who authored the putrid petition only sought to smear the sacred image of the Judge and the judiciary. “They also sought to blackmail the bench from dispensing justice and this will not be allowed because the judiciary will always remain the only hope of the comman man. Thus, it is only the judiciary that can determine the fate of the APC in Rivers state. “We state for the umpteenth time that these hirelings led by Isaac Ogbobula are unknown to the APC in Rivers state and they are not the State Caretaker Committee of the Party in Rivers state. “Their singular agenda is to stir up dirty waters which they have a penchant for in disregard to civility. It is not unknown that the Rivers APC godfather and Transportation Minister, His Excellency Rt. Hon. Rotimi Amaechi will stop at nothing to destroy the APC in Rivers state in line with his vows to this end which he has always boasted about, bringing to bear his acclaimed federal might and powers to undermine the prospects of the party and its teeming members for his selfish political goal. “May we state categorically that we have a subsisting Supreme Court judgement in force which has ordered that all those who paid for forms must fully participate and be part of the APC Congresses in Rivers state. “Furthermore, by the payment for Forms and the Supreme Court judgement in force, the congresses in Rivers state APC is deemed to have fully commenced and fully on stream and must be duly concluded in line with the Supreme Court judgement. “In an ordinary interpretation, can you conduct a voters registration exercise in the middle of an election? The answer no doubt is in the negative and so you cannot also carry out a membership revalidation and re-registration or registration exercise in the middle of a Congress. This is a simple fact. “Unfortunately, the so called membership revalidation and re-registration as purportedly scheduled is a broad-day robbery and mischief only aimed at circumventing and undermining the Supreme Court judgement and the aim is to de-register all those who paid for Forms as ordered by the Supreme Court. “The revalidation in APC Rivers state can only take place after congresses have been concluded in line with the Supreme Court judgement. May we finally state that the initial and subsisting membership registration of all APC members was never disabled but fully valid. “All hands must be on deck to ensure that the classical Supreme Court judgment in Dele Moses is fully enforced for a credible and all-inclusive state Congress to take place in Rivers State. This is the only way a legitimate membership revalidation can be achieved successfully for our common good.”