 The Federal Government has launched a scheme to monitor the adoption pattern of various varieties of four major crops  – maize, cassava, cowpea and rice. The Institutionalising Monitoring of Crop Variety Adoption using Genotyping Programme (IMAGE) was launched in collaboration with other partners. It is a five-year programme supported by Context Global Development and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to establish institutional mechanism, and scaling routine monitoring of improved variety adoption and turnover using genotyping in three focus countries: Nigeria, Tanzania and Ethiopia. Speaking at the launch of the project in Abuja, Director-General, National Agricultural Seeds Council (NASC), Dr Phillip Ojo said the programme would support inclusive agricultural transformation by providing insights and evidence for seed sector actors to enhance government agencies capacity and improve stakeholder coordination. Ojo added that it would lead to better resource allocation for varietal development and commercialisation in Nigeria. He said the project was necessary because misidentification of seed varieties or type could have several implications for both adoption of improved technology, for planting, policy formulation, food security and regulatory activities. “The beginning of the process that will drive us through the much-needed shift from our traditional and largely inaccurate methodology for measuring farmer adoption of improved variety and how varieties turnover through time. “Over time, studies of improved seed adoption in Nigeria are almost based on household surveys and are premised on the assumption that a farmer can accurately self-report their use of improved seed varieties,” Ojo said. He said many studies have shown that farmers’ report of seed varieties planted, or whether the seed is improved or local are sometimes inconsistent with the DNA fingerprinting results of these varieties. Nigeria Country Representative at the Agricultural Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA), Dr Kehinde Makinde, said the programme would help Nigeria build a responsible seed system that would respond to farmers’ needs. 