 Can you help us to better understand the mindset and challenges of your athletes during in the past months due to inactivity occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic lock down? I can tell you for free that these are very trying times. When there is inactivity, depression can set in. There is uncertainty, there is no performance, and there is nothing to look up to. Don’t forget that many of these athletes are programmed athletes. They have programmes set out from the beginning to the end of the year. It is like a season, there is time for doing over-distances, your regular training, peak performance, competition. This is a total disruption of the programme, so it is tough. In terms of mindset, we are just trying to pick up the pieces, and it is difficult. One of the things I am trying to look at in terms of the Sports festival is, how do you take an athlete that have been dried of activities and train the athlete for two months? They are going to have injuries and challenges. But I leave that to the expert to advise appropriately. But I know it is not going to be a smooth process. Just last month, Delta State was in the forefront of programmes, where some athletes were given scholarship. What LSAA doing in this area to encourage its athletes? It is a good programme, but it has to be done well. As an association, we are very careful with these things. However, we do have some partnership with some Universities locally, because those ones can easily be verified, and the students can easily be monitored. That is on one hand. On the other hand, when athletes do obtain scholarships to go abroad, we support them as best as we can. However, we are not the initiator of such scholarships to go to such Universities, we just support them. A case study is the gold medallist in long jump at the Abuja Games-Benjamin Arinze. He went on scholarship to the United States and we supported him. We have Esther Isah, the high jump female champion, she is also on scholarship in the United States and we are supporting. But we do not initiate because, these are delicate matters, and we are unable to commit resources to monitor them abroad or manage their welfare or wellbeing. How do you deal with sponsorship? What can government do to have private sector put in their money to run sports in our country? That is a big question. There is no synergy in a lot of the activities we do. All the various associations chase the same sponsors; the sports associations also chase the same sponsors. So I ask a simple question. If you have a chance to sit at the table with the state government, why would you want to sit at the table with the local government? The difference at the national level in Nigeria is that the ministry go for state-sponsored competitions and events, then, they leave the associations to go out and look for sponsorships, so the associations chase the private sector. However, if you look at it on the state level, what you have is both the sports commission and all the associations’ chase the same sports inclines sponsors as it were. So there is a bit of apathy, sponsorship fatigue, and also, the question of what is in it for the sponsor continues to come up. It is one thing to say it is corporate social responsibility, which is a hard one. Sports need to be seen beyond making some money and giving back to the society. We need to look at sports from a different perspective. There need to be a paradigm shift. Government needs to promote sports. They promote education; they also have to promote sports and leisure. Every business we do attracts 1% education levy. Then they came up with the local contact development act, which is now a law, and everything done in the oil and gas sector attracts 1% for that. What do sports attract? We complain that we have insecurity and all other social vices; it is because people do not have avenues to express themselves positively. Where are the recreation grounds? Where are sports facilities? I remember a time they said that they wanted to build one sports facility per local government, where are those? We spend a lot of money on other matters and neglect the thing that can help us bring down the crime rate; pent up anger, and so on. So we need to look at sports from a different perspective. Where will the money come from? The Money will come when we start to treat sports, not just as a recreation, but as a developmental tool or as a business. With the second of Coronavirus in town, what are your programmes for this year? Honestly, again it is tough to deploy programmes. As we speak, even the sports facilities are running at sub-optimal levels skeletal services are going on. But like I said, we are optimistic that maybe by March, if the second wave of COVID abates, then we can start some work. We are having some meets amongst all the athletic clubs in Lagos, and then we have the Lagos State Association of coaches handling competitions to rate the athletes and discover new ones. All of these ceased because of the COVID-19, but we are hopeful that once we get it all clear, we can go back to these things and start getting our athletes back to speed. How would you advise the athletes in this trying time? I can tell you for free that there is no monopoly of knowledge, and he who wears the shoe knows where it pinches. I will like to see our athlete take more interest in their own affairs. They should get involved in associations, they need to organize themselves and ask questions, they need to play sports as a stakeholder. That is my advice to athletes. You sound frustrated with the system, what do you think can be done differently to achieve better results in the running of sports in Nigeria given that Nigerian sports is going down? My take is simple; there should be more transparency in the system. Let us all know what we are doing, even if we disagree, let us agree to disagree. Get everyone a seat at the table, so that we can all together forge ahead and move forward. There is no frustration here, what you see is an honest yearning to see changes. There is no messiah to fix sports, we all have to decide that we want to see changes, and then we begin to promote the change that we want to see. I would like to see things done properly. What is your motivation in this job? First off, I am not a politician; I do not hold public offices. But I agreed to take on the responsibility, and it is not something I take lightly or joke with, I take it seriously because life and future is at stake. What is your opinion about road races in Nigeria? Do you think it is motivating Nigerian athletes? All of us have different motivations, but one thing is for sure, we have cut our teeth and made our marks in the sprint, and middle distances.  You can say that if that is where we excel, then that should be our primary focus. But there is no gain saying also that there may be others who are motivated to do road races, or long distance running. I am not part of those who would scuttle a dream even before it starts, but I also know that whatever resources we have, need to be planned for adequately, and deployed in such a way that it gives the maximum back for our good. If you are spending money, spend it on what will bring you returns. I won’t say more than that regarding long distance or road races.