 It is official. The virus has found home among convicts and suspects, and even innocents on a leash. With the announcement that the wife of Ibrahim Yaquoub El-Zakzaky, the leader of the Shia sect, the Islamic Movement in Nigeria, has contracted COVID-19, we can no longer quarantine the prisons from the list of affected institutions in the country. According to reports, she was known to have contracted it when a test was administered on her. El-Zakzaky’s attorney, Femi Falana (SAN), made this known in court and presented the evidence of her health status before the judge. The wife, Zeenat El-Zakzaky, becomes not only the first high-profile name to contract the disease in the penal system. She is the only name now. She was duly removed from incarceration and has been placed in an isolation centre to receive treatment. Her story brings a new focus to the spread and potential of the pandemic to reach even the most remote parts. For it to reach the prison raises some piquant questions. First, if the cleric’s wife was infected, who were the people around her, and have they been tested as well? If they have been tested, it will be important for the public to know their status. There are a number of staff and variety of professionals who interact either directly or indirectly with prisoners or detainees in the course of a day. We have the wardens, police, cleaners, suppliers of essential amenity, etc. This means that it is not only fellow inmates that are endangered, but a suite of workers. It can take a chain from outside to inmates and spread to other inmates. It could take a reverse course from inmate to workers to family members and the society at large. There are no records as yet officially as to whether those around the cleric’s wife were ever treated for the pandemic or were quarantined and taken to isolation centres for treatment. The story of her infection should be a clarion call for the prison officials and authorities across the country to pay attention to the potential of the spread in the penal system. Zeenat El-Zakzaky did not infect herself, and it implies that the disease came from someone else who was somewhere else. The situation in prison cells calls especially for care and vigilance because prisoners share spaces and amenity, and breathe close to each other and talk close to each other in small rooms. Social distancing is not often guaranteed. This calls for relentless testing across the board, and accountability and transparency from the lower cadres up to the heads of the hierarchies. This will save lives and avoid scandal. This sort of scrutiny will avoid the nightmarish prospect of a breakout. Zeenat El-Zakzaky’s case is also a consequence of judicial dalliance and what might be called a political witch-hunt of a religious leader. The leader of the sect and his wife have been in detention for too long. Detention may be partly responsible for her new health affliction. They were under the custody of the Department of State Security (DSS) before they were taken to the Kaduna Central Prison. But it applies to many Nigerians under lock and key in Nigerian prisons but whose cases have not been heard for years in the court of law. Apart from the perils of delayed justice, they are now vulnerable to the advent of a virus attack. If they have underlying conditions, their lives may be in greater peril. If anyone dies without justice as a result of the pandemic, the justice system will attract great criticism for exposing the citizen. The same fear now overshadows Zeenat El-Zakzaky in isolation centre.