Borno Governor Babagana Zulum has described as shocking the passing on of the Shehu of Dikwa emirate, Mohammed Ibn Masta II. The news of the death of the paramount ruler came barely after Governor Zulum presented the Staff of Office to the new Emir of Biu, Mai Mustapha Umar Mustapha II at the ancient town of Biu. Zulum, who cut short his activities on the occasion of the presentation of the Staff of Office to the Emir of Biu back to Maiduguri with Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Umar Garbai El-Kanemi, other traditional rulers and top Government officials held a funeral prayer for the late traditional ruler in Maiduguri Sunday. The funeral prayers were led by Imam Idaini of Borno, Imam Shettima Mamman Saleh at the Shehu of Borno’s Palace in Maiduguri. The Governor, while responding to journalists after the funeral prayers, described the death as “shocking and great loss”. “Indeed it is a very sad moment for the people of Borno State and in particular, the people of Dikwa Emirate Council. “The late Shehu was a legend, he was humble, and a very generous person. We will miss him a lot. May Almighty Allah in his infinite mercy forgive and admit him to Jannatul Firdaus. “It was so shocking because he was a unifying factor in Dikwa Emirate Council. His absence will seriously create a vacuum. “There should be no way we will continue our scheduled activities in southern Borno while we lose a king. We came back home immediately in order to witness the funeral prayer,” he said. The Shehu of Borno, Abubakar Umar Garbai El-Kanemi, also described the death of the late monarch as a great loss to the entire people of Borno. “It is very sad and a great pity actually, a great loss for us. In fact, he is one of the very respected rulers, number two in the ranking of the traditional institution in the State. “After me is the Shehu of Dikwa. Indeed it is a great loss not only to his immediate family or people of Dikwa, but the entire Borno State. May Almighty Allah grants him into Jannatul Firdaus,” Shehu Garbai said. The late Shehu Mohammed Ibn Masta II died in Abuja on Saturday at 75 after a protracted illness.