 LESS than a week after he turned 70 on January 4, former captain and ex-coach of Nigeria’s senior national football team Christian Chukwu had to announce that he wasn’t dead.  His alleged death had hit the headlines a few days after his birthday. It was fake news. “Several people have been calling me from across the world since the news broke,” he said, adding that he was “terribly embarrassed.”  Baffled, Chukwu said: “I don’t know where the story emanated from. Nobody has come to speak with me or any member of my family. I only heard people saying that I was dead.” Chukwu had sought medical treatment for prostate cancer in England in May 2019. Notably, billionaire businessman Femi Otedola had philanthropically provided more than N36 million to cover his medical and travel expenses following a campaign to save his life. This intervention reflected his importance. Nicknamed “Chairman,” Chukwu led the country’s senior national football team, which was then known as the Green Eagles, to a historic win in the final of the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations tournament. Nigeria became African champions for the first time, beating Algeria 3-0.  The victory was sweeter because Nigeria hosted the competition.  Chukwu, the team captain, made history when he received the new African Unity Cup from then President Shehu Shagari at the National Stadium, Lagos. A solid central defender, Chukwu had a commanding presence and a charismatic personality. He was a motivating influence, and wore the captain’s band with an acute sense of his role and responsibility.  On the field of play, his leadership skill was beyond dispute. In his heyday, Nigeria had a vibrant, crowd-pulling football league system, with several exciting teams across the country. Lamentably, nowadays Nigerian football fans prefer to follow happenings in European leagues. The local league system has lost its lustre. At club level, Chukwu was a pillar of the Enugu Rangers FC. He captained the team that won the Africa Winners’ Cup in 1977, beating Cameroonian club Canon Yaounde. Winning prestigious international competitions with club and country, as a player, showed Chukwu’s class. He became a coach after a glittering career as a player, and was no less successful. He was assistant coach of the junior national team, the Golden Eaglets, which won the then FIFA U-16 World Cup in China in 1985 by defeating West Germany, the first team to win a FIFA World Cup trophy for Nigeria. He was also assistant coach of the senior national team that qualified for the 1994 FIFA World Cup finals in America, a first for Nigeria, and reached the Round of 16. The team, known as the Super Eagles, and regarded as a golden generation, also won the Africa Cup of Nations that year.  His achievements earned him the position of coach of the Kenya national team in 1998. From 2002 to 2005, Chukwu was chief coach of the Super Eagles. Under him, the team won the bronze medal at the 2004 Africa Cup of Nations in Tunisia. He also coached Enugu Rangers in the 2008–2009 season of the Nigeria Premier League. His record, particularly as a player, elevated him to the status of a football legend. He won the Confederation of African Football (CAF) Legend Award in 2008.  When the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) appointed him as its life ambassador in 2019, it was a further acknowledgement of his services to football. NFF President Amaju Pinnick said: “Chukwu is a legend of the game in Nigeria. The NFF decided to introduce this award as a way of rewarding past players who have contributed to the development of the game in Nigeria. As a Life Ambassador, Chukwu will be placed on a monthly salary of N500, 000 as well as accompanying the Super Eagles to matches.” It was another first for Chukwu. He may well receive more honours.  As he starts life as a septuagenarian, we wish him many happy returns.