 He is a soldier’s soldier. Alabi Isama evinced the physical attributes of a warrior as a young man. He would say he also had the idealism of youth. After he qualified to serve in the Nigerian Army, it was as though the quiet of a society fell into a quicksand of fear and suspicion. Those were not diets for a good society. They, however, nourished the brawn and mind of a warrior. Isama was such a man. Not just in the Nigerian society but on the continent of Africa did we see people on the hunt of their neighbours – ethnic neighbours, that is. So, Isama, in the course of his storied career, took part in three wars, wars that defined Africa of the 1960’s up to the 1980’s. His first baptism was in the Congo, a febrile land for hangmen and traitors, which showed that democracy was at odds with a culture of strong men and despots. Isama was drafted to that theatre, and he did well for his career, experience and his country. But that was a dress rehearsal for a more potent chapter of bloodshed, here at home. Nigerian democracy had also come out of joint, and a nation hailed as Africa’s great hope had fallen into an ominous despair. The Igbos in the eastern region had just crawled under a bloodbath of pogrom, and a coup and counter-coup had shredded the centre that, in William Yeats words, could not hold. Then came the so-called Nigeria-Biafra war that lasted all of 30 months and shed the lives of millions and immiserated millions more. Isama became a major fixture in the most consequential division of the Nigerian Army. It was the Third Marine Commando, and Isama was the chief of staff to famed Benjamin Adekunle (aka Black Scorpion.) That the war lasted 30 months and not more, and that the hard-charging Biafra was terminated the way it fell, is credit to the genius of men like Isama. He was a solider sought by both sides. He might have well fought for Biafra when he was conscripted during the war. But in a feat of daring-do narrated in his memoirs  A Tragedy of Victory, he manipulated the soldiers under him in the then Midwest and manoeuvred his way back to join the federal side before he was recruited to join the Third Marine Commando, which was Third Division. They did work in the war more than the other divisions. Right from Sapele, through the marshes and marine terrain of the Niger Delta, all the way to the quelling of campaigns from the famous OAU – Owerri, Aba and Umuahia -, Alabi Isama was point man in breaking the backbone of Biafra that led to its eventual surrender. In spite of tension with his leader and his eventual transfer to the Second Division, Isama was still gracious to Adekunle, who was replaced by Olusegun Obasanjo when the war was all but won. After war, Isama was drafted to squelch what may be a forerunner to today’s northern unease: The Maitatsine riots. It was a great act of soldiery that indicated that the inequities and feudal tensions of the north was a slow-burning flame that would roar in the future. With his three major adventures in his life, Isama who retired as a brigadier, fought for justice first for Africa, then for country, and then for neighbour. He turned 80 December 24, 2020, and his book, a testament to a warrior’s life, shows how much he can still offer his country in an era of herdsmen and militancy, if only we knock on his door.