  THE residents say they have never seen anything like it before. Criminal gang of teenage boys (including girls) numbering hundreds attacking their community in a most coordinated manner and in droves. Some local community boys who teamed up to confront and push them back during one of the battles last Tuesday night, say they were well over 300. For upward of a week, Bolounpelu, host community to the globally renowned Synagogue Church of All Nations near Ikotun, Lagos, has been under siege of aggressive criminal elements. According to a resident, who declined revealing his name for fear of reprisal attack, the whole thing started Sunday evening, when the boys who called themselves Omo Kesari first started attacking in trickles. The local community boys however resisted and managed to put them at bay until Tuesday evening, when the whole thing snowballed into a massive eight-hour duel between the rampaging group and the residents. “As early as 5pm that Tuesday, the boys, who clearly were not of the community, were spotted trickling into the town in twos and threes. One of our big brothers who sighted and challenged them said they told him off. They also bought handkerchiefs from shop on Adewusi Street, which they tied around their faces, possibly to shield their identity. By 6pm, they started attacking and the attack continued until early morning of Wednesday.” Several calls to the police yielded little or no results, as they were said to have only driven to the entrance to the community, shot a few times into the air and retreated. Meanwhile residents say they refused to confront the boys, who were busy breaking down shops on Tiamiyu Street and daring anybody to confront them. Said another boy in the community, who claimed he was among those who confronted and stopped them from entering Adamo Street, which they said was their main target, “The boys came prepared. They came with trolleys and tricycles to cart their loots and they were armed with dangerous weapons, including machetes, knives and daggers. They also came with various weapons to break down security barriers. If you go to Tiamiyu Street, there is no street they did not break into and loot. You would not believe it, but they also came with a nurse, who treated the injured among them and had huge flashlights which they use in blinding their targets. When they pointed that flashlight at me, I was blinded for almost two minutes. The luck I had was that they were far away, else they would have dealt with me,” he said. A visit to Tiamiyu Street, which they literally conquered, after the residents retreated, depicted a recently vacated war zone. Broken bottles covered the grounds and only those wearing boots and tough foot wears could navigate through. Residents who peeped from their windows, say the boys also took time out to play blaring music right opposite the white garment church at the entrance of Tiamiyu Street through the night, literally celebrating their victory and daring anyone to confront them. It was from this spot that they intermittently launched attacks at Adamo Street and Aliu Street. Fortunately, Aliu Street was gated, but residents of Adamo had to battle them back in what one of the boys described as a ‘fierce bottle-throwing war.’ Virtually all the shops on that axis were looted bare, including a barber’s shop and a double-door grocery/provision shop. Even a nearby chemist cum provision shop was not spared, while the cylinders in a gas shop were carted away. Further down the street is the house of the baale, but on the visit of this reporter, it was deserted and locked, as all occupants had taken to their heels. Even the baale, an octogenarian, was said to have scaled the fence at the back of his house to safety on the next street (Adamo). That was in spite of his frail health. Unfortunately, the motive of the criminal gang remains unknown, although there are speculations that the group is angered by the fact that some of their gang members in the community, joined in stopping them from operating in the community. Some others say it is a reprisal attack, while another group say they had only picked on the community and are irked by the resistance being put up by the residents. Meanwhile, following the Tuesday night battle, some of the local community boys were said to have uncovered and invaded a hotel hideout of some of the gang members near a canal in the community and dispersed them. Some members of the Odua People’s Congress (OPC) also reportedly joined in battling them off. The police were also reported to have later shown up Wednesday evening in about five vehicles in what could be described as a show of force. There were also unconfirmed reports that some soldiers invited by the community stormed the criminal group’s hideout in nearby Ikotun and arrested some of the boys, Wednesday night. Poor police response Most members of the community spoken to however expressed disappointment at the poor response of the police. They wonder why an armed police could not attack and disperse a mostly underage criminal group, armed only with knives and machetes. The community leaders are also sending an SOS appeal to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to take every step to round up the criminal boys and restore calm to the community.  