  President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe has assured that the capital market remains one of the best, transparent and reliable opportunities for investors to save and grow their wealth. Appraising the performance of the market amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Amolegbe said the capital market provided the silver lining for the economy in 2020 when most economic indicators turned red and various headwinds pushed the country into another round of economic recession in just five years. He noted that the Nigerian Stock Exchange’s All Share Index achieved a full-year return of 50.03 per cent appreciation, making Nigeria the best performing stock market and investment destination in the world as acclaimed by many reliable global agencies. He said the success of the market in 2020 was a clear result of the massive confidence in the market by investors, chartered stockbrokers, regulators and various trading platforms in the country. “To our millions of local investors, I wish to use this opportunity to reassure them that the capital market, both equity and debt platforms, remains one of the best, transparent, and reliable outlets available to them for saving and income earning purposes. They should therefore return to the market with confidence, patronise stockbrokers for investment advice and eschew quacks,” Amolegbe said. He advised local investors to take advantage of superior return on investment by increasing their investment in the capital market. He said the CIS would soon review its membership rules and regulations to reflect the current market realities and emerging new roles of stockbrokers. He however pointed out that the 50.03 per cent index performance does not tell the full story of 2020 as the coronavirus pandemic, which lasted throughout the year, and the more recent social upheavals that trailed the #EndSARs protests, combined to set the economy back by several trillions of naira, worsening the already fragile and precarious states of unemployment, foreign exchange rate and inflation in the country. He commended the resilience of the stockbroking community throughout the challenging period noting that none of the challenges in 2020 prevented stockbrokers from meeting the expectations of their numerous clients, domiciled in Nigeria, Europe, America, and other parts of the world. “It is on record that the Nigerian stockbroking community was one of the first to embrace the new order forced on the society by the coronavirus pandemic. The transition to full-blown technology-driven operations was immediate and seamless in the capital market. Dealers were trading remotely on a full time basis, new issues were done, and companies were paying dividends and bonuses to their clients as usual. The Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) was a pace setter in the process, as we held our annual conference, presidential investiture and dozens of training programmes virtually and excellently, to the admiration of the rest of the world,” Amolegbe said. He assured that 2021 would be even more remarkable and productive than the past year, urging stockbrokers to rally round their institute in implementing several laudable initiatives outlined for the year. “The implementation of the new syllabus recently approved by council for our examination is expected to commence in 2021, while we hope to berth a new membership rule that will reflect the new market realities of the 21st century before the end of the year. Of course, tenacious efforts will intensify to see to the passage of various amendments to the CIS Act along with our partners.  2021 therefore is shaping up to be an interesting year for your Institute. I therefore call on you all to continue in the spirit of cooperation, creativity and support that you displayed in 2020,” Amolegbe said. 