Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has said that his second term is to work hard to develop the state and not for holidays. Governor Akeredolu who promised to expand the frontiers of his administration’s developmental efforts said he would embark on more developmental projects. The Ondo Governor spoke at a prayer meeting of the first Working Day for the Year 2021 held at the premises of his office. Governor Akeredolu noted that the prayer meeting held despite the sad occurrence occasioned by the death of his Protocol Chief to show the devil that he will never win. “Holding this prayer meeting was to tell the devil that he did not win. We will triumph. We are being tested, we will surmount this test. We will overcome. We shall overcome. We have lost five of us. I want us to observe two minutes of silence for the repose of their souls. “In spite of the economic challenges, we are resolute to creating and expanding infrastructures across the nook and cranny of the State. We are putting in place an industrial base that has been acknowledged nationally and also rejuvenating the educational and health institutions as well as empowering the vulnerable, among other efforts. “In a similar vein, God also in His infinite mercies led us peacefully through the conduct of the 2020 Gubernatorial Election in the State. Looking back, we have every cause to thank God.” He urged all public servants to continue to render their statutory services and diligently as his administration has ensured prompt promotion and general workers’ welfare. “Do not expect anything less! I must, however, reiterate that the dictates of the current realities call for sacrifice. As a people, we should be prepared to continually bear the sacrifices of our home-grown efforts to generate resources for the overall development of our dear State. “We will continue to sustain our efforts at containing the new wave of the COVID-19 Pandemic and rise up to the prevailing security challenges, facing us.” The black armband was worn by all present at the prayer meeting to honor public officers who passed on in recent time, including the Chief of Protocol, Tosin Ogunbodede