 Nigerian youths are lazy perhaps because they have been  made lazy.The situation of the country has contributed greatly to the youth’s lackadaisical attitude towards acquiring skills. For instance, in Rwanda,  agriculture is now in vogue. In fact, youths immediately after graduation  start investing in agriculture. In Nigeria, the reverse is the case. Our youths  prefer the  quickest  route to acquire wealth. The youth do not want to start small nowadays. They have scant regard for a humble beginning. But in the past, people serve their masters for years or learn a trade for a long period of time before setting up their own businesses. Sadly,most Nigerian youths have an aversion towards skill acquisition. They want to make billions within split seconds. They would rather turn to crypto-currency, online trading, betting or even internet fraud. Many even want to become superstar musicians  overnight. Music is seen as  the fastest and easiest means of making money within  the shortest possible time. The question now is how many  youths want to study to become lecturers, teachers or fashion designers? Very little, because there is moral decadence, apathy, lack of interest in acquisition of vocational knowledge. However, there are many youths of Nigerian extraction that are making waves all over the world ranging from actors to writers to singers to doctors etc. People like Chimamanda Adiche, Chinua Achebe, Anthony Joshua, Nnamdi Asumoghu and others. For instance, Adewale “Wally” Adeyemo  born in 1981, a Nigerian-American economic and political adviser who was the first president of the Obama Foundation and is now US  President-elect Joe Biden’s nominee for United States Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. Therefore, in as much as a greater chunk of the youth population depends on easy money-making schemes, whether legitimate or illegitimate, some others are making waves all over the world and doing the nation proud.Therefore,the majority of the youths who are crazy about making quick money should be sensitised on the value of dignity of labour and hardwork .  