Executive Director, Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Victor Ochei has blamed the prohibitive customs and excise duty regime for the lack of Nigerian flagged vessels. Ochei, who spoke with The Nation, weekend in Asaba, the Delta State’s Capital, said the 17.5 per cent duty payment required for new vessels affects the ability of Nigerians to own vessels. He said as the apex regulatory maritime body, NIMASA’s job is to ensure that the maritime sector is run within the ambit of what is acceptable internationally. He was hopeful that the prohibitive customs regime would change soon, following a proposal by the minister of Transport to the Federal Government on the imperative of reviewing the duties paid by local businesses. His words: “One other thing we have been able to do is that the minister has written to the Federal Government, noting that we don’t have much Nigerian flagged vessels because when you buy a vessel, they make you pay 17.5 percent as custom and excise duty. Do you know what it means to pay that? ‘’Meanwhile, a foreign flagged vessel enjoys some waiver and maybe pay about $100,000 and it is allowed to operate. Therefore, what we needed to do, as the minister has proposed, is that when you have a brand new vessel, we should let it come in at zero percent custom and excise. If it is an under-five year vessel, you need to pay about two percent. That way, we will increase the ownership of Nigerian vessels because the custom and excise duty used to be very heavy on them. ‘’If you buy a vessel, maybe for $10 million and you are paying 17.5 percent of that, when will you make the money? So, we need to encourage Nigerians and there has to be an intervention strategy and the Federal Government has to encourage that sector by allowing and encouraging Nigerians to invest in this sector. “It is not like buying a car.Having a vessel is more complicated than owning a car. We have Nigerians who can go into it, but the amount they pay as duty is quite heavy and at the end of the day, the IOCs don’t  get to use these vessels and they are out of business.” He maintained that NIMASA has ensured that remittances from international oil firms and other sources to the Federal Government are paid promptly. He continued: “Before now, we have collections coming from cabotage, which had issues with remittances coming from the International Oil Companies (IOCs) and some other platforms.These issues come because the two percent cabotage which is held by the federal government was not remitted as and when due and when they are remitted they don’t come with the schedule for us to know which companies or vessels are being remitted on their behalf for the contracts they performed.” Ochei said waiver cessation plan for foreign vessels will commence in 2021. He, however, noted that NIMASA will not immediately kickstart the waiver cessation plan, stressing it will hamper activities, especially within the oil and gas sectors. Ochei said the IOC’s have been requested to forward marine vessel requirement plans for contracts for a five year period, adding that this will enable more Nigerians acquire such  specific vessels to bid for contracts within Nigerian waters. His words, “So what we have done is to ask the International Oil Companies to give us five years marine vessel requirement plans for their contracts. When they know they have a contract that will take a long time and the kind of vessels they will be requiring for the period. We now asked them to give us schedule. The importance of the schedule is that it enables Nigerians  who want to invest within the maritime sector to go and see if they can acquire those vessels and be the ones to bid because by the time those vessels will be required, it means we’ll have Nigerian flagged vessels that can also reach out and be put to use therefore reducing the influence of foreign flagged vessels within our coastal waters.” Ochei stressed the imperatives of allowing more people into the cabotage regime by expanding the business base of the cabotage regime. According to him access to this proposed special fund will enable by local businesses acquire big vessels inorder to compete favourably with foreign vessels. He debunked allegations that Nigerians were being shut out by IOC’s in the marine aspect of oil exploration, stressing that the real reason may be failure to meet required standards by Nigerian businesses. He, however, noted that NIMASA has identified sharp practices in the maritime sector whereby some Nigerians flag local vessels as foreign vessels to evade custom and excise duties.