The senator representing Imo West, Rochas Okorocha, has said he is still a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The former Imo State governor also asked the public to disregard the speculation that he has the plan to jettison the party. Okorocha, who spoke at the weekend while addressing State Working Committee (SWC), zonal, local government and ward executives of his faction of the party in Imo State on strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols, insisted that nobody has more stake in APC than himself. He said: “Our party is APC. Don’t be confused when I said there are bad people and good people in both APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and that the good people in the two parties should come together for the good of the nation. I was talking about a movement and not party. “I have not left APC; I am still in the party. Nobody has stake in APC more than me. The worst insults I had in Imo and in the Southeast in 2015 was because of APC and President Muhammadu Buhari. APC was formed by President Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, myself and few other people. But those on congratulation trips have taken over the party.” Okorocha also said President Buhari was not aware of the injustice being meted out to elected APC executives in Imo State – from the state to the ward levels. The senator insisted that Mr. Daniel Nwafor is the state chairman and that his executive as well as the local government and ward executives, remained intact with the judgments on their positions, including that of the Appeal Court. “Daniel Nwafor and others, duly elected as the executives of the party, remain as such. Those who want to destroy the party lied to President Buhari. The judgments on the issue all stated that the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party or the governor cannot remove the party executives. The party executives can only be removed by convention. “Whatever they do here without the duly elected party officials in the state, including the planned registration exercise, expected to begin on Monday, would be null and void. We do not recognise Governor Uzodinma’s APC in Imo State. That’s not APC in Imo State. That’s PDP people. How many APC members are among his more than 120 appointees? None, of course. “We had a formidable APC until those who came through Ben Johnson way, with the help of their likes, came to hijack the party. Now, they cannot fly because nature does not support injustice. President Buhari, as a man of justice, does not support injustice…”