 THE hope of an amicable resolution of the crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Southwest on Thursday suffered a setback, as a stakeholders’ meeting slated for the Oyo State Government House in Ibadan was stalled. Although many of the party leaders, who were identified as the arrowhead of the crisis, were absent, those present said the meeting was shelved due to logistic reason. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike, who has been involved to broker peace between the key figures, was on hand to address leaders and elders at the meeting. Fielding questions from reporters after a brief meeting with the leaders present, Wike said he was in the state to visit his friend and in-law, Governor Seyi Makinde, and also to inspect ongoing projects in the state. He said the leaders and stakeholders had agreed since Wednesday night to shelve the meeting due to the absence of other leaders due to logistic reasons. Wike said he was in the state because he had already promised Makinde to visit him, but he merely decided to respect some leaders from the region who were also in the state initially for a meeting. He said the leaders decided to postpone the meeting to a later date so as not to do a job that would require another urgent meeting thereafter. When asked how soon peace should be expected back in the region, Wike said it would be presumptuous to give a definite time frame due to the fact that all interests must be carried along. “We should not be in a hurry. Peace takes a lot of talking to people and you know in politics, you need to talk to people for people to understand. It is not something you say that because you met today, and because you are meeting tomorrow, everything must be resolved on that particular thing. “Politics is of interest, so you need to make sure that everybody is fully involved. So, let us not be in a hurry. But, what is important is that the Southwest PDP is our belief and our hope that the way they have been is the way they will continue to be. ”The other time we met with Imo stakeholders, today they are almost concluding, so there is nothing like time frame. I am not going to tell you that, oh, I give you one day or I give you two weeks, no. “What is important is that whether it is one week, one month, what I know is that Southwest is very important and key for PDP as far as Nigeria is concerned,” he added. Makinde vowed to continue his pursuit of peace in the party in the region, noting that Southwest played a pivotal role in the scheme of things in the country. When asked why Governor Wike was involved in brokering peace between the warring factions, the Chairman of the Southwest PDP Reconciliation Committee, ex-Osun State Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola, said the Rivers State governor was involved because of his relationship with Governor Makinde and former Governor Ayodele Fayose. Some of the party leaders present at the meeting included a former governor of Ekiti State, Segun Oni, Ondo State PDP governorship candidate Eyitayo Jegede and Senator Abiodun Olujimi, among others. 