 NON-FUNCTIONAL oxygen plants will soon be reactivated to meet increasing needs, Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, said on Monday. Speaking during the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 briefing in Abuja, he said the number of active cases has increased. According to him, as of Monday, there were 18,699 active cases on treatment, with many needing oxygen. “The report that many of those who died reported late for treatment at the approved centres because they were referred late from private facilities is alarming. “We, therefore, urge healthcare practitioners to promptly send all suspected cases for testing and when positive, refer them to isolation centres for treatment. “Attempting to treat suspected or confirmed cases not only exposes the health workers to the risk of infection but also denies the patient early access to effective treatment in an approved treatment centre. “The plan regarding the activation of oxygen availability in the states is on course to repair non-functional oxygen plants.” He urged Nigerians to avoid crowded places and to remain safety-conscious. Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, said the Federal Government would begin the deployment of rapid diagnostic test (RDT) kits for COVID-19 in five hospitals in Abuja next week. RDTs typically give test results within 30 minutes of use, unlike laboratory PCR machines that can take between 24 to 72 hours to diagnose covid-19 samples. He said that the initiative, which is hinged on the successful use of RDTs in the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) camps, will be extended to other states by February. Speaking during the briefing, he said no state is spared of the virus because the deployment of the RDTs in NYSC camps also showed that every state had its share of infection. He said: “We used RDTs in the NYSC camps. Testing people coming from different states, we found positive individuals that reported to NYSC from every single state in Nigeria. “There is no state that is spared of this virus. We would have been surprised if there were.”   