 YOUR organisation, Patriotic Citizens Initiative, is very active in the battle against human trafficking; tell us about it. Patriotic Citizens Initiative was born out of my own personal experience. I once embarked on such journey in 2004; it was when I returned that I started the organisation based on what I saw, especially how Nigerians were being treated on transit. I saw a lot of people stranded at different transit cities in Niger, Libya…. I saw how they were trading in people, the exploitation, torture; so when I eventually found my way back, I said I had to create serious awareness, because then, there were no information. People were totally unaware of what was going on. Some couldn’t get across because their money had been collected. Some had been sold; the ladies especially. What saved me was the fact that I didn’t leave as a nonentity. I was a graduate of Industrial Mathematics at the University of Benin, but I left due to the frustration of unemployment. I also got a visa but it was fake. When exactly did you establish this organisation? When I came back, I had to go into self-rehabilitation for one year between 2005/2006. I even wrote a book, ‘Chasing a mirage; my search for an oasis,’ to document my experience. Unofficially, we started in 2007 but got registered in 2010 by the Corporate Affairs Commission. Your organisation is lead consultant for International Organisation for Migration (IOM); you also work with them on return and re-integration of migrants and victims of trafficking. What does these entail? Most of these people who come back have gone through a lot and need to be supported. Fortunately, there is an international fund to support them under the EU programme. So we provide them basic training on how to utilise the funds that will be given to them to start up their life again. We also assist them by way of psychosocial support. The fund also covers those who may not have shelter and agree to have a place that they can stay, because it’s not everybody that returns that wants to go back home immediately. Even I had to go stay in Sokoto for like a year, rather than go home directly – because of the shame, stigmatisation and embarrassment. International funding has made provision to make them reintegrate quicker into the society. By my estimation, we have trained about 25,000 returnees. These are the roles we play in between as partner with IOM. Your organisation also creates awareness. Yes, we create a lot of sensitisation, a lot of awareness, media advocacy and community sensitisation…. We have offices in Lagos and Benin City. We target parents and youths because we found out that in most cases, parents contribute by way of pressure to these people embarking on these trips. We target parents at the level of churches and communities. We also go to schools because we believe that if children are informed about this evil trade in time and shown some of the danger, they will have it in their mind, and even if they eventually embark on such journey, it would not be because of ignorance. So we have been providing a lot of information, using handbills and different other media to reach the people. But it does seem like we are not employing the right channels, as it seems like most people are still ignorant. You are correct. But reaching out to a population of over 200million people requires a lot of resources. You are going to be providing a lot of flyers and employing the various mediums to reach out to people in terms of sensitisation. Compare this to the number of people/organisation in the field. How many journalists like you have taken it upon themselves to bring out some of these suffering and danger to the people? Do you know that until last December, some returnees still told me, ‘Sir, we didn’t know.’ How about employing Radio/TV jingles? We have done that, but it’s not sustainable. If you do a radio jingle and it just lasts for two months, what happens to the other time of the year and those who missed it? Meanwhile the traffickers and smugglers are watching you and re-strategising. They work tirelessly. How many times do we work? If I don’t have funds, for instance, I will not work. How about working with the government ministries and agencies like NAPTIP? NAPTIP is facing the same challenge. They are working based on budget but how often do they put stuff like that in government budget? Has the government taken it as a responsibility? Is it a priority? If it is prioritised, it could be put in the budget and maybe on daily basis, there could be jingles. But for the traffickers and smugglers, this is what they feed on, this is where they get the money to buy their cars and pay for their children school fees; so they reinvent themselves on daily basis. Even the international donors, how often do they release money for prevention? How often does the Nigerian government release funds? That is our main challenge. So if we have a proper channel that provides funds continually, like you have in education, and we are able to coordinate this awareness without break, then it becomes a lifestyle. Then we can minimise it to the barest minimum. How about trusted organisations like yours making a proposal to international donors in this regard? We have made these recommendations but the challenge we face is that when some of these things are to be implemented, they don’t use the right people.  Some of us have been on ground even before the advent of funders, but a lot of new organisations are cropping up, and when they get hold of these funds, they will not appropriate it properly. If you hear the amount of money that has been invested in reintegration in Nigeria, you will marvel. We’re currently working on a project in Benin funded by ActionAid and the Catholic Church of Don Bosco; it’s a daily sensitisation and we have a team that goes out every day to do sensitisation at different level. We also have a jingle that plays on every FM in Benin. If it is repeatedly done on other stations, not just one or two stations, and in the local languages, then it can become more effective. How well are the state governments -Lagos and Edo, for instance, keying into it? I can say that Edo State has to a great extent keyed into this campaign. It’s on record that Edo State has the highest number of returnee migrants in Nigeria, followed by Delta State. Edo State has keyed in effectively and are trying to see areas where they can work to reduce it. But it is still not enough. However Lagos State has yet to key in. It is only the agencies like NAPTIP, National Commission for Refugees, International Organisation for Migration, and some of us in the civil society organisation based in Lagos that are really on top of the game. Recently they set up a task force on human trafficking; but we are waiting for it to be functional. To what would you blame this whole human trafficking thing? I would say leadership problem and loss of family values. We lost if all at the level of governance and the moment families began to see Europe as a means for better living. Before now, Europe was not popular, until people began to make it popular and people see it as a means of slave trade and trafficking and selling our girls/women into sex slavery. Families also began to accept it as a norm. There is the need to make our environment enabling, so that our people can kick against such offer. If the country is to an extent okay and people finish school and get a job, even if it is not up to their expectation; then families will begin to see that they can fend for themselves. Parents are easily giving out their children because most times, they cannot afford daily survival. You remind me of Eugenia, the 15-year-old girl in our feature, (https://thenationonlineng.net/dark-torturous-tunnel-of-sex-slavery/, whose father knowingly or unknowingly sold out into sex slavery. That girl suffered. Do you know I almost locked up the father? Even while she was at our training, he kept pestering her for money to buy her research card. At a point, he was almost confusing her into using the money we were going to give her after the training to buy him a car. You recently raised the alarm about parents from Osun conniving with smugglers to traffic their children. Do you have facts to back it up? Yes, there is a case in which we are investigating the trafficker. She is proposing to take another batch in April, having just returned from taking some 30 to 40 girls to Libya. It was an uncle to the underage girl they were about to take out that reported the case to me. He was kicking against the father’s decision to send her on the trip, but he was adamant. They usually come with the line, ‘we just want to help her;’ but they are putting someone in danger. So he called me to see how we could arrest the situation. Already, I have some voice recording of the lady trafficker, I told the uncle to play along and sell them a dummy that I have like three girls to give them. That is the only way you can get them to come out. It’s a bit painful to see Nigerian girls being trafficked to prostitute in smaller countries like Senegal, Mali, Cote d’Ivoire; what happened to the Nigerian pride? This is a trade and it depends on demand. There are some people who specifically demand for Nigerian girls. These traffickers are marketers and if they have the specification, they supply. From what we know, most of them who ended up in those countries didn’t know they were going to end up in such countries. We don’t hear much about arrests and prosecution of these madams; is there a kind of conspiracy? The crime is so organised that you can term it a high profile. Most times, the people who are being arrested are not the end people. The truth is that NAPTIP is doing a lot of prosecution and they have jailed some persons, but unfortunately, it is on the increase. Because of the peculiarities of the trade, while you’re arresting the agents, the main set keep recruiting new staff. Unlike an armed robbery gang, which you can easily burst and end, the trafficking syndicate is more sophisticated because different people are involved at different stages. That is why I was recommending a proper coordination among the security agencies and stakeholders. Is it all the returnees that you give funds? Yes, all of them get funds although there are different categories. We have people with special cases like Eugenia.