As fireworks heralded the new year at exactly 12:01am on Friday, the world bade good bye to the last vestiges of 2020, a difficult and terrible year, with a cautious sigh of relief. And as 2021, like a new bride, emerged behind the curtains of time to take the baton from 2020, the hangover of all its smouldering troubles was temporarily subsumed in the momentary joy of witnessing a brand new year. In many quarters, especially in these climes, people brushed aside the hangover and welcomed the new year with gusto the way you would celebrate a new, beautiful bride. That is, indeed, the spirit. I do not know how many people will allow the hangover of the terrible, out gone year to continue to dictate the space and hold them to ransom, but for me, I am leery of drooping or allowing an ounce of fear around me. I have decided to leer at the irascible hangover and consign it into the pit of irrelevance. I have decided to shrug it off with a stoic resolve. For me, 2021 is a makeup year; it is a year when all the months of 2020 that the ‘locusts’ have ‘eaten’ from me will be regurgitated and restored to me seven-fold. In fact, that is my new year resolution already stamped by Providence! 2020! What a year! A year it was when ‘Armageddon’ literally descended and reverberated across the length and breadth of the world. Ironically, when 2020 emerged from the shadows of 2019, it was celebrated with renewed hope. But it soon bore its fangs. The first of irascible string of the tragic it spewed was the coming, almost by stealth, of ‘coro-nonsense’. This satanic agent stole in like a thief in the eerie hours. It sneaked in like a serpent would glide across a rock. And so, nobody noticed, especially in these climes. Nobody gave this world’s number one enemy a thought when what looked like its rumble was reported in faraway China. Even weeks later when the flicker graduated into an inferno, it was nothing of a bother here. Then came this infected Italian who made an ill-fated trip down to Nigeria. Coronavirus was first identified in Wuhan city, Hubei Province of China on December 29,2019. The World Health Organisation (WHO) officially reported it on December 31,2019 and by March 11, 2020, the disease was declared a pandemic. The Italian citizen who came down to Lagos became the first index case in Nigeria, having tested positive to the virus on February 27, 2020. The second case was reported on March9, being the Nigerian contact of the first index case at the destination visited by the Italian. Bedlam! The first source of alarm here was the fear that, with the way the developed nations, with all their first class health infrastructure, were grovelling and literally genuflecting before the tiny but mighty coronavirus, we stood no chance at all here, what with our comatose health facilities and institutions. So, the fear that first ruled the waves, as the reality of the virus on our shores dawned on us, was that people would be dropping dead like ripe cherries. In fact, an international body projected that close to six million Africans might die of the virus in 2020. But as Providence would have it, the prediction came to nought, although there were still painful high profile deaths. However, by March 2020, things came to a head and a total lockdown was clamped on the entire strata of national life. The resultant socio-economic paralysis was total. The period remains one of the darkest chapters in the nation’s history. The deprivations it brought to most Nigerians were simply unfathomable. As hunger pangs ravaged homes, bilious men of the underworld, also seeking avenues to fill the stomach, made life miserable day and night in the neighbourhoods. Many business organisations, unable to cope with the concomitant pangs of the lockdown, resorted to laying off many of their workers, thus compounding the woes of many Nigerians. In many instances, now jobless breadwinners were forced by circumstances to join their already prostrate household members, as hunger stooped in ambush for them. According to a National Board of Statistics (NBS) data released within the period, more than 42 per cent of the working population actually lost their jobs, while more than that percentage also reported losing the family income. Gradually, the lockdown was, however, relaxed and respite came. Life gradually surged back to normalcy. But a second wave of the implacable virus is ferociously ravaging. And as the restive pandemic prowls, the insecurity challenge we were grappling with began to worsen. The entire landscape called Nigeria, from the south to the north, became a killing field. So, as Boko Haram insurgents held the Northeast, especially Borno, by the jugular, bandits were despoiling other areas such as most states in the Northwest, North Central and Southwest. Killer-herdsmen, who were equally present in Southwest, were also making life miserable in the South-south and Southeast, kidnapping, killing and many times raping at their whims. Insurgents have turned the vast landscape of Borno almost to a no-no area, pillaging communities and killing their victims like common fowls. At the height of their violent campaign, they decapitated 43 Borno rice farmers in the most horrendous manner towards the end of last year. They have become so audacious that they are not only taking territories, they now collect dues from the locals, especially farmers, as a condition for accessing their farmlands and moving freely in their communities. And just weeks ago, at the twilight of 2020, bandits almost replicated the Chibok episode, this time in Katsina. It would be recalled that insurgents had stormed Chibok secondary school in Borno in 2014 and whisked away over 200 girls. Some of them escaped but the rest were taken into captivity. It generated international odium for the nation. Most of the girls have since been freed but some of them, by choice, remain with the insurgents. That episode was almost re-enacted when bandits invaded a secondary school in Katsina and kidnapped about 344 students. There was a touch of an absurd drama to the kidnapping. The bandits operated so leisurely and took their time such that they took the students away trekking! They did not bother to arrange a get-away vehicle. Yet, they were neither caught nor confronted while they were at it. Mercifully, however, the authorities moved in quickly and, unlike the Chibok episode, the Katsina students were freed from captivity in a matter of days. While the nation was reeling under the weight of the security maelstroms that are fast threatening the nation’s food security, the EndSARS protests came to rub pepper on a blister. Riled by the alleged brutality of the now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad(‘SARS), youths in Lagos and Abuja took to the streets to end the reign of the vicious operatives and sought far-reaching police reforms. But the peaceful protests soon spread tentacles from city to city, bringing movements into a standstill in most places. Hoodlums also soon hijacked an otherwise noble cause and everything became uncontrollable. Anarchy seized the initiative and things degenerated into a rule of the jungle. And by the time the cauldron simmered, scores of persons, including police personnel who were particularly the butt of the vilest attacks, had been wasted. Multi-billion naira public and private properties were either pillaged or razed down, especially in Lagos, Abuja and some other cities. That was 2020 in retrospect. So much for a year; a year like no other and may the like of it never birth again. Good bye to the ‘locus year!