Twenty-two members of the Kwara Assembly, including Speaker Yakbu Danladi-Salihu have backed the suspension of Hon Bashr Bolarinwa as chairman of the party. Seven out of the nine members of the National Assembly from the state also backed the national caretaker committee of the party over the removal of Hon.Bolarinwa from office. The legislators, in letter to the chairman caretaker committee of the APC Alhaji Mai Malla Buni, said the suspension of Bolairnwa would restore sanity to the party in the state. The state lawmakers, in a letter addressed to the national chairman caretaker committees/ convention planning committee dated January 14, 2021, said  that “as an arm of government and particularly, a ruling government, we the members of the Kwara state house of Assembly wish to sincerely commend the better than never efforts of the leadership or our great party-APC at the national level . “The bold step taken at suspending the Ex- chairman over a plethora of mis-deeds that had been allowed to linger on for over a long period unchecked will hopefully put an end to the embarrassment that we went through panifully”. The letter, which was also copied to the Chairman Progressives Governor’s Forum and Chairman, North Central Governor’s Forum  said: “Your Excllemcy, it is the only antidote that can bring back sanity, trusted loyalty as well as as breed positive development to the state through good governance. “Your Excllemcy, it is better imagined than witnessed of the absolute anti-party and anti-government activities brazenly and continually displaced by the suspected chairman. His activities in reference appear to be motivated by certain power blocks”. The lawmaker added: “As concerned legislators, we made several peace moves most of which got aborted  either by the suspended chairman himself or his allies.The suspension of the Ex- chairman has relieves us of his unfortunate instigated made made continual crisis within Kwara APC. “We hereby assure your leadership of our continued support, cooperation and loyalty towards sustaining our party to greater heights. “As products of the party that brought us into our present positions, we call on your leadership to continue to instil discipline which suffer penalties into our party in order to checkmate those individuals holding our constitutional responsibilities”. Also, the seven out of the nine members of the National Assembly from the state have pledged their support to the appointment of Alhaji Samari Abdullahi as the acting state chairman of the party The seven National Assembly members from the state that signed the letter are Senator Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe, Senator Lola Ashiru, Senator Umar Sadik, Hon. AbdulRaheem Olatunji Olawuyi, Hon.Tijani Kolawole Ismail, Hon.Unar Bio and Hon. Abubakar Ahmed Ndakene. In a letter addressed and sent to the national chairman caretaker committees the party, they said:  “It has become imperative for us to write this letter to express our profound gratitude to you as the chairman and members of the caretake committee for your proactive intervention on the simmering crisis on the Kwara state chapter of our party, APC. “Alhaji Abdullahi Samari Abubakar’s appointment as the new chairman of the caretaker committee of APC, Kwara state chapter demonstrate your leadership capacity and courage. “Your committee has been doing all that is necessary to bring lasting stability to our party and emphasise  the priority that our party places on good governance to fulfil the mandate given to your committee by the NEC of our party.”