No fewer than seven workers of a construction company were seriously injured after a clash with revenue collection enforcers of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). The injured workers of G-Complex Nigeria Limited, a construction and environmental conservation firm, are undergoing treatment at the Maitama General Hospital. They alleged that they were brutalised at Gwarimpa Junction at the Federal Capital Territory by officials of the Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) because they could not produce evidence of paying N35,000 vehicle permit. The construction workers said their operational vehicles were vandalised and impounded by the AMAC officials. But Head of Operations, AMAC Task Force on Haulage, Light and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Douglas Badi, said it was the construction workers that attacked the revenue officials first. Badi said: “When the driver was brought to the office, I told him he should not park as I didn’t want a situation where you’ll start having physical contact. “I sat with some of our staff and I saw some boys numbering about 30, they were coming from the other side of the road where their vehicles were parked. “We now sent two of our staff to the other side to do surveillance there. We traced them there and when we saw them, we asked the security to detain them. We came back to this place and the next thing we saw was that one of their staff struck our staff with a shovel on the face and on his hand. “Right now, the doctors at the Gwarinpa General Hospital are going to carry out a major corrective surgery on his hand because the thing affected his vein that he cannot move his hand. “When this happened, we held their boys and, in the process, the police said we should tow the Hilux vehicle because we deflated the tyres.” Presenting his injured staff to journalists in Abuja, the Managing Director of G-Complex Nigeria Limited, Mr Abdulhamid Mahmud Zari, described action of the revenue collectors as “unacceptable, barbaric, illegal and unprovoked”. Zari said: “I was called by the driver of this pick-up that on his way to convey materials and take staff from Idu to our yard in Jabi that hoodlums blocked him at Gwarimpa junction and demanded that he should provide daily receipt of Abuja Municipal Area Council and he said he works for a construction company and there is no need for him to have such receipt. “From that point, these people insisted that it is either he pays the money or they will confiscate his vehicle and because they are in large numbers, he succumbed that he would pay the money. “They demanded N200 and as soon as he brought the money out to pay, they demanded the particulars of the vehicle. As soon as he showed them, they said the car does not have a sticker which they said is being sold for N35, 000. “So he was now forced to call superior officers of the company but before they could get to him, the AMAC officials had towed the vehicle to their office in Jabi.” He added: “When senior staff of the company arrived at the AMAC Office to find why the vehicles were impounded, they were attacked by the revenue collectors. “The moment they saw the company staff coming, they started harassing them. They used cutlass to cut seven of our workers. Some had machete cuts on their heads; others had their hands chopped off. “Luckily for us, there was a police team on patrol that went there to intervene and helped to bring the vehicles here. There is one particular sad statement made by these people when I came this morning which is that the police is their own and that nobody can do anything to them.” Zari threatened if nothing was done by the Police or the FCT Administration, the company will have no other option than to go to court.