In recent weeks, the Western Nigeria Security Network codenamed Amotekun, especially the Oyo State chapter, has been in murky waters of allegations that its operatives were going rogue. Amidst a string of operational mishaps involving its personnel, the agency is being accused of perpetrating undue harassment and other forms of high-handedness against members of the public, including extra-judicial killing of defenceless citizens. Such abuses characterised the discredited and now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). Amotekun is an initiative of South-west state governments to buffer their people against worsening insecurity across the country, which conventional agencies like the police have seemed far too stretched and disconnected from local communities to effectively combat. The outfit by conception is complementary and not parallel to the major security agencies; it, however, has grassroots flavour needed to engender community ownership that is believed vital in dealing with the insecurity scourge, but which the conventional agencies lack. Although the agency is present in all South-west states, the Oyo State chapter is particularly notorious for allegedly perpetrating abuses that Nigerians saw in the police and rejected, prompting suggestions that it is transforming into another SARS. The agency has, however, given insight into what might partly explain this notoriety. Chairman of the Amotekun Corps, Gen. Kunle Togun (rtd.), said some unauthorised tailors sewing fake uniforms of the corps for unscrupulous elements in the state had been arrested and handed over to the police. Speaking on a radio programme in Ibadan, Togun explained that the suspects were arrested after information filtered in that they were sewing and selling fake Amotekun uniforms to some residents of the ancient city. “We heard that these people were sewing and selling fake Amotekun uniforms to some people, particularly in the Lagelu area of Ibadan. We are presently in the area to uncover the truth. Our fear is that if the uniforms get into the wrong hands and they use them to commit crimes, people will believe it is the handiwork of real Amotekun personnel,” he added. Some two weeks ago, a 23-year-old commercial motorcyclist was killed in Ibadan after being hit by a stray bullet from an Amotekun operative, triggering a street protest by his colleagues that caused severe traffic gridlock and disruption of commerce around Mokola roundabout. The agency subsequently dismissed the errant operative for acting outside its protocols and handed him over to the police for prosecution. “We want to reassure members of the public of our internal mechanisms for dealing with erring officers. We will continue to train and retrain our officers on best practices and rules of engagement,” agency commandant, Col. Olayanju Olayinka (rtd.), had said in a statement. Prior to the Mokola incident, at least two persons were reported killed in Ibarapa North council area following a shooting that involved operatives of the state’s Amotekun in a clash with some residents of Tapa community. Five other persons were said to have sustained injuries. Among others, there was also a student reportedly shot dead by Amotekun personnel in Sabo area of Oyo town; as well as a police officer who was killed when an Amotekun operative opened fire to disperse a crowd that had gathered in Oyo for New Year carnival in the closing hours of 2020. The notoriety was such that Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka recently warned that Amotekun must not transform into another SARS. It is not clear how the reported trade in fake Amotekun uniforms explain abuses by certified officials, but the development nonetheless has grievous security implications. With certified personnel being accused of errant behaviour, it  is dreadful to imagine what havoc phonies in uniform could wreak on hapless citizens. We suspect that the tailors may not have acted on mere self-motivation, hence it is necessary to dig for patrons who may have commissioned them on the illicit trade and bring such to justice. Besides, the agency needs to patent its genuine uniforms with corporate insignia that would be difficult to counterfeit and easily detectable to discourage just every tailor on the streets from sewing the uniforms for unscrupulous persons with criminal intentions. Security is serious business.