A former governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Kogi State, Natasha Akpoti, has chided the National Council of Women Societies (NCWS) for conferring award on Governor Yahaya Bello. The group in collaboration with Global Gold Consult, had on January 16 conferred the award on Governor Bello as the most gender-sensitive governor in Nigeria. Bello was on Friday decorated as a “HE 4 SHE” of Nigerian women, which bestowed on him the honour of a goodwill Ambassador. According to the organisers, the nomination is in recognition of the purposeful and conscious effort of his Government to place women in sensitive and strategic positions in the governance structure of Kogi State. But, in a statement, Akpoti said the award does not take into cognisance the bloody events of the 2019 elections where the governor and his administrators alleged violent actions against her and other female opposition voices in the state. She said the group cannot claim ignorance over the reportage by the many national and international observers on the turnout of events in the state. Akpoti alleged that in all leadership ramifications, Kogi under “Yahaya Bello is the most female-unfriendly state in Nigeria as there is no female elected local government chairman, House of Assembly, and National Assembly member. All levels of elective positions are occupied by men”. She added: “How has Bello advanced the interests of women of Kogi State and Nigeria that got him a “He 4 She” recognition? How has Bello’s actions inspired young girls to become leaders and patriotic citizens? “Let’s not forget too easily that Bello’s currently serving Commissioner for Water Resources, Abdulmumin Danga, is facing prosecution charges on rape and assault on Elizabeth Oyeniyi while Bello refused to suspend the commissioner pending the determination of the criminal case against him.” Akpoti said the “HE 4 SHE” is a solidarity movement started by the United Nations to recognise men who promote the principles of gender equality politically, socially and economically. “With no female chairing any of the 21 Local Governments, no female member of the State House of Assembly, no female Representative or Senator from Kogi state. Such a sickening unprecedented achievement in the history of Kogi state and Mrs Laraba Shoda deemed him fit to wear the He 4 She crown?” she added.