 For many months questions have rolled in from various couples asking for what to do to enjoy sex maximally.  So today we will be addressing the technicality for maximum sex. Sexual technicality is simply the act of treating your spouse in a very special way during sex to enhance his or passion. Firstly, there must be proper preparation if sex is to be enjoyed. Careful groundwork is essential and preparation begins long before bedtime. Sex starts at breakfast and not by bedtime. The first homework is to settle any known or foreseen quarrel as soon as possible. Get ready for sex with a positive mind-set. Many times couples find it difficult to have good sex because of normal life challenges. But I have observed that if couples always wait for a perfect life situation for sex they may not find one. So a positive mind-set for any sexual eventuality is very important. At any given time filth, lack of neatness or uncleanliness has ruined many anticipated sexual thoughts. You must be neat and clean, and at the same time be seductively attractive. Oral, armpit, vulva and penis hygiene should be well observed, especially when the penis is uncircumcised. The pubic hair should not be shaved in a way that it will produce sharp coarse ends that cause irritation on the skin of your spouse. This, as simple as it appears, has ruined good, passionate sex and made some husbands develop quick ejaculation, while some wives have to apply hot water for healing. Neatness is one of the guiding rules for successful lovemaking. Much good sex has turned out to be a nightmare just because of offensive odour from the genitals. Since sometimes sex might be unpredictable, it important to brush the mouth twice daily especially while retiring at night. This is very important because if there is a need to use your tongue on each other penis or vulva the mouth must be brushed to prevent infection. Many couples contact some form of toilet disease just from unwashed mouth, because the same bacteria responsible for toilet disease are mostly also found in the mouth. The bed should be laid with clean or new bed spread; old, stinking bed sheets turn off all spouses. Get enough privacy, make sure doors are well locked; this prevents the mind roaming on and off about the door. At no given time should any spouse disapprovingly take off each other clothes in an offensive, rough manner. It’s important that both husband and wife slowly undress each other; this is an exciting part of the technique. The moment this is in place the best part of the good groundwork has been achieved. As a matter of fact these particular habits mostly usher in the love play i.e. building up or arousing each other before the husband actually puts his penis inside the vagina of his wife. This is done by holding each other lovingly, caressing each other tenderly, deep tongue kissing, carefully fondling with each other sexual organs, touching and rubbing in a loving manner. At this point couples should lay themselves bare to one another by letting their partners know their sensitive areas and points of trigger. For majority of ladies, it is the clitoris or the breast – especially the nipples. Let him know that it takes time before your sexual organs respond, especially the clitoris. Make him kiss and use his tongue to caress your breast, your nipples, neck, gently and lovingly. As this goes on, the nipples of your breast get erected and the clitoris increases in size. Caressing should not be done in a hurried way. Take enough time to fully enjoy each other! It is important to understand timing in lovemaking. There should be a gradual building up and intensifying of emotions and sensations. Do not stop or let up the stimula tion once it begins, but continue in an ever-increasing manner of arousal. Basically, the whole body of a loving couple is an erotic zone. For the man, the nape of the neck, the back of the ear, the breast, the armpit, the navel, the inner parts of the thigh, the groin, the pubic hair, the shaft of the penis, the eye of the penis are especially their most sensitive areas. All these should be or kissed tenderly or caressed gently with the hand and tongue of the wife. If the man’s skin is too dry, you can get a bottle of pears baby lotion and seductively rub both bodies; it will send sexual signals to the whole body. The female erotic zone include the base of the neck, the base of the hair, the lips, the armpit, the breast especially the nipples, the tummy, the navel, the inner parts of the thigh, the pubic hair, the clitoris, the lips of the vagina and the inner parts of the vagina. All these could be tenderly touched and caressed with the man’s hands or the tongue. Caressing various areas of your partner’s body shows an interest in the whole person. In foreplay, the husband and the wife should talk freely with themselves. They should tell each other what they want. While caressing one another without a rush, it is advisable for the wife to take a comfortable position with legs apart so that the man will be able to gently play with her genitals. As her husband caresses her, she in turn plays with his nipple, the shaft of his penis, the eye of the penis, the scrotum (some men like it when their scrotum is fondled with). I love to conclude by asking if you are worried about your sexual health. Are you experiencing a non-existing libido, or mid-life sexual crisis, or loss of erection, or premature ejaculation, or erectile dysfunction, or weak erection, or you just can’t stay long in sex as desired? Are you experiencing problems with sperm cell, shrinking penis or general penis issues? You are not far from total freedom, just email or give me a call.  QUESTION ONE I am 35 years old and I recently started having an active sex life after a long abstinence due to my profession. I am a professional boxer and as a boxer there are times you have to abstain from sex for many months or sometimes a whole year. But my challenge now is it seems that I can’t differentiate between normal erections or prolonged, painful ones. I am not sure if I ejaculate either. How does it take before the average man ejaculates during sexual intercourse? I get so confused; I don’t understand my body at all. I sometimes take lot of alcohol to stay long during sex, but even at that my system seems to break down. I am in a dilemma can you help? When one alters a normal body-working- life-system it is possible the mechanism gets abnormally disrupted. It took you years to get into this condition, you have to take things easy and work towards an ideal body-working-pattern so as to gradually get things stabilized again. An erection begins in the brain. Physical and/or mental stimulation causes nerves in the brain to send chemical messages to nerves in the penis telling the penile blood vessels to relax so that blood can flow freely into the penis. Once in the penis, high pressure traps the blood within its tissues. This causes the organ to expand and sustain an erection. When you turn off this process you alter normal erection. Normal ejaculation – which is the release of semen at climax – is triggered when the man reaches a critical level of excitement. This makes sexual stimulation to cause nerves in the penis to send chemical messages, or impulses to the spinal cord and into the brain where other chemical messages are sent back to the penis through the spinal cord causing ejaculation. This has also been altered in you because you chose not to allow any form of excitement at all. This is now affecting the average ejaculation minutes. All things being equal an average man ejaculates within 9.6 to 15.5 minutes. To make matters worse, you consume lots of alcohol. You have to stop this immediately because alcohol doesn’t prolong ejaculation. Rather, it undermines the quality of your ejaculation and staying power. What alcohol does is help you get a quick feel or arousal and shortly after drops your energy and competency.  QUESTION TWO I find that I suddenly wet boxers, even my trouser at any slight touch of my genitals. This is not only alarming but humiliating at my age (40). It’s so bad that if I don’t quickly withdraw, I almost pee in my wife’s private. I am healthy with no negative medical condition, but for the past five months I have been experiencing this embarrassing situation. When I drink less it reduces. I am not diabetic. Why should this be? This may be a situation of male incontinence that results from some medical conditions like enlarged prostate, diabetes, and Parkinson’s disease. Sometimes it can develop for reasons we don’t completely understand, like “overactive bladder.” This is a situation when bending, lifting, or coughing, can puts pressure on the bladder and triggers leaking. Sometimes, it can be caused by the bladder contracting when it shouldn’t. This triggers a sudden and overwhelming need to urinate. Actually, cutting back on fluid intake during the day and a few hours before bedtime, also not drinking caffeine, soda and other carbonated drinks will help a lot – especially staying off alcohol. This is because alcohol is a diuretic; it makes one urinate more. There may be need for you to adjust your diet and stay off spicy or acidic food, chocolate and artificial sweeteners. Then it is important to train your bladder. Visit the bathroom every half hour to urinate, whether you feel the urge to or not. Try keeping a record of how much you drink and how often you urinate for a few days. Then try and take note of any leaking, along with anything you drink, if you are drinking a lot or heavy lifting that might have triggered it. Kegel exercises can help boost the strength of pelvic muscles that help your bladder to hold urine. In spite all these there is need for you to get your prostrate checked by a medical doctor because sometimes the male prostrate starts developing problems from the age of 40.  QUESTION THREE My husband thinks I am superstitious, but the fact remains that this thing is happening to me. Whenever we make love I sneeze so profusely – especially when the light is on. For me to enjoy sex we have to put off the light and make sure everywhere is fully ventilated. If this isn’t done, as soon as he penetrates I start sneezing heavily. He says maybe I am an ‘ogbanje’! No! You are neither an ‘ogbanje’ nor superstitious. The truth is workout may make some people sneeze and sex is powerful work. It happens more often than we might think. Researchers believe that the stimulation of the parasympathetic nervous system fires off signals in some people to not only enjoy the act of sex, but to sneeze when it’s over. Besides, exercise can make some people sneeze. This is because we hyperventilate when over-exerted and as a result your nose and mouth start to dry up. Sunshine may also make some people sneeze; bright sunlight causes one out of three people to sneeze. Sneezing is an important part of the immune process. It helps keep us healthy, and it protects our body by clearing the nose of bacteria and viruses. But you can stop sneezing by breathing through your mouth and pinching the end of your nose.  QUESTION FOUR I am hypertensive but it has been under control. However, each time I add grapefruit to my diet I react and feel funny. Is there a reason for this? Yes, it may be surprising, but foods can affect how our medicine works. That’s why it’s always best to ask your doctor or pharmacist if you should avoid some foods. If you take medicine for high blood pressure, anxiety, or insomnia, grapefruit juice may interact with your drugs. But because you still need your vitamin C and potassium you can replace grapefruits with oranges and lime.