Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has vowed to complete all the projects he initiated in the state before the end of his second term in office. Wike spoke on Tuesday when he led a former Secretary to the Federal Government, Anyim Pius Anyim, to inaugurate the Rumuekini/Aluu Road, traversing Obio/Akpor and Ikwerre local government areas. The Governor, in a statement signed by his Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said his successor would initiate his own projects instead of being burdened by uncompleted projects. Wike said his administration had never discriminated against any section of the state adding that projects were distributed to every local government area. He said: “Nobody that will succeed me will complete any of my projects because I will complete all my projects before I go. I won’t leave any project burden for my successor. When the new person comes, let him initiate his projects. “Before now, APC said we are doing roads only in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government. Now, they can’t talk again. We have commissioned projects in Khana, Gokana, Eleme. The other day we were in Akuku-Toru, yesterday we were in Emohua. We are a government for every Rivers person and every local government.” The Governor said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) knew there were problems and was solving them with completed projects. Wike, who vowed not to dump the PDP, said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) government that promised to solve the problems of Nigeria before assumption of power had continued to give excuses. He said: “I have told anybody who cares to listen that we are not those who are afraid that people will come after them so they want to run into another party. I’m not running to anywhere. “How can I run from success to problem? People should ordinarily go from problem to success not the other way round. Rivers State is an asset to PDP. “We have told Nigerians that PDP is the only hope of this country. It is a party that will make promise and fulfill it. We are proud to roll out projects every day and this is the second week of project commissioning.” Impressed by the quality of job delivered by ChrisJoe Nigeria Ltd, the indigenous firm that handled the Rumuekini /Aluu Road, Wike announced the award of contract of the Aluu/Omagwa road to the firm. The Governor said he took the decision to show critics how his administration empowered performing indigenous contracting firms.