The African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) will create jobs in Africa, President of the Federation of West African Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Hajiya Saratu Aliyu, and the Chief Executive, East African Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture, Charles Kahuthu,  have said. They  spoke in Abidjan, Ivory Coast, where the President, African Development Bank(AfDB), Akinwumi. Adesina and 10 African Heads of State and Government were honoured  for their leadership in the AfCFTA. “Jobs have to be restored and livelihoods and economies revived,” Kahuthu said, adding: “We also need to come together to promote products made in Africa to effectively implement the AfCFTA.” The AfCFTA, the largest free trade area in the world, began trading on January  1, 2021 and is expected to speed up the recovery of the continent and enhance its resilience by increasing the level of intra-African trade in goods and services. The awardees, according to a statement  included  the President , Democratic Republic of Congo, Felix Tshisekedi,  and incoming Chairperson of the African Union; Egyptian President Ahmed Fattah Al-Sisi; King Mswati III, Ngwenyama of Eswatini; Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Abiy Ahmed; President of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo; President of Guinea, Alpha Conde; President of Niger, Mahamadou Issoufou; President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari; President of Rwanda, Paul Kagame, and President of South Africa/Chairperson of the African Union, Cyril Ramaphosa. Former Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Hailemariam Desalegn Boshe and former President Olusegun Obasanjo were also honoured. African Union Commissioner for Trade and Industry, Ambassador Albert Muchanga,  noted that the AfCFTA had generated strong support in Africa and the Diaspora, “and we are proud to acknowledge our champions who have been at the forefront of this process. The award was organised by AeTrade Group in collaboration with the African Union Commission, the African Business Council, the Pan African Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Federation of West African Chambers of Commerce and Industry, and the East African Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture. “As Africans, we are proud of the extraordinary effort made by our leaders towards the success of the AfCFTA,” said former Prime Minister of Ethiopia Hailemariam Boshe at an event held at the Addis Ababa headquarters of the African Union and joined virtually  by many participants. A patron of the AeTrade Group, Boshe, thanked the awardees for their strong leadership in the process that led to the AfCFTA coming into force. The Chairman of the AeTrade Group, Mulualem Syoum, thanked the AfDB, under the leadership of Dr. Adesina, for its outstanding technical guidance and financial support to the process. “Moving forward, we want the private sector to speak with one voice.  The AfCFTA has shown the way. To ensure effective implementation, it is time for the private sector to play its role. The Africa that we want can only be achieved through working together,” Syoum said.