 Will you call me a liar if I say Wole Soyinka has published a novel called ‘Chronicles of the Happiest People on Earth’, his first since 1973? Will I offend you if I say the book is typical Soyinka with jabs here and there for the ruling and ruining us? What will your response be if I ask whether you believe in this nation described as the enclave of the Happiest People on Earth or are you on your way to check out into saner clime despite Donald J. Trump’s tantrums? Or, have you resigned to fate and willing to take whatever is available as leadership? Are you ready to shout ranka dede for the ones who ensure you suffer and smile; the ones are masters of vagaries and intrigues in public lives? What are our leaders up to as we are being kidnapped at home, on the highway and at the farm either for ransom or use by human parts merchants? From Lagos to Yenagoa to Maiduguri and elsewhere, where is safe from ransom seekers and merchants of flesh and blood? Did it ever occur to you that 60 years after Independence from the British and over 100 years after Lord Lugard cobbled us together and got his fiancée to christen us, we will still battle teething problems like inadequate power supply, bad road network, unemployment, poor health facilities, and unfeeling, callous, thieving and devilish leaders? When are we going to stop glorifying thieves and naming national edifices after them? Fellow, happiest people on earth, are you not aware that in our country public servants involved in scandalous acts hardly lose their jobs? That they never resign and are hardly shown the exit? That men and women who disgrace us go into image-laundering overdrive and scrape every reason to remain on their lucrative jobs? That e-rats are always waiting to do their hatchet jobs? That criminals with our commonwealth pay defence counsel heavily to use their technical wiles to get them acquitted? Fellow happiest people on earth, did we ever know that India would be greater than we are? That Ghana, which we used to see as junior will command more respect in the comity of nations? That South Africa will attract our people in hundreds even in the face of xenophobia? And that our people would be willing to cross the hot desert and endure the harshest conditions possible trying to cross to Europe? Do you, great people of Naija, remember our Naira used to be more than the dollar? Do you remember KWAM 1 once sang that when he went to Mecca in the late 70s, he exchanged N1,000 for 1,200 dollars? What is our take on leaders who use religion to justify child marriage? Their Excellencies who support copulation with the girl-child and thus contribute to vagina vistula? What of leaders who stock tribal, communal and ethnic violence? And what do you make of the ones who sponsor cultists, militias and bandits? Is there any truth in the claims that even the dreaded Boko Haram gets support from some unexpected quarters? The military? Some political elites? Fellow happiest people on earth, are we proud of those among us who engage in killing others for ritual purposes? Are we enamoured by leaders who do not think true policies before churning them out? Aren’t we blessed to have leaders who in the midst of the second wave of a deadly pandemic are insisting we must go and queue in our millions to link our SIM cards with our National Identified Number? When are we going to honour our leaders who in the midst of recession authorised the increment of electricity tariff by 100 per cent? And how ungrateful will we appear if we fail to salute those behind policies that have killed industries and make the space available to churches? Fellow happiest people on earth, when are we going to give honour to whom honour is due by acknowledging the brilliant minds behind perfidy and treachery in our land? Is it not baffling that we have, to the detriment of our scenic surroundings, destroyed green spaces to provide room for office and business complexes? I believe you are wondering why I am speaking in questions, but aren’t the riddles of our nation enough to probe this land of the earth’s so-called happiest people and what better way can an enquiry be done without questions being thrown and being addressed? The bombs being thrown in the Northeast, the con men on the pulpit with links to the seat of power, the petty leaders who cherish their egos being massaged, the nepotism, the corruption, the favouritism and whatnot, what else do they inspire other than speaking hauntingly in tongues and in riddles? Are men, women and kids who have lost their wrists and some other body parts to the violence in and around the country in an expansive mood? Can you fault me if I say sea pirates are now massively invested in our creeks? Before you call me a busy-body, can you show me a nation where at a time when palliatives are being made available to the poor utility bills are being jerked up? Also, do me a favour, can you please beat your chest and say even in this era of change, oil blocks are strictly allocated on nothing but merit? Tell me if I am wrong, has our nation stopped witnessing bogus awards ceremonies where men and women who should be having their time in jails are decorated in stolen garbs? I beg you in the name of our Father- the one many men of God use as an excuse to fleece their congregation- do you have an idea when we will be able to elect our leaders without any shred of inducement or stomach infrastructure? Will you regard me as an apostle of fake news if I say our nation’s loss of some of its best brains to the West, to South Africa and to our next-door neighbour, Ghana, will continue if our country remains rudderless? Will you tell me to go to hell if I assert that we are doomed if we continue to waste time debating inanities instead of focussing on ensuring the chunk of our national treasury is used only for our people and not for the few currently relishing it? And will you call my bluff if I say failure to diversify our mono-economy will leave us at the back of global trade? Did I just hear you call me an alarmist? Or, am I just second-guessing you?  