SIR: There is no doubt that one of the biggest menaces facing Nigeria as a nation is kidnapping. It has threatened the peaceful coexistence of Nigeria as a nation, and aroused fear in the minds of citizens as no one knows who might be the next victim. Despite the efforts put in place by the government, traditional rulers, patriotic citizens and NGOs, the menace keeps growing at an alarming rate. In the past, most reports of kidnapping were traced to militants in the Niger Delta region, but recently bandits and gunmen have taken over as several reports of people being kidnapped come in from villages particularly in Zamfara, Kaduna and Katsina states.  According to the Nigerian Police Force, 685 kidnappings occurred nationwide in the first quarter of the year 2020, an average of seven per day. Kidnappers are sometimes reported to demand for sums ranging from $1,000 to $150,000, as ransom depending on the perceived financial resources of the victim. Major highways like Abuja-Kaduna, Kaduna-Jos, Abeokuta-Lagos etc., are usually targets of the kidnappers. The causes of kidnapping can be traced to the high rate of illiteracy among the population, particularly in Northern Nigeria which has a high rate of children roaming the streets without functional education and hence access to basic necessities of life. This situation has made it easy for some unscrupulous elements to take advantage of these children or use them for anti-social ends. Poverty is also another major reason for this menace as many people, unable to make ends meet, resort to crime. The high level of unemployment particularly among youths, due to failed government and weak policies by several administrations, has made many to resort to criminal acts and other social vices. The failure of the government to put effective machinery in place to protect the lives and properties of its citizens is clearly obvious because, if the government had done the needful, things wouldn’t have been as bad as it is now. This menace can only be addressed if the government and other concerned stakeholders do the needful; kidnapping thrives in an environment that condones crime; where criminal opportunism and impunity prevail over and above deterrence. The government, in collaboration with traditional rulers, the Armed Forces and others should embark on mass education especially among the people living in rural areas on the need to shun, and report incidences of criminal activities. Also, employment opportunities as well as skill acquisition programs should be organised by all levels of government to reduce the high rate of unemployment specifically among youths.