Bitcoin has been a major topic of discussion in the world today, as it stands tall as the leading cryptocurrency among others, considering its track record over the years. The bitcoin prime has also improved due to technological advancement since the inception of bitcoin. This has made trading bitcoin easier than ever. With this system and available bitcoin trading platforms, you can easily buy or sell bitcoins in exchange for your local currency. A report published in 2018 shows a Survey on Bitcoin Cryptocurrency and its Mining, which gives an insight into the growth of bitcoin in the last decade and what to expect in the future. Bitcoin makes it easy to send and receive money both locally and internationally within seconds. It brings ease to electronic payments and you don’t have to worry about any paperwork or paying a huge sum of money to complete a high-cost transaction. With the platforms available today, it takes only a few steps to purchase your first crypto and start trading, even as a beginner. If you had the option to choose between the traditional banking system and an easier and less expensive method of transaction, you would most likely opt for the latter. The global payment system just got better with crypto payments. In addition to easy and fast payments, crypto transactions are cheap. You don’t have to worry about banking fees or paying a ridiculous amount to send a huge sum of money across borders. No account maintenance fee or overdraft charges or any of those fees you get charged by your bank. Regardless of the amount sent or distance covered, you only have to pay a little to get your money across to the recipient. Bitcoin allows you to have autonomy over your funds. You are in control of your money compared to traditional financial institutions that can decide what to do with the money you’ve kept in their care. The user autonomy of bitcoin is one of the major reasons why more people continue to embrace it. You can control how you spend your money without dealing with a third party institution or authority like a bank or government. Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are a great way to preserve your money from devaluation. The inflation on fiat currencies across the world today doesn’t seem to be stopping any time soon, which means as the years go by, your money continues to lose value. By investing in bitcoin, you will be preserving the value of your funds, considering that bitcoin has a limited supply and doesn’t suffer from inflation. Track records over the years in the bitcoin industry have also shown how investing in crypto for long-term appreciates eventually. These are key benefits of trading and investing in bitcoin. The future looks great for bitcoin and its users are expected to increase in the coming years.