 AGAIN, lives have been lost and properties destroyed in the seemingly intractable communal conflict between the Aguleri and Umuleri communities in Anambra State. In a way, the decades-old conflict seems to have taken the metaphoric image of communal conflicts in a nation that had seen the Tiv-Jukun, Itsekiri-Urhobo, the Ife-Modakeke, and numerous other conflicts amongst neighbouring communities in Nigeria. The repetitive incidents, the loss of lives, the arson, the rise in youth unemployment, the high rate of crime and other ancillary problems from the Aguleri-Umuleri conflict just show that man in his delusional utopia fails, almost always to learn from history. In a weird, ironic way, legend has it that the two communities are descendants of Eri, the alleged progenitor, but again, the two communities are locked in an argument of who amongst them is a direct descendant of Eri. The two names coincidentally ends with the exact same four alphabets –‘Leri’. This, in linguistic and phonetic interpretations, signposts some sociological and linguistic affinity. As always with such communal conflicts, land and boundaries are at the centre of the crisis, beyond the struggle over who can lay claim to being a direct descendant of Eri. These two communities had been co-habiting along the Omambala (possibly the original version of Anambra) River in Anambra East Local Government Area of the state. The Otuocha land has been historically traced to be the bone of contention and this dates as far back as 1933. Spontaneous conflicts have repeatedly happened between the two sister communities and, as always, with the passage of time, each side decides to either trace history, or through other superior claims lay claim to the land in question. So, issues of indigene/settler had resurfaced amongst the sister communities and the fratricidal war seems endless and has left tears, sorrow and blood in its wake for nearly a century. We understand that conflicts are part of humanity and must happen because of circumstances surrounding events. However, we also know that most communities that have faced this kind of conflict over centuries have adopted dialogue and peace as a means of saving the communities, states and even nations from themselves. We equally realise that other communal conflicts as earlier mentioned have seemingly been brought under control, given the fact that such communities seemed to have found internal solutions to their problems. In such conflicts, only those involved are in the best position to sit round the table and sort out their problems peacefully. However, we also know that very often, the embers of hatred are fanned by certain people who tend to gain from such conflicts, but the earlier these communities chose peace over war, the better for them. Wars have never in the history of mankind been a solution to any problem. What sets humanity apart from wild animals is our ability to reason with each other and negotiate for justice and peace. The aftermath of the Aguleri-Umuleri war has been insecurity that affects the whole state and even the South East in general. The proliferation of light arms and weapons within the two communities is an ill wind that blows no one any good. Shedding blood and destroying property is retrogressive and efforts must be made to bring the two communities to a round table dialogue. We understand that the governor of Anambra State, Chief Willie Obiano, is from one of the communities – Aguleri. It would be a legacy worth appending his name to use his influence to bring peace to his state by initiating and concluding a peaceful settlement of whatever has been at the root of this conflict that has claimed lots of lives. It is never too late to broker peace in a way that justice is seen to be done to all. Anything short of obvious justice would continue to be a fertile ground for endless conflict.