Africa peaceful parenting coach, Abimbola Olayinka, has said the pathway to raising a responsible, peaceful, empathetic, compassionate and value-inclined child is to parent with peace. She noted when parents are at peace, it would be easier to transfer the state of peace to their family climate. The certified coach from the Academy of parenting coaches from Corte Portino Menifee and Emotional Intelligence specialist, said: “The framework of peaceful parenting thrives on believing that parenting challenges can be worked through using non-punitive measures. “This model focuses on establishing and strengthening the emotional bonds between a parent or caregiver and the child. “It believes that a child’s behaviour is a product of care and affection a child receives; experiences child witnesses; measures by which a child is corrected or taught, and a parent’s awareness of the child’s emotional needs.” Peaceful parenting is particular about teaching parents the necessity of emotional intelligence, a structure for improving self-awareness and self-regulation. While the former reveals how emotions direct our decisions and actions, and the effects of these on our children, self-regulation suggests ways to maintain control of oneself – especially when tensions are high. Olayinka, who is also the founder of Galparenting place and Peaceful parenting hub, stressed a child nurtured in an ecosystem where peaceful parenting thrives, learns to communicate his needs. “Consider, too, that emotional intelligence triggers changes within those who engage it. With the parent-child party committed to honesty, mutual understanding, and respect, the value they set on human interaction grows. “The society, which tilts towards misdemeanours and offences, does so because human interaction is undervalued, and because the individuals existing in that society struggle to appreciate the gift of one another. “Peaceful parenting, however, prioritises the human experience, human behaviour, and the human emotion, thus making it a perfect tool for sustaining societal sanity.”