No fewer than three persons at the weekend died in a fracas between some residents of Ilesha- Baruba, Baruten local government area of Kwara state and some operatives of the Federal Government’ Joint Task Force On border patrol. Some residents were also said to have sustained varying degrees of injuries during the melee. It was gathered that the crisis broke out as a result of an alleged altercation between the security operatives and a commercial vehicle driver in Ilesa- Baruba. The driver was said to have refused to grant a request from the security operatives who in turn asked him to alight from his vehicle. After a fierce argument between the two parties, the security operatives were said to have shot the driver. The development reportedly infuriated residents who thereafter challenged the action of the armed men. The state Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has commiserated with families of those who died in the fracas in Ilesha Baruba involving some residents and operatives of the Federal Government’s Joint Task Force on Border Patrol. ”The Governor sincerely commiserates with the Emir of Ilesha Baruba Prof. Halidu Abubakar and families of those who lost their lives in the unfortunate incident. The incident is sad and definitely avoidable,” according to a statement by Chief Press Secretary to the Governor Rafiu Ajakaye. ”The governor, who has been in constant touch with all the stakeholders in the community, including the traditional institutions and security forces since the unfortunate incident, calls for continuous calm and restraints. He cautions against any activities that could trigger new tensions. ”A government delegation is to pay a condolence visit to the affected community while findings will be conducted to establish all the facts and forestall a repeat of the sad and unfortunate incident.” Joint Border Operations Drill Sector 3 has fingered organised smugglers and errant behind the bloody clash between its operatives and some residents of Ilesha-Baruba, Baruten local government of Kwara state. The operatives conceded that three persons during the incident. During the pursuit, the driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the scene. After a short period, the driver mobilized a large mob of organised smugglers and errant youths armed with sticks, stones and locally made weapons attacked the operatives and overran the checkpoint. The operatives pulled back from the checkpoint with the seized Volkswagen Golf vehicle. The mob then set the checkpoint and all operational items and properties of the operatives at the checkpoint ablaze. “During the attack, a member of the patrol team sustained various degrees of injuries and was evacuated for medical attention. “To this end, the coordinator Joint Border Operations Drill sector 3 Compt. Olugboyega Peters hereby seizes this opportunity to call on parents, guardians, community leaders, religious leaders and opinion-molders to caution their wards on the dangers of towing the path of extreme illegality and anarchy.”