The Police Command in Bauchi State has arrested a 19-man crime syndicate, popularly known as Sara-Suka for allegedly organising a sex party in Dass Local Government Area of the State. Parading the suspects at the Command headquarters in Yandoka in the state capital Wednesday, the Commissioner of Police, (CP) Lawan Tanko Jimeta said the criminals who are also notorious for thuggery and phone snatching conspired among themselves to organise a party suspected to be sex party with series of atrocities within Dass town on January 11. The CP who was represented by his spokesman Ahmed Wakili said a team of detectives led by the Commander Rapid Respond Squad (RRS) embarked on a round the clock operation which resulted in their apprehension. He gave their names as; Ishaya Adamu 19 years, Mohammed Abdullahi Lawwali 22 years, Ayuba Adamu 19 years, Aminu Tago 19 years, Mubarak Baba 22 years, Anas Sulaiman alias (Danarna) 16 years, Yusuf Ahmed 20 years, and Abba Abdullahi 20 years. Others are; Sulaiman Umar 20 years, Abdulrashid Ali 17yrs, Aliyu Iliya 15 years, Idris Sulaiman 22 years, Nuru Sarki 17 years, Ibrahim Musa 20 years, Musa Danasabe 17 years, Abdulrashid Anas 18 years, Ibrahim 22 years and Kasimu Haladu 26 years, all of Dass town, Bauchi State. ”Findings reveal that on the day of their arrest at about
2000hrs they had conspired among themselves and organized a party suspected to be sex party with attendant series of atrocities within Dass town,” he said. Exhibits recovered from them include, one Ranki , one tsitaka , one machete, one cutlass and three knives He said the suspects will be profiled and charged to court soon. In related development, Jimeta said sequel to the genital mutilation of a minor by suspected ritualists which occurred in Jamaare Local Government Area (LGA) on 30th December, 2020, the fleeing suspect, 19 year old Abdulkadir Wada Haladu, of Chikamidari area of Jamaare L.G.A was arrested in Mararraba of Nasarawa State where he voluntarily confessed to the unfortunate crime. He added that exhibits recovered from the suspects hideout include; two knives, one Mirinda bottle containing suspected genital organ (complete Vulva; Libia Majora, Libia Minora and clitoris). Others are three bottles containing native medicine, one carton containing some native dry medicines tied inside polythene bags, one dry animal skin, two Islamic native black boards, one calabash, one hoe and two locally made disks. It would be recalled that Haladu’s accomplice, Adamu Ra’uf (20), who was earlier arrested by the state’s police command, for allegedly taking part in the cutting of the private parts of a six-year old girl for suspected ritual purposes confessed upon interrogation that he conspired with him (Haladul to perpetrate the crime. The incident was said to have occurred at about 7.20 pm on December 30, 2020.