 THE Rotary District 9110 committee on blindness prevention has carried out successful cataract surgeries for 100 people in Lagos and Ogun states. The three-day “Save Our Sight” mission took place at the Ace Medicare Clinics, Ota, Ogun State. The surgeries, which were sponsored by the Rotary Clubs of Eko Atlantic (the Lead Sponsor); Gbagada; Agege and Ota, cost over N4million. The project is geared towards highlighting the need for a Rotary Eye hospital in a community between both states. According to the committee chair, Dr Basirat Giwa, said Rotary D9110 embarked upon on the project to save many people from blindness. “As an organisation that is interested in humanitarian services, the District Committee on Blindness Prevention initiated the process of selecting beneficiaries of the project in November 2020. After series of medical screenings, those who benefitted were selected and notified that they have been scheduled for the surgery.” While commending the committee, the District Governor Bola Oyebade noted that the theme for the Rotary Year is Opportunities and he is delighted to see the partnering clubs collaborating to restore the sight of 100 persons. As a humanitarian organisation noted for doing good, the beneficiaries will be grateful for the restoration of their sights and our charge to them is to reciprocate good deeds in various ways. “The committee has done a good job by giving their talent, time and treasure to restore the hope of these Nigerians. They have made the District proud. The ultimate aim of this mission is to establish a Rotary Eye Clinic that will provide all year-round quality and affordable Ophthalmic Services to the poor and vulnerable.” Speaking on behalf of the beneficiaries, Mrs Folashade Alawode expressed her appreciation to the team for helping to restore their sights. She noted that the process of selecting the beneficiaries was devoid of any favouritism and they were well taken care of all through the period of being hospitalised. “After the surgery, my eye pads were removed, my eyes were dressed and I was given appropriate medications and instructions.” Other partnering institutions are Eye Institute of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) that assembled the team of ophthalmologists, ophthalmic nurses and other support staff and Mouka Foam that donated 100 hospital mattresses.