The name Daniel Chibuzor Nnwoka might not ring a bell but at the mention of Dan D Humorous or Honourable Dan, laughter will rent the air. Such is the personality of one of Nigeria’s leading comedians, actors and radio personalities. Many people have different things to say about 2020, what would you say about the year? Well, 2020 was a lot of things to a lot of people, it was a very dramatic and different year, a year that came with a lot of shock. To everyone in the world, I don’t think anybody ever anticipated what the year would be like but at the end of the day I got to realise that 2020 was basically a year for restart, restocking, restrategising, refocusing, it was just a rest year and it took a lot of us a while, almost the end of the year to understand what 2020 was because it was a year that got everybody thinking again, taking stock of their lives again and repositioning things. Just take 2020 as the day you lost something in your office and while finding it, you begin to remodel, renew your files and renovate, so 2020 was just to take us to a point where we would have to be alive again, take us out of our comfort zone to restrategise for our next level, so it is a reset and start year for me. Have you ever been challenged over your humorous skills considering the fact that your moniker is Dan d Humorous? My humour ability has never been in doubt, it has never weaned, and keeps getting better everyday, thanks be to God but there are usually challenges when you go to certain event, maybe the setting, sitting position, or being called at the wrong time, or the place is noisy or attention span has been drained, a lot of factors there in come experience, knowledge and you wriggle yourself out of the maze but on no occasion has Dan D Humorous ever been found not funny. In the last 17 years of doing comedy, never have I ever recorded a bad day or bad show, there were days I struggled or maybe I wasn’t in top spirit and what you get is an average or okay performance and I thank God for that. There were several conversations around coronavirus – especially about being real – how did you sensitise fans and people around you? Well, with our status that we have been privileged to be positioned in the society and we have enjoyed comes with some level of responsibilities and we have to carry a lot of people along. I have never doubted the existence and true nature of the COVID-19 virus. I took time to research about the virus and I did the very best that I can particularly with my social media platforms, and radio programme that I am privileged to be part of and i think a couple of episodes we shot on the sitcom, My Flatmates, to actually sensitise the people on the true nature of the virus, how to avoid it, attend to it just in case you test positive to it. At certain time, churches were to resume at a very premature time in Port Harcourt and I took it upon myself to do a video to implore people not to attend the Easter services and in a matter of minutes, churches started reversing and that was me in one way or the other doing some form of sensitising, carrying out some form of social responsibilities to the people around me and people that follow me. From a degree in Linguistics and communication studies to anchoring events, weddings, acting and cracking jokes, how did comedy begin for you? Well comedy began for me let’s say right from my early days in life when I could tell my right from my left because I have always been interested in entertainment. I have always loved the spotlight, sometimes it was too much and they thought I was doing notice me. When I left secondary school, I was supposed to study Gas Engineering when I began exposing myself to certain motivating and capacity building materials and I began to understand purpose and things that take my interest and it was very clear to me that the world of entertainment was where I belong and that informed my decision to study Linguistics and Communications to prepare me for where I wanted to go or desired destination in the media. It was more from cracking jokes to Linguistics and Communications and back to cracking jokes in a different way to reach out to a wider, richer audience and vast amount of demography of people. Comedy for me started out as play and I had dabbled in other arms of entertainment but comedy stood out, it was organic, it was natural. You once said in an interview that money was never a motivating factor for going into comedy, what is the motivating factor for you and is it still a motivating factor? Yes, money has never been a motivation for me, like I said, I was exposed under some teachings particularly then attending Winners Chapel under Bishop Oyedepo and at some time in Port Harcourt, we used to have Pastor Emmanuel Salako, Bishop George and Pastor Dele Bamgboye and these three men of God particularly, their teachings really helped to change my thinking and perspective of life and I was the kind that always try to reach for things beyond me especially in church. Those early teachings made me understand that what is most important is passion and purpose, when you know what you are passionate about, and the purpose in life that is meant to carry out and the void/vacuum that is designed to fix, that alone will motivate you. Money will only come and aid/further the advancement of this purpose. So, till date, the purpose is still the motivating factor and as my aspirations and dream continue to grow higher, it is still driven by purpose. What brought about the berth of your annual show? The annual show is no longer annual now but what brought about the idea is basically a way of improving brand, showcasing body of work, being in my own space with the creative freedom to express myself to the fullest. A comedy special is what an album is to a musician, where you get to express our various styles and that was the idea behind my comedy show. When I have a reasonable body of work that can last me one hour bordering on various topics, then I have my show by the way I had one but unfortunately due to COVID-19, I filmed a comedy special with a small crowd in a small venue and it’s called ‘2020, what a year’. You have become a regular face on a popular sitcom produced by Basketmouth, how did the journey into the show began? My entry into ‘My Flatmates’ is one that can be said to be a story of favour, enjoying God’s favour and glory. I have been a fan of the show from the very first day and was excited about the cast who are my friends especially Kayode Peters and Basketmouth who is the executive producer. And one day, I got called up to come and play an episode in the show, which is one thing Basketmouth has done with the show, he has given opportunities to lots of comedians to explore their acting skills. So, my being on the show was to play an episode and I guess I displayed some level of gifting which found favour in the eyes of the producers and then they decided to have my character, Rt Honourable Dan, feature a couple of time and by the next season, they decided to co-opt me fully into the show and it has really done a lot of good to my brand and person and I remain grateful for being given the platform and I believe it can only get better. You were under the tutelage of Julius Agwu, what’s your relationship with him and how would you describe his personality? Wow! I enjoyed a very fantastic father and son relationship with Julius the Genius Agwu. He’s a man I hold in the highest esteem even before he knew me, even before we got close, I had been an ardent follower of his act and art as well. I believe that everybody aspiring to be something in life must have a mentor that will show you a method or a group of people that you are modeling whatever you want to do after. It doesn’t mean you are a copycat but it only means that you are only outlining a path and with consistency, you will be able to carve out your own niche. For me, I finished secondary school in 2001 and from 1997, I was already attending day of a 1000 laffs and I will memorise the jokes and go back to school and crack those jokes and make some funds which I will share with my friends. When I watched Julius on Christmas day for the first time in 2000, it was called 2000 xmas laffs. I was really dazed by his act and versatility, and a few weeks into the new year, he launched his first album and I was blown away and I even did Okombo jr in school. I was following his art and sending him fan mail and always trying to reach and it was a learning curve for me. I started out professionally in 2003 and people will think it was Julius Agwu performing but our paths crossed for the first time in 2006 New Year though we have been introduced but he didn’t take cognisance of me until 2006. And from that point on, I have enjoyed a very special and great relationship with him. I owe a great part and very reasonable part of my success to him and his tutelage and till date, we still enjoy a fantastic relationship and my loyalty to him is unwavering no matter what. Julius has a very interesting personality, he’s the kind of person that has no reservations, he lets his emotions out instantly and doesn’t hold back. He’s a strong man and anointed soul to go through the things he has been through in life – particularly his health challenges – and he’s still striving and pushing shows the greater will power than resides in him. Under his tutelage, this man will work under the most intense pressure and hardly rest but we thank God that he’s alive, pushing and very relevant in the industry. You combine acting with a political satire on TV as well as a radio show host, what’s the idea behind this? The idea behind all of this is just doing what you have to do, expressing and exploring your talents to the best of your abilities and fullness. We have been blessed with multiple talents and capacities and they keep improving everyday, I have been doing political satire when I started on radio with my group and we still exist till today. We talk about political and social happenings around us and we talk about it in our humorous, I moved to Lagos and got a spot courtesy of Okey Bakassi on Lagos Talks FM where we do it’s okay with Okey. And also on Channels TV, we are part of the first political satire TV show, The other News. And then acting, which is another branch and stand up comedy. There’s still several other things coming out. I’m just a tree with many branches and the branches will definitely have to sprout and try to live our purpose to its fullest. Have you had any brush with politicians or the government owing to the topics you discuss on the satire show? Absolutely not, not one that you will call a brush. The worst that we’ve had is people watch what we did and didn’t understand, they didn’t have a very good comprehension of what we tried to portray. One thing about satire or joke is that it does not aim to insult, malign, downgrade or attack personally – although lately with some shows on the international scene, you can see that these guys have weaponised satire and used as political tools and it should not be so. So, I have never had any personal brush. What we’ve only had are people that will call and express their anger and we will explain to them our point and we do not set out to misinform or insult anyone because we tell the joke as it is, we make a joke out of what we all see, it’s just that we are blessed with the comic edge and give you that joke you are seeing but didn’t realise it’s a joke. Do you see yourself going into politics? I think I do. I am already in politics to a certain extent. I belong to a certain party, I am a card carrying member of a political party. I don’t believe the notion that entertainers shouldn’t belong to a political party. The US election just finished now and you saw the entertainers spoke out very loud and it doesn’t change anything about them or their art. People need to learn how to differentiate somebody’s political views from who they are and what they are. So, I see myself at some point serving the country in one capacity or the other. I have always made myself available to do so particularly for the benefit of my immediate constituency both geographically and professionally. So, I see myself going into that, maybe not immediately, maybe immediately, nobody knows what the future holds but the possibility is definitely there. You have been married for over five years and being a father also. How would you compare being single and being married? Being married is an entire world in itself because it’s your life turning around and of course for the better. It’s a life that comes with responsibility and it’s not only about you but the people around you – your wife, children and other forms of dependant – and I guess that’s why they say try to be the best version of yourself while you are single, prepare yourself, arm yourself educationally or otherwise and I think it is because by the time you are married, you might be too occupied carrying other people’s burden, trying to raise the hands of other people and you can’t be doing that while you are still being spoon fed yourself. So, being married comes with a level of responsibility, cater for people, live a life they can model after, being there for them. Live your life to the fullest when you are single because when you are married, they are people that are going to join you and bring to this world and drink from your well being you, so make sure that your well is definitely endowed. The Nigerian comedy industry has remained dynamic with many of its players reaping from the bounties, how rewarding has it been venturing into entertainment as a whole for you? I believe that every other sector is also profitable and reaping bounties as well but the Nigerian comedy industry has definitely grown from strength to strength and we have the audience – the general public – to thank for that because had it not been their support and understanding and acceptance of the art, I believe we would still be struggling. The fact that they understand the need for comedians to be at their event, the need for them to attend our shows and see our skits and sitcoms and all of that. Those things are some of the motivating factors that keep our creative juices to flow because you will strive to outdo the competition and that makes you a better entertainer, so for me personally, there’s always been one form of growth and one leap of success to the other and we will definitely continue to do more and better as long as we continue to breathe and live. What are the challenges so far in the industry and as a brand? As a brand, just like I heard in a teaching, you go to the first phase, there’s resistance, tolerance, acceptance and substance. So, starting out, a lot of people may not get you so you face resistance, you push through and people begin to tolerate you, you push through again and people begin to accept you and we are now at that stage where you need to sustain the acceptance with a substance. You have to show that the seat you have gotten at the table, you earn it, make sure that you continue to deliver your value to the top. The beautiful thing is that today’s success is tomorrow’s mediocre and the next day’s failure. So, you must always make sure that you top up the success and that itself is a challenge but it’s a motivating challenge and that is the only challenge I see now because I have gone past the other phases. It’s 2021, what are your plans for the year? There are great plans for 2021, I intend to take my career a few notches higher. I intend to move from an earner to an owner, so from earning from content or earning to be on people’s content to the level of owning my own content and products. I want people to go to my YouTube page and subscribe so they can enjoy the loads of content that will be coming from Dan D Humorous. First of 7 children, what responsibility has that laid on your shoulder and how have you carried it on? Well yeah, I believe there was a responsibility but I have carried it out very comfortably because first of all, I try to live for myself first because you can’t give what you don’t have. I try to be a responsible man for myself even while growing up and as I do that, naturally, the people around me will see the kind of life that I am living which is exemplary and they will follow suit. There hasn’t been any pressure, it is all about me living my life in an exemplary way, and the young ones after me see that it is productive and responsible and they pick up from there.