Workers at the Oyo State Water Corporation may go on an indefinite strike action any moment from now if something urgent is not done by the government. The decision follows the expiration of a 72hours ultimatum given to the state government by workers under the aegis of Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical And Recreational Service Employees (AUPCTRE). The grievances of the workers bother on outstanding deductions, shortage of workers among other issues. The union had on January 20, 2021, sent a letter to Governor Seyi Makinde through the Office of the Secretary to the State Government to call the attention of the government to the plight of the workers. The letter, copies of which was made available to journalists on Friday shows that it was acknowledged by the office of the SSG on the same day. The union demanded the prompt payment of outstanding deductions, the safety of lives and property of the Water Corporation, an increment in monthly subvention, the supply of chemicals to the Corporation, recruitment of workers in the Corporation and appointment of substantive General Manager for the organization. According to the statement signed by the State Secretary of AUPCTRE, Comrade Ibrahim Mohammed, failure to meet the demands within 72 hours would leave the union with no option other than to embark on industrial action. The letter reads in part, “I bring to Your Excellency fraternal greetings from the state leadership of the above-named union and to inform Your Excellency that after a series of meetings with the management of Water Corporation and government representatives without finding lasting solutions to our demands, the union is left with no other option than to issue this letter on the above subject matter. “The union’s demands include; payment of outstanding deductions, that is, cooperative deductions, check-up bonus, leave bonus, car loan deductions, housing loan deduction and so on. “Safety of lives and properties of Water Corporation. “Increment in montly subvention. “Availability of chemicals so that potable water can be available to the good people of Oyo State and its environs. “Recruitment of more workers for the Corporation and Appointment of substantive General Manager. “Consequently, with this situation in the corporation, the tension is building up among the workers which may affect the current smooth industrial relation in the Corporation and in the state. “Finally, the union is by this letter, therefore, urging Your Excellency to intervene quickly to find a lasting solution to our demands within 72 hours to avoid negative occurrence in the union-management relations. “Thanks for your anticipated result-oriented response.” However, Mohammed told journalists that with the expiration of the ultimatum, the workers are ready to embark on strike, insisting that the state government must pay all the arrears. The reaction of the government is still been awaited as at the time of filing in the report.