The Muslim Solidarity Forum (MSF) stirred up a hornets’ nest when, last Tuesday, it asked the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto Matthew Kukah to “quickly and quietly leave” Sokoto, the seat of the caliphate. In the alternative, it asked Bishop Kukah to “tender an unreserved apology to the Muslim Ummah”. In his Christmas Day message, Bishop Kukah criticised the Buhari administration for what he described as its “nepotism”. He restated his position in a sermon he gave on January 6 at the funeral of the late Archbishop Peter Jatau in Kaduna. Kukah described Nigeria as “a wasteland” and “a nation at war against itself”. Some of the issues raised in his Christmas message titled: “A nation in search of vindication” said to be controversial included: The MSF, and a few other Islamic groups, interpreted portions of Kukah’s message as subtly targeted against Islam and Muslims. The cleric has since come under a barrage of criticisms. MSF’s acting Chairman, Prof Isah Maishanu said: “Kukah who lives peacefully and happily at the centre of the seat of the caliphate for almost a decade now, enjoying the peaceful atmosphere of the city that is founded on the teachings of Islam and benefitting from the goodwill of Muslim leaders right from childhood and up to this moment, could not see anything good to appreciate in his Muslim hosts or their religion, to disparage them. “Rather, he is always using provocative and uncouth language. His callous statements and acts of hatred is unbecoming of someone who parades himself as secretary to the National Peace Committee and a member of Nigeria Inter-Religious Council (NIREC).” Maishanu asked Kukah to immediately stop, what he described as “malicious vituperations” against Islam and Muslims and tender an unreserved apology to the Muslim Ummah or else, quickly and quietly leave the seat of the Caliphate, as he is trying to break the age-long peaceful coexistence between the predominantly Muslim population and their Christian guests, adding that Muslim leaders out of magnanimity, have shown goodwill to Bishop Kukah. Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), in a statement on January 6 issued by its Secretary-General, Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, described Kukah’s message as “irresponsible and seditious”, and disguised as a political hogwash to deceive the innocent. According to the group: “There is no doubt that it was a poisoned arrow fired at the heart of Islam and Muslims in Nigeria, hence the need for this intervention. “The Bishop statement was a prepared address considering the occasion and the audience; one cannot but agree that it was a calculated attempt to insult Islam which is typical of him. His veiled insinuation that Muslims have a pool of violence to draw from is disgusting, disheartening, as well as condemnable. “…By this and his several similar inane attacks against Islam and the Muslims, the Bishop has lost the friendship and the hospitality of the entire Muslim populace.” Similarly, a Zaria based group, Ummah Movement, also expressed shock and disappointment over Kukah’s message. It invited security agencies to question Kukah “on his incitement to a coup, persistent and deliberate stirring of communal conflict and slanderous targeting of the majority Muslim population of Nigeria along with their faith.” The group further demanded Kukah’s resignation from the Abdulsalam Abubakar- led National Peace Committee (NPC). In a statement signed by its leader, Muhammad Muhammad last Sunday, the group faulted the cleric for failing to “offer genuine apology.” It added: “The NIC therefore, is left with no option than to call for the immediate resignation of the Bishop from the Peace Committee, in view of his blatant anti-Muslim partisanship as displayed in his treasonable Christmas message. “Bishop Kukah has lost whatever remains of respect from the generality of Muslims as observed by the Jama’atu Nasril Islam in its reaction and he has therefore become a liability to the NPC.” The group asked that Kukah “should be replaced with someone more objective, accommodating  and level headed.” But the MSF’s threat to Kukah did not go down well with the Presidency, and, last Wednesday, it described it as “unconstitutional”. Nevertheless, the government advised the cleric to always take the feelings of others into consideration while making his comments. “The reported ultimatum…is wrong because it is not in line with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria,” Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity Mallam Garba Shehu, said in a statement. He added: “Under our Constitution, every citizen has the right to, among others, freedom of speech and expression, the right to own property and reside in any part of the country, and the right to move freely without any inhibitions. “Under our laws, groups or factions must not give quit notices, neither should they unilaterally sanction any perceived breaches. Where they occur, it is the courts of law that should adjudicate. Unilateral action is not the way to go.” Not everyone was satisfied with the Presidency’s handling of the MSF’s threat. Last Saturday, the Order of The Knights of Saint Mulumba Nigeria (KSM) condemned the Federal Government’s stance. To the, knights, Shehu’s statement was but “a slight underhand rebuke of the Catholic Cleric instead of his traducers.” The Christian body insisted that the statement was a slap on the wrist for Bishop Kukah’s “traducers whose ill-advised and unfortunate threat negates the spirit of the Nigerian constitution and unity of the nation”. The Supreme Knight, Sir Diamond Ovueraye, in a statement on behalf of the group claimed that Shehu’s statement was deftly apologetic and patronising to the group. The Christian Association of Nigeria also rose to Kukah’s defence, saying that he spoke the truth. The association‘s General Secretary, Joseph Daramola, said the MSF was not only “myopic” but had deliberately introduced “religious-politics” into the Bishop’s message. “There is no issue there (demand on Kukah to apologise of leave the Sokoto Caliphate). Why are they personalising the matter?.  “The man (Kukah) is saying the truth and they are trying to deliberately put religious-politics into it. These people are myopic in everything they are doing. Let them go and read his message. What do they want to do to him? Why would he apologise?” Daramola said. In another statement, CAN warned anyone threatening Kukah to stop their: “unlawful actions”. It also asked the security agencies to ensure his safety and security. “We have studied the whole Christmas message of Dr Kukah and we are yet to see any incitement against Islam or non-Christians. We see nothing wrong in his message to the nation that has been under the siege of terrorists, herdsmen killers, bandits and kidnappers as if there was no government in place,” Daramola said. According to Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom there was nothing inciting in the Christmas Day message. In his view, it was a true reflection of the current situation in Nigeria. Ortom, in a statement, appealed to the Federal Government not to muzzle “patriotic Nigerians who are raising genuine concerns over the worsening security situation in the country because all is not well.” He added: “It is incumbent on the Federal Government to listen to the views of the people and take steps to address the worrisome security situation and other problems confronting the country rather than combatively engaging anyone who dares to hold an alternative opinion.” For All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Chief Frank Kokori, the JNI misinterpreted Kukah’s message. According to him: “There’s nothing anti-Islam or anti-Muslim in what Kukah said.” For many analysts, the MSF’s position on the matter is the most pertinent. To them, the question begging for answer is, can any group legally issue a quit notice to a citizen to vacate a state or region? What is the position of the law? Four Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SANs), Chief Ifedayo Adedipe, Dr Olisa Agbakoba,  Ahmed Raji and Chief Louis Alozie, faulted the MSF for issuing a “quit notice” to Bishop Kukah. Chief Adedipe did not agree that the Bishop attacked Islam in his message. He said: “The views expressed by Father Mathew Kukah, in his Christmas Homily, are indeed views shared by many objective watchers of the policies of the Buhari government. Father Kukah was only giving voice to what many whisper in their closets. “I read the full text; only mischief-makers will construe the homily as an attack on Islam. It is not. Also, the Constitution permits the holding of opinions. Father Kukah merely expressed his personal opinion.” The Learned Silk said no group has the right to issue anyone a “quit notice” to leave any part of the country. “As for those issuing ‘quit notice’ to the clergy, they are wrong to do so, as no law grants them that power. Every Nigerian can reside anywhere in the country. “The reaction of the Federal Government is not good enough. It has become fashionable for some people to routinely threaten others with quit notice in recent times, without fear of strong reaction from the government. The government should rein in on such people. “Suggesting that the views of Father Kukah offended some people, as Shehu Garba stated in his reaction to the quit notice, is to give the impression that the quit notice was probably justified. “The Presidency should have been more forceful in denouncing the threat to Father Kukah. That is part of the duty the government owes Nigerians – to defend and protect their rights,” Adedipe said. Dr Agbakoba, a former Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) President, stated that the reactions generated by the Bishop’s messages showed that Nigeria needed to be “rebalanced”. He said: “The matter of Kukah’s Christmas homily and the tension it has generated strikes at the very heart of the fragile nature of the Nigerian federation which is characterised by complex fault lines. “The way to diffuse the seeming tension is to recognise the diversity of Nigeria and rebalancing our federal arrangements with consent of relevant parties. “This is will not only immediately eliminate the seeming artificial challenges, but will make the Federal Republic of Nigeria a stronger and great nation ready to take its seat among the leading nations of the world. “I call on our political civil society traditional and sub-national leaders to work together for a stronger rebalanced Federation.” For Raji, the group that issued the cleric a “quit notice” went overboard. “Citizens reserve the right and indeed have a duty to criticise their government. The right to differ and express disagreement is preserved. “The respected Bishop has the right to criticise and others too are allowed to disagree with him. “However, it is clearly overboard to issue him quit notice or any other form of threat. That will be a recipe for anarchy and lawlessness,” Raji said. According to Chief Alozie, the quit notice given by Moslem Solidarity Forum is an absolute rubbish. It can only be compared to the one given to Igbos during the EndSARS  protest. Alozie said there was no justification for such quit notices in law and common sense. “Under our constitution, every citizen has an inalienable fundamental right to live, own property and carry on his legitimate business anywhere in the country, without let or hindrance. There is also the fundamental right to freedom of expression which Bishop Kukah exercised. He has not said anything other Nigerians do not already know or are not saying, even if by murmuring. “If he ran foul of the law, the security agencies are there to call him to order, provided they also act within the provisions of the constitution and the law.” The activist lawyer said the matter  is not open to any religious fanatics to insult or threaten him about such obvious truths expressed in good faith for the benefit of all of us. He said many citizens think the way of Bishop Kukah but lack the courage or fora to so express. So, he spoke the mind of Nigerians. “For the avoidance of doubt, no group can legally issue quit notice to any other citizen of Nigeria. Otherwise, there would be no basis for the much touted one Nigeria. “Anyone who gives another quit notice has by implication either divided Nigeria or acknowledged that Nigeria is divisible, notwithstanding the contrary provisions in the constitution. “For me, such quit notice translates to renunciation of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as an entity. It is an offence punishable by law.  Otherwise, they should apologise to people like Asari Dokubo. “I advise that the security agencies should be up and doing and should not hesitate to arrest such hoodlums threatening the unity of Nigeria. Not to do so could mean the quit notices represent the position of the Federal Government of Nigeria”, he said. A former Vice President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Monday Ubani,  a former Commissioner of Ogun State Judiciary Commission, Abayomi Omoyinmi also shared their views. Ubani’s views were similar to that of the SANs. “I did listen and read Bishop Kukah on his Christmas message to Nigeria and Nigerians. I was not able to see or pinpoint where he actually insulted the Islamic faithful or the religion itself.  When the argument became contentious, the Bishop offered to apologise to the faithful if they could show by evidence where his statement insulted the religion. I think it is left for the faithful to take up the challenge and show to him so that he can offer a public apology if any”, he said. On the purported quit notice, the activist lawyer said it is clearly wrong for a citizen to issue quit notice to a fellow citizen. There is no basis for that either in law or in logic. Ubani added: “Clearly there is no place in our law books where a citizen derives his or her power to issue quit notice to a fellow citizen. Rather the quit notice violates the constitutional right of the citizen who is given the quit notice. “The right to reside in any part of the country is derived from the right of free movement. I understand that Bishop Kukah is the Bishop of Sokoto and he is there because of his religion, the practice of which the Constitution again guarantees. “I think it is important we remind those who are in the habit of issuing quit notices to their fellow citizens to please note that they have no legal basis for that, that they are not higher citizens than others and that the Constitution guarantees a right to freely move and reside in any part of the country and that they are violating the right of their fellow citizens anytime they purport to issue such illegal quit notices. A word is enough for the wise.” Omoyinmi also found nothing inciting about Kukah’s message, adding that the quit notice was of no legal effect. He said: “No individual or group has any legal right to issue such. Section 39(1) of the 1999 Constitution as amended guarantee for freedom of expression as a fundamental right. This right is also guaranteed under the United Nations Declaration of Human rights and other international human rights instruments. “The freedom of expression is without prejudice to any restriction and derogation from the right to freedom to expression”. According to him, the language of the Christmas message also did not suggest “any defamation either civil or criminal and or sedition which are normally seen as serious encroachment on freedom of expression, such that Bishop Kukah enjoys under our laws.” He added that in the event that Kukah’s views is deemed defamatory or seditious, “it is the  government that has the responsibility to deal with it and not for any group or forum making statements and issuing quit notice.”