 THE Ataoja of Osogbo, Oba Jimoh Oyedokun, Laaroye 11  has called for unity in the Southwest ahead of 2023 presidential race. He made the call while receiving members of the Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu (SWAGA) in his palace. Tinubu has not declared his intention to run for president. But, the group is urging him to join the race at the appropriate time. He described the All Progressives  Congress (APC) national leader as a good man and competent leader worthy of support. Oba Oyedokun said  Tinubu had touched the lives of many Nigerians and contributed immensely to the growth of the country socially, economically and politically. He said: “On a fair scale,  our people have no option than to rally all necessary support behind  him to realise his ambition in 2023. As for me, Jagaban Tinubu is my man.” The monarch advised political leaders and other stakeholders in the Southwest not to work at cross purposes, urging them to rally all human and strategic resources behind Tinubu,who he described as experienced politician. Oba Oyedokun advised the Yoruba race not to miss the opportunity of having Tinubu as tPresident, noting that he had demonstrated leadership qualities a governor, senator and party leader. He called on President, Muhammadu Buhari and former President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to support Tinubu in appreciation of his previous support for them at different times. The Ooni of Ife, Oba Enitan Adeyeye Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, who also received the delegation, called on political leaders in the region to unite and mobilise all available resources in support of the aspiration of former Lagos State governor. The group intimated the monarch about its intention to launch the Osun State chapter. Oba Ogunwusi admonished Yoruba politicians to eschew acts of inconsistency, shiftings and betrayals, which had truncated similar, hitherto genuine; and positive regional and national developmental causes in the past. He advised the group to reach out to all stakeholders so that they can come together and support Tinubu, who he described as an uncommon creature; renowned for uncommon pursuits;  and popular for uncommon attainments in various phases of his long-standing political career; dating back to the early nineties when he represented Lagos State in the National Assembly. SWAGA leader Senator  Dayo Adeyeye briefed the  traditional rulers on the mission of the group. He said the group was embarking on the region-wide sensitisation of traditional rulers to support the Tinubu, if he decides to run. He described SWAGA as a purely independent, self-financing, but highly committed group comprising loyalists and supporters of the APC national leader. While thanking the two Obas for their words of wisdom, Vice Chairman of SWAGA, Senator Rilwan Adesoji Akanbi, assured that the group will not let the respected traditional rulers down He also said the group will regularly consult them for encouragement and pieces of advice. 