How did your team organize a world boxing event within a short time and record absolute success? Well, all glory to God for grace and enablement. However, organising a world class boxing championship for the World Boxing Federation, WBF in Nigeria and the subsequent victory of Ridwan ‘Scorpion’ Oyekola were essentially driven by the patriotic and resilient spirit of all stakeholders in the LOC. Like I mentioned recently in the account of my stewardship to members of our LOC, although there had been ongoing discussions and negotiations concerning the bout by the promoter and the leadership of the Nigeria Boxing Board of Control, (NBB of C), there was practically no operational support and solid awareness on the ground, as at the time I was drafted to come and lead the process of organising the event. Moreso, the time was quite short, just about two months to the event. So what we did given our wealth of experience in mobilising and publicity, especially as national activists, was to quickly look around for available resourceful human capitals at our reach; of varying interests and co-opted them into the process to help guide the planning process, work as volunteers and consultants. What we did was to sell the historical and international significance of the project to them and they bought into it instantly. Some of these stakeholders we ran to include, the Oyo State government, the respected Alaafin of Oyo, The Olubadan of Ibadan, a major promotional consultant and a media guru, among others, who in turn gave the project an instant morale booster, inspiring the event to a huge success and subsequent victory of the scorpion, (Oyekola) while we also interfaced in the LOC with the Promoter, the leadership of the NBB of C at the national and state levels as well as the management of Ilaji Sports Resorts, which hosted the event in Ibadan apart from the major donations and support the Sports resorts towards the successful hosting of the event. The State Government however gave the LOC a veritable secretariat accommodation and rooms from where the committee operated throughout the planning of the event. May I also acknowledge that my co-chairman, Dr Rafiu Ladipo brought a lot of technical expertise and guidance into the project, just as the secretary of the NBB of C, Mr Remi Aboderin was also of immense asset to the whole project. So in essence the success and victory of Nigeria in this event was collective. How are you able to prepare the boxers especially Ridwan ‘Scorpion’ considering non availability of first class facility here as against his opponent that came from South America with better workout? Well, we must give serious credit to the promoter of the bout, Mr. Sola Ford the CEO of Core Afrique Boxing Promotions and the trainer of our boxers Sunny Bruce, who were able to enforce a Spartan programme of training and discipline in the camp. Both of them worked tirelessly to keep the boxers, especially Ridwan, in a killer shape and fit within their weights before the bout. The drilling was tough and concentration and discipline in our camp was very high, that the Nigerian Boxers were already roaring to go before the day of the bout. Finances for the event, what’s the level of support from the government and corporate body? Finance as usual with Nigerians was a challenge, but the Oyo state government and Ilaji Sports Resorts came to our rescue on different budget heads and at different times both in kinds and in cash. While the government gave the LOC secretariat and operational logistics and accommodation and some financial support, as part of what was requested by the LOC, the Ilaji Sports Resorts apart from providing the venue of the event also gave the NBB of C and the promoter inspiring financial support for the boxers and officials of the match in terms of boxer’s purse, flight tickets for officials and boxers coming from outside Nigeria and what’s termed sanction fee in Boxing to bring the world boxing belt down to Nigeria. However, I am aware there are still outstanding bills to be settled, especially as regards allowances to our consultants, volunteers and some of the boxers and I hope Government both at the State and National levels will come to our rescue before it’s too late. We have already written to that effect and are waiting for their action. Again, other corporate organizations are yet to respond to our request for support. But we hope that now that we have won the coveted world title belt for Nigeria they will do the needful to help us offset some of our various outstanding bills. What does Oyekola’s victory portends for Nigerian boxing? Nigeria’s era of glory in boxing is back after 57 year ago. That was the last time late Dick Tiger won a world boxing title on our soil. More Nigerian youths will also derive a strong inspiration from this victory and move out of the street to engage more in productive activities of sports especially if they see government show appreciation and encouragement to the new Super featherweight world champion by a way of grand reception and support for the boxer and his team. Boxing is now more acceptable to our youths as against the overriding popularity of football over other sports. As you can see how our own boy swept WBF awards after the fight. Scorpion won Boxer of the Month for December 2020 Award and also the prestigious ‘Newcomer of The Year’ award apart from his fight with Montesino, which was adjudged the best in 2020 according to official statement released on the WBF website over the weekend.