Any malaria-like symptoms should be treated as COVID-19 infection until proven otherwise, Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has advised. He gave the counsel on Tuesday while briefing state correspondents at the Lagos State Government House on the management of the second wave of COVID-19. The governor said the consideration has become imperative due to increase in the number of confirmed coronavirus cases in the state and Nigeria at large, adding that anyone with such symptoms should proceed to a public health facility or laboratory to get tested for free. According to him, seeking help early significantly improves the chances of survival from severe to critical cases of coronavirus infection. He said it was important that residents should live and act responsibly in order to augment government’s efforts in flattening the curve of the virus. Sanwo-Olu said: “In this second wave of the pandemic, any malaria-like symptoms should be considered as COVID-19 infection until otherwise proven. “It is also important that we do not stigmatise or discriminate against anyone affected by this virus. “Albeit highly contagious, the virus is not a death sentence, in most cases. Seeking help early significantly improves the chances of survival for severe and acute cases,” he said. The governor said: “Over the last few weeks, the demands for oxygen has risen from 70 six-litre cylinders per day to 350 six-litre cylinders in our Yaba Mainland Hospital. This is projected to more than double to 750 six-cylinders, before the end of January.” He also spoke on the increasing demand for oxygen at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba, where he noted that an average of 350 oxygen cylinders is being used daily. The figure, according to him, may soon rise to 750 cylinders. Sanwo-Olu attributed the high demand for the life-saving product to the rising cases of the virus. The governor told reporters that 24,000 pupils in the state’s public   school had not returned following reopening of schools. The governor explained said that the increase in the positive cases of COVID-19 led to the reopening the INDO Isolation and Gbagada Isolation Centres and a few others. Sanwo-Olu said “In addition to providing oxygen at our isolation centres, the government has decentralised the availability of oxygen across the state through the provision of 10 oxygen and sampling kiosks. “Oxygen therapy and other related services will be provided to patients that require them. “Five of these 10 oxygen centres have been inaugurated while the remaining five will be ready for use within the next four weeks. “It is our expectation that these sampling kiosks would be easily accessible to residents that require oxygen therapy at the level of LGAs as stabilisation points prior to onward transmission to our isolation centres, if required. “This strategy is to further increase the fighting chance of Lagos residents that have contracted the virus and require immediate oxygen therapy.” On the issues surrounding the resumption of schools in the state in compliance with the directives of the Federal Government, the governor   said commencement of the new academic term “was a difficult decision to make in light of the second wave of Covid-19.” He pointed out that the decision to reopen schools “was the best for our children’s safety and long-term development.” Stressing the need for students at various levels to return to the classrooms, Sanwo-Olu said: “Last year after the first lockdown and kids have to come back to school, we are still looking for about 24,000 of them that have not come back. “There is a challenge if you keep them out for that long and their parents or guardians now turn them to other things instead of ensuring that they have time to come back for learning even if it is twice or thrice a week. “At least they have been registered since the beginning of a session and they can be monitored. If not, they will just be roaming the streets and become endangered. “We have seen incidents of child abuse and all unprintable things that are being done to these children. We believe to a large extent that schools sometimes happen to be the safe haven for them. We have done the roster in which we ensure they keep social distance and we are monitoring.” Sanwo-Olu said his government has opened discussions with some vaccine manufacturers to ensure protection for residents. “We are closely monitoring ongoing action by the Federal Government to procure COVID-19 vaccines for use in Nigeria. We have also opened discussions with vaccine manufacturers so that when the vaccine comes eventually we can ensure that Lagosians are catered for. “In a bid to further explore this proven synergistic approach, the Lagos State Government is currently reviewing the feasibility of Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) for the management of some of our public isolation centres.”