 The All Progressives Congress (APC) has been in tatters in Rivers State since 2019. Internal crisis caused by muscle flexing over who would control the party structures tore the APC apart ahead of the 2019 general elections. The wrangling culminated in series of court verdicts barring the party from participating in all the elections that held in the state. The party in its prolonged war of self destruct became a shadow of itself. It could not boast of any representation in the Rivers government. Indeed, from 2019, the chapter has been polarized into two major factions. One is controlled by a former senator, who represented Rivers East, Magnus Abe, while the other owes its allegiance to the Transport Minister and former Governor Rotimi Amaechi. Both leaders of the party, who were once friends, suddenly became two aggrieved lions aiming at each other’s throats. They engaged each other in the proverbial fight of two lions, that leaves ruffled and rumpled grass as their victims. The victims of the warfare have been thousands of helpless APC members groping in political wilderness. The Abe’s camp, whose court cases challenged the alleged highhandedness of Amaechi and stopped the party from fielding candidates in the 2019 poll, has been hoping on the judiciary to give directive on the way forward. A former lawmaker, Igo Aguma, who fell apart with Amaechi dragged the party to the state High Court  in December 2019.  Aguma, a former member of the House of Representatives, listed the sins of the party under Amaechi and sought inclusiveness, internal democracy, unity, progress and peace in the Rivers APC. As a statutory member of the party, Aguma asked the court to declare him the Caretaker Committee Chairman, pending the conduct of a party congress. In June 9, last year’s the court in its attempt to heal the festering sore of the party, gave a judgement, granting the prayers of Aguma. Justice George Omereji ruled that there were issues of injustice and violation of civil rights of the applicant. He said Aguma had the locus standi to approach the court, dismissing the claims that the suit was an abuse of court process. Omereji said Aguma only requested the party to follow its established rules confirming that as a former federal lawmaker, Aguma met the requirements of a statutory member of the state APC. The judgement ordered Aguma to set up a caretaker committee for the state APC comprising all the statutory members of the party. But, the judgement further aggravated the crisis. While Abe’s camp, consented to the ruling, hell was let loose in the Amaechi’s camp. The Amaechi’s camp, which unarguably had majority members of the statutory delegates, kicked against Aguma accusing him of disobeying the judgement of Omereji. They faulted all the decisions taken by Aguma, shortly after he was declared the caretaker committee leader, especially the suspension of Victor Giadom, a national officer of the party  and the recommendation of Worgu Boms as his replacement. 28 out of the 38 statutory members loyal to Amaechi met in Port Harcourt and announced the suspension of Aguma from the party. Senator Andrew Uchendu from Rivers East, who spoke on behalf of others, said one Dr. Sokonte Davies had been selected by majority votes to lead the caretaker committee declaring null and void all actions taken by Aguma on behalf of the party. Uchendu said Aguma was pursuing an agenda alien to the court judgement that gave him powers to act. Aguma, however, fought back by filling a contempt suit against persons, who suspended him from the party. While the contempt suit was still pending, the camp of Amaechi took the Omereji’s judgment to the court of appeal praying the court to upturn the ruling. While the appeal court was still perusing the matter, the decision of the National Executive Council of the party to dissolve all the structures of the APC across the country deepened the Rivers imbroglio. In fact, the camp of the transport minister celebrated the verdict of the NEC, which also extended the existence of the National Caretaker Committee of the APC led by the Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni. Shortly after the decision, Isaac Ogbobula, a loyalist of Amaechi, was inaugurated by the Buni-led committee as the Chairman of the Rivers State Caretaker Committee. Ogbobula returned immediately to the state and swiftly inaugurated the party’s caretaker committees in the 23 local government areas and directed the leaders of the councils’ committees to constitute their ward structures. Ogbobula described the development as a new foundation to relaunch the party in Rivers. He said that the decision of the party to dissolve all the structures had brought to an end all legal issues against the leadership of the APC in the state. Ogbobula insisted that there was no longer crisis in Rivers APC, claiming that the likes of Igo Aguma were inconsequential to the party in the state. He tasked all the interim leaders to lay a good foundation for the APC to beat the PDP in all the forthcoming elections in the state. “There is no crisis in APC Rivers State. We are together under the leadership of Chibuike Amaechi. We have disagreements here and there but we don’t have crisis. We have just one APC in Rivers State and one APC in Nigeria”, he said. No sooner had he finished addressing his audience than another series of ugly narratives started in the party. Aguma fired back, describing the actions of Ogbobula as a nullity. He argued that the decision of NEC was not applicable to Rivers APC. He said the Rivers chapter of the party already had a caretaker committee empowered by a court of competent jurisdiction. Besides, Aguma insisted that  since the party had unresolved cases up to the Supreme Court, nobody could determine the leadership of the APC in the state outside the judiciary. He described Ogbobula as an impostor insisting that no superior court had nullified his leadership of the state APC. Aguma inaugurated a parallel caretaker committees in all the local government and wards. He charged the local government caretaker committees to go back to their various wards and reconcile all aggrieved members of the party. Aguma, who said the APC had no secretariat, maintained that all factional offices of the APC in Rivers remained closed to allow for the resolution of all issues. Aguma regretted that the party was back to a similar route it took at the dictates of one man in 2019, which made it impossible for the APC to field candidates in elective offices thereby dashing the hope of traumatised party faithful. “This is because one man, who is playing god in the party is out to fulfill his vow to destroy APC in the state because that is the only way he can maintain the control of every patronage that is due Rivers State from the federal level. “Sadly, another local government election in Rivers State is around the corner scheduled to hold in April 2021, yet the party that should be playing formidable opposition is enmeshed in a crisis and put on the war path by known dissidents because of the selfish political interest of one man”, he said.  Suspensions and counter- suspensions: APC factions went deeper into crisis. Angered by the action of Aguma, the state caretaker committee led by Ogbobula reconvened at their secretariat in Port Harcourt  and announced the suspensions of key members of Abe’s group over alleged anti-party activities. Ogbobula, who made the declaration, announced the suspensions of Igo Aguma,  Senator Magnus Abe, Livistone Wechie and Wogu Boms for anti-party activities. He also recommended their expulsion from the party while further announcing the suspensions of all the party members, who were inaugurated as local government and ward caretaker committees’ leaders by Aguma. He said all the persons, who took the party to court without exhausting all the internal mechanisms for conflict resolutions remained suspended. Ogbobula said the decision was reached in an emergency meeting held by his committee to review the issues affecting the Rivers APC. He said their suspensions were recommended by their various local government levels in letters addressed to his caretaker committee. Explaining reasons behind the  action, he said: “We met and looked at the state of the party in the state, x-rayed and reviewed some issues towards moving the party forward and cleaning up of the party and to take disciplinary measures against members of the party, who caused infractions on the party. The Aguma-led APC responded immediately and declared the suspension of the Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, from the party. Aguma said the decision to suspend Amaechi from the party was taken at an extraordinary Executive meeting of the APC. He said the meeting was well-attended by the statutory executive members, who participated physically and virtually to take major decisions affecting the party. He further announced the indefinite suspension of Ogbobula and the expulsion of Chief Victor Giadom and Andrew Uchendu from the party. He said: “The state caretaker committee also expressed commitment to work assiduously to bring the party to reckoning in Rivers state. We, therefore, urge our teeming members and supporters to stay focused as we collectively usher in the new dawn of APC in Rivers state”. The development sparked fresh tension in the Rivers APC and attracted the urgent attention of the national caretaker committee of the party, which provided temporary reliefs by nullifying all the suspensions and ordered the  party to remain calm and allow the reconciliation committee led by a former National Chairman of the APC, John Oyegun Odigie to do its work.  Court judgement: On Tuesday, the Appeal Court waded into the lingering dispute. It sacked the Igo Aguma as the caretaker committee chairman of the APC and recognised Ogbobula as the authentic caretaker committee leader. The court held that it was the exclusive right of the National Executive Committee of the APC under the party’s Constitution to appoint a Caretaker Committee for any organ of the party. Observers are watching to see whether the judgment could end the lingering tussle in the state’s APC. Already, Ogbobula has commended the decision of the appellate court saying it had  brought sanity to the party. He said the recent judgment would enable the party work together for a common purpose. Ogbobula said: “We commend the Justices of the Court of Appeal for the very erudite judgment delivered on Tuesday particularly for restoring sanity and more significantly, sending a clear message to lower courts to desist from unnessecarily meddling in the internal affairs of political parties and stop usurping the constitutionally vested powers and functions of party organs.” Ogbobula appealed to party members to join hands in rebuilding APC saying that the party could no longer afford to keep destroying itself. He said the APC was prepared to play the role of an opposition party in Rivers by opposing bad policies of the government. He said: “We call on all genuine members of the APC in Rivers State to join hands with us in moving the party forward, We cannot afford to be distracted anymore by commedians and merchantile politicans conniving with the Rivers State Government towards removing attention from the huge misgovernance taking place in the state. “We must start to seriously interrrogate the policies, programmes and activities of the state Governor and invariably the application of state resources. Rivers people must be made to consciously resist a situation where one man runs the show in the state; in charge of supplies, contracts, projects while others wallow in penury and poverty. “It is unacceptable that more than six years as Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike cannot point to  10 young men of Rivers origin who have been economically empowered to compete in the business world. It is most unfornate that rather than the governor priding himself in terms of human capital development, he is instead always boasting of how he will cripple the APC in the state.” But, it is not yet Uhuru as Aguma had rejected the judgment, raising some issues, which he said vitiated the verdict of the court of appeal. He questioned the jurisdiction of the court of appeal to entertain the matter. He argued that since the subject matter of the case was already at the Supreme Court, the court of appeal overreached itself by giving the judgement. Aguma-led faction said it had instructed its lawyers to appeal the judgement at the apex court. The faction immediately appointed Aguma’s Deputy, Golden Ben Chioma, to act temporarily as the Caretaker Committee Chairman of the party pending the completion of its appeal at the Supreme Court. The faction in a statement signed by Aguma’s Media Adviser, Livingstone Wechie, said: “Whereas we have always known this fact and it is undisputable that the case being a pre-election matter has been challenged at the Supreme Court. “It, therefore, follows being a pre-election matter, the Appeal Court had no jurisdiction to hear the APC Appeal ab initio. The APC Appeal was filed in July 2020 as an afterthought by the National Caretaker Committee, after the Adams Oshiomhole-led Committee which accepted the judgement and communicated same to Rt. Hon.  Igo Aguma on the 23rd of June had been dissolved in defiance to National Executive Committee (NEC) directive of the APC. “The 1999 Constitution as amended makes it clear that pre-election matters are to be filed within 14 days. The APC Appeal is clearly over a month after the judgement was given and as such the Appeal Court had no jurisdiction to hear it in the first instance. “This is our case. Infact the Supreme Court has been asked in the earlier Appeal by Ogbobula to determine whether this is a pre election matter. In line with judicial procedures, there is an Affidavit of Facts before the Appeal Court in respect of the Appeals pending at the Supreme Court but the Appeal Court in its wisdom chose to go ahead anyways.” Wechie said the Appeal Court was duly notified about the pending appeals and should have known that it lacked the jurisdiction  to sit on Appeal over the Supreme Court or its judgements. “This development does not in any way come to us a surprise at all but we shall not take issues with the court in the media because we respect and have always respected the Bench. As responsible citizens and as a party,  we shall only await and look up to the Supreme Court on these matters as properly before the Supreme Court for determination. “This judgement is strange and shall be further tested at the Supreme Court because as the bonafide leadership of the APC in Rivers state,  we shall not allow our Party to be denied justice because the Law is trite and in our favour. “May we state for the time being that Rt. Hon. Golden Ben Chioma, the Deputy State Acting/Caretaker Committee Chairman of APC Rivers state shall act as the State Acting Chairman in place of Rt. Hon.  Igo  Aguma pending the filing of the Appeal at the Supreme Court and it being properly entered. “We shall not give saboteurs the space to destroy our Party because of the unwholesome and selfish interest of one man styled and christened the godfather of APC Rivers state. “We restate that we shall test all contrary judgments from the Court of Appeal at the Supreme Court  knowing that the APC case being statued barred is a incontrovertibly a pre-election matter. We believe the Supreme Court will have a final say in this matter.” By all indications, the crisis rocking the APC in Rivers has been described as a seasonal movie laced with suspense. All stakeholders and observers are anxiously waiting for the next episode. Or could it be the end of the tragic political script? The body language and actions of the gladiators in the days ahead especially with some cases still pending in the court will surely determine the next chapter for the Rivers APC. 