By Jide Orintunsin – Abuja The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has said its membership registration, update and revalidation will still be carried out as scheduled with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols. The party was reacting to an open letter by House Committee chairman on Finance, Hon. James Faleke, asking it to postpone its scheduled fresh registration and revalidation exercise. Secretary of APC Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, thanked Faleke for his concerns but assured the party will do everything possible to observe all the proposals as stated by the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19. “On behalf of the Chairman of the CECPC, His Excellency Mai Mala Buni, the Executive Governor of Yobe state, we thank Hon. James Faleke for his concerns. ‘’We appreciate all the issues raised in his open letter but as a Committee, we are guided by the directive of NEC on the conduct of the registration exercise and we wish to state that the exercise will continue as scheduled. “In doing this, we shall ensure full compliance of the PTF protocols on Covid-19 in the cause of this exercise. Our registration officers will adequately train to observe the protocols by the PTF. “The truth is that this exercise is unit-based. There will be no need for a crowd. Recently, INEC conducted an election and the Covid-19 protocol was adhered to. The registration is not a daily exercise. It is a continuous one and we assure our members of their safety and protection. “We are committed to carrying out this exercise as scheduled in view of the lifetime of the Caretaker Committee.” Faleke, in an open letter on Monday to the chairman of the party’s CECPC, Governor Mai Mala Buni, expressed concerns over the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation in Nigeria and being a survivor of the deadly virus. The lawmaker advised the party to postpone the exercise, saying “the registration could give the party a bad name if the number of infections increased during the exercise.” According to Faleke: “Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Mr. Boss Mustapha, had warned that the second wave of the pandemic would be more dangerous and deadly. Events since the beginning of the year have proven him right.”