 A 77-year-old Mr Adegboyega Adepitan, who survived cancer, has said the disease is treatable if discovered early. Having cancer is not a death sentence, said the septuagenarian. The cancer survivor said this at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Lagos, during the third anniversary of Cancer Enlightenment and Support Foundation (CESF), held at the Children Cancer ward of the hospital. In 2014, the then 70-year-old was diagnosed of colon cancer stage three, making him to travel to India for treatment. The NGO was established three years ago on January 19, 2018, which coincided with the founder’s 74th birthday. Adepitan, who is the  Chairman of the Board of Trustees, CESF, said:  “By God’s grace, I survived the ailment and that is why I started this non-governmental organisation to extend our hand of help to those who have cancer. By God’s grace, I clocked 77 years today (Tuesday). I just felt that we should come here to bring succour to children battling cancer. When we visited here about two weeks ago, we saw all these children; we saw the need to help them. These children are the future of tomorrow, no one knows what they can achieve. “As a survivor, I can tell you that cancer is treatable. The only thing is that people have to go for regular tests. Early detection and treatment are key to surviving the disease. Although there are few cases, like mine that was discovered late, here am I today. It is better to discover it early and treat it early,” Adepitan said. A member of the Board of Trustees of CESF, Mr Segun Olulade, called on well-meaning Nigerians to support cancer patients financially. Olulade, a former Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Health, said though many philanthropists were trying  to solve cancer problems, such contributions were not enough. “While I was in the House, we worked on the law of cancer institute. I understand that a lot of private organisations and NGOs support the fight against cancer, but they are not enough. Nigerians must be awake to the responsibility of protecting and standing with our neighbours. I want to encourage people to come down to LASUTH and see these children suffering from cancer. It is a call that we must answer. We must support cancer patients. As the founder of the NGO has said, cancer is not a death sentence.” The CESF founder, who spent eight months in India for treatment, said the NGO has offered financial assistance to five cancer patients at LASUTH for surgery and chemotherapy. Stressing that cancer could be treated in Nigeria without traveling abroad, Adepitan said Nigerian billionaires could help to lessen the burden on cancer patients if some of them pool resources to build cancer hospitals in the country. According to him, building more specialist hospitals for the treatment and management of cancer would open up treatment opportunities and lessen the frightening financial burden on cancer patients in Nigeria. While acknowledging financial support from individuals and organisations, he pleaded with the public to “support us with their widows’ mite to carry out this humanitarian assignment.” “Looking back through the last three years, we have reasons to thank God for what He has used us to do. We have propagated our theme that ‘’having cancer is not a death sentence’’ through the book written by me and information leaflets distributed free in churches, mosques and gatherings we attended, using my case as a good example of a cancer survivor. We continue to receive requests for financial assistance from cancer patients from LASUTH and other hospitals. “The most pathetic of the requests are from children cancer ward at LASUTH where we discovered that children as young as three years have one form of cancer or the other. You only need to be there to know the grief indigent parents go through in efforts to meet up the cost of drugs and chemotherapy for their children. This why we decided to celebrate our third anniversary with these children  to lift up their spirit and give as much financial support as we can to them,” he said.