Stanbic IBTC Asset Management, a subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, has been assigned an AA(IM) investment manager rating with a Stable Outlook by Agusto & Co. Agusto and Co, a leading Pan-African rating agency, stated that this rating is a reflection of the financial institution’s pedigree and provision of exceptional services to its customers. The criteria for awarding the financial institution the AA(IM) rating with a stable Outlook was stated thus: “Having taken into consideration its board composition which has the potential to elevate investment and business risks, the new AA(IM) rating is a reflection of Stanbic IBTC Asset Management’s sound operational track record in the asset management industry, well-composed and experienced decision-making committees, good operational risk management and membership of the Stanbic IBTC Group.” Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management Limited, Oladele Sotubo, said the organisation remains focused and well-positioned to provide fund management solutions that cut across various  markets, asset classes and in line with international standards. Reiterating the organisation’s commitment to doing more in the asset management sub-sector, Sotubo appreciated the stakeholders for their continued support over the years. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers Limited, Titi Ogungbesan, expressed her delight at the performance of the stockbroking subsidiary of Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC. She said: “Our industry performance is driven by deep market knowledge and global standard investment management expertise. We hinge our delivery on integrity, professionalism and efficient execution capabilities. This is another milestone that proves our commitment to lead the investment management services industry in sub-Saharan Africa.” Assuring clients of continued commitment to best execution in achieving their investment objectives, Ogungbesan stated that Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers Limited would not relent in contributing towards building a stronger and more vibrant stock market in Nigeria. The Nigerian Stock Exchange was recently ranked as the world’s best-performing stock market by Bloomberg. 