 AS part of government efforts in improving accessibility to off-grid electricity in Lagos State, Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the British Government funded Africa Clean Energy Technical Assistance Facility (ACE TAF). The four-year programme being implemented by Tetra Tech International Development is to be bankrolled by the UK Government Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO). During the signing ceremony which held recently, the governor who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Hamzat Obafemi Kadir, stated that energy improvement and access “is a key pillar of his administration’s T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda, emphasising that he would do all that is necessary to improve energy access of the citizens in the State.” Responding, the British Deputy High Commissioner, Mr. Ben Llewellyn-Jones, said, “The UK is proud to support the Lagos State Government’s effort to improve off grid access in Lagos State through the Africa Clean Energy Technical Assistance Facility (ACE TAF) programme. We want to see this partnership translate to improved state electrification that will support private sector entry, attract investment and create more jobs in Lagos State.” According to the Commissioner, Mr Olalere Odusote, the Lagos State Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources “is working assiduously to facilitate the improvement in energy access in the State, as off-grid solar sector has emerged as an important component to achieve access to energy for all in the State.” “The relevant policies are being put in place to encourage the uptake of off-grid solar in the State. The readiness of the Ministry to partner with the private sector to achieve desired access to energy by all in the State is our priority.” Also speaking, the ACE TAF Nigeria Country Manager, Mr. Chibuikem Agbaegbu said the partnership would strengthen the collaboration between the state government and ACE TAF towards improving reliable electricity delivery in the state and attracting increased private sector investment for off-grid solar. “Governor Sanwo-Olu has being exploring all opportunities to improve electricity and increase access to energy by Lagosians through various initiatives and innovative platforms such as Lagos Smart Meter Initiative, the development of the Integrated Resource Plan for the State supported by the USAID Nigeria Power Sector Program (NPSP) and the recent execution of Streetlight Infrastructural Agreement with LEDCO Limited to retrofit existing streetlight infrastructure across the State from High Pressure Sodium (HPS) to a more efficient and cost-effective Smart Light Emitting Diode (LED),” he stressed. 