 THE Coronavirus pandemic and its toll both on lives and the economy, the #endSARS protests, which were hijacked by murderous hoodlums, as well as the pervasive insecurity were the defining elements that made life ‘nasty, solitary, brutish and short’  across the country in 2020. Yet, there was a little noticed flicker of light towards the end of the year that portends hope for the future even as Nigeria continues to contend with severe, mostly manmade, existential challenges. That was the decision of the Ekiti State University to invite renowned human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), to deliver its 2020 Convocation lecture on 16th December, 2020. This seemingly insignificant but important event offers signs of future hope because the resolution of any society’s problems, no matter how seemingly intractable, lies essentially in the realm of ideas and the intellect and the Ekiti State University has led the way in demonstrating that our universities can once again be the arenas for vigorous articulation and interrogation of ideas that can lay the basis for national transformation. Titled ‘Restructuring and the Liberation of Nigeria’, Mr. Femi Falana’s cerebral offering did not disappoint. It was pungent, incisive, ideologically informed and the lecturer, characteristically, took no prisoners in engaging a subject that has been at the forefront of public discourse in recent times often, unfortunately, from utterly ill-informed and misleading perspectives. Right from the opening lines of his lecture, Mr. Falana takes issues with and firmly opposes the manipulation/exploitation of ethno-regional sentiments and emotions by those he describes as ‘ethnic warlords, demagogues and clairvoyants from their declared “territories” with captive audiences”. Many of them can best be described as ‘ethnic entrepreneurs’. Falana does not disagree with the need to restructure Nigeria. But he contends that no less important, perhaps even more so, is the imperative to urgently liberate the country from the ‘shackles of poverty, inequality and gross socio-economic injustice’. He insists that at the top of our national agenda must be the determination to ‘banish hunger, disease and ignorance’ from these otherwise richly blessed shores. Thus, in his words “These vertical and horizontal steps are important ones to take simultaneously for the development and progress of Nigeria. The implication of the foregoing is that the debates on restructuring should be reframed in the interest of social justice, geo-political equity, genuine freedom and the unity of the people of Nigeria”. But what exactly is the radical lawyer talking about here some may ask? Is restructuring not a necessary condition for achieving the goals of banishing hunger, disease and ignorance? Unfortunately, the most vocal and ardent voices on the pro-restructuring  platform give the impression that restructuring is essentially about fundamental adjustments and rearrangements in the ethno-regional and administrative superstructure of the Nigerian polity while largely ignoring the no less important and critical inequities and injustices that define the country’s economic substructure. Indeed, it is the relentless deepening of poverty and the attendant ever escalating inequality between privileged and deprived socio-economic classes that has sharpened, ironically, the saliency of ethnicity as a tool of group manipulation by largely self-serving elites who mask the naked pursuit of power for socio-economic aggrandizement under the guise of protecting the interests of particular ethnic and/or regional groups. The fact of the co-existence within one geographical space of plural ethno-cultural groups is not the fundamental problem with Nigeria and the reason for the protracted non-realization of her immense potentials. Rather, Nigeria remains a ‘crippled giant’ six decades after nominal independence because of the persistence in power, through its various factions and fractions, military and civilian, of a mindlessly corrupt, inept, visionless and ideologically as well as intellectually vacuous political class. No ethno-regional faction or fraction of this political class along with its business wing has demonstrated any higher sense of patriotism or standard of ethical integrity than the others. Much of the loud clamour for restructuring by vocal sections of the political class in parts of the country is thus no evidence of a more elevated altruistic commitment to the best interests of the vast majority of the people either of Nigeria as a whole or the parts of it that they purport to be fighting for. In the same vein, those who contend that ‘Nigeria’s unity is non-negotiable’ just to preserve wholesale an unjust and inequitable status quo that profits them are actuated by selfish, self-centered motives. The sense I get from Mr. Falana’s lecture is that restructuring is not a magic cure-all prescription, a once and for all exercise, that resolves a society’s contradictions and challenges for all time. Despite the indisputably radical ideological cast of his take on restructuring, Femi Falana adopts a far more practical, pragmatic and realistic approach to the issue that contrasts sharply with those who call for the total jettisoning of the extant 1999 constitution and the creation of a new one ex-nihilo. Yet, those who make such outlandish suggestions in the name of restructuring ignore the fact that there is no reasonable consensus on what a restructured Nigeria should look like or which of the contending ideas or models of restructuring should be adopted as well as why and how this will be legitimated. Falana’s approach entails building on the merits of what exists, identifying its weaknesses, failings and shortcomings and systemically working to eliminate these in such a way that a more efficient, effective, functional and democratic as well as federal polity ultimately emerges. I am sure his audience would have been more enthused if he had emotively and excitedly advocated the wholesale shredding of the extant constitution and the revolutionary adoption of a totally new document of constitutive and regulative rules governing relations in the Nigerian polity. Falana takes an eminently more sensible if not particularly populist position which adheres with what is perceived in some quarters as the correct conventional wisdom. His words: “Restructuring alone will not automatically answer the menacing question of rising youth joblessness and hopelessness plaguing Nigerian society. To reframe the question, some myths should be exploded. First, stripped of all obfuscation, restructuring is basically about making the Nigerian federation work better for the purpose of governance and development. That should be the objective of restructuring rather than the elusive pursuit of “true federalism”. There is nothing like a true federalism. Every federation is structured for the specific purpose of each country. That is why the Indian federation is not identical to that of Australia or America. The Swiss federation is operated differently from that of Canada or Brazil. The German federation is working not because it is “true” but because it meets the specific historical need of Germans. So we should stop mystifying the debate by calling for a “true federalism” instead of asking for a workable federation for Nigeria”. Is Falana then not defending the status quo and thus by his position making the fundamental structural changes advocated by many exceedingly difficult or impossible to attain? The answer most certainly is no, in my view. Rather, he approaches the question of restructuring not from a fixed, rigid position of an ideologue but from the prism of the pragmatic and methodical constitutionalist. Let me quote him at some length again, “As a matter of fact, making a federation to work, building a nation or promoting national integration is never a finished business. As the experiences of countries defined by diversity and complexity have shown, the business of a functional federation is actually a work in progress. After all, what’s federalism if not a system of continuous negotiation and compromises? That’s why it is a gross misnomer when some people pronounce arrogantly that “Nigeria’s unity is non-negotiable”. That’s wrong. Federations are, of course, subject to negotiations when the need arises in any generation. What is to be is to accept the reality of negotiation and compromises so as to give everyone a sense of belonging. This will invariably spur a sense of commitment to the nation.” After exhaustively situating the advocacy for restructuring in Nigeria in historical context right from the colonial intrusion through the first, second and aborted third republics, including the various military dispensations, to the present, Falana concludes that there now appears to be a reasonable consensus around the implementation of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference “as a way of addressing the lingering questions of Nigerian federalism”. This is against the background, which he notes, of the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s inexplicable reticence in taking any positive action on restructuring or federalism despite the provisions of the All Progressives Congress (APC) manifesto as well as the total neglect of the recommendations of the governor Nasir el-Rufai panel on modalties for giving effect to the party’s manifesto in this regard. Since the el-Rufai panel’s recommendations reportedly was submitted complete with draft bills to be forwarded for processing into law by the National Assembly to effect necessary constitutional changes to strengthen federal practice, is the fundamental problem then not that of lack of the leadership with the requisite will to act rather than any inherently irremediable defects in the 1999 constitution?