 Two Nigerian students –  Ebizi Eradiri and Ami Ugochukwu – have earned themselves honour for their exemplary conduct in their respective institutions. While Eradiri was rewarded for chastity she upheld throughout her stay at the Niger Delta University (NDU), Wilberforce Island, Bayelsa State, Ugochukwu was rewarded for making honesty his best policy at the Ignatius Ajuru University of Education in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Specifically, Eradiri, the first female First Class law graduate of NDU successfully rebuffed the sexual advances of some randy lecturers. According to her, “I was very conscious of my dressing, which enabled me to get the best dressed female student in the Faculty of Law, in the year l was graduating. I made sure I didn’t wear skimpy things that would expose sensitive parts of my body.” That, for her, was the starting point. She then gave some tips which may be useful for girl-students who face similar challenges: “…I would say it was prayer because there was a time when we had a borrowed course and a particular lecturer was trying to do something funny. “When I sensed it from that particular lecturer in the first semester, l called home and told them what was going on and we all prayed.” She did not stop there as she eventually had to escalate the matter to her head of department who, according to her, called and warned the lecturer. Eradiri added that the only ‘C’ she had in a course was probably the fallout of her refusal to yield to the sexual advances of a lecturer. We commend the Sele Eradiri Foundation and other non-governmental organisations for organising the homecoming reception, tagged ‘#Schoolnobescam’ in her honour on January 13, barely 48 hours after Governor Douye Diri had formally received the young lawyer from the Yenagoa Local Government Area of Bayelsa State, in company of her father, and announced the award of automatic scholarship for her master’s and doctorate degrees in any university at home or abroad. The governor also offered her automatic teaching employment at the law faculty of the state-owned NDU and crowned the honour by declaring her as the New Face of the Bayelsa Girl Child, to make her a role model for young girls in the state and the entire Ijaw nation to emulate. She deserved all of these because sexual harassment is rife in many of our institutions, with some of the female victims caving in when the pressure becomes unbearable. Perhaps one of the few things that worked in Eradiri’s favour is the fact that she is extremely brilliant as could be seen in her track record. And if anyone thought this was a fluke in the university, she repeated the feat at the Law School, where she also made a First Class. Secondly, she had a supportive head of department sympathetic to her cause. If all the things that worked in her favour had been otherwise, the story might have been different. And her destiny could have been truncated just for turning down the amorous requests of some unconscionable lecturers. Although the lecturers were not named, they should be ashamed of themselves. Equally worthy of note is home training which she not only displayed but also built on. We urge the authorities at all levels to continue beaming the searchlight on this sordid aspect of our higher institutions. In a region where even many male youths go about with this sense of entitlement (in a sense not an entirely unfair demand, though), that it is a question of what the government can do for them all the time, a youth like Eradiri is a jewel. It is gratifying she has been treated as such by her state government. Ugochukwu, a first year student of the Ajuru University of Education distinguished himself by returning a lost phone that he found at a restaurant on the campus which, unknown to him belonged to the director, ideas, creativity and innovation, of the institution, Dr Patience Spenser. The director was so impressed by his honesty that he introduced him to the vice-chancellor, Prof. Ozo-Mekuri Ndimele, who in turn decided to reward him. Ndimele said, “We want to pass a message to the public, especially our students, that it pays to be of good conduct; there is always a reward for hard work, integrity and sincerity; we just want to set an example and show them that if they behave well, they will be rewarded.” What makes Ugochukwu’s case particularly commendable is that he does not have a phone. For his honesty, Ugochukwu got a four-year comprehensive scholarship to look after his fees and other levies; some pocket money throughout his stay in the university, and a certificate of honour as the Best Behaved Student of the year 2019/2020 session. The exemplary conduct of these two Nigerian youths in a society of everything goes, and where people see nothing unusual in getting what they need with what they have, is commendable. With more youths displaying such conduct, there is hope of a cultural renaissance in the country.