 THE Southwest Zonal Coordinator of the United Nigerian Forum (UNF), an emerging group within the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Rasaq Muse, has called for positive change within the party to reposition it to retain power in 2023 and beyond. Muse, who made the remark during the inauguration of the group, which is also known as the Extended Western Alliance, in Oshodi/Isolo Local Government Area of Lagos recently, also insisted on power shift to the South in 2023 as agreed among the party’s founding fathers in 2014. He said the UNF is coming at this point in time because Nigerians are expecting so much from their elected leaders and getting so little. The objective of the UNF, he added, is to advocate for positive change within the APC through the advancement and promotion of democracy and accountability in the fold. He said: “We want the APC reorganized in such a manner to assure youths and professionals that they can achieve their aspirations through the party’s platform; to give communication within the party a bottom-to-top approach. This means that the sky is the limit for anybody aspiring for any elective or appointive position.” Muse, who is a chieftain of the APC in Lagos, said one of the principles the UNF is advocating for is internal democracy because it wants leaders that will enjoy the trust of the populace. He said hope, which was the pivot around which the 1993 presidential campaign of the late Moshood Abiola revolved, is yet to be restored in the youths, professionals, women and the generality of Nigerians. “That is why there is usually low turnout of voters during elections in recent times,” he added. The zonal coordinator said the group is also interested in selfless service, accountability and reduction in the cost of running the government at all levels. He said the restructuring will help to reduce the cost of running the government at all levels. He said the restructuring would not happen without the input of the National Assembly because it means changing the constitution. He added: “The powers to amend or change the constitution lies with the National Assembly. What the UNF is advocating is redistribution of powers in a manner to reduce its concentration at the centre and to increase the responsibilities of the federating units. “With this, there will be more development because they will have access and control over the resources in their domains. As a country, it is time we should put our differences aside and work together for the betterment of our people.” Muse said the recent “EndSARS” protests in the country is a wakeup call for the political class that all is not well with the way Nigeria is being governed. He, however, advised the youth to get more involved in partisan politics because the era of sitting on the fence is over. He said: “There is no point in sitting on the fence, grumbling. By coming on board, you will make your input and ensure that we have the kind of leadership that the country needs in our party.” He said the APC that is being reorganised, there would be a level-playing ground, “so anybody joining will see it as the best party to realise his or her aspirations in terms of elective and appointive positions”. The zonal coordinator said the UNF is embarking on membership drive for the APC to assist the Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee realise its objective. Muse said the UNF is already in existence in the North, the Southeast and the Southsouth. He said the inauguration that took place in Oshodi/Isolo is the first of its kind in the Southwest and that it will be replicated in the other five states in the region. At the highpoint of the inauguration, a young man from the area, Mayowa Alakija was appointed as its youth ambassador, to mobilise support for the UNF at the grassroots by carrying its message of hope and goodwill to the populace.