 Nigeria faces a formidable challenge in the fresh surge of the new coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, but many in the citizenry seem to be making too light of the emergency just yet. They discountenance safety precautions recommended by health and administrative authorities, while not a few individuals spurn non-pharmaceutical interventions advised to keep the pandemic at bay. Even government seems to be dallying on critical measures necessary to arrest the bourgeoning scourge. These suggest we are yet to come to grips with what is on hand and that is no way to beat the challenge at the earliest possible call. The country hit an unprecedented level of daily infection two days ago, recording 1,354 new confirmed cases reported from 21 states. That was against the backdrop of an average daily count of about 1,000 cases in recent weeks, with total confirmed cases now close to the 100,000 mark. National Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on the Novel Coronavirus Control, Dr. Sani Aliyu, articulated the gravity early this week when he reported that 33 people died of Covid-19 in the last week, while some 6,000 new cases were confirmed – far more than was ever previously recorded. Speaking on a television programme, he said: “Covid-19 exists; anybody who says Covid-19 does not exist is probably living in a completely different world…I’m sure most of those who have been following the numbers will realise that what we have now far exceeded what we had in June/July, last year. In week 52, which is the week we’ve just ended, we’ve seen a tripling in the weekly number of cases compared to what we had three weeks ago. The 6,000 cases per week are really huge. Our hospitals are already starting to get overloaded and we are already starting to feel the pressure within the healthcare system.” But you would find indications that the enormity of the challenge is not well appreciated across board in the manner some state governments ordered resumption of schools under their jurisdiction early this week. Contrary to a recommendation by the PTF that states hold off resumption of schools till 18th January in the first instance, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Sokoto state governments ordered schools to reopen last Monday, 04th January, while others like Oyo, Delta and Abia indicated they had no plans to readjust school resumption already scheduled for coming Monday, 11th January. Other states like Niger, Plateau, Lagos, Kaduna, Kano and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) however chose to be guided by the PTF’s advice. The seeming indiscretion of state governments in reopening schools amidst high tide of Covid-19 made doctors speak out against the action. Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) President, Prof. Innocent Ujah, had last week at a webinar by the Alliance on Surviving Covid-19 and Beyond cautioned against reopening schools now because of the second wave of the pandemic. Speaking in similar vein, NMA Secretary-General, Dr. Ekpe Philips, described as erroneous the belief that young ones have immunity to withstand the virus. “Granted that the younger population have a better immunity than the older population, but they should not take it for granted because there are still some children who have co-morbidities and their lives are important. There are children with hypertension and diabetes, who Covid-19 can take down. Also remember that the students do not just stay in schools on their own, they have teachers and workers who may also be exposed. So, it is important to exercise caution even in the reopening of schools,” he said. Also, National Association of Resident Doctors (NARD) President, Dr. Uyilawa Okhuaihesuyi, bemoaned the reopening of schools as rash, saying children were being released into hazardous uncertainty. And you really can’t blame the doctors for their objections: they are on the frontlines of the battle against Covid-19 and bear the brunt of the escalation directly. Indeed, many of them have paid the supreme price in line of duty. Besides, constitutional legalism is not everything. Even though education is on the concurrent list in the 1999 Federal Constitution (as amended), the exigency of collective safety should restrain state governments from political exercise of their powers just for the sake of it. Not that there seems to be a better appreciation of the Covid-19 challenge even among members of the public. The recent experience of New Year crossover under 12 midnight to 4 a.m. curfew order showed that many Nigerians yet perceive safety precautions prescribed by governing authorities as needless victimization rather than common sense rules to be abided by in enlightened self-interest. For the crossover, not a few worship centres spurned the prescribed curfew, while the safety protocols of social distancing and wearing of facemasks by individuals were scantly regarded by many worshippers. Even now, discordant tunes by leaderships of the diverse religious groups regarding encouraging compliance by their members with prescribed safety protocols showed we have not fully apprehended the challenge that the Covid-19 second wave poses. Truth is: the challenge is real, enormous and dangerous. Recent fatality count from the pandemic include: former University of Lagos Vice-Chancellor Prof. Oyewusi Ibidapo-Obe; and former National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) Director-General, Prof Habu Galadima among others. Ace comedian Ali Baba says he is only fortunate to be a survivor. Even government isn’t sufficiently decisive in tackling the pandemic aground. Given the ruinous impact of the previous lockdown on the economy, we understand why government holds off another lockdown. Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed voiced the reluctance a couple of days ago, saying the preferred route was for Nigerians to abide by prescribed safety protocols. PTF National Coordinator Aliyu, however, warned that nothing was foreclosed: “If you don’t want a lockdown, the only way is to make sure we use our facemasks, avoid mass gatherings, avoid people who have respiratory tract infections, sanitise our hands and follow those non-pharmaceutical interventions,” he said, adding: “The vaccines that we currently have are those non-pharmaceutical interventions…They (non-pharmaceutical interventions) may be inconvenient, but they will not be as difficult as a lockdown.” But we think there are other things on which government could be more decisive – for instance, banning flights from the United Kingdom, where a virulent strain of Covid-19 has been identified, as many other nations have done. Prevarication at a time like this is totally inappropriate and should be avoided.