 The  storming of the American Congress by the supporters of President Trump to overturn his electoral loss in the  2020  presidential election in my view   is similar  to the storming of the Bastille  that  heralded    the French Revolution of   1789. Again   I  see  it as  similar to the fight  that erupted in the   legislature   of   the former Western Region during the action Group  crisis of 1962  that  eventually led to military  intervention and  the Nigerian Civil War  much  later. In   this attack  on the US Congress the master mind  was the US president  who  felt the election was rigged and was ready  to go to any   length  to overturn it. But    he has failed woefully  in that regard because the legislators and senators did not flee and abandon their  mission  to  confirm  the winner of the election,  but returned bravely  to do what their president did not want them to do. How  the Americans take care of the actions  of their  government   and   president    consequently  is their cup  of tea. What  we are concerned about  the matter   today   are the issues  that led to this clear Mobocracy in an American political   system that  has always prided itself  on its political  maturity and stability and  good management of  issues and  its institutions in a unique  presidential system that  is based on  well stated norms of separation of powers. Obviously Nigeria and many nations of the world  have adopted and emulated the American separation of powers and the spectacle of the American executive   setting the legislature on fire literally after the judiciary  has turned a blind eye to the petition of the executive on what  the executive called a rigged election is the kernel of our  discussion. We  also  examine    the import of that for our own version of the presidential system that we have adopted  from the  US  hook  line and sinker in the Nigerian  political system. To  have a clear perspective of the revolution carried to the floor of the US Congress by  a violent  pro  Trump   mob,  one must  look at the issues in the campaign as well as the major  events that marked the one term of Donald Trump, the  45th US president. Calling  the  anti Trump   media   like CNN ,’  Fake  News, Black Lives Matter  protests, Police Brutality, appointment  of three conservative  judges to  the US Supreme Court , the Impeachment of the US president by the House of Representatives are issues  that hung over  the neck  of   the 2020 US presidential elections like a sword of Damocles. That sword  fell    tragically      for Trump  when  the pandemic struck  in an election year  to make a mess  of  his economic achievements in the last three  years. It    however,  unwittingly   provided good political  ammunition for the media and the Democrats to attack  Trump  and make in- mail  voting he inevitable  way to vote in a pandemic characterized  by  lockdowns  and the prevention of deaths by asking people not to come out to vote,  but to mail  such votes  This   was  a ploy Trump saw early  as his waterloo in the  election but  refused to accept  when he lost  as he has loudly  forecast  that  the election would be rigged on that  account. Let  us now look at  the issues in the campaign and  how they  turned up  in the election results .Trump’s  attitude on police brutality and contempt for the BLM affected his electoral  fortunes as it turned out that in the major swing states as well as the decisive   two senate  seats in Georgia, the massive turn out of black  voters especially with mail in voting put Joe Biden in power . However  the ease with which the   irate  mob  was able to penetrate and enter the Congress after the prodding of Trump could be attributed to the  police  looking the other way while their champion  tried to claim  power through  the back door. Again  Trump  childishly  believed the Supreme Court would be partial to him with  regard to election petitions  but  he learnt  a   hard  political  lesson that things don’t  work   that way.  And that   the  three  Supreme Court   Judges he  put  his power and reputation  on the line to get  confirmed in the senate, can look  the other way  and not even listen or look at his election petitions   as he fought  for  his political life  and reelection. In  addition calling CNN and other media giants fake   news  and trying  to pass laws  that limit the powers and clout  of  the Tech  giants like Face Book,  You   Tube, Google and Twitter meant  that Trump  had  bitten  more than  he can  chew in an election year and he had to face  the retaliatory strategies  of these tech  experts to black  out bad  news  about Biden during the campaigns  till the election was over and Biden had  become president elect. Let us now  look at our  own  presidential  system and the separation of powers  in  our  polity. Nigeria  right now is in the political situation that the US  will  be when Biden is sworn in as President and Kamala Harris becomes the  Vice  President in January   2021,   and  that  is a one party state in which the same party  controls  the legislature and executive. In  Nigeria  the  APC effectively  controls both the National Assembly and the executive arm of government and the PDP  can  just  make noise  from the outside. The two Georgia seats  that Democrats won   this week  makes them at par  at   50  senate   seats with the Republicans in the US   senate  with the Vice President having a  casting vote and that would be Kamala Harris  a Democrat .When  Senator Bukola  Saraki    defected  to the PDP in the last  senate the Buhari  Government  did  not have it easy. But  before  this,  Saraki  had stunned  the APC  his   party then ,  in the manner he became Senate President by teaming up with the PDP  to  be elected senate  president while his colleagues were waiting  to see the Nigerian president  who  nevertheless was the first  person  to  congratulate Saraki as the new senate president then. In  terms of the handling  of  the pandemic  which derailed the Trump  presidency  and made him lose  the election in November 2020 one  can say  the management of the pandemic has been on an even keel in Nigeria. We  have had less than 1500  deaths  so far but  I  read recently that the Federal Government is planning  to spend 2.4tn naira to vaccinate 165m Nigerians and  the SGF and Minister of Health are to  take the vaccine first. I  however ask  them  to make haste slowly  because some Nigerian experts  have said that Nigerians  seem  to have a herd immunity that  protects them against  the pandemic  naturally,  hence the low  number of deaths. Such  experts  have cautioned  against  the rush  to vaccinate Nigerians. I honestly ask our health management leaders  on this pandemic   not to commit suicide in broad  daylight  and with their eyes  wide  open. This  is because life  has no duplicate,  pandemic or no pandemic. Once again From the fury of this raging pandemic Good Lord Deliver Nigeria. 