 NO fewer than 10 persons have been killed by bandits in an attack on Janbako, a community in Maradun Local Government Area in Zamfara State. A source said a large number of the outlaws on motorcycles invaded the community 10.30 am yesterday shooting intermittently. Local vigilantes withstood the attackers, killing five of them, it was gathered. “Bandits shot and killed 10 innocent people during the attack while four people sustained gunshot wounds in the village,” the source said. Our source appealed to the state and federal governments to deploy more security personnel in the area. Police spokesman Muhammad Shehu could not comment on the development as his phones were switched off at the time of filing this report. In Niger State, 17 persons were abducted in attacks on three communities in the Bassa/Kukoki area of Shiroro Local Government Area. The attacks took place at different times on Saturday night in Madagwa, Wongo and Marenje communities, it was learnt. The Nation learnt that five people were abducted from Wongo and Marenje communities while about seven were abducted from Madagwa. The co-convener, Concerned Shiroro Youths, Sani Abubakar Yusuf Kokki confirmed the abduction, saying that the whereabouts of the victims were unknown yet. He described the abductions as disheartening and unfortunate, saying that it is unfair that the locals have been left to their fate. Catholic Priest of the Diocese of Minna, Reverend Father John Gbakaan Yaji has been killed by bandits in Niger State. It was learnt that the priest was kidnapped alongside his brother Friday night on Lambata-Lapai Road on his way home after a meeting in Lambata before he was killed by his abductors. His body was found on Sunday. The whereabouts of his brother are unknown. Police spokesman Abiodun Wasiu had no information the incident at press time, but a source at the diocese confirmed Rev Fr Yaji’s abduction and killing, adding that the clergy was tortured and strangled. The source said the kidnappers have also been demanding an unspecified amount of ransom for the release of the clergy’s brother. The state chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has called for concerted efforts to end banditry and killings in the state. Reverend Matthias Echioda, the state chair of the body, said, “These attacks are unfortunate and we should not base them as religion but we should all come together to put an end to banditry. And I know God who answers prayers will deliver us from the hands of the wicked.” Bandits at the weekend killed an 80-year-old woman, a ward head and three other persons in separate attacks on two villages of Chikun, as well as travellers in Giwa Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Three other persons were confirmed injured in an attack on the travellers in Giwa Local Government Area. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan who confirmed the incidents, said Governor Nasir El-Rufa’i implored security agencies to ensure diligent investigations into the disturbing incidents. 