 A few years ago, if a soothsayer had told HRM Nasiru Ado Bayero, he would today be Emir of Bichi, Kano State, he would have ignored it with a wave of the hand. He was just a principled man quietly impacting his immediate society, contributing his quota to uplift his people. When he was announced as the next Emir of Bichi, he saw it as a clarion call to further serve his people in a larger capacity. After the announcement by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje in March 2020, when his elder sibling HRM Aminu Ado Bayero was announced as the Emir of Kano, he was showered with love from his people. During his coronation, all and sundry stood by him in solidarity, pledging their full support to enable his reign is a success. After ascending the throne, he never disappointed his people. His popularity grew like wildfire. He attracted several developmental projects into the Emirate. With his exposure, most especially, as a communication graduate from the University of Maiduguri and later bagged a degree in the German language from the prestigious Harvard Business school, he never toyed with projecting his native culture at the slightest opportunity. He was always fitted in his colourful regal robe with several displays of royal splendour of the Bichi Emirate. He never failed to display his alluring and stylish rich cultural outfit and paraphernalia when he rode on a horse during the wedding of one of his daughters, Zainab, last week. The 9mobile Nigeria Chairman, in an elated mood, was a proud father as his look-alike daughter, Princess Zainab Umma Ado Bayero, tied the nuptial knot with her long-time heartthrob, Engineer Aminu Bature. The grand wedding ceremony which took place on Friday, January 7, was hosted for a week with a series of fun-filled events to spice it up. The event had a carnival, dinner/cocktail party, royal parade, and lots more. The couple both exchanged marital vows amidst a VIP audience and top Government functionaries. The wedding soiree also hosted popular pop artist JoeBoy who thrilled invited guests at a private reception party. Top dignitaries spotted at the wedding soiree were; Governor of Kano state; Abdullahi Ganduje and Governor of Niger State; Abubakar Sani Bello, Minister of Communication and Digital Economy Dr. Isa Alli Pantami, Chairman House of Representatives Committee on Works Engr. Abubakar Kabir Abubakar Bichi, Speaker Kano State House of Assembly Engr. Hamisu Ibrahim Chidari, Leader of Qadriyya Movement in West Africa Sheikh Qariballah Nasir Kabara, Imam Buhari, and several other religious scholars were there, same with serving and former commissioners, and other top government functionaries, among others.