 Rather than continue to wring their hands in frustration over the debilitating impact of the coronavirus pandemic, many countries have been taking practical steps to find a vaccine for the virus. Indeed, some countries have either begun testing vaccines made by them, even as others have been announcing dates to commence trial. The quest for solution is across board; that is the list includes both developed and developing countries. The United Kingdom began its vaccination drive with Pfizer’s vaccine on December 8, 2020. Vaccines have also been tested in Brazil, the United States and India. South Africa started the first COVID-19 vaccine trial in Africa. Iran too, on December 29, last year, joined the list of countries that have begun studying the safety and effectiveness of the coronavirus vaccine it claimed to have been developed in the country. It is cheery that, unlike in the past when it would take between five to 10 years to develop and test a vaccine before releasing it for public use, significant progress has been made with COVID-19 vaccine in less than one year of its emergence in Wuhan, China, in December 2019, as many COVID-19 vaccines already have emergency use authorisation (EUA). The vaccine roll-out is important because of the debilitating effects of COVID-19 globally. About 85.2m cases of COVID-19 has been recorded worldwide, with 47.9m recoveries and 1.85m deaths. In Nigeria, there had been 90,080 cases as at Jan. 3, 2021; out of which 75,044 recovered and 1,311 died. With several business shutdowns, some never to recover, to schools and markets, etc. under lock and key for months, in obedience to the rule of social distancing imposed by COVID-19, in turn forcing what has now become a new normal on humanity, the task of finding a vaccine has become imperative for medical practitioners and scientists generally. Indeed, the second wave of the pandemic is wreaking havoc in some European countries. Regrettably, our dear country is missing in action, in all of these. It is not even a question of wait and see because not much seems to be happening in the home front to inspire confidence that we are serious about being listed among the countries to be counted upon in the search for a cure for coronavirus. At the last count, the country was seeking appropriation for about N400bn to procure coronavirus vaccine. Yet, a few months back, some of our institutions claimed to have started making efforts at producing some of the tools involved in the prevention and cure of the disease. Some other institutions also announced that they had developed ventilators, hand-washing machines, face masks, etc. As a matter of fact, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) in March, last year, approved N100 billion loan to support the health authorities in ensuring that laboratories, researchers and innovators work with global scientists to patent and or produce vaccines and test kits in Nigeria to prepare for any major COVID-19 eventualities. Is there any follow-up to these initiatives which were applauded when they were made public? In a country with a not-too-impressive record of investment in research and development (R&D), the answer is obvious. Nigeria has to wake up to the reality that it does not have the resources to import as it might wish any longer, with the plunge in oil prices. It is therefore in the country’s interest to change from import dependency to local production. We would be doing ourselves a lot of good by keeping our eyes on local initiatives to contribute to global efforts at finding a lasting solution to the pandemic. It is not enough to announce generous aids packages in furtherance of the cause of coronavirus. We should ensure that the funds are disbursed and also monitor that they are used for desired purposes.