 Nigerians have been urged to explore growing job opportunities in the global blockchain market size  projected to  reach  $40 billion by 2025. African Lead, Global Women Blockchain Alliance, Mrs Modupe Ativie said increasing popularity of blockchain technology in retail and supply chain management are expected to drive the market. Ativie said the market for cryptocurrency is expanding rapidly as corporate users in the banking, financial services, and insurance (BFSI) sector and government offices are increasingly adopting cryptocurrencies. She said  the  demand for blockchain solutions is increasing due to the rising adoption of the blockchain technology by firms for strengthening their daily operations and increasing security. She said blockchain expertise is  one of the hottest in the job market. She  continued  that Blockchain development  is  a highly  marketable career path because people were eager to realise all its benefits. According to her, the demand for people with blockchain skills is high,due to its many fields of application, adding that the industry  was  looking to hire those who have the skills set to navigate the  new technology. She said her organisation is training blockchain developers  with the expertise to help firms explore blockchain platforms. As blockchain technology continues to evolve,  she  noted, so would its professional opportunities. Meanwhile, recession and automation are changing our future of work, but there are jobs coming, World Economic Forum  Report  has said. The report said  the  workforce is automating faster than expected, displacing 85 million jobs in next five years. The Future of Jobs 2020 report has found that COVID-19 has caused the labour market to change faster than expected. By 2025, the report said  automation and a new division of labour between humans and machines would disrupt 85 million jobs globally in medium and large businesses across 15 industries and 26 economies. As the economy and job markets evolve, the report  said  97 million new roles would emerge across the care economy, in fourth industrial revolution technology industries  such as  artificial intelligence, and in content creation fields. Now in its third edition, The Future of Jobs report maps the jobs and skills of the future, tracking the pace of change. 