 THE Chattered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS) has commenced moves to review its Code of Ethics and Standard of Professional Conduct to strengthen members’ professional practice, enhance their relationship with investors and restore confidence in the market. The institute has set up a committee to review the existing code of ethics which has been operational for 10 years . The committee members will also update the code of ethics in line with the  present realities in the global financial market. The committee is chaired by former president of CIS and leading investment banker, Mr. Ariyo Olushekun.  Mr. Jude Chiemeka is the vice chairman while Mr. Adedeji Ajadi, Chief Executive Officer and Registrar of CIS, is the secretary. Other members included Alhaji Isayku Tilde, Prof. Helen Andow,  Dr. Tayo Bello,  Mr. Mai Moustapha Muhammed  and Mr. Olasunkanmi Iranloye. President, Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers (CIS), Mr Olatunde Amolegbe, urged members of the committee to leverage  their education, experience and professional  approach to produce better and current ethical codes for the institute. According to him, the institute has  rules that guide the conduct of our members and their relationship with the clients. He explained that the committee would review the code of conducts and ethics in line with the Institute’s business which is solely guided by integrity. He said the committee has been asked to play a major role in the development of the capital market, noting that the outcome of the activities of the committee in particular will go a long way in restoring investors’ confidence in the market. He said stockbrokers need to be guided, especially in the aspects of the code of ethics and standard of operations because they will be judged by the ethical standard of their operations. “ We realise  that things are changing and new events are arising. This requires that some of these programmes are looked for necessary changes.  The present code of ethics was instituted about ten years ago. Our hope is that the committee will be able to bring those Codes to the 21st Century for us and our members to keep on with. 