By Bassey Anthony, Uyo Three persons were feared killed and four kidnapped in a renewed boundary between Usaka Uko community in Ikwuano Local government area of Abia State and neigbouring Nkari, Ini local government Area of Akwa Ibom State. The Nation learnt fresh fight broke out in the early hours of Friday when some suspected youths from Usaka Uko allegedly ambushed and attacked indigenes of Nkari, shot them and carted away their motorcycles. The two communities, it could be recalled clashed last August during which 11 persons were reportedly killed and many injured. One of the elders in Nkari, Major Tony Isenyeng (Rtd) told members of the Civil Liberties Organisation led by its chairman, Franklyn Isong, who visited the deserted community they have become helpless over the continuous blood- letting occasioned by the crisis. He called on the National boundary commission to hasten up in giving a clear demarcation of the boundary adding that security should be permanently mounted on the area to forestall further crisis. Narrating the incident, a former councillor in Nkari ward 4, Benjamin Christopher Akpan said: “Last Friday which was our market day, our attackers laid ambush and killed our people. “They killed my younger brother, even the other of my relative with her husband, we found their corpses this morning. I’m sure they both went to the early market “Four persons whom were said to have passed the road could not be found as I’m speaking with you now. May be they were abducted because we have not seen them. The issue is beyond our community, how can we be living in perpetual fear in our father’s land? “The only market we have that sells once in a week was attacked, we are not sure if the market will open this week and if it doesn’t how can we sustain our mothers and our children? We have become endangered species.” Akwa Ibom State Police Public Relations Officer, SP Odiko Macdon, confirmed the crisis saying normalcy has been returned to the area through the efforts of Police Commissioners in Abia and Akwa Ibom States. SP Odiko however noted that he would not confirm of any death as his men never saw corpse in the area. “I’m speaking from official channel. I can’t confirm any death because we didn’t see any dead body anywhere but there was a crisis at Nkari and the situation is calm now by the efforts of the Commissioner of police and stakeholders from both States,” The PPRO said.