The reigning club champions of Asia and Africa arrived in Qatar on Friday night ahead of the 17th edition of the FIFA Club World Cup™. It is a swift return to Doha for Korea Republic side Ulsan Hyundai FC, who won the AFC Champions League title on 19 December at Al Janoub Stadium after defeating Iranian club Persepolis 2-1 in the final. Egyptian giants Al Ahly SC, meanwhile, qualified for the tournament after winning the CAF Champions League for a record ninth time thanks to a 2-1 victory over Zamalek SC. On arrival in Doha, players and officials from both clubs underwent COVID-19 testing before departing for their designated hotel. They will remain in a medical bubble throughout the tournament in order to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Ulsan Hyundai FC and Al Ahly SC will enter the tournament at the second-round stage. Ulsan Hyundai FC will face CONCACAF Champions League winners Tigres UANL from Mexico on 4 February at Ahmad Bin Ali Stadium (kick-off 17:00) – one of two FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 venues being used during the tournament. Al Ahly, meanwhile, will face Qatari champions Al Duhail SC at Education lCity Stadium on 4 February (kick-off 20:30). The Tigers head into the match aiming to record a tenth win in a row in Qatar after landing the AFC Champions League crown. Victory would also secure a semi-final showdown with the CONMEBOL Libertadores champions. Brazilian clubs SE Palmeiras and Santos FC will contest the Copa Libertadores final on 30 January for the chance to join the tournament in Qatar. Al Ahly SC will face UEFA Champions League winners FC Bayern München in the semi-finals if they beat Al Duhail SC. After arriving in Qatar, Ulsan Hyundai FC head coach Hong Myung-bo said: “The players are pleased to be back in Qatar for the FIFA Club World Cup and are looking forward to training ahead of our match against Tigres. We are excited to take part in this global event and test ourselves against some of the best sides in the world. This is also a golden opportunity for the team to prepare for the K League season, which will kick off soon.” Al Ahly SC manager Pitso Mosimane said: “We are delighted to be in Qatar for this exciting tournament. There are many Al Ahly fans in Doha – and we are looking forward to having their support in our match against Al Duhail. This will be a great test for us as we aim to qualify for the semi-finals and a match against Bayern Munich.”