Hoodlums alleged to be ‘Hausa boys’ have reportedly stabbed two youths, including a brother of the late chief priest of Igbudu community in Warri South council area of Delta state. The Nation learnt that the incident occurred around 3pm, causing a scare among buyers and sellers at the popular Igbudu Market. According to a community source, one of the victims of the attack, Ufuoma Kelly, is an elder brother to the chief priest, Victor Alero, who was stabbed to death last October. The Nation had reported the chief priest was stabbed to death by his attackers believed to be “Hausa boys” for impregnating a Muslim lady. It was not clear what led to the renewed attack but the community source claimed it was unprovoked. Kelly and a colleague, identified simply as Okpako, were reportedly stabbed on their back by the ‘Hausa boys’ as they were going about the business of selling trading tickets to sellers in the market. “There was an attack yesterday from the Hausa boys again. People were in the market. Ufoma Kelly elder brother to the late chief priest that was murdered on Oct 1 was stabbed on his back. “Then one Okpako who is a community worker was also stabbed on the head and back close to his shoulder. “The thing is becoming alarming. Nobody can even tell what caused this attack. Even the soldiers that came were surprised. They were like, you people (Igbudu community) should leave this thing for us to handle. “Normally, in the morning, they go round. There are people assigned to collect money from the traders, so at the end of the day, people are paid to clean the place. “They went around to collect that money. In the course of collecting the money, these Hausa boys just came out and attacked them. It was like an ambush. “Being that these people were going about their normal business, they were not even armed. It was even the grace of God. Some of the market women started shouting and people came. That’s how they rushed the victims. He (Kelly) collapsed but he is stable now,” the source disclosed. When reached for comment, Esut Nupe of the area said he could not make comments on the phone, and requested a physical dialogue. Spokesperson for the Delta State Police Command, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, confirmed the attack but noted that the community refused to give up information on who was injured or who inflicted the injury. “The DPO said it was not even reported but once they heard there was a problem they had to go there. “They said it had to do with a union, those giving tickets. That somebody was injured, they refused to show them who was injured and who injured somebody,” Onovwakpoyeya said.