The medical representative and Director, Bentoluene International Health Concept, Ogunleye Toluwalope, has advised Nigerians to make frantic efforts at undergoing safe and effective genetics testing for families with heart and hereditary diseases. He spoke in at a Live Chat on Placenta Banking; All you need to know by Bentoluene International Health Concept, He said health care professionals were beginning to utilise genetic testing to diagnose inherited diseases with more confidence, allowing for more informed management plans and connecting their patients to the appropriate network of support. He noted investigating the hereditary roots of some cardiovascular diseases could help patients and their doctors make decisions, identify risks and manage treatment. Toluwalope stated that our genetic information is key to making some of the most important decisions in our lives. There are diseases that we can prevent, and our DNA can help us to identify them. “Prevention and early diagnosis can multiply success ratios by 5 to 10 times. Your genomics will tell you where you should focus. “By analysing your genetic map, we obtain essential information so that you can make the best decisions regarding your health and wellbeing,” he said. He asserted: “There is a lot of useful information in this genetic test, allowing you to prevent the transmission of several monogenic diseases to your future children. “Some of these diseases may be present in your genes and, even if you do not suffer them, they may develop in your children or grandchildren.” He added with the genetic map, “we can identify some of these diseases so that we can prevent them or you can enjoy the peace of mind of knowing that you do not carry those genes. “Your genetic map will also help your doctor to prescribe the most suitable drugs, because you will know which ones are best for you, based on your genetic predisposition.” He added:“ Disease like Diabetes, Cancer, Hypertension etc. Knowing your gene is crucial because your gene can’t change. The slightest negligence may lead to a severe genetic disorder in us. “The problem of genetic disorders is increasing due to lack of awareness regarding genetic disorder, preventative and genetic test which can screen them.” Toluwalope advised pregnant mothers to save their little one’s umbilical cord to a blood bank – and potentially save a life. He said umbilical cord tissue once discarded as waste material is now known to be a useful and one of the richest sources of stem cells. Cord blood and cord tissue has been used to treat children with certain blood, regenerative and developmental diseases since 1989. He explained Bentoluene International Health Concept is representing four International health companies that provide effective and safe facilities for the storage of biblical cord for 20 to 25 years, adding that cords are not stored in Nigeria. He said the cord tissue contains millions of a different type of stem cell that goes on to form a person’s nervous system, sensory organs, circulatory tissues, skin, bone, cartilage and more. ” It is these stem cells that we collect and preserve for their potential future or immediate use in the treatment of disease or other medical conditions like autism, stroke, cerebral palsy, among others,” he stated.