 At a book launch hosted by the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam el Rufai, the author of the book, the Special Advisor on Research and Documentation to the governor, Dr. Omano Edigheji, gave some startling revelations in a book titled “Nigeria: Democracy without Development. How to Fix it”, in relation to gender parity in the country’s political sector. Below are some of the author’s observations. “In the four administrations since May 1999 to May 2019, 93.81 per cent of senators have been male compared to 6.19 per cent female…Out of the 1,800 members of the House of Representatives in the period from May 1999 to May 2019, only 93 members (5.2 per cent) have been female, compared to 1,707 (94. 8 per cent) male…The only female to have emerged as Speaker of the House in July 2007, Patricia Etteh, was removed after barely five months in office…The declining trend of women representation continued in the 9th National Assembly that was inaugurated on June 11, 2019. Out of 109 senators, only seven were women. While of the 360 members of the House of Representatives sworn in, only 11 were women.” Dr. Edigheji went further: “All the 180 governors in the period between May 1999 and May 2019 in the Fourth Republic were males. In the same vein, 88.3 per cent of deputy governors have been male compared to 11.6 per cent (21) female…Out of the 2,850 members of the State Houses of Assembly since 1999, only 168 (5.89 per cent) have been female, compared to 2,682 (94.11 per cent) male.” The author added, “What these figures show is that democracy has not been inclusive – women are excluded from elective and other leadership positions…The same is true of the youths. It can therefore be argued that Nigerian democracy is exclusionary, leaving out women and youths. An electoral process that makes it impossible for women and youths to be elected is not a democracy.” We find these statistics about gender parity in both national and subnational political domains worrying. In another sub-Saharan country with a constitution made after a civil war in 2003, and with a vision to ensure fair gender representation in its parliament, Rwanda, has today 64 per cent of its parliament being female to 46 per cent of men, in contrast to Nigeria’s 11 female representatives out of a total of 360 parliamentarians. Should Nigeria’s gender parity in this respect be surprising? We believe it should not, realising that the most far-reaching women’s rights legislation, Gender and Equal Opportunities Bill 2016 was rejected by two religion-motivated senators; one Muslim and the other Christian, on the argument that the bill’s provision on right of wives and daughters to inherit property of their husbands and wives offend Islamic and Christian injunctions, respectively. Given that Nigeria ranks 114 out of 145 globally, and 21 out of 28 in sub-Sahara Africa in terms of gender parity in general illustrates how Nigeria needs to catch up with other countries that have seen the wisdom to share the power to organise and manage the human space which men and women inevitably share as co-owners, if both men and women are to realise their humanity to the fullest. It is contradictory for Nigeria, years after endorsing the Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), and all African protocols in respect of gender equality and equity to remain as one of the countries with the lowest rates of women parliamentarians in Africa. About 5.2 percent of the National Assembly is a far cry from the 35 per cent national target of women in elected positions prescribed in the National Gender Policy of 2006. Building a just state that allows every male and female citizen to realise his or her humanity to the fullest requires patriotic service from each citizen and requires political leaders to stop insisting on basing human and national progress on individuals’ religious sensibilities in a country with religions and cultures that are vastly diverse. Respect by all for gender justice and democracy has become an effective means to close gender disparities wherever they exist.  And Nigeria needs to get on this bandwagon of global progress.