  Scores of youths and women from Orumba South Local Government Area of Anambra State have benefited from the philanthropic gesture of Prince Onyendozi Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation. The youths, drawn from 15 communities of the council participated in the football tournament with Umunze community clinching the first prize of N500,000, after beating Enugwu Umuonyia community with three goals to none. The Umuonyia town which came second won the prize of N300,000, while Ogboji came third with the prize of N200,000. Other participating teams got consolation prizes of N40,000 each. Prince Engr Nnanyerugo Ike, Chief Executive Officer of the foundation ,said it was primarily established to touch lives and trigger development of the area. He disclosed that over 1000 persons have been empowered through the numerous interventions of the foundation in the areas of education, health, sports development, youths empowerment and skills acquisition, among others. He said: “During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Foundation launched an initiative which provided relief materials to many households in the area. We also undertook our 2020 medical outreach for the 15 communities of the LGA. “This outreach which we run in partnership with medical doctors, pharmacists, laboratory scientists and nurses, is aimed at addressing the numerous health challenges of our people. “We’ve also empowered over 200 indigent women and widows while over 40 persons from the area have been enrolled under the Anambra State Health Insurance Scheme (ASHIA), to enjoy free Medicare for a period of twelve months.” Inaugurating the foundation, member representing Orumba South in the State House of Assembly, Hon Emma Nwafor lauded the foundation’s vision, describing it as worth emulating. “What we are witnessing today is the kind of thing we want our people to do. This is a young man who is using his God-given wealth to touch lives. “He is not occupying any government position, yet he has done so much to impact lives. I am pleased to inaugurate this foundation and hope others will emulate him,” he said. The event which attracted dignitaries within and outside the state witnessed presentation of prizes to the winners of the football tournament as well as distribution of bags of rice to over 150 indigent women from the 15 communities of the area. 