 SOVEREIGN Trust Insurance Plc (STI) has continued to maintain a confident A-rating with the international rating agency, Global Credit Ratin (GCR) based in South Africa for over a decade. A statement by its Deputy General Manager, Sales & Corporate Communications, Olusegun Bankole stated that the agency’s recent solvency and operational report for financial institutions in Nigeria and other allied businesses released last December affirmed that the company has great potential for growth in the years ahead considering some of the strategies that have been put in place to propel its operations. According to him, Global Credit Rating noted that the company has shown a great deal of consistency in her claims paying obligations to her customers spread all over the country. The statement read: “The agency’s report further stated that the listing of the Rights Issue in 2019 helped in increasing the shareholders’ funds of the company by 33.8 per cent to N7.8 billion by the end of the financial year in 2019 as against the figure of N5.8 billion in 2018. Consequently, by the Third quarter of 2020, the shareholders’ funds had increased to N8.2 billion, which also translated to a 31 per cent increase in the same corresponding period of 2019 with a figure of N6.3 billion.  In the rating agency’s opinion, Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc is strong in liquidity with more than adequate claims coverage that compares well to industry averages. “The capital adequacy of the underwriting firm is considered strong according to the rating report and this is underpinned by the sizeable capital base catering for the quantum of insurance and market risks assumed. In this regard, the ratio of Shareholders’ funds to NEP, (Net Earned Premium) improved to 189.2 per cent in the Q3 of 2020 as against 130.9 per cent in the corresponding quarter of 2019. In terms of peer-to-peer performance comparison, STI did very well when compared with other selected insurers in terms of Capital, Total Assets, Gross Premium Income (GPI) and Net Premium Income (NPI). “The company has creatively been able to develop a good mix of its clientele base with personal lines contributing 42 per cent of its Gross Premium Income during the rating period. The introduction of the Enhanced Third-Party Motor Insurance Cover with the acronym E3P in 2019 complemented the efforts of management at driving retail business initiatives in the industry. Other new retail products are already in the pipeline and will soon be introduced to the market in a not-too-long distant time”. The report, according to Bankole, also stated that as a result of STI’s increased underwriting capacity and geographical diversification, the organisation has developed a sound business profile supported by a moderately strong competitive position and improved brand acceptance hinged on continuous marketing drive and a well-established Brokers’ relationship of diverse business mix. “As observed by the rating agency, insurance penetration remains very low in the country at an estimated ratio of 0.5 per cent for general insurance businesses. But STI has over the years demonstrated commitment to deepene penetration and optimally maintain a leading position in the insurance industry in Nigeria,” he added.