The Federal Government on Wednesday explained why it ordered massive registration of Nigerians for the National Identification Numbers (NIN). It said the exercise would accelerate economic planning and development. The government maintained that linking the National Identify Numbers with the SIM cards of telephone subscribers should not be seen as an end in itself, but a part of the nation’s development process. The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Ibrahim Isa Pantami stated this while speaking with newsmen at the Public Service Training Institute, Abuja, shortly after the presentation of certificates to participants of Digital Skill Training Programme organised by the ministry. Pantami said contrary to the assertion by some concerned citizens that the deadline period given for Nigerians to register and obtain their  National Identity Numbers was short, the ministry had issued the announcement and the original deadline 10 months ago. The Minister explained that the idea of speeding up the process was not just for citizens to acquire National Identity Numbers, but that the numbers are necessary for socio-economic development of the country. He advised all Nigerians to ensure they register accordingly to avoid unnecessary rush and difficulty during the exercise. Speaking at the presentation of the certificates to the participants of the training programme, Pantami said the government would continue to invest in digital skills acquisition in all sectors of the economy. Pantami said Digital skill acquisition which is an enabler of economic development and growth remained key to the programmes and objectives of the present administration and therefore called on the beneficiaries to justified the resources committed to the programme by being productive in their endeavours. He encouraged the participants to harness and utilise the knowledge acquired to develop innovative ideas that can surpass that of prominent individuals. The Managing Director of Galaxy Backbone Limited Prof. Abubakar Mohammed called for constant development and harnessing of the huge potentials in the digital sector.