Some persons were feared dead while several others sustained varying degrees of injury in a renewed crisis between Umueri and Aguleri communities in Anambra East Local Government Area of Anambra State. One building, four vehicles and two motorcycles were reportedly set ablaze in the crisis which has lasted for decades. The Nation gathered that the crisis may not be unconnected with land dispute between the two warring communities. Confirming the incident, Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, said no loss of lives and injuries have been reported. He said the Commissioner of Police, John Abang, has directed the State CID Awka to carry out discreet investigation to ascertain circumstances surrounding the incident in order to bring perpetrators to book. He said, “At about 7:15am today, there was a report of a crisis between Umueri and Aguleri Communities both in Anambra East LGA of Anambra State over a disputed area of land which both communities were laying claim to. “Following the distress, the Command quickly dispatched joint Police teams comprising PMF/RRS and other Conventional Units in collaboration with other Security agencies led by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of operations, DCP Salman Dogo, to the scene. “Situation was brought under control, while joint patrol is still ongoing to restore normalcy in the affected areas. “Meanwhile, no loss of lives and injuries has been reported. However, one building, four vehicles and two motorcycles were set ablaze by the warring factions. “The CP also warned both parties to maintain peace and explore all the legal avenues to resolve their grievances without resorting to violence. “He further assured both parties that he would contact the state government to intervene in the matter in order to find a lasting solution to the lingering problem.” Meanwhile, Governor Willie Obiano has announced the imposition of curfew on Aguleri, Umueri and Umuoba Anam towns, all in Anambra East Local Government Area of the state. Obiano, in a statement said the step was to stem the outbreak of communal violence reported in the three towns. “The curfew will last from 7pm to 7am daily, beginning on Saturday, 16th January, 2021. The curfew in the first instance will last for three days. Violators of the curfew would be prosecuted,” he said.