 Good books have a knack for developing “wings and flying out of a library”. So has one of my well prized books for more than 30 years. The real title as the author I cannot remember now. It is about the herbs often mentioned in the bible and their medicinal uses in those days. Modern scientific investigations have brought some of these herbs out of folklore dormain for use in clinical practice or as kitchen home remedies for ailment. My intention was to make the author of the book, whose name I have forgotten, lead us through another week of the Bible story of the life and times of the Lord Jesus on earth. Afterall, we were then in the season of Christmas. I remembered Dr Josh Axe, a versatile educator in Alternative Medicine, as another who can lead the way on this tour of the Bible historical medicinal herbs. He has 532,000 followers on Instagram, 637,200 on YouTube and 1.8 million Facebook followers Please listen to him … Dr. Axe > Nutrition > Herbs & Spices Evidence Based By Dr. Josh Axe : Top 14 Herbs of The Bible That Heal And Nourish. People have been using herbs for thousands of years for their culinary and medicinal benefits. I want to tell you about some of the most popular herbs of the Bible and what they were traditionally used for as well as how they are still used to this day. As the Bible states in Psalms 104:14, God provides us with “herbs for the service of man”. Hopefully, after reading this article, you can start incorporating some of these health-boosting Biblical herbs into your life daily.  Herbs of the Bible The aloe vera plant has been used for thousands of years. In ancient times, it was used to embalm the dead, as well as for perfume.  It also has a lengthy history of use topically for skin complaints (including wounds, irritations and burns) and internally for constipation. Today, aloe is still commonly used to treat burns (including sunburns), heal rashes and moisturise the skin.  Preliminary research has also shown that aloe may help to lower blood sugar in type 2 diabetics and decrease the effects of liver damage caused by alcohol. (1) All parts of the anise plant were used during Biblical times. The seeds, leaves and stem were used to cool high temperatures, as well as for other medicinal purposes. Today, anise can be used to help with digestion and can be used as an anti-flatulence agent. It’s also used with some success for breast-feeding support and parasites. As an antispasmodic, anise can be helpful for coughs, bronchitis and COPD. Anise is commonly taken by crushing the seeds into a tea. Balm or balsam in the Bible refers to an extremely fragrant resinous substance extracted from a plant. In Biblical times, balsam was considered extremely valuable. The balm or balsam of Gilead in the Bible was named for the region of Gilead where it was made and this balm was used medicinally. Today, it’s possible to find various herbal salves and oils inspired by this Biblical balm. Bitter herbs are a collective term used for things like horehound, tansy, horseradish, endive, parsley and coriander seeds. Bitter herbs were mostly used for food in the Bible. In fact, the people of Israel were commanded to have bitter herbs with their Passover lamb. Today, bitter herbs like gentian and wormwood are known for helping to prevent and relieve digestive complaints like dyspepsia. Experts theorise that bitter herbs are able to aid digestion through their ability to increase digestive secretions as well as blood circulation in the abdominal organs. Cassia oil was popularly used as anointing oil during Biblical times. Cassia has aromatic properties quite similar to cinnamon. Today, cassia is used in natural hair care, colouring and conditioning. The leaves are actually harvested, dried and ground into a powder used for the hair. Cinnamon, once considered more precious than gold, has some amazing medicinal benefits. The bark, where the oil comes from, was traditionally collected for anointing oil, as well as perfume. Today, cinnamon is used to help lower blood glucose levels. Due to its antifungal properties, it’s also employed in the natural treatment of yeast infections. It can also help to calm an upset stomach by relieving gas. The ancient Israelites took cumin seeds, dried them and used them to flavor their food. Today, research has shown that cumin seeds contain a substance called cuminaldehyde that may be useful in fighting diabetes. A study published in  2017 demonstrates that black cumin contains an anticancer phytochemical known as thymoquinone and thymoquinone may be considered as a future drug in cancer treatment. Most popularly known for incense, frankincense was used during ceremonial offerings and considered an article of luxury. Today, it can be used as an anti-inflammatory agent, analgesic, antidepressant, and sedative, in addition to being a powerful healing herb. Frankincense oil is also a great stress-reducer known to improve anxiety. Garlic has been used as both food and medicine in many cultures for thousands of years, dating back to when the Egyptian pyramids were built. Today, garlic is used to boost the immune system and help prevent heart disease. It is also  known to have helpful effects on hypertension and high cholesterol. Consuming garlic on a regular basis may help guard against cancer formation in the body. I highly recommend checking out my article 7 Raw Garlic Benefits for Reversing Disease if you want to know even more about the health benefits of this incredible medicinal herb. Hyssop is a sweet smelling plant from the mint family. It was used in many ceremonial rituals of the Israelites, as burning hyssop typically meant an inner cleansing. A research study published in 2003 demonstrates how hyssop may be “a useful food for hyperglycemia,” which is an abnormally high blood sugar level. (9) Hyssop is also known for being an expectorant and improving respiratory related problems such as asthma, coughs and bronchitis. (10) Hyssop can be found in tea and tincture form at most health stores. Warm hyssop tea or hyssop tintcure diluted in warm water can be used as a gargling liquid for sore throats. Mint has been used for thousands of years as a culinary herb and for medicinal purposes. Today, peppermint is still being used medicinally for its calming effects. It’s often used to improve some common health concerns like flatulence, diarrhoea, menstrual cramps, nausea and headaches. Some studies even point towards peppermint’s ability to help improve indigestion and irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). (11) One of Jesus’ most famous parables was about the mustard seed. This may be because mustard grew so abundantly in Palestine. Today, mustard seed has been studied for its possible anti-cancer properties. Specifically, mustard seed contains a compound called allyl isothiocyanate (AITC) and animal research has shown that AITC-rich mustard seed powder “strongly inhibits bladder cancer development and progression.” (12) Myrrh is mentioned over and over in the Bible. (13) In Biblical times, it was sold as a spice and as an ingredient of the anointing oil used in the Tabernacle, or as a salve for the purification of the dead. In the Roman world, it was considered a natural remedy for almost every human affliction from earaches to hemorrhoids. Today, myrrh oil is used for its anti-parasitic, antifungal and antibacterial benefits. Many people enjoying diffusing this Biblical oil into the air during prayer and meditation. The most expensive spice in the world today was also very dear during ancient times. Because of its distinct yellow colour, saffron was used not only for flavouring but to make ancient dyes as well. Ancient peoples used saffron to treat stomach upsets, bubonic plague and smallpox. Today, recent studies have indicated possible health benefits including cancer-inhibiting properties (specifically for breast cancer), antidepressant effects and promoting a feeling of fullness for mildly overweight individuals.  Final Thoughts As you can see, the Bible makes mention of so many valuable herbs. These are plants that can be used as food, medicine, tea, skin care, hair care, dental care and so much more. It really is incredible when you think about all the natural Bible herbs we can easily access and benefit from on an everyday basis. I hope you may find a way to incorporate these amazing Biblical herbs into your daily routine  Medical Disclaimer This content is for informational and educational purposes only. It is not intended to provide medical advice or to take the place of such advice or treatment from a personal physician. All readers/viewers of this content are advised to consult their doctors or qualified health professionals ron specific health questions. Neither Dr. Axe nor the publisher of this content takes responsibility for possible health consequences of any person or persons reading or following the information in this educational content. All viewers of this content, especially those taking prescription or over-the-counter medications, should consult their physicians before beginning any nutrition, supplement or lifestyle programme  Bible Food With Healing Properties Dr Axe is not only all about bible herbs. His also all about bible healing foods. Infact, the title above…..Bible Food With Healing Properties…..is the headline of another of his works in human nutrition which, he says, the Bible recommends. For want of space, these work of Dr Axe is abbreached. It is hoped that it would excite the readers interest to search for the entire article and read it … Dr Axe takes the floor again …  Top 10  Bible Foods with Healing Properties The Jews were the elite olive merchants of their day. During antiquity, this precious commodity was used for its healing capabilities, for cooking, to light lamps, for soaps, for cosmetics and even for currency. Olive oil was considered so sacred to ancient culture that it was even used to anoint kings and priests. Hence, the Hebrew for Messiah, Moshiach, meaning “anointed one!” Research has been conducted that proves regular consumption of olives and olive oil contributes to heart, brain, skin and joint health. They have even been linked to cancer and diabetes prevention.  Needless to say, this sacred foodstuff has lived up to its ancient reputation! Tasty, messy and just recently gaining ground in the American market these past few years, several research studies have shown that pomegranates contain strong anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-obesity and anti-tumor properties. According to researchers, “Many beneficial effects are related to the presence of ellagic acid, flavonoids, anthocyanins, and flavones, which seem to be its most therapeutically beneficial components.” Subsequently, pomegranates are being considered valid treatment options for chronic diseases such as cancer, insulin resistance, intestinal inflammation and obesity. I can’t make a list of top Bible foods without including grapes. Several epidemiological studies have shown that moderate alcohol intake, particularly drinking red wine, may lower the risk of cardiac mortality due to atherosclerosis. (9) The general recommendation is no more than one (five ounces) of red wine per day except for men under the age of 65 who may be able to have two drinks per day. When grape juice is fermented, natural anti-oxidant and flavonoid properties are exemplified through a substance called resveratrol. Consequently, researchers have focused much of their attention on evaluating the health benefits of resveratrol in recent years, which has been linked to chronic disease prevention and treatment including diabetes and obesity.