A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State, Prince John Mayaki, has said Governor Godwin Obaseki should not blame former APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, for another four years of failure. He chided Obaseki and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for ‘suffering delusionary obsession with Oshiomhole’ amid repeated calls for the governor to explain his alleged reckless borrowings. Mayaki was reacting to a statement by PDP Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, accusing him of acting as Oshiomhole’s mouthpiece for his criticism of the governor’s plan to obtain another N18 billion loan. He dismissed the attribution of his criticisms to Oshiomhole as a feeble attempt to distract people from the substance of the matter, saying he had not seen Oshiomhole since the September 19, 2020, governorship election. Mayaki said: “Obaseki and his party of tax-collectors must seek cure to their delusionary obsession with Comrade Oshiomhole. I have not seen Oshiomhole since last year’s election, and I cannot be said to be speaking his mind on any matter. “For four years, Obaseki sang the name ‘Oshiomhole’ like a broken record, and made it his default response to questions asked on his failure to pay salaries, build modern and durable infrastructure, and secure the lives and property of Edo people since his tragic emergence in 2016. He cannot do that again for another four years. “Rather than distract from the real issues with a needless focus on name-calling, it is important to re-establish the fact that Obaseki is mortgaging the future of Edo with reckless borrowings that lack mandatory legislative approval, as recommended by the constitution, and a transparent account of spending for independent checks and verification. “It is shocking that less than a month since the governor secretly obtained N25 billion loan, he has returned to the market to shop for another N18 billion, without providing an account of how he spent the N25 billion or a defence of the additional borrowing. This is a perversion of democracy and must be condemned.”