WE shall continue our review today on the emerging/current tax issues by focusing our discussion on Common Reporting Standard to guide corporate and individual taxpayers of the impacts on their businesses. The Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) Regulations 2019 In 2017, Nigeria became a signatory to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development’s Common Reporting Standard Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement On Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information.  In view of this, the Federal Inland Revenue Service published the Income Tax (Common Reporting Standard) Regulations 2019. Standard Common Reporting Standard is a set of rules for automatic exchange of financial account information between the tax authorities of countries that have opted to make such exchanges.  To be a party, a country must first sign the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement for the Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information (the MCAA). This is an international framework agreement which operationalises information exchange relations entered into by its member countries. Such relations may exist under bilateral or multilateral treaties. The Regulations provide guidance on how Reporting Financial Institutions should identify Reportable Accounts,  perform due diligence on the relevant financial information to be disclosed, outline compliance obligation, mode of compliance and specify penalties for non-compliance. Institutions These are the institutions like: (1) Depository Institutions e.g. commercial banks; (2) Custodial Institutions – i.e. businesses that hold financial assets such as equity and debt instruments and other similar financial investments for customers e.g. custodian banks/asset management companies and brokers. (3) Investment Entities i.e. businesses that trade in money markets, provide portfolio management or other investment services, or manage financial assets or cash on behalf of client e.g. asset/portfolio management companies and money market funds. (4) Specified Insurance Companies – i.e the insurance companies that are obligated to make payments under an insurance contract like life and composite insurance companies. The following institutions are classified as Non-Reporting Financial Institutions. (1) Government entities, central banks and international organisations and their pension funds; (2) Retirement funds such as Pension Fund Administrators that meet certain criteria; (3) Qualified Credit Card Issuers; (4) Collective investment vehicles that meet certain exclusion rules; (5) Trusts where any of the trustees is itself a Reporting Financial Institution that has reported all required information regarding the trust; (6) Other low-risk financial institutions as may be designated by the Revenue Service. Common Reporting Standard Obligations on Reporting Financial Institutions The Reporting Financial Institutions are obligated to perform due diligence to: (1) Identify Reportable Accounts – i.e accounts held by tax residents of any jurisdiction with which Nigeria has Common Reporting Standard exchange relationship; (2) Collect the financial accounts information mentioned above and thereafter; (3) Report the collected information to the Service not later than the 31st May of the year following the year to which the information relates. The required information to be submitted to FIRS under the arrangement are: (1) Name of the Reportable Person; (2) Address (3) Jurisdiction of Tax residence; (4) Date and place of birth (5) Account Number; (6)Tax Identification Number; (7) Income (including interest, dividends and other income) earned; (8) Account balance as at the reporting date; (9) Name and identification number of the financial institutions keeping the account; (10)        Any other information that may be required by the service.  Penalties for non-compliance (1) Where a person fails to comply with a duty or obligation imposed by the Regulations, the Service shall impose a penalty of N10million in the first instance and N1million  monthly in which the failure continues. (2) Where a Reporting Financial Institution fails to file an Information Return as and when required under these Regulations, the Service shall impose a penalty of N10million in the first month in which the failure occurs and N1million for each subsequent month in which the failure continues. (3) Where a person makes a false statement, false report or false declaration or gives any false information or omission in respect of any information required to be included on an Information Return, the Service shall impose an administrative penalty of N5million and such person may also be liable to penalties as prescribed in the Act. (4) Where a Financial Institution or a person fails to comply with the requirement of the Service in the exercise or performance of its powers or duties under the Regulations, the Service shall impose an administrative penalty of N1million in the first instance and N1million for each subsequent month in which the failure continues. (5) Where a Reporting Financial Institution fails to keep record as required by the Regulations, the Service shall impose an administrative penalty of N10million in the first month in which the failure occurs and N1millin for each subsequent month in with the failure continues. We shall continue with the other aspects of the emerging/current tax issues in the next publication. 