 OGUN State Government said on Monday that it had scaled up its preparedness to contain the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic with the setting up of an oxygen therapy centre, to avoid a situation of scarcity of the life-saving consumable. Health Commissioner Dr. Tomi Coker, who made this known in Abeokuta, said the oxygen therapy centre is at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Iberekodo, Abeokuta and has 20 beds of high dependency capacity. She said the state and nation were in the depth of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic, describing the new strain of it as being highly infectious. “The Olabisi Onabanjo University Teaching Hospital (OOUTH) Isolation Centre is at 90 per cent capacity right now, which means people have to take cognisance of being responsible for their own health. “Our positivity rate prior to December was roving around 0.7 – 0.8 per cent, but since December, particularly January, our positivity rate has gone up by about eight per cent, which means this second wave is real. Hence, we all have to pay attention and do the necessary things needed to protect ourselves. “We are more concerned as a state, but we are prepared. We have OOUTH, Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, Ikenne Isolation Centre all available. “Our Oxygen Therapy Centre in Iberekodo, Abeokuta will help to ensure that we do not run out of oxygen like some states are experiencing at the moment. We are responding appropriately to contain and curtail this second wave,” Coker said. The commissioner, however, said Ogun State has tested over 50,000 residents, which is the one per cent of its population as stipulated by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). “Ogun is one of the leading states in the number of tests carried out. We’ve actually hit one person of our population, which is the stipulated number prescribed by NCDC for all states. “We have tested over 50,000 residents of Ogun State given that our population is about 5.8million. We are now heading to two per cent. Out of the over 50,000 tested, we have about 2,500 positive,” she said. “We are responding appropriately to contain and curtail this second wave, but success of our response has to be a collaborative one between the government and the individuals,” the commissioner said.  