Jane Chris Ezetah is winner of a competitive contest by CEO of Vantage Migration, Dr Linda Iheme, which held in December 2020 for her social media followers. Vantage Migration is an international education consulting firm that specialises in helping people travel abroad through STUDY ROUTE majoring on graduate and post graduate students.  My name is Jane Amarachi Ezetah, I am popularly known as Jane Chris Ezetah on all my social media accounts. I was born into Mr and Mrs A.S Ogbonna’s family in the late 80’s. The 4th child of  seven children, I was born and raised in Lagos. I had my primary education in Lagos while my secondary school education was at Federal Government College, Odogbolu, Ogun state. After which I moved on to Imo state University where I had my tertiary education. Growing up was fun for me considering the fact that I was born at the downside of Lagos where children played with no restrictions. The most interesting part of my growing up was seeing my parents move from one level to the other. My parents had 6 of us in a room apartment. How we manage that small space till date is what I still can’t figure out. We moved from that one room to two rooms, to a 2bedroom flat, until my dad built his own house in Lagos. Life was not all that easy as my older siblings and I assisted my mom a lot by hawking some petty items from one street to the other. For my career, I really wanted to study law (international law and jurisprudence) for the name but God had a perfect plan. As a child I loved singing, writing and watching television. I remember always mimicking news casters and presenters in front of my mirror. I was very good at narrating movies from top to finish without mincing words. If you haven’t seen a movie before and I narrate it to you, you will not need to see it again as it will feel like you watched the real thing. Watching the Oprah Winfrey show on Silverbird television also made me start dreaming to become a radio and television presenter. When admission to study law wasn’t coming forth after attempting JAMB 4 times, I switched to mass communication but eventually my name came out on the list to study Theatre Art. When the admission to study theatre Art’s came initially, I was not proud at all. I felt so ashamed to tell people I was studying theatre arts because it wasn’t one of those big courses but today, I can boldly tell anyone about my course of study because I am gradually living my dreams. I heard about Vantage Migration through my eldest Brother in October. That Saturday afternoon, he sent me a screenshot of Dr Linda Iheme’s Facebook page and said GO CHECK HER OUT and follow all her social media handles. I reluctantly came back and told him I have. He said she helps people gain admission and scholarship abroad. But my Brother said to me there is more to the vantage migration page and Dr Linda Iheme and that was how I began to follow up till date. I follow her actively on Facebook and Instagram mostly. For more than 20 minutes after I was announced the winner of the Dubai trip, my hands and legs were shaking. Winning the Dubai trip came as a surprise to me because early last year, I was saying it like a joke that I must go to Dubai before the year ended and so when it happened, I knew God was fully involved in it. Yes and that is because I did everything possible to stand out in the video I made for the contest. Before I made my video, I had read about Vantage Migration and all that they do and most importantly what they stand for, and so I made a top-notch professional video. I also did not make the video and fold my arms; I began a massive campaign. For over 10 days or more I did not eat or sleep, I gave my best to win the price. It was not easy but it was worth it. It is an all-expense paid trip to Dubai. I also saw that the Vantage Migration Brand is a brand I will love to associate with No, it is my first time. I have heard people say, travelling abroad has a way of changing your mindset and approach to life generally so I’m looking forward to the change this brings. As a branding expert and a life coach, the travel experience will boost people’s trust for my brand too. It is both for me. It is a life changing opportunity and a stepping stone to more successes for me. As soon as I was announced the winner of the Dubai trip I saw beyond the travelling to Dubai. I told myself I will leverage on the opportunity to become a better version of myself. I confirmed this also when I had a conversation with Dr Linda Iheme, the C.E.O of Vantage Migration and Allied Consult. Her thoughts were mind blowing and beyond the trip. To the entire Vantage Migration team and the amiable Dr Linda Iheme, I want to say a very big thank you for this life changing opportunity. I do not take it for granted at all. May God bless the brand immensely and exceed Dr Linda Iheme’s expectations. I’m truly grateful. To the young and aspiring youths out there…I want you all to know your dreams are valid. Keep thriving! Keep upgrading! Keep learning! Keep making an effort. As soon it will all pay off.