Ekiti State Government has said efforts are in the pipeline to construct 1,000 housing units for civil servants in the state. Governor Kayode Fayemi who made this known in a state-wide broadcast to mark the New Year, said his government was committed to make life bearable for the workers. In the broadcast which was aired on all radio and television stations in the state,
Fayemi reiterated his administration’s commitment to ensure a safe, secure and prosperous Ekiti State in 2021 where all residents will feel better impact of governance in all the key sectors. He also pledged to deliver all ongoing projects that would add value to the economy and lives of the people of the state, adding that that his administration would not leave any abandoned project behind, in spite of limited resources. He urged the people of the state to approach 2021 with the determination to recover lost ground and restore lost hopes brought about by the challenges of 2020. The governor advised residents to abide by COVID-19 protocols to curb the rate of infection noting that his administration is better prepared to manage infected persons and curtail a further spread. He enjoined the residents to always be vigilant on what is going on in their vicinity and also cultivate the habit of volunteering information to their traditional rulers for onward transmission to relevant security agencies. He said: “COVID-19 is still very much with us and the dreaded second wave is already gaining ground. I urge you all to strictly observe the protocols and stay healthy. “Although COVID-19 is not a death sentence, we cannot afford to be complacent by discountenancing the risks involved. As a government, we are well-equipped to manage infected persons and curtail the spread and we are now in the throes of our preparation for vaccine procurement, but it is better not to be infected at all, as prevention is always better than cure. “I enjoin you all to make use of the available facilities provided by the government to check yourself, especially when you are exposed to an infected person(s). “Security of lives and property is our collective responsibility. The need to rid Ekiti State of crime and criminality cannot be overemphasised. The criminals and perpetrators of crime live among us, and must be fished out for us to have and enjoy our desired peace. “I therefore call on all and sundry to support all the existing security agencies, including Amotekun, with the right information on crime and criminality in your community or neighbourhood. “There is no rocket science that makes other countries safer than ours other than the fact that people out there are naturally their neighbours’ keepers. In those countries, a concerned neighbour will invite the police to check you up just by hearing strange voices from your house or noticing strange movement around your house. “I enjoin you all to feel free to feed the security agencies with the right information on how to make our dear State safer for all and sundry.
“I urge anyone with genuine information about crime and criminality that lack the confidence to personally approach the security agencies, to report to the nearest traditional ruler, who is empowered to take the case up with the security agencies without disclosing the identity of the informant. “We all have roles to play, and must play our part before Ekiti State can genuinely be free of crime and criminality.
“For us, it is not enough to be tough and uncompromising on bringing criminals to book however, we must also be hard on the root causes of crime – such as poverty, inequality and lack of opportunities.” The Governor pointed out that each of the policies, programmes and projects of his administration was carefully crafted with a view to making life better and more meaningful for the people urging them to be patient and not lose faith in the government. He said further: “We are making tremendous progress on all the legacy projects we embarked on. These legacy projects are the prerequisites for the envisioned future of Ekiti State, and we are poised to deliver in record time, as promised. “In a similar vein, we are working in partnership with Family Homes Fund to provide 1000 units of social housing for our workers at affordable prices and low interest mortgages. We are rolling the programme out in the first quarter of 2021. “From the foregoing, the year 2021 is going to be a very busy and exciting year with many life changing events. Political activities will intensify this year because of Local Government elections and the process of creating LCDAs. “The remaining half of my tenure is loaded with activities. Nevertheless, I assure you of my avowed commitment to complete and commission all the legacy projects we started, before the end of my tenure in October 2022,” he said.