The Chairman of Property World Africa Network (PWAN Group), Dr. Augustine Onwumere has said that his company was prepared to reduce the prevailing housing deficit in the country to the barest minimum. Dr Onwumere, who presides over more than 25 affiliates under the group, gave the assurance at the groundbreaking ceremony of Max Assets Phase 1, Epe, Lagos, the group’s newest exquisite estate powered by PWAN Max Business Concerns. The Group’s Chairman, however, added that his firm would work jointly with various governments and host communities to actualise the target. “We are going to partner with the government to get everything that we need here. We are already partnering with the community that sold the land to us, and we are not going to stop,” he said. Prior to the groundbreaking exercise, the Chairman said: “It is by God’s grace, mercy and love that we are here; because this is an opportunity to witness the birth of a new estate and the birth of a new opportunity. “What we are doing now has already been ordained by God; our own part is to fulfill the physical aspect. God has blessed the work on our hands that when you tell people about the plots you will sell. If you share the flyers or speak about the plots, people will answer and buy.” Max Assets Phase 1 is strategically located along Epe-Ikorodu Expressway, just a few minutes’ drive away from Lekki Free Trade Zone. It sits on exceedingly dry land and arable rolling planes. Part of the attraction the location holds for prospective investors is the glimpse it offers into the rich cultural values of the Epe people. Besides, Max Assets is considered the toast of property investors considering its high chances of a quick return on investment, cheap access to all parts of Lagos and easy passage for people travelling out of the state. Business Development Manager of PWAN Max, Franklin Nwaigwe, who also spoke at the event, explained: “We all know that Epe is one of the fastest developing locations in Lagos State, so we thought deeply about it that a lot of infrastructures is coming to this place. We also noted that with its serene environment, and rich cultural values, many people will come to stay here; looking at a whole lot of things and notable social amenities. 