The Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND) has chided the spokesman of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Emma Powerful for referring to it as a non-existent organisation. The IPOB image maker also dismissed the President, of the group, Prof. Madumere Chika, as faceless creation But the Igbo professionals’ group, insisted that it is not only a recognized and respectable body but its President is a well-known academic scholar with proven records, while it has its headquarters in Awka, Anambra State. It, therefore, challenged IPOB and its spokesman to a live press conference on the same date and time. The group in a statement, signed by its National President, Prof. Madumere Chika and National Secretary, Mazi Anayo Uchemba, said the claim by IPOB that it was not only a creation of the Department of State Service but also fake and non-existent, was laughable, saying IPOB’s action was diversionary. It asked the separatist group to leave the DSS out of its woes. According to the statement, CSEPNND, dismissed the demand of Emma Powerful for their identity and their villages, saying they would not hearken to that, “given what IPOB is known for”. The group noted that the intention of the proscribed organisation was aimed at harming its famous President, his family and community and won’t succumb to the request. It rather insisted that there was no human being bearing Emma Powerful anywhere in the world, challenging IPOB and its spokesman to a live press conference for identity revelation. “Our attention has been drawn to a watery, and uncoordinated response to our call on the Nigerian authorities to request the extradition of Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, from one inconsequential and pseudo-character-so-called Emma Powerful, the acclaimed spokesman for the proscribed terrorist group known as Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB which Mr Kanu leads. “In its response to our call for the repatriation of the IPOB fugitive leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, the terrorists’ image launder did not only refer to our group as being the creation of the Department of State Service (DSS)but also being a fake, non-existing one. “The pseudo-Emma Powerful, who has not been seen, sighted anywhere or known by an Igbo man, woman or any other person anywhere in the whole world, went further to deny the existence of our revered and famous president Prof. Madumere Chika, who is not only recognized nationally but also internationally,” the statement read. It added further that, “we hasten to state here that the IPOB’s response through the non-existing Emma Powerful is diversionary with intent to blackmail our highly treasured DSS and the Nigerian state from doing the needful on Mr. Kanu’s repatriation. “Ordinarily, we would not have dignified the acclaimed spokesman of the proscribed terrorist’ group with the further response so as not to accord him and IPOB any form of legitimacy in the eyes of the reading public but for the purpose of some innocent readers who may fall to Emma Powerful’s concocted lies. “For the knowledge of IPOB and the miscreants that throng its fold as members, we wish to inform them that we are a legitimate and independent non-violent group of Igbo professionals with our head office in Awka, in Anambra State, Nigeria.” “We are duly incorporated with all the relevant bodies in Nigeria and have been operating since 2014. “It is laughable for Emma Powerful, the terrorist group’s spokesman, whose real identity is in big question, to claim to know all the associations of Igbo extraction in Nigeria and diaspora as if IPOB is a Corporate Affairs Commission of Nigeria, which have the constitutional responsibility of registering all associations in the country. “We wonder if all associations in Igboland come to IPOB for incorporation for Emma Powerful to have knowledge of all groups from the South East. “We are not surprised of their claims as we have noticed over time that it is the style of the proscribed IPOB to question the credibility or otherwise of anyone or group that speaks truth against them.” “However, we wish to put on record that we are not a creation of DSS and cannot be. Rather, we are a creation of one Nigeria and good conscience. Also, we are a creation of Igbos who have paid their full dues in Nigeria and are pushing for better deals for their people. “Apart from terrorism, kidnapping, extortion, armed robbery and the likes, what value has IPOB brought to the table in the South East? “We challenge Nnamdi Kanu and Emma Powerful to address a live press conference in Nigeria. Since they claim we are nonexistent, we challenge them to a live press conference on the same date with us. “We are aware of their demands for identity of village and family of our president, Prof. Madumere Chika. We are not unaware of these demands- the intention of the so-called Emma Powerful and his proscribed terrorist group is to attack our president and his family, and not because they are in doubt of his identity as they claimed in their response to our statement.” According to the group,” Prof. Madumere is a renowned scholar with several academic records which are verifiable to his name and Nnamdi Kanu knows this.” “We will continue to do everything possible to prove that Prof. is legitimate but we will not disclose his identity for security reasons “Our group must not support terrorism and criminality before we are considered real in the sight of IPOB. “We challenge Nnamdi Kanu and the so-called Emma Powerful to publish all the names of the Igbo professors in Nigeria since they claimed no professor exists like Madumere. “For us in this group, we will continue to preach one Nigeria where peace and justice shall reign,” it further said. “We are very much aware that the Nigerian state has not been fair to us in terms of power-sharing,” adding “But we will continue to make our demands for it through only constitutional means”. The group also reiterated its position that Nnamdi Kanu be immediately extradited to Nigeria to face his trial over alleged treason, “let it be clear again, that we denounce Nnamdi Kanu and his terrorist group. Kanu and his bunch of misinformed youths cannot speak for or lead the Igbo nation. We reiterate our demand for the repatriation of Nnamdi Kanu to Nigeria to face his criminal trial.”