With proven reserves of about 200.79 trillion cubic feet (tcf) as of January 1, 2019, and an additional upside of 600 tcf ranking Nigeria as the ninth in the world, domestic gas expansion and utilisation are imperative. Experts have long recognised this need, especially considering that several countries with smaller reserves are already major players in the international gas market. As part of the country’s resolve to join them, as well as to lay a solid framework for gas infrastructure expansion within the domestic market, the Nigerian Gas Master Plan was approved on February 13, 2008. The master-plan is a guide for the commercial exploitation and management of Nigeria’s gas sector. It aims at growing the economy with gas by pursuing three key strategies: Stimulate the multiplier effect of gas in the domestic economy; position Nigeria competitively in high-value export markets, and guarantee the long-term energy security of Nigeria. In furtherance of this objective, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources declared 2020 as a year of gas. The federal government then inaugurated the Nigeria Gas Transportation Network Code to deepen the growth of the gas market in the country. The Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, disclosed this on August 10, 2020, at the virtual launch of The Go-Live of the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code, in Abuja. He said the Buhari administration was driving key policy and regulatory initiatives that would enhance gas reserves growth to support domestic and export projects. The other focus, he explained, was to expand domestic gas supply and address the perennial challenges of gas flaring, with its attendant waste and environmental impact. Stakeholders had long recognised that the new gas code was long overdue. A lack of transparency in the industry had led to unfair and often discriminatory access to gas transportation networks and deterred investments. The absence of this framework hindered local gas use. The natural gas reserves volume of the operated deep-water acreages in Nigeria is about 21 per cent of the country’s total reserves of liquid hydrocarbons according to the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). Yet the acreages accounted for about 36.08 per cent of Nigeria’s total production in 2018. The absence of a uniform code for gas transport hindered investments. The government in recognition of the potential of natural gas put in place various interventions to stimulate gas utilisation and monetisation. The reforms were initiated to re-position the gas sector and deliver on the government’s key aspirations. Sylva explained that the aggregate impact of the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code hangs on three anchor programmes on gas, namely the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code (NGTNC), National Gas Expansion Programme (NGEP) and Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialisation Programme (NGFCP). This, he said, would help the sector achieve the presidential mandate of gas penetration, gas-based industrialisation, and economic diversification. It would also, according to him, unleash the potential of accelerated growth and economic development. The code, together with related interventions would enable the improved gas supply to power, growth of gas-based industries, domestic LNG, LPG, and CNG penetration, as well as enhance revenue to the government and create investment opportunities for Nigeria. Other countries too have realised the need for a master plan. Our next-door neighbour Ghana, for instance, approved its Gas Master Plan (GMP) in 2016 and, like Nigeria, is expected to be reaping the benefits. To make the Gas Master Plan run smoothly, the Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR, developed the Network Code Electronic Licensing and Administrative System (NCELAS), which is being used by the regulator to receive, process, and issue all applicable licenses to all network players as well as administer all regulatory roles required to ensure the optimal market impact. The benefits of NCELAS, according to the minister, are many. He is right because the NCELAS is a secured online environment that provides optimum value for stakeholders operating under the world-class network code. With the execution of the network code framework agreement, the regime of gas transportation is now firmly established in the country for the benefit of all stakeholders. From February 10, the Nigerian Gas Transportation Network Code shall apply to all gas transportation arrangements between gas transporters and gas shippers as defined in the Code. The transporter and all existing users of the transportation network are expected to migrate from existing Gas Transportation Agreements to the Network Code by executing the necessary Ancillary Agreements. All new and intending users shall make use of the network based on the terms and conditions provided in the Network Code. The Network Code remains the uniform protocol for users of the Gas Transportation Network and can only be modified in accordance with relevant provisions therein, the ancillary agreements are negotiated by the relevant parties. It is expected that gas and its derivatives, as envisaged in the National Gas Policy, will catalyse Nigeria’s economic growth. This, of course, will give rise to a need for gas transportation infrastructure to be put in place for the sector to develop. According to Sylva, the Code has great potential to stimulate the domestic gas market, drive gas-based industrialisation and the realisation of the government’s aspiration to move 100 million Nigerians out of poverty. Its in-built modification mechanisms make the Network Code dynamic and subject to periodic review to suit the dynamics of the industry. The project has, unsurprisingly, excited stakeholders. Reacting during the launch, the Group Managing to Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Malam Mele Kyari said the code was an opportunity to widen the income source of gas in Nigeria. He noted that the development was the beginning of progress in the gas sector. The DPR Director, Sarki Auwalu, also noted that the gas code will address gas flaring, grow infrastructure and expand utilisation of gas in the country. It would, he added, help to achieve the mandate of the year of gas as declared by Sylva, adding that the portal for licensing will ensure enterprise structure and will serve as a one-stop-shop for network administration. Deregulation of the downstream sector had exposed many to price volatilities in the global market, raising the need for a more affordable alternative for energy. Thus, the roll-out of the National Gas Expansion Programme, the auto-gas initiative came at the right time, especially in light of global crude oil market fluctuations coupled with the full deregulation of the local PMS market. The federal government did right by focusing on gas as an alternative fuel to move Nigeria from the conventional dependence on white products for autos and prime-movers of industrial applications, to cleaner, more available, accessible, and affordable energy source. As President Buhari noted, the outcome will not only cushion the effect of the downstream deregulation that the government has to painfully implement, but also create new markets and enormous job opportunities for our people. The auto-gas initiative will lead to increased domestic gas utilisation and enrich the trajectory of national economic growth and development. In summary, the Ministry of Petroleum Resources deserves commendation for the National Gas Expansion Programme. If all goes as planned – and there is no reason it should not – the programme will boost the utilisation of gas in the short and medium-term, create millions of jobs per annum, promote skills acquisition and enhance technology transfer in addition to growing the nation’s GDP.