 It’s not news that over a hundred Nollywood stars began their career in films and movies that have the Yoruba language as the major language of the film. While many have gained fame and fortune owing to their claim to fame, others have strived to break barriers and touch the sky. These sets of actors strive to break barriers to act alongside their counterparts, who became popular features in films and movies that have the English language as the language of communication. Over a decade back, the collaboration among actors, who became popular with films rendered in the indigenous language and their counterparts, who became famous in films rendered in English was very feebly and uncommon. This created bad blood in some Nollywood corners and an inferiority complex in others. However, some movie stars, who knew their onions dared to make an impact on both films rendered in indigenous languages and English language. The list of movie stars, who have gone ahead to shine in films and movies with the English Language as the major language, continues to grow From Funke Akindele-Bello to Jide Kosoko, Eniola Badmus, Toyin Abraham, and recently Odunlade Adekola and Lateef Adedimeji. Adedimeji – at one time – had been likened to Odunlade Adekola given his height, eyeballs, and convincing abilities to draw the audience in and leave them spellbound for 90 minutes or more. Nonetheless, the 35-year-old Aquarius has been able to distinguish himself by hardly giving in to excesses and displaying brilliance at what he does in every film. He continually gives stellar performances that not only come naturally commensurate with his body language and leaves the director blown away. With all these traits, the actor and producer have successfully broken the barrier to join the likes of Funke Akindele-Bello, Toyin Abraham, Ronke Ojo, and others in making waves as a complete actor, who can feature in any film – irrespective of the language, medium of reach, director or cast. Season journalist and Deputy Political Editor of ThisDay Newspaper, Wale Olaleye described Adedimeji as an art, which is yet to start unfurling its full potential. Olaleye went further to talk about Adedimeji’s skills at interpreting roles and characters, saying he’s never been found wanting. He concluded by saying the actor’s capacity to apply moderation and in other instances, elevate his interpretation of roles, often within defined spaces, is astral. Recently, he was tasked with the responsibility of delivering on playing Ayinla Omowura, one of Yoruba’s greatest musical acts of the Apala genre from Abeokuta in Ogun State, by Tunde Kelani and Jadesola Osiberu. With the actor being the cynosure of all attention on the movie, it is widely believed that Adedimeji is sure to do justice to the enigmatic character. From ‘Kudi Klepto,’ to ‘Code Wilo’ to ‘Bipolar’, ‘The New Patriots,’ ‘Veil,’ ‘Prophetess,’ and ‘Ayinla,’ Adedimeji continues to wow the audiences and set the pace for a new breed of Yoruba actors. If interpreting movie roles is viewed to be Adedimeji’s forte in the world of entertainment, the actor has set plans in motion to change the notion. The dazzling actor has begun unfurling his tones and tunes side. Towards the end of 2019, the gangling actor revealed his singing abilities, and not only did he show fans and the audience what he’s capable of, but he also went ahead to record songs ahead of the release of his EP. To display his dexterity at singing and making music, Adedimeji released over five songs ahead of his upcoming EP scheduled for release sometime in 2021. In his kitty is songs that include ‘Timbadele,’ ‘Ya Rosululah,’ ‘Adura,’ ‘Ori Mi,’ ‘Stand by me Lateef,’ and ‘Together.’ In five years, Adedimeji has shown that he’s artfully gifted and totally committed to his craft. He has grown over the years, continues to give stellar performances, and refuses to settle for less at every given opportunity to interpret roles.