The Defence Headquarters (DHQ), has assured that identities of persons volunteering information that will aid troops in the ongoing operations of utmost confidentiality. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General. John Enenche, gave the assurance, Thursday, at the weekly briefing in Abuja. According to Enenche, “on who gives us information, we recieve limited extent in the North Central, large extent in the North West, and may be averagely in the South South and South West operations”. He added further that, “in the South West, we used to get good information, particularly regarding economic saboteurs and that is why you can see that it has reduced and not one day was any of our informants attacked “So we want to reassure the general public that the status quo will continue to be maintained, we will never give out any body name or identity that gives us information. “That is why I don’t come on air in the media, to tell us in clear terms what we did recently, particularly in the rescue of the kankara boys and it has to remain top secret if possible to eternity”. Speaking on the negative use of fertilizer, in the face of worsening insecurity, Enenche noted to his: On fertiliser, I did say that fertiliser is controlled from the office of the National Security Adviser. “Even state government purchased with approvals and give to farmers cooperatives, then they distribute it . So, there is a record on who is supposed to have fertiliser and who is not. “And thats why I say if they see anybody or a group of people who did not get from the various state governments or various agricultural cooperatives let them report it. “And, if we have moles among them we can see trace them to where they will use it, to their farm, its not to intimidate or harass farmers. The assurance that we have for the general public and farmers is that their fertiliser and source arr documented.” Meanwhile, the DHQ has disclosed that the security “threat in the South is not same as the one we have in the North; but we have 9 operations in the South and the public is assured on Security”. On efforts of Operation Delta Safe in the South, the two-star General noted that troops intercepted at least 1,184 25kg bags of Yaraliva Nitrabor Fertilizer. The DHQ said the that gun boats of Forward Operating Base Ibaka achieved the feat while on routine patrol around Effiat waterways. It said “contraband” was suspected to have been smuggled in from the Republic of Cameroon. “Forward Operating Base IBAKA gunboats while on routine patrol around MBO River intercepted and arrested a medium size wooden boat laden with 17 drums of 300 litres of products suspected to be PMS with two suspects. “Furthermore, on 11 January 21, acting on credible intelligence, Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA in conjunction with Forward Operating Base ESCRAVOS conducted anti-Crude Oil Theft operation around the general area of Warri South Local Government Area. “During the operations, the team discovered one large wooden boat laden with about 215,000 litres of product suspected to be stolen crude oil along Jones Creek, Warri South West Local Government Area. Accordingly, the boat and product were handled appropriately”, the military said. On other ongoing operations, the DHQ said:”Troops of operation Safe Haven apprehended 4 suspected cultists at UV Martins Street in Jos North LGA of Plateau State. “The suspects, messrs Alfred Song, George Musada, Armani Daniel and Kefas Rotgi were arrested on the heels of credible intelligence on their activities in the area. One locally made pistol and 4 cartridges were recovered from the suspects. “Furthermore, on 11 January 2021, troops of operation SAFE HAVEN recovered 59 rustled cows from rustlers at Kuru Jenta close to Science School Kuru in Barkin Ladi LGA of Plateau State. The cattle were handed over to their respective owners,” he concluded.