 Leadership in the 21st Century has evolved. Nevertheless, transformational leadership involves  leaders inspiring, motivating, encouraging  innovation and creating changes that help grow and shape the future of an organisation or institution. This implies that a leader works with teams to identify needed change, creating a vision to guide the change through inspiration and motivation, and consciously executing the change in tandem with committed stakeholders in an organisation to achieve remarkable results. Over the last decade, researchers have focused and increasingly insisted on transformational leadership as being an effective leadership model and strategy to implement within organisations, especially public sector institutions. Instead of administrators who continue to move organisations along historical tracks (better referred to as transactional leadership), the transformational leader motivates and redirects the institution along new, perhaps novel, tracks. Of the multitudinous characteristics of a transformational leader, the fostering of an ethical work environment with clear values, priorities and standards, and the encouragement and motivation of stakeholders to actively play their roles in the actualisation of the selected priorities stand out most conspicuously. What is required of this kind of leader is an outstanding ability to help the institution develop a vision and strategy of what it takes to transform the institution, to accept and work towards achieving the new vision and then to consciously institutionalise the changes – which must last over a considerable period of time. In the 21st century, there are paradigms that indicate the presence or absence of transformational leadership. These include individualised consideration (the leader pays attention to the particular needs of those concerned), inspirational motivation (the leader articulates an appealing vision that inspires and motivates stakeholders to perform beyond expectation), intellectual stimulation (the leader challenges assumptions, takes calculated risks, tries new approaches and develops innovative ways of dealing with institutional issues) and, finally, idealised influence (the leader acts as a role model and insists on high standards of work and behaviour. In this regard, the Federal Polytechnic, Ukana, Akwa Ibom State, established about seven years ago, is replete with identifiable elements of transformational leadership in the 21st Century, thanks to the outstanding brilliance, leadership and focus of Dr Uduak Sunday Ukekpe, who has been at the helm of affairs at the polytechnic as Rector in the last two years. To the first time visitor to the school, there is an  atmosphere of high motivation and a desire to stand out, as can be noticed on the faces and mien of the staff and students. To those in the polytechnic system, especially staff and students, there are clear values, priorities and standards for everything. This has motivated this feature which seeks to focus the spotlight on this citadel of learning that had attracted widespread criticism, uncertainty and accusations of misplaced priority and mismanagement in the past. The success of an institution, however, depends on the leadership style and the quality of leader at the helm.