The All Progressives Congress (APC) is targeting 60 million members. The party has released a registration timetable for the first phase of its registration process, which will run from February 2 to February 16. It will inaugurate membership committees between today and Wednesday; distribute materials between Thursday and Monday before kicking off the registration from February 2. It was learnt that the party is working towards a four-fold membership increase to put it in good stead for 2023 general elections. It was learnt that the Caretaker /Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee has plans to make APC membership inclusive. The leadership said with solid and functional membership, the APC will have a “predictable voting strength before canvassing for votes from Nigerians.” A source, who spoke in confidence, said: “The Chairman of the APC Caretaker /Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni on January 20 gave the National Committee for Membership/Revalidation Exercise a mandate to quadruple our roll. “As at February 10, 2014, APC had registered more than 15million members. The rush for enrolment forced the then National Working Committee to extend the registration by two days. “Assuming we work with the 15million roll, we will achieve over 60million members if we meet the four-fold target set by Buni. So, our target is over 60 million members at least. “The new membership structure is such that it will be participatory with a sense of belonging for all. We want active members who will genuinely love and vote for their party (APC) during elections. “In preparation for the 2023 poll, we will not condone passive members. We will use our membership strength as a voting strength like in other climes. “When our members are serious and with APC’s robust plans for Nigerians, it will be easier to sell our candidates to the more than 84million voters.” Another party source said: “At the end of the exercise, we will come out with a party in which all members will have equal say and equal rights. “This time around, if you are in APC, it must be with full commitment and participation. This was obtainable in the defunct NPC, AG, NCNC, National Party of Nigeria (NPN), the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) and the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP).” Inaugurating the Membership/Revalidation Committee, Buni said: “As you are aware, the party had not had the opportunity of renewing its membership register since the initial registration exercise of 2014.  The party had in the last seven years received millions of politicians who left other political parties and joined the APC but were not registered. “Similarly, millions of youth who attained the age of 18 years and above have joined the party within this period and could not be registered.  Again, others who had left the party still have their names in the register. “The registration and revalidation exercise therefore provides the opportunity for both new and old members to register and update their membership in the party, and for the party to expunge names of those who had left so as to have a clean and up to date membership register. “Therefore, this committee holds the key to ensuring a successful membership registration and revalidation exercise across the country. I wish to reiterate that so much is expected from this very important committee.”