 Striker Bukayo Saka was on fire on Tuesday night, scoring a wonderful goal, as  Arsenal continued their brilliant Premier League, beating Southampton 3-1 Stuart Armstrong put Southampton ahead from a wonderful delivery by captain James Ward-Prowse. But the lead did not last long, as Nicolas Pepe equalising with a neat finish, before both sides created clear chances. Former Saints defender Cedric Soares volleyed narrowly wide at one end while Bernd Leno produced a flying save to keep out a header by Che Adams at the other. England winger Saka put the Gunners ahead after going past keeper Alex McCarthy, who had come rushing out of his penalty area, before the 19-year-old picked out Lacazette to seal the points. At The Hawthorns, West Brom fell flat to Manchester City, as the citizens whip them 5-0 to climb to the top of the Premier League. Ilkay Gundogan continued his inspired run in front of goal with two excellent strikes, Joao Cancelo scored while an offside flag was raised and several players seemed to stop, and Riyad Mahrez powered in a fourth before the break. Raheem Sterling sealed the game for Manchester City who climb to the top of the table for the first time this season. In Italy, Inter Milan beat AC Milan 2-1 in a Coppa Italia match that saw Zlatan Ibrahimovic sent off after receiving two yellow cards, the first, following a heated fight with Inter Milan striker, Romelu Lukaku. Ibrahimovic’s fired in the lead in the 31st minute to give Milan the lead, his eighth goal in seven appearances for Milan against Inter in all competitions. Then he got into the brawl against Lukaku, and got his second yellow card after for a trip on Aleksandar Kolarov and was sent off in the 58th minute. Inter Milan took advantage of the extra man, Lukaku firing a 71st-minute penalty into the net off the underside of the crossbar to equalise. The blue side of Milan got the winner after  substitute Eriksen stepped up with a stoppage-time free kick to book his side a Coppa Italia semi-final clash with either Juventus or SPAL who play on Wednesday      