Multiple automobile accidents on Saturday claimed the lives of no fewer than 20 persons in Kwara State. Seventeen out of the accident victims were said to have been burnt beyond recognition. The accident occurred at Olokonla area along Bode-Saadu-Jebba highway in Moro Local Government Area of Kwara State. Only one person however survived the auto accident as the survivor was said to have escaped unscratched. It was gathered that the cause of the crash was traceable to excessive speed and wrongful overtaking. The accident, which occurred around 3:00 am, yesterday, involved three vehicles: Blue colour commercial Mark Truck GGE614XM, white colour commercial Mitsubishi Canter Truck BRK534YX and white colour Toyota Hummer bus with registration number KEY479YE. Eye witness account said that loss of control by the driver of the Toyota bus, who was trying to overtake a lorry loaded with pepper and a truck that was ahead of him, led to head-on collision with another truck coming at the opposite direction of the road. The heavy impact of the collision resulted in a fire outbreak, it was gathered. Both Kwara State Sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Jonathan Owoade, and the Director of the state Fire Service, Falade O John, confirmed the unfortunate incident. “Following the First Information Report (FIR) of the road traffic crash from the Unit Commander in charge of RS 8.11 Bode Saadu Unit Command ACC A Ibrahim in the early hours of Saturday, 30/1/2021, the multiple Road Traffic Crash occurred at about 0300hours at a location called Olokonla area which involved three vehicles (Blue commercial Mark Truck GGE614XM, White commercial Mitsubishi canter truck BRK534YX and white Toyota Hummer bus KEY479YE). “One passenger was rescued from the Toyota Hummer bus by the FRSC personnel on arrival to the scene but the remaining 17 occupants were burnt beyond recognition as a result of the fire that gutted the bus. The state fire servicemen also got to the scene and were able to put out the fire. “However, a total of 31 male adults were involved in the crash; 20 male adult died while 11 were rescued with various degree of injuries ranging from bruises, burns and fractures who were taken to Aduagba Clinic and Maternity Olokonla, Kwara State, while the deceased were also deposited at the clinic facility.” Also Mr. John urged the general public to always play safe, saying that life has no duplicate.