 IT was one problem too many. The congestion around Apapa and its environs in Lagos State had become a menace, not only to the areas, but also the entire industry, contributing to its near-collapse. However, relief came last week when in a bid to solve the problem, the management of the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) commenced the implementation of the much-awaited e-call-up system for articulated vehicles accessing the port to pick cargoes and containers. But stakeholders said NPA, in collaboration with other agencies at the port, should, in addition, introduce a Port Management Information System (PMIS) to provide intercommunication for truckers, service providers, importers and others. Its Assistant General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications Mr. Nasiru Ibrahim, explained that the e-truck call-up system was designed for truck movement management and access to and from the Lagos Ports Complex and the Tin Can Island Ports. Providing articulated vehicles access to free flow – a container delivery method need to be made available to make cargo clearance easy and increase container throughout with minimal investment. Port operations involve pulling containers off ships and placing them randomly into long rows. Truckers arrive at the terminal with a specific container number, and operators have to dig that container out of the pile. On average, three containers must be moved out of the way for every one container delivered. But imagine if specific containers weren’t assigned to a driver until after one was loaded onto his truck. This would allow the ports to peel off the first available container and place it on the next available driver and chassis, much like a taxi line at the airport. Dead moves are eliminated and truck turn times are reduced. Findings have shown that free-flow containers will reduce trucker turn-around times by more than 50 percent. High-volume shippers with 50 or more containers on a vessel regularly free-flow containers. Because the containers have the same drop-off location, it doesn’t matter which container a trucker receives, and no special technology is needed to coordinate the drivers. After receiving a container, the driver would enter its number into his phone, and its delivery and routing information would appear on his screen. The delivery could be directed to a distribution centre or to an off-site yard at a later time. The shipper would receive status notifications when the container has been picked up, the driver is about to arrive, and the container has been delivered. After the driver drops the container, his phone would direct him to the empty closest to its Last Free Day (or in a first-in-first-out manner) to return empties to the ports. If no empties are available at the drop-off location, the driver’s phone routes him to a nearby yard that has empties to return (preferably to a terminal they are picking up from next). Throughout the process, any stakeholder could pull up a map on their phone or computer and see the driver’s precise location. In this way, technology-enabled free flow would not only move more containers out of the ports efficiently, it would also provide greater transparency for shippers and carriers. All trucks doing business at the two Lagos ports are required to park at the approved truck parks until they are called up into the port through the Eto app. Ibrahim told The Nation that an e-platform has been created for ease of assessment by truckers, adding that the app will be responsible for the scheduling, entry and exit of all trucks into the ports in few days time. “Therefore, transporters, trucks owners and truck drivers will be required to download the Eto app from Google play store or sign up at http://eto.ttp.com.ng before the commencement date to enable them register accordingly. “In addition to this, cargo owners are advised to ensure that empty containers can only be returned to the ports through the approved holding bays of shipping companies using the Eto platform.’’ The image maker said it is the responsibility of the shipping firm to move empty containers from their holding bay to the port. All cargo owners have to do is drop their empty containers at the holding bay of the shipping company. “The shipping company will then make the bookings on the Eto platform to return empty containers to the Port. “The management of the NPA solicits the cooperation of transporters, truck drivers, cargo owners, clearing agents, shipping companies and all port users in the implementation of the project, which will bring order and sanity to the ports access roads. “Non-compliance to the use of Eto and its guidelines will result in denial of access into the Ports, impounding of trucks and withdrawal of registration/ licence. At the end of last year, the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) had announced that cargo clearing and other port transactions would be carried out online by first quarter of this year. 