Stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of Anambra South Senatorial Zone have resolved to bury their differences and work for the unity and progress of the party ahead of November governorship elections in Anambra state. This was part of resolutions at a meeting convened by the Anambra South Zonal Caretaker Committee Chairman, Hon Izuchukwu Okeke targeted at mending internal wrangling to ensure zonal cohesion towards achieving an APC governorship candidate from the zone. Addressing newsmen shortly after the meeting, Okeke said the stakeholders agreed to form a formidable front across interest groups in the party towards restoring the party’s fortunes in the zone. He said, “The meeting agreed to interface with both Anambra North and South Senatorial Districts of the State in pursuit of the Anambra South interest towards achieving the turn of Anambra South to produce the next governor of the State come 2021. “We also resolved to set up a high powered committee to interface with the various groups within the party and State towards forming a united front against the divisive positions that ruined the party’s chances at the polls in the 2017 and 2019 general elections and to pursue the zone’s interest of choosing the next governorship candidate of the party from the zone. “Next year is going to be a turning point in our party and particularly in our zone. Known to us is the fact that our zone is desirous of producing the next governor of Anambra State and it must be one of us from APC. “This means therefore, that we have a lot of work to do. Power is in the oven and so we must prove to others that we are ready to lead.” Identifying lack of offices at the zonal, local and ward levels in most Local Government Areas of the state as major challenge of the party, Okeke regretted that most of their meetings were held in private residences and hotels. He however appreciated party stakeholders for donating handsomely towards addressing the accommodation problem and for their support in the last two years. Stakeholders at the meeting included Chief Engr Bart Nwibe (Ugo Igbo), High Chief Engr Johnbosco Onunkwo (Akaekpuchionwa), Hon Sir Azuka Okwuosa (Chinyelugo), Hon Nze Chidi Duru (Achalugo), Chief Dr George Moghalu (Ohamdike), Dr Chisozie Nwankwo, Chief Sir Paul Orajiaka (Kpakpando) and Chief Ben Etiaba. Others were Nestor Okoro, Mrs Nkechi Nnoli, Theo Nnorom, Hygers Igwebuike, Innocent Obi (Chairman, APC Elders Forum), Zokas Aniazoka, Mrs Constance Iloh, Prof Orajiaka, Barr Okonkwo Okom, Onyi Uzochukwu (Avenger), Uwaejina Igbokwe (Agbalanze Umuchu) and Amobi Nwafor.