Effective and adequate representation is one of those factors the electorate put into consideration when selecting candidates to fill public offices, and when they do this, they look with a keen eye to electing men and women of virtue, one with the capabilities and the readiness to serve the general interest of all. For the people of Ojokoro LCDA, time and chance have afforded the opportunity to elect a candidate that they can be proud of, one who by all means is ready to advance the common good of all among his people. Standing tall among others is Hon. OladipupoBabatunde Okeyomi, one who has not only expressed his intention to contest for the chairmanship position of Ojokoro LCDA 2021 but has also expressed his readiness and commitment to ushering a new reality of hope and progress for his people. Unlike others, his word is his bond, he is an embodiment of good virtues and an astute believer and advocate of good governance and representation. He was born into the family of Archbishop Sunday Joseph Okeyomi, founder and head of the Holy Fountain Cherubim and Seraphim Church Worldwide and Mother Captain Christiana Okeyomi of IkareAkoko, 5th October 1968 in Akoko North-East Local Government Area of Ondo State. He started his elementary education at Saint Moses Orimolade Primary School, Ikare–Akoko, Ondo State from 1975 to 1981. After his Primary Education, he proceeded to Agbaode/Orimolade Grammar School, Ikare-Akokofor His secondary school education (O’level) within the year 1981-1986, and later concluded the program at Victory College, Ikare-Akoko from 1987 to 1988 where he obtained his West African School Certificate (WASC). He joined Zajtronic Computer Institute, Abule Egba, Lagos and obtained Diploma Certificate in Computer training in 1999. This young and ambitious man gain admission into the Polytechnic of Ibadan, for his Advance Diploma Certificate in Local Government Administration in the year 2000. In order to satisfy the quest for higher qualification, He joined Ladoke Akintola University of Technology Ogbomosho where he got his Post Graduate Diploma in Public Administration 2011. He has a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Akintola University of Technology in 2013. He is a Chartered Associate of the Institute of Local Government Administrator. He has a Doctorate Degree in Theology and He is a Fellow of The Institute of Management Consultants. A Fellow, Chartered Institute of Human Resources Management, Fellow, Institute of Professional Managers and Administrators of Nigeria and Fellow of the Institute of Management Specialist of United Kingdom-Nigeria Chapter. Hon. Dr. Gabriel Babatunde Oladipupo Okeyomi is an experience and acclaimed local, and International Security Expert. He has attended the following local and international Security Institutes: i. ​School of Security and Management in Lagos. ii​. Association of Industrial Security and safety operators of Nigeria (AISSON)-Lagos iii. ​International Foundation for Protection Officer’s (IFPO) Naple Florida, U.S.A. iv. ​American Society For Industrial Security ASSI International Alexandra, U.S.A Honorable. Oladipupo Okeyomi has contributed immensely to the development of the less privileged teenagers, Youths, Widows and Widowers in general. Having considered the importance and relevance of education, he has helped in various measures to ensure that the children who dropped out of school because of financial constraints get back to school through his scholarship awards. Oladipupo is a silent achiever and a philanthropist to the core whose support for children’s education, Women empowerment has earned him many awards and accolades from individuals, organizations and society. He has distinguished himself as an administrator, with selfless service to the community and in his Church, Cherubim and Seraphim Movement where he is well known. Hon. (Dr). Prince Gabriel Babatunde OladipupoOkeyomi is the Founder of an NGO called the CHANGE AGENT FOUNDATION INTERNATIONAL (CAFI), which he set up to meet the needs of the poor. He is the founder and the life President of the foundation with its branches in Nigeria, the United Kingdom, Germany, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, Canada and America. He has experienced life at its best and worst; these have contributed in no measure in making him the man he is today. Carry Go as He is always called, is a beacon of hope to the hopeless and the defender of the poor. Honourable (Dr.) Oladipupo Babatunde is a seasoned administrator, a Politician per excellence and a diligent leader, a solution provider, who is very supportive of government activities within and outside His Community. A wonderful Man, compassionate, trainer, thoughtful, a fountain of experience and a loving man who is ever cheerful and full of life. An amiable leader who handles issues with a great sense of responsibility. An astute leader with strong emotional intelligence. An epitome of integrity, humility and hard work in His service to God and humanity. He boasts of an impressive political profile as he has served in the various political appointment and this has afforded him the opportunity of gathering the much-needed experience to successfully which is required for this mandate, also through these various political appointments, it has also ensured that he is further established as a grassroots politician as many of these appointments brought him more closer to his people. Some of these appointments are : Member Transition Committee (AD) Akoko-North East, Ikare – Akoko Ondo State, Youth Leader Alliance for Democracy LGA, Financial Secretary, SDP Ilepa Ward II, Financial Secretary CNC, AkokoNorth East Local Government, Senior Special Assistant Security and Special Duties to Akoko North East Chairman, Senior Assistant on Security, Ojokoro LCDA, Ojokoro, Lagos, Security Consultant African Business Roundtable Awards, Security Consultant to Igando Ikotun LCDA. (2008 – 2011), Security Consultant to the Governor of State of Osun, Security Consultant to the Minister of Interior, 2020-till date and Deputy Chairman, Special Operation on Landed Properties, Governor’s Office, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos (2020). Femi Salako writes from Akure