Former Senate President Bukola Saraki has called for caution over the herdsmen crises in Ondo and Oyo states. Saraki, in a statement on Sunday, said the developments have unduly raised the temperature in the country. He said the developments in these two states were symptomatic of the threat to the unity of the country. “At this point, I strongly appeal to all of us to work for peace and take initiatives that can douse tension. Both the elite and ordinary people have a responsibility to begin to take measures that will reassure the people across board that a united Nigeria will benefit everybody better than a disintegrated country. “The deafening silence by key stakeholders, leaders and others who we think should speak out is worrisome. This silence is a dangerous tell-tale sign that things are wrong. This is not good for our country. We must all speak out and talk about the solution to this twin-problem of insecurity and threat to national unity. “We all do not have another country to call our own other than this one country, Nigeria. We need to live in peace with each other and it is my prayer that Almighty God will continue to preserve the unity of the country. I have the conviction that there are many more things that unite us than the few points that cause disagreement among us. Let me use my case as an example of why this country should continue to grow as one united and progressive entity. I am of Fulani origin and have a Yoruba mother. My father was a Muslim and my mother is Christian. Thus, I am affected on all sides by any inter-ethnic tension in this country. I am sure there are many Nigerians that are in a similar situation. “Also, a united Nigeria is better for the entire world than a disintegrated country. The relevance of Nigeria in the international community is due to her size, population and collective resources. Any attempt at disintegration removes the cloak of importance around Nigeria in the global community. We must all strive to douse the tension and keep our country together. This is definitely not the country we inherited from our forebears and it is not what we intend to pass on to the generation after us,” he said. Saraki appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to take measures that would reassure Nigerians of a peaceful and progressive Nigeria. “It is important for President Muhammadu Buhari to rally all interests and everybody at the leadership levels to a round table in order to discuss and find appropriate solutions. Let me reiterate my earlier suggestion that President Buhari should call all relevant politicians and stakeholders together – former heads of states, retired and serving security chiefs, present and former leaders of various arms of government, traditional rulers with relevant experience, experienced youth with the technological know-how to solve security problems and even international civil servants of Nigerian origin who can help. Everybody must be made to contribute ideas on how to save our country from insecurity, disunity and invasion by criminals. Mr. President, please, call everybody together and provide the much-needed leadership to solve the problem. This is a period that requires all hands to be on deck. This is not the time to talk of APC or PDP. It is time for all to work for Nigeria. This is a problem for all and should be solved by all,” he said. Saraki urged Senate President Ahmed Lawan and Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila to provide the far-reaching legislative intervention that would help the executive arm in the search for peace. “The situation is getting worse by the day. Insecurity has become the order of the day and it is fuelling disunity and criminal activities,” Saraki said.