 England and Arsenal star Bukayo Saka has revealed how Mikel Arteta has helped turn the club’s form around in recent weeks. The 4-0 win over West Brom three Saturdays ago was their third victory in a row in the Premier League with Saka playing a major role. Saka opened up over the reason why the club have turned their fortunes around. The Gunners moved into 12th – six points behind the top four – after their victory over West Brom. It was their third victory in a row in the Premier League; their best run this campaign, which kicked off with a 3-1 result over Chelsea on Boxing Day. Saka netted once again, continuing his brilliant form in recent weeks, joining Kieran Tierney and Alexandre Lacazette on the scoresheet. And the England international has revealed why Arsenal are suddenly so good all of the sudden. He said: “The perfect way to start the new year, we’ve won three in a row so we want to keep building. We’re really happy with the performance. Saka’s goal was a brilliant team goal, with the 19-year-old trading passes with various Arsenal players before slotting past Sam Johnstone while Tierney opened the scoring after 23 minutes. “Amazing team goal and luckily I got the tap-in. I love those goals,” he said. “It was so cold but I was getting so many touches in good positions so I enjoyed the game a lot. “[Tierney] deserved [his goal], he’s put in amazing performances all year and that was something we’ve never seen before from him, right foot, and top corner.” Arteta had come under mounting pressure in recent weeks after a series of poor performances but has silenced the doubters after a brilliant seven days where his side have won three times. He said: “We had a big week, three games in seven days, and we managed to win them and everything looks much better. “It was difficult conditions but the team looked sharp from the start. It’s a big win. “After the results we had before we had to lift things straight away. Now we have got some discipline back. “We look more creative in the final third and we look solid at the back.”  As for the wonder goal he netted against Chelsea, Saka said he actually went for goal when he spotted Edouard Mendy off his line and deliberately lobbed the stranded keeper. He said: ‘I saw him off his line!’ it wasn’t a miss-kick as some as suggested. I was going for the goal and that’s what made it a great goal.” The match also signalled Arteta turnaround for the famous London team. The Gunners ended t heir long wait for a victory with a 3-1 win over their London rivals at the Emirates on Boxing Day, with Alexandre Lacazette, Granit Xhaka and Saka all getting on the scoresheet. Arsenal took a two-goal lead in the first half, with Lacazette netting from the spot and Xhaka powering in a brilliant free-kick, before Saka effectively put the game to bed at the start of the second half. The teenager picked up the ball on the edge of box, darting forward, and appeared to have a look up to see Gabriel Martinelli unmarked at the back post, though then proceeded to whip the ball into the far corner of the goal. Mendy was helpless as the ball sailed over his head, with commentator Gary Neville convinced it was a cross that went askew, but Saka was adamant he was aiming at goal and had seen Mendy out of position. Asked by Sky Sports if he meant to score? Saka said: ‘Of course man! He was off his line.’ In another interview, Saka also insisted it was an attempt on goal, telling BBC Sport: “I saw him off his line so I thought I could chip him. Really? Yeah! “We feel that we are a good team who have been unlucky with results and red cards but this is a big one for our confidence. “It’s been tricky, tough, but we have come out of it and we are trying our best. “We grew up with each other, the young players all want to play and have the passion for this club. We want to make the fans happy. “It’s been a great turnaround for the team. I’m enjoying every bit of the wins and we have been talking and laughing about the goals. It’s a good feeling and that is helping us to understand each other better and to believe in ourselves more. “It’s good that we are getting to give our fans what they want. They deserve it,” Saka added.