The National Association of Nigerian Nurses in North America (NANNNA) surprised nurses at the Infectious Disease Hospital, Yaba, Lagos with an elaborate breakfast ceremony. The event indeed lifted the morale of nurses in attendance and others across the country, as it showed their presence is being respected and valued. Nurses in the Nigerian healthcare system have had to brace up to more challenges amid a shortfall in resources at their disposal to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. As designated care-giver, the year 2020 has only served to fully elaborate the crucial role that nurses all over the world and Nigeria in particular played at the frontier of the health care system. With 2020 previously being declared as the ‘Year of the Nurse and the Midwife’ by the World Health Organisation, the relevance of the nurse to human health and wellbeing only continues to soar. Prior to the hosting of this event, NANNNA donated 5, 000 protective face shields to nurses nationwide as a show of solidarity and support. These acts of camaraderie haven’t gone unnoticed as several prominent figures in the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives duly acknowledged the impact of these gestures at the breakfast event. One of nurses, who equally doubles as the Director of Nursing Services, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Nurse Dorcas Shonibare, said of the organisers: “The fact the NANNNA thought it fit to stretch out a helping hand to us is truly commendable. With Lagos being the epicenter of the pandemic in the country, NANNNA’s aid has indeed been instrumental to helping nurses carrying out their duty.” Shonibare recalled regardless of professional hazards, her colleagues have always been up and standing, adding that it is such a kind gestures by NANNNA, which usually inspires them towards greater performances. Shonibare continued: “As caregivers, we have no choice but to go in and offer assistance, even when other medical professionals refuse to do so. It is support like this that helps us do the good work we do.” The Director of Nursing Services, Health Service Commission, Nurse Olaide Animashaun, likened NANNNA’s gesture as a way of recognising the relevance of the sterling work that nurses in the field do. “The simple fact that an international body is thinking (and supporting) the work we do is worthy of applause, ” Animashaun added. Even doctors were not left out of the appreciations. Chief Medical Director of IDH Yaba, Lagos Bowale Abimbola, thanked NANNNA for coming to the rescue in these times. Abimbola appealed to the public to follow the example laid by NANNNA so that health care in the country can improve even more.