 VICE President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN) has urged the managers of the nation’s healthcare sector to seize the opportunity provided by the outbreak of the COVID-19 to ramp up public health infrastructure in the country. Osinbajo stated this on Thursday at a virtual meeting with top government officials and a group of Nigerian scientists, who have been working on some of the public health dimensions of the pandemic. According to a statement issued by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr. Laolu Akande, the Vice President said the ramping up of the sector should include the training of the required experts, even as governments should be doing more in the area of funding. The interaction, which focused on Nigeria’s response and the management of the COVID-19 pandemic, featured presentations by one of Nigeria’s leading virologists, Prof. Oyewale Tomori; Infectious Diseases Scientist, Prof. Philip Onyebujoh, and the Director, African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID), Redeemer’s University, Prof. Christian Happi. On the government side at the interaction were Minister of Health Dr. Osagie Ehanire; the Coordinator of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Dr. Aliyu Sani; and the Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu. It was the second interaction the vice president held this week with professors and scientists on the medical and public health dimensions of the COVID-19 pandemic. On Tuesday, he met with a group of scientific investigators into the possible use of Ivermectin in the treatment of COVID-19. “We are at a point where we can gain tremendously as a people from this pandemic and a lot of what has been said will really help in putting this in perspective for us as government, so we can actually go out and resolve many of these problems and improve the environment for ourselves, and for the coming generations in particular,” Osinbajo said after listening to the experts at the over two hours long meeting. Acknowledging the significance of the interaction with the scientists, especially in providing valuable suggestions in addressing the country’s public health challenges, the vice president noted that the meeting was “an inspiring intervention and discussion”. “I say inspiring because it is evident that our experts (whether they are directly engaged or not) are also paying attention not just to an unfolding public health problem, but also the very many opportunities that this problem provides for us, the many opportunities to ramp up our public health capacities in various ways,” he said. Prof. Tomori emphasised the need for authorities across different levels to leverage the opportunities created by the COVID-19 pandemic to overhaul the entirety of the country’s health system, noting that “we cannot let this pandemic go without starting the production of vaccines here in Nigeria”. Stating his desire to help authorities resolve lingering issues in public health management, the renowned virologist noted that he has benefited so much from the country, hence his love and desire to see a better society. In the same vein, Prof. Happi emphasised the need for a closer collaboration between the public and private sectors to transform the health sector not only in providing the necessary infrastructure but in making possible the local manufacture of medical consumables. On his part, Prof. Onyebujoh advocated improved coordination, especially in the states in the areas of identification, isolation and clinical management of infected persons, for the country to effectively manage the current rate of transmission. Addressing some of the concerns raised at the forum, the Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire said the country was expecting about 10 million doses of the COVID-19 viral vector vaccine. The minister added that the 10 million doses is aside the 100,000 doses of the Pfizer vaccine being expected in the country, noting that both types of the vaccine would be received, sometime in March 2020.