Nasarawa State government has commenced the implementation of the harmonised revenue collection law. Governor Abdullahi Sule had, late last year, signed into law the State Harmonisation and Administration of Revenue Law, 2020 which was passed by the state House of Assembly to check financial leakages. The state government on Thursday organised a two-day workshop on  Tax/Revenue summit for the revenue-generating ministries, departments and agencies, local government and development areas on the implementation of the Nasarawa State Harmonisation and Administration of Revenue Law.  Declaring the event open, Governor Sule said the government would take punitive measures against violators of the law. He noted that with full implementation of the law, the collection of taxes and revenues accruable to the state would be harmonised and centralised in the state revenue service with immediate effect. He explained that the Summit will focus on sensitisation to ensure that ministries, departments and agencies, (MDAs), local government councils as well as other revenues collecting agencies are abreast with their roles as contained in the law.  “The collection of revenue and sharing must be done in a transparent way. We will also be truthful and honest so that everybody can get its share from the remittance of the revenue. “We must obey the law for the betterment of the state, “Governor Sule said. The Executive Chairman of Nasarawa State Internal Revenue Service (NSIRS) Ahmed Muhammed said the monthly Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) has risen to 100 per cent despite the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. ”Between 2015 and 2017 the board was able to generate over N2.7 billion. But in the three years that we assumed office, we generated N27.5 billion. Similarly, despite the COVID-19 public health crisis, we have surpassed the amended 2020 budget by N3.8 billion which represents a 27.8 per cent increase in the actual IGR collection for 2020,”  Muhammed said. He said the board has also developed a strategic action plan in order to implement the law and would deploy personnel across the state to monitor revenue collection.