 SHE is, arguably, one of the most influential African women venture capitalists. With her tract record of vetting thousands of venture proposals, helping establish dozens of businesses and co-founding several investor networks, the founding Director and Managing Partner, LoftyInc Capital Management (LCM), a firm of early-stage venture capital fund managers, Marsha Wulff, is in the club of the continent’s women of power, making decisions that create tangible changes in their various industries. Marsha, who has a background in entrepreneurship, portfolio management, board governance, corporate communications and venture investing, has been a private equity, social impact investor since 1997. Her focus is on African business development via joint ventures, global trade, private financings and grant fundings. Already, under her charge, LoftyInc’s first Afropreneurs Fund has created 1,100 jobs and attracted $200 million private follow-on capital. The LoftyInc Afropreneurs Fund is operated by LCM. The primary goal of the LoftyInc Afropreneur Fund is to capitalise on the strengths of its ground game in Sub-Saharan Africa to identify, support and drive the growth of next generation of ‘frontier market unicorns’ while leveraging these investments for social impact and contributing as much to social change. The Afropreneur Fund focuses on early stage Africa-facing enterprises that leverage technology to create social impact and tackle big socio-economic problems The Nation learnt that the Afropreneurs Fund 2, operating since 2017, is for impact investors seeking attractive financial returns. And LCM, which has been investing in world-class teams of local and returning Africans who are leveraging technology innovations to solve significant problems in Africa, is well-known for launching and managing entities that support Afropreneurs since 2009. Its capital management team leverages robust deal pipelines of elite Afropreneurs emanated from local and global tech hubs, corporations and universities. And since July 2017, when Marsha became founding Director and Managing Partner of LCM, she has been deploying investment strategies and best practices learnt from early stage Venture Capital (VC) investors. Under Marsha’s watch, LoftyInc’s WeHub accelerator programmes have also trained thousands and nurtured hundreds of tech-based teams, creating sustainable youth employment and improving economic opportunities across sectors such as edutech, fintech, agtech, energy among others. She has been a staple in venture capitalist investing for more than 20 years. She invests in firms and entrepreneurs who focus on transformative tech innovations. Founded in 2017 and headquartered in Lagos, LCM is a subsidiary of LoftyInc Allied Partners Limited (LAP), an innovation development company with vast experience in business and project development. LAP facilitates impact projects in sub-Saharan Africa. With keen interest in Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), social impact is at the core of LAP’s existence. LAP has been proffering innovative solutions to social impact problems. The company says it believes that making the world a better place means finding solutions that work, and scaling them to maximise progress. LAP has co-founded enterprise development ecosystem components for African entrepreneurs since 2009. Its founders manage 80 employees operating venture acceleration programmes and investments from four cities of Nigeria. The firm builds local ventures and manages local investments for profit and purpose. However, at LCM, where Marsha holds sway, the venture capitalist, who earned her Executive Masters in Business Administration (MBA) at Southern Methodist University (SMU’s) Cox School of Business, Dallas, Texas in 2001, has been investing her resources and expertise in firms and entrepreneurs who focus on transformative tech innovations. The early-stage tech venture investor and business mentor, who is on the Board of Directors, Reliance Management Organisation (HMO), which offers affordable health insurance for Nigerians, has also been a staunch supporter of biotech startups, especially those that address specific diseases, and those who are steered by passionate leaders. Marsha has also focused on providing capital for firms in enterprise software, cybersecurity, digital health and solutions that address the future of work. She has an unparalleled eye for spotting technology trends, searching for start-ups that engage in e-commerce, enterprise and cloud computing. As a champion for equality for women business leaders, the LCM founding director has driven investment phases that fund and support women entrepreneurs in the start-up cycle. She is among African female business leaders leading a revolution—not just for female venture capitalists, but also for women in other industries. Along with other leading female venture capitalists, Marsha has been offering guidance to up-and-coming female entrepreneurs. She also works with organisations that can pair burgeoning entrepreneurs with female mentors who can help them build and manage companies, secure funding, and create effective pitches. A multiple entrepreneur, philanthropist, angel investor and author, Marsha’s mission is to inspire entrepreneurial men and women, encourage international funders to invest in Nigerian businesses seeking pre-seed, seed level or series A financing. Marsha’s investment thesis is rooted in social and economic impact. She has worked with the LoftyInc team since 2009, as it has built out a tech ecosystem for Nigerian innovators, and now invests in African-led tech startups designed to rapidly scale development solutions for vast new markets. She has seen young firms gaining traction in industries ranging from health care to agriculture – and they present an enticing opportunity for investors. Her team has participated in their growth for over a decade, establishing tech hubs, co-founding angel networks and building investment portfolios. The venture capitalist is also a director at Raintree Farms, a superfood farm and processing centre in Uganda. There, she has contributed to the firm’s success as an advisor and investor since 2008. She also helped the firm complete its organic certification and facility upgrades for highest quality production of super-food moringa and secured firm orders for 40 tons to be delivered in 2018. Marsha also serves as a venture judge for Stanford’s Africa Business Forum, MIT’s Legatum Centre and the African Diaspora Network of Silicon Valley. She was a Vice-President, Investments with DeanWitter/Morgan Stanley and an early investor/advisor to three “unicorns.” She has pioneered impact investing since 1995 and African investing since 1997. She has been a charter member of investor networks such as Investors’ Circle, Texas Women’s Venture Fund and Keiretsu Forum. Marsha also earned a Stanford Professional Centre certification for 500 Startups’ VC Unlocked programme. She has lived and worked internationally, including in India, China, South America and many parts of Africa. Her business and investment acumen developed while working as an entrepreneur in the 1970’s, a VP of investments for US securities broker/dealer in the 1980’s and in the1990’s as Finance Director for a medical system and as Corporate Communications Director for Pioneer Natural Resources. Marsha also advises Stanford’s Institute for Innovation in Developing Economies, helped establish the Frontier Market Scouts Program of Middlebury Institute that links impact investors to social entrepreneurs, and she initiated the Geneva-based Bamboo Finance investment into South Africa’s CareCross Health Group. The tech venture investor and business mentor says she believes that these are exciting times for African start-ups – and for their investors. According to her, the continent’s early-stage investment market is being driven by top talent from the African diaspora, returning home with global skills to solve African development challenges.