 THE Head, United Kingdom Government’s Digital Access Programme and Country Adviser, Idongesit Udoh,  has said COVID-19 has shown that digital skills is a must have for people to survive in this age. Speaking at the signing of a training programme deal between Technology for Social Change and Development Initiative (Tech4Dev) and the Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) in Lagos designed to carry out Basic Digital Literacy for Rural Clusters in Northern Nigeria, he said people who don’t have digital skills have been excluded, adding that it will build survival resilience to this pandemic and future pandemic.  He described digital skills as sustainable skills for survival. The programme is meant to introduce learners in underserved communities and vulnerable groups in the northern part of the country to digital literacy, with the intent of equipping them with the basic digital knowledge required to succeed in the 21st-century and the emerging new normal from the COVID19 pandemic. The Basic Digital Literacy for Rural Clusters in Northern Nigeria programme aligns with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1, 4 & 10 (no poverty, quality education and reduced inequalities). By investing in digital literacy for vulnerable people living in rural clusters in Northern Nigeria, allows for the reduction in the poverty index by increasing employability of the beneficiaries and closing the digital skills gap of needed in the digital economy. He said: “Nigeria’s National Broadband Plan, Nigeria’s Economic Sustainability Plan as well as Nigeria’s Digital Economy Strategy have identified digital skills as key to economic prosperity for all Nigerians. With COVID19, digital literacy has become a must-have. Hence, the UK Government is once again demonstrating timely support not only for Nigeria’s inclusive economic development but also in building effective COVID-19-related resilience. This project is already helping to close the digital divide, enable inclusive digital access and build communities’ resilience to current and future pandemics.” He said the initiative was designed to directly impact 1,000 beneficiaries, over a 12-week period in 10 rural clusters, across 10 states in the north. It is also targeting 50 per cent of the beneficiaries to be vulnerable women and girls (aged between eight and 18; 45-65), 30 per cent being persons with disabilities (PWDs) and 20 per cent individuals of other vulnerable groups. Also speaking at the virtual media briefing, Executive Director at Tech4Dev, Diwura Oladepo,  stressed the need to increase the number of digital literate vulnerable populations and people living in underserved communities in Northern Nigeria. She said: “It has become pertinent, especially on the path of the new normal, to focus on digital literacy allowing vulnerable populations to leverage technology for commerce, education, communication, improve their socio-economic recovery, pandemic resilience, and build a more prosperous future.”  