 With the dismal performances of Nigeria’s youth teams in recent West African tournaments, former Nigeria international Finidi George said he will continue to put himself forward for national youth teams coaching roles despite being overlooked twice. Nigeria’s U-20 men’s team, Flying Eagles crashed out of the WAFU B Zonal qualifiers holding in Porto Novo, Benin Republic last month while the U-17 team, Golden Eagles are on the verge of  leaving the on-going West African Football Union (WAFU) B tournament in Lome, Togo after a loss to the Baby Elephants of Cote d’Ivoire and a draw against Ghana’s Black Starlets. George, who won the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations as well as three league titles and the 1995 European Champions League with Dutch giants Ajax, has been seeking an opportunity to manage at youth level in the West African nation after twice failing to get the nod for the Under-17 job. “I’m very disappointed but I understand the Nigerian system quite well,” George told BBC Sport Africa. “It’s a matter of having the patience. So I’m open to continue to improve myself with the hope of getting a chance to coach one of the country’s youth teams.” George’s first rejection came in 2018 when Manu Garba was retained as Nigeria’s under-17 coach and then last year Finidi once again applied for the post, this time another ex-international and veteran local manager Fatai Amoo was chosen by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). “I was disappointed to be ignored, but only consoled that at the end of the day this is Nigeria,” he added. “I understand the challenges, I will just wait for when the time is right and the opportunity presents itself again.” Since his retirement from football in 2004, Finidi has earned his UEFA A License which is one level below the highest qualification, the Pro License. He is currently allowed to be head coach of youth teams up to age 18, reserve teams (also known as ‘B’ teams) for top-flight clubs, and men’s professional second-tier clubs. His previous coaching roles include being the director of international football at former club Real Betis and managed the youth team of his erstwhile Spanish side Real Mallorca in 2013.  