The Local Climate Adaptive Living Facility (LoCAL) has mobilised $100 million for locally-led climate change adaptation action, already benefitting more than 11 million people in some of the world’s most vulnerable countries. News of the landmark achievement came with a commitment to at least double the size of the facility within five years to meet the growing demand from countries. Participating countries included Benin, Burkina Faso, Cote d’Ivoire, The Gambia, Ghana, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sudan and Uganda in Africa. Bangladesh, Bhutan, Cambodia, Lao PDR, Nepal and Pakistan in Asia. Fiji, Solomon Islands, Tuvalu and Vanuatu, in the Pacific and Jamaica in the Caribbean. Hosted by the United Nations Capital Development Fund, LoCAL is owned by the countries that sign up to implement the mechanism, primarily Least Developing Countries and Small Island Developing States. Launched in 2011, 26 participating countries are engaged in Africa, Asia, Caribbean and Pacific and thousands of communities are designing adaptation projects to be funded with LoCAL grants. “In the coming five years, led by our ambassador countries and other LoCAL member states, the body is committed to doubling the size of this initiative,” said David Jackson, Director, Local Development Finance at UNCDF. “We urge all donors and stakeholders supporting climate change adaptation to join us in prioritising locally led adaptation, leveraging LoCAL.” LoCAL Facility Manager, Sophie De Coninck  said: “We would like to thank all our funders and partner countries who have demonstrated their commitment to LoCAL and locally-led adaptation with financial support and encourage others to join this collective effort. “We are committed to welcome and accompany all countries that express interest in benefitting from the mechanism and work closely with them to access and effectively channel the resources needed at the local level, meeting or exceeding the target to double the size of the facility over the next five years.” One specificity of LoCAL is its systemic approach and its proven scalability. First launched in Bhutan and Cambodia in 2011, the mechanism is now being rolled out at the national level. The LoCAL publication With LoCAL support, a number of national bodies in participating countries have been accepted as accredited entities, enabling them to directly access climate change funds from the Green Climate Fund. Such accreditation is a vital means of boosting access to climate change resources.