 Tell us about the new things that you are working on at the moment? I am working on the launching of my album titled Awesome God.It’s hasn’t been easy but God has shown us mercy . I actually started out as a chorister with the C and S Praying Band, Ogo Oluwa, Shogunle in Lagos some years ago and I mst say that it has been an awesome journey so far. The message in my album is meant to sooth, comfort and assure everyone that there is hope and Deliverance. This is possible only if they repent and accept the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Tell us about some of the memorable moments in your life and career? There have been a lot of memorable moments in my life. I have also faced numerous challenges but the Lord has always proven Himself on each occasion. One of this was when my mother died. She died quite early at about 45 years of age. Her death left me with a huge responsibility. As her first child I was saddled with the responsibility of taking care of my younger sister, who was barely three and half years old then because our father, the late Baba Aladura of C and S Unification Church of Nigeria, His Eminence Abel Olujimi Akinsanya was always away from home due to his very demanding schedule as the Spiritual Head of The Praying Band of C and S, Ijo Ogo Oluwa. My mother’s death came as a rude shock to me because I was very fond of her. She died right in my presence 37 years ago, December 21, 1983 to be precise. So the month of December, to me is a month of mixed fortune, one because its the month of my birth, 30th and a month I lost my mother who was in her late 40s when she was snatched away by the cold hands of death. Her death taught me how to be independent. During her short sojourn on earth, my mother taught me to be faithful, disciplined, forthright, hardworking and above all, she instilled the fear of God in me. What are the other challenges encountered? The other challenge for me would be delay in child bearing.I had my first child immediately after marriage but had to wait for 10 whole years to get a second child and another four again to get a third and fourth child. That was not all. I also lost millions into plank business at Oko Baba, Ebute Meta. I remember that as a newly married young woman, I invested into plank business with the support of my husband and my step mother. The business was doing fine until one day when all my investments were blown away with a storm that washed off all the planks. That was how I left the business for good. I then delved into poultry business, selling chicken and eggs but again, that went down the drain because of circumstances I cannot explain. What inspires the things that you do? My late mum and dad were my major sources of inspiration. They instilled in us discipline and commitment to the things of God. Both were good singers. I took after my mother who was a member of the church choir. So I can confidently say that I inherited the talent from them. In fact, music runs in our family. My elder brother, Kayode was a member of Ebenezer Obey’s band in the 60s and 70s. I must also appreciate the role of my husband, Hon. Gbenga Opebi. He has always been there for me too. He encourages me to move on and actually contributed a lot to make this event possible. Tell us about the making of your new album Awesome God? Awesome God was a revelation. The album was put together and billed for launching early in the year but had to be put on hold due to the outbreak of Covid 19 pandemic. Just when we were putting our acts together again, #Endsars protest took the centre stage thus pushing the launching till now. What are the other things that occupy your time? I am a lady of many parts.I am a professional wedding and engagement handler, popularly known as Alaga iduro/ijoko. I am also the President of the National Council of Women Societies Oshodi, Isolo & Ejigbo, Covid 19 Ambassador, and a member of WARDC , Women Advocate Research and Documentation Center.I have attended a lot of Workshops, seminars and trainings in various fields. Tell us about the people that you admire? I give kudos to our elders, fathers and mothers in the field like Evang. Bolanle Are, Evang. Ebenezer Obey Fabiyi amongst others. They have all done very well to set the pace for us to follow. I equally admire anyone who believes and serves the Lord and equally believe in themselves,those who are not given to frivolities. What was the turning point in your life and career? My story changed when I became closer to God. The more I devoted time, the more my story changed for the better. Only God gives everlasting joy and I am grateful that I’m enjoying His mercies. What advice do you have for the younger ones? They should get closer to their maker, trust and obey His commandments. They should also avoid falling for negative influences from peers by believing in themselves that they have a better tomorrow. I advise them not to be conformed with the world. They should also devote quality time to their studies, I say this because to make headway in life, even in music, they need to take their education more seriously so as to have something to fall back on in future. Upcoming gospel artistes should consecrate themselves to the profession they have chosen and respect our elders.