 THE General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, has dismissed reports that the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, had ordered the probe of his alleged affair with the wife of a former member of his church, Pastor Mike Davids. Davids had accused Suleman of sleeping with his wife, Pastor Faith Edeko, who heads the Utako, Abuja branch of the church. In a petition to the police, Davids also said Suleman threatened him and denied him access to his children. But in his verified Twitter handle, @APOSTLESULEMAN, the cleric tweeted: “IGP orders probe on me? Where, when? Maybe my ghost. Just reading stories now. Please discard. There is no such thing.” The Nation had reported that the IGP ordered the probe of Apostle Suleman in letter addressed to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), Force Intelligence Bureau, Garki, Abuja, dated January 5, 2021. The letter was signed by the Principal Staff Officer II to the Inspector-General of Police, Iliya Doma, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP). It was in response to a petition by Davids’ counsel, V. C. Ezenagu & Associates. The letter was titled: “Re: Criminal Petition Against Apostle Johnson Suleman for Enticement of a Married Woman, Adultery, Unlawful Criminal Restraint to Access Children and Threat to Life.” It reads: “I attach herewith a copy of a letter, dated December 30, 2020, with its attachments received from V. C. Ezenagu & Associates on the above-underlined subject. The Inspector-General of Police directs that you treat. Accept the assurances of my esteemed regards, please.” Davids, in a video, had said: “Apostle Suleman has damaged my life. I have not seen my wife and children for two years and Apostle Suleman says if I ever go near them, he will have me taken out. I have a video where he said he will make me disappear. I don’t want to lose my life.” But Pastor Edeko, in a video, described her husband’s allegations as cheap blackmail. “I don’t know what you hope to achieve, I don’t know who paid you, but the only thing I will say is haven’t you done enough? Are you not tired of flogging someone’s daughter in pain?” she said. Resident Pastor, Omega Fire ministry, Headquarters, Joseph Iyare, said Davids was “frustrated by his own evil deeds”. 