 Crisis is brewing in Ibeju, Lagos State, over the selection of a new monarch, following the demise of Oba Olusegun Salami. Townspeople are calling on Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, former Governor Bola Tinubu, Speaker of  Lagos State House of Assembly,  Mudashiru Obasa and the Attorney General and Commissioner for justice to wade into the selection  crisis. The last Onibeju passed on June 3, last year, leading to vacuum in the ancient town. The monarch is a first class ruler and superintendent over a vast expanse of land in Ibeju-Lekki area. His domain covers the Lekki Free Trade zone, the proposed Dangote Refinery and the deep sea ports, which are critical to future economic development of Lagos State. Aggrieved members of Oniwonlu Royal Family of Ibeju Kingdom alleged in a statement that some kingmakers were scheming to foist a candidate outside the eligible ruling Houses on the community. Warning against politicization and manipulation of the selection, the family, in its petition, called for compliance with the provisions of Section 4(2) of the Obas and Chiefs Laws of 1957 to douse the tension. In its petition to the governor, the Oniwonlu family alleged plans to impose an aspirant, Rasaq Ogutolu on Ibeju, adding that his Oguntolu Family of Airapagi/Wajoba Village in Ibeju Lekki has no Royal lineage with the Oniwonlu Family. The petition was signed by Prince Adewale Lawal, Prince Adegunwa Adeboyejo, Prince Quadri Babatunde Surakat Idogun, Prince Sikìru Adeniran and Prince Seedeeq Sharafadeen Adewale Oniwonlu According to the family, the governor’s intervention will restore peace, unity and progress in the town. Another twist to the crisis is that some family members also faulted the decision of the selection committee members, including five signatories to the petition, to to disqualify a prince and an aspirant, Wasiu Adeboye Adefuwa, based on burnt scars on his right hand, which was misinterpreted as physical deformity. In its view, the disqualification has distorted the selection process that had edged out Adefuwa, a retired reputable media executive, who is eminently qualified to succeed the late monarch. Also, the family  maintained that although, Adefuwa sustained injuries from a domestic fire accident years back that left a minor scar on his right hand, the wound is not as conspicuous as the committee painted it in report. House of Assembly member representing Ibeju/Lekki Constituency 1, Fatal Mojeed, however, said that the selection committee must have followed the due process in accordance with  the Chieftancy law of the state in picking the right person. He said: “It is the responsibility of the kingmakers to select whoever is that is right for the stool. I am not interested in the process and system as I am not entitled to partake in the selection process. As far as I am concerned, there is no crisis regarding the selection of the right person. Mojee added:”Those who claimed that the selection committee did not follow the chieftaincy law, may not know and understand the law itself. “Regarding the allegation that politicians in the area were influencing the selection process, Mojeed said it was untrue and that he was not concerned about obaship.”   