Business man and YouTube channel owner, Bryce Thompson has opened up on how a back injury prevented him to pursue a career in basketball. Thompson whose childhood dream was to become a basketball player had no clue he was going to end a business owner and YouTuber until he sustained an injury that dashed his basketball dreams. Unfortunately, an injury prevented him from pursuing a career in sports. Though this was a major setback in Bryce’s life, he clearly has made something big out of the setback by becoming a successful entrepreneur. “One of my biggest obstacles that I faced was having to be faced with news of a back injury that derailed my dreams of becoming a basketball player. Despite all of this, in three years in the industry, I had built a multi-million dollar business”, explained Bryce. However, instead of giving up, Bryce Thompson re-strategized to become and entrepreneur and has since become a force to reckon with. Born July 2, 1996, Thompson is now a trailblazer who is redefining what it means to be a young entrepreneur. Achieving success at such a young age was not easy for Bryce, but since then, he has been incredibly successful. Despite his age, Bryce has been incredibly successful. In addition to becoming a chairman, he also runs a youtubepage where he only grows his brand success and shows people a day in the life of Bryce. This helps him promote himself while promoting his work and his success in addition to giving sage advice to people who want to have a lifestyle like him. “I would like to be perceived as a millennial entrepreneur, business builder and creative director of massive events and experiences all over the world. My youtube channel helps me get the word out about all the amazing things that I do as well as just the ordinary stuff in between.” remarks Bryce. Bryce’s success was not just his own doing. Like many other successful entrepreneurs, he did have help along the way. We are nothing without our support systems and the people who get us through the difficult times. Whether that be just a word of encouragement or actual business help, our friends and our family help makes our dreams come true. Bryce was surrounded by his brother and his closest friends who all helped him make all of their businesses successful. “I’m not alone in my success. I’m very quick to point out that my brother and a few of my closest friends have been there from the very beginning. Each milestone I surpass, I attribute every single one to them. Most successful people that have a team that assisted them to success don’t ever reciprocate that same effort back to their team. It’s about everybody winning and going to the top together. I would not be here without the people that were there from the very beginning.” says Bryce. Bryce is the future of young entrepreneurship who is showing that anything is possible no matter what age you are. Though Bryce has many years ahead of him, it is clear that he will be successful in whatever he does due to his ability to achieve when people have put many obstacles in his path. Nothing will stop Bryce from growing and doing more to make sure that he is successful. 