Borno State Governor,  Babagana Zulum and former President-General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Chief John Nwodo  have said Nigeria must restructure and give its component units sovereignty over their natural resources if it must remain an entity. They spoke at the 17th Gani Fawehinmi Annual lecture held at Ikeja Airport Hotel,  Lagos. The  theme was: Constitutional History of Nigeria’s Dysfunction : Any Pathway to Indivisibility and Common Progress? Speaking on the theme Zulum argued that the constitution was amended to foist a unitary system on the country. He said the constitution gives too much power to the federal system and arrogated too much power to the president and governors. “Why can’t we have a constitution fashioned to meet the need of the people?  Why can’t we have the people’s constitution?“ Zulum asked. Although he was not opposed to establishment of state police, he pointed out that the centralisation of police is defective. “But you have to look at the ability of the people in power as such power over the police in a state can be abused.“ He warned that if such power is not properly managed, it could polarise an already weak system. For Nwodo, when the country is restructured, the federating units must be prepared to pay royalties or some form of taxation to the Federal Government to maintain federal responsibilities like external defence, foreign missions, customs and immigration. “Emphasis must return to agriculture and education. Education must emphasise renaiscent digital orientation. Domestic security must remain in the hands of the units. The security of the Nigerian state must be respected.” The Ohaneze Ndigbo chieftain said: “These irreducible minimum conditions are not negotiable. If it does not happen, we will have no alternative but to go our separate ways.” He said the process to begin restructuring as a nation must be concluded before 2023 elections so as to avert a situation where a section may boycott the elections and present the country with a constitutional force majeure. To buttress his arguments, Nwodo said the country was much better under regional governments. He recalled that there  was a time when the mainstay of Nigeria’s economy was agriculture noting “the North had groundnuts pyramids, cotton and livestock; the West had cocoa, the Midwest had rubber and palm oil and the East had palm produce, cashew nuts and cassava. He said when these agricultural yields were booming, there was also exponential growth of import substitution industries. According to him, the only reason why things worked so well was because , “we had a regional system of government that allowed regions to enjoy sovereignty over their natural resources whilst paying royalties and taxes to the Federal Government.” He said the sudden adventure of the military into governance led to the abrogation of the constitution following which a unitary constitution was imposed and the country was turned into a unitary state. Nwodo supported establishment of state police as a way out of the insecurity the country has found itself. Citing examples across the world, he said local communities that embrace local policing system are more peaceful than the cities. He noted that state police exercise exclusive responsibilities and understand  their jurisdiction very well. Activist lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) and son, Folarin a.k.a Falz said a huge responsibility have been placed on lawyers for the country to enjoy democracy. Falana said: “As lawyers, let us rise up and save the country like Gani did. He said the #EndSARS movement which held last year has rekindled hope in Nigeria saying, “it taught us to ensure that many youths register for elections in the country. Mohammed, son of late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, urged up-coming lawyers to fight for truth and justice always and exhibit dignity in the legal profession. 