 The opportunities offered by the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement are too tempting to miss. Even before trading under the much-anticipated trade liberalisation deal kicked off on January 1, 2021, AfCFTA Secretary-General Wamkele Mene once again wetted the appetite of the 54 African countries that had signed on to the agreement with the mouth-watering benefits and opportunities on offer by the AfCFTA. The occasion was the August 2020 inauguration of the AfCFTA Permanent Secretariat hosted by Ghana by the African Union Commission (AUC), where Mene noted, for instance, that AfCFTA offered an opportunity for Africa to confront her trade and economic development challenges. The AfCFTA Scribe listed some of the challenges to include market fragmentation, small national economies, over-reliance on primary commodity exports, and narrow export base. Others were lack of export specialisation, under-developed regional value chains and high regulatory and tariff barriers to trade. “We have to take action now to dismantle the colonial economic model that we inherited,” Mene charged African countries including Nigeria who are signatories to the free trade agreement. Incidentally, his call for action resonated with the Interim Vice-Chair Person of the African Business Council (AfBC), an independent private sector institution of the African Union (AU), Dr. Ahmed Mansur, and indeed, other stakeholders in the AfCFTA project. For instance, while lauding the launch of the start of trading under the AfCFTA on January 1, 2021, Mansur, who doubles as President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), said: “It’s a new year, and new opportunities are emerging.” To cease the emerging opportunities, Mansur, in a statement made available to The Nation on Friday, January 22, 2021, said: “As manufacturers, traders, farmers, transporters, shippers, women business associations and youths, here is our time. “Let us go out there and grab the opportunities. It is time to feed Africa through agriculture, manufacturing and promoting value chains. It is only through a united voice that we can have transformation in Africa.” The AfCFTA was adopted by the 18th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the AU in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, in January 2012. The trade liberalisation deal was expected to create a Continental Free Trade Area (CFTA) for goods and services in Africa, liberalise and facilitate the free movement of people, investments and businesses across the continent, while also signaling a step towards building strong regional value chains. With its promise of creating a continental trade bloc of 1.3 billion people across Africa, with a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of about $3 trillion, the AfCFTA is the world’s largest trade agreement since the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in 1994, in terms of participating nations. In other words, the AfCFTA is arguably, the most ambitious and strategic push to build an integrated, diversified and industrialised continent capable of holding its own in the global economy. The Agreement was seen as an important milestone in promoting Africa’s regional integration and helping to boost intra-African trade, which is between 16 and 17 per cent, by more than 52 per cent, worth about $35 billion  yearly. It hopes to achieve these by committing African countries to phasing out tariffs on 90 per cent of goods, with 10 per cent of “sensitive items” to be phased out incrementally. The removal of tariffs on goods in particular was projected to increase the value of intra-African trade by 15 to 25 per cent by 2040. This would translate to between $50 billion and $70 billion in dollar value. Although the AfCFTA was earlier scheduled to start on July 1, last year, it was put on hold for six months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Trading eventually started on January 1. Out of the continent’s 55 countries, only Eritrea is yet to sign the agreement, which has already been ratified by 34 member states. Interestingly, Nigeria, which ratified the AfCFTA last December, has been tipped by development experts as AfCFTA’s biggest potential beneficiary, given her nearly 200 million population and huge market for trade. For instance, the President of African Export-Import Bank (Afreximbank), Professor Benedict Oramah, said one of the benefits of the deal waiting for Nigeria to grab is the possibility of taking over from China as the world’s manufacturing hub. Oramah cited Nigeria’s rising middle class, as well as her rapid urbanisation, which, according to him, will expand demand for manufactured goods. He said it is projected that Nigeria’s urban population will reach 264 million by 2030, which is equal to 15 per cent of the projected population in that year. “These will spur demand for critical infrastructure, housing, processed food, fast moving consumer goods (FMCGs) and a host of other light manufactures,” Oramah said, at a recent public lecture in Lagos. As the Afreximbank boss emphasised: “It is the manufacturing industry that will supply these items. Related to the foregoing is the gradual exit of China from labour intensive light manufacturing. Today, Nigeria and Africa respectively import $1 billion and $43 billion of light manufactures from china. “As China shifts to more capital-intensive manufacturing due to rising labour costs, those goods have to be supplied by somebody. Nigeria and indeed, the entire African continent will have themselves to blame if this projected supply gap is filled from outside the continent.” Oramah added that since manufactures account for about 60 per cent of total intra-African trade, intra-regional trade in manufactures can rise to more than $150 billion by 2022. “The opportunity for African manufacturers is, therefore, phenomenal,” he said. The bank chief specifically said the preferences that AfCFTA offers can make Nigerian manufactured goods more competitive in many African markets and can also make it possible for integration into regional and global supply chains. However, the preponderance of opinion is that the extent Nigeria will leverage the trade liberalisation deal to remake the economy will depend on the commitment of the authorities working with the private sector to address the supply side constraints of lack of infrastructure. Mansur is one of those who believe that for Nigeria to realise the gains of AfCFTA, government must address the supply side constraints of lack of infrastructure. “We cannot achieve competitiveness without the provision of infrastructure such as good road networks and electricity, not only within African countries, but also across the borders. “There is also the aspect of provision of soft infrastructure – like visa, tariffs, and foreign exchange – that will help ease the process of carrying out business transactions between countries. We must address all these issues since the AfCFTA is not just about trade in goods, but also trade in services,” he said. Mansur, who spoke at the “2020 MAN Annual Media Luncheon,”said modern industry competitiveness depends to a great extent on provision of adequate and efficient infrastructure. “From the availability of power and energy to transport and logistics, the role of infrastructure cannot be overemphasised in trade and economic development on the continent,” he emphasised. For instance, while pointing out that transportation is vital to enhancing competitiveness in trade, he said due to poor infrastructure, it will cost a business owner in Nigeria more to transport goods from Lagos to Kano than it will cost a Chinese business owner to transport the same goods from China to Lagos. For struggling Nigerian manufacturers, inadequate and rising cost of electricity appears to be the greatest impediment to competitiveness under AfCFTA. At the moment, manufacturers, according to MAN Director-General Segun Ajayi-Kadir, spend as much as N70 billion on self-generated electricity. As if the crisis in Nigeria’s Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) is not enough to erode manufacturers’ competitiveness and hurt their chances at the AfCFTA, Ajayi-Kadir bemoaned the recent spate of increase in electricity tariff. Operators in various sectors including manufacturers have been at loggerhead with the Federal Government and the electricity industry regulator, Nigeria Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), over the latest electricity tariff adjustment of N2 to N4.00 per kilowatt per hour, effective January 1, 2021. Ajayi-Kadir, in a statement made available to The Nation, said: “Obviously, this increase in tariff, which is coming at the commencement of the AfCFTA and barely three months after a huge increment was imposed on electricity users in October 2020, is not manufacturing friendly. “It appears to be insensitive to the prevailing precarious situation of the manufacturing sector. The increase is coming at a wrong time and would clearly reverse the little gains in the recent past. “This is against the background of prevailing harsh operating environment, the increasing burden of taxes, the enormous spending on self-generated electricity up to the tune of N70billion and the ailing state of a sector that is just recovering from a lockdown occasioned by the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. “We are worried that the recent increase in price of electricity will have overwhelming negative impact on the economy, especially the manufacturing sector.” The MAN DG’s counterpart at Nigeria Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, is no less worried. He said in the reality of COVID-19 and its impact on the economy, manifesting as economic recession, continuous increase in the cost of production (which would be the result of these periodical electricity tariff increases) will impede the growth of the real sector. “Business concerns will attempt to pass-on some of these costs to consumers by increasing their prices, demand would drop, and the vicious-cycle will continue. Olukanni said. His recipe for a way out: “Our counsel to the government remains the implementation of policies (even if it is in the short term) that increase the productive capacity of the real sector, as well as the disposable income of the general populace, as this is the time-tested approach to exiting a recession.” Will government heed the wise counsel and implement policies that will boost the real sector’s productive capacity? Will Nigeria, including private sector operators, get over their initial lethargy over the AfCTA and collaborate to address all the issues particularly infrastructure that may hurt the country’s chances of maximising the game-changing trade liberalisation initiative? Answers to these questions are imperative considering that Nigeria was one of the last African countries to sign the AfCTA, with President Muhammadu Buhari and some members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS) raising concerns that goods produced outside Africa could be dumped in Nigeria through other (West) African countries who allow largely unrestricted imports. 