 Nigeria’s women tennis No. 1, Oyinlomo Quadri is inspired by the fairy story of former world No. 1 Serena Williams. Like the world acclaimed grand slam winner Serena, Oyinlomo is motivated by the love of his parents and siblings. Born, into a tennis family, she derives her stimulus from her father; a tennis lover and patron of sports shop, and two siblings that play the game of tennis before her. Speaking exclusively with The Nation in Lagos, 17-year old Oyinlomo began with her tough journey from a four-year old dragged to a ragtag local court by her older siblings. She narrated: “I started playing when I was four years old and my love for tennis was inspired by siblings, most especially my sister, Aminat Quadre Growing up, I was really attached to my sister and I followed her to train at a place called Akagbe, right in front of City Mall and not so far from Lagos Lawn Tennis Club where my dad had a sports shop. Back at Akagbe, my sister’s coach watched me and I guess he saw how much I loved being on the court and how much I enjoyed picking balls for my sister and learning from her. He encouraged me to play and told me that I could start by playing for thirty minutes and that was how I started to develop my skills. Later on, the coach and my dad became members of Lagos Lawn Tennis club so things became much easier for me because I could just practice and train with him.” It was not an easy task considering she had to train with players older than her, and in a harsh condition but that toughened her. She said: “When I started at Akagbe, what kept me focused was the passion I already had despite the fact that the training conditions were poor. The courts were bad, so I just had to focus on my love for the game and not mind the surroundings. I enjoyed practicing then and it was more enjoyable for me because I already started beating other children there and a lot of them were older than me. After my dad became a member at the Lagos Lawn Tennis club, things became much easier for me because it was better than Akagbe. They had standard courts which meant I could play on better courts and for as long as I wanted to. It was easier for me to combine school with tennis because at that point, my routine was ‘from school to the club and back home.” The tough situation, she confessed sometimes get to her but another thing kept her going is the wise words and encouragement of her parents, coach and siblings-her support party. “Honestly, I think this is what makes me different from a lot of people. My parents have always been supportive of me and I am grateful for that. When I was younger, my parents would tell me that I could beat Serena Williams and when I played alone, I would usually imagine I was playing in the Grand slam against Serena. My dad sees how hard I work to train and be better and my mom is always supportive of me. There have been times I would be sad and cry after a match and I would call them and this is something I am always grateful for. I think a lot of parents should be more supportive of their children’s dreams because it’s very important.” FROM LAGOS TO AFRICA In a little while, Lagos tennis buffs and watchers could no longer ignore the gifted Oyinlomo, as she began appearing in local tournaments and beating older players. At nine years, she once played in an U16 tournament and whipped experienced and older girls to the trophy. Her mentor and coach Chris Enahoro noticed this and quickly pushed her to the national championships. He realized that he had a potential star in his hand that couldn’t be locked up in a box. “When I started playing, I only played at tournaments in Lagos, but this was a problem for me because I was only known in Lagos. My dad didn’t know much about how to get me to other competitions outside Lagos.  The breakthrough for me was when I played at the Under-16 tournament at the age of nine and I made it to the final that was when I started getting noticed. Shortly after this, I was invited to represent Nigeria in a tournament in Abuja where I beat Marylove (former Nigeria No 1) and that was the first time I played outside Lagos. After, I went ahead to the African Junior Championship (AJC) qualifiers for West Africa in Abuja and I won the qualifiers and then proceeded to the main AJCs for Africa which was in Tunisia and I made it to quarter finals where I lost. The following year, I played AJC qualifiers and won again and I made sure to play at other tournaments before playing at the main AJC. I played in Benin Republic and in Togo in the Under-18 circuits when I was thirteen years old and I gained more CAT points before I played at the semi-finals. At a point I was in the top eight in Africa and I was only twelve years old. So, I went to play top eight Africa’s masters for Nigeria.” It was apparent that Oyinlomo is a Serena in the making. A tigress has been unleashed and she practically broke all records and hurdles before her. At 17, Oyinlomo is Nigeria’s to women player and the world is at her feet. She narrated how she found herself at the top. “I think it is both motivating and overwhelming at the same time but I am just glad that I have been able to achieve a lot at a young age. There are times I get criticized because but tennis has helped me develop a more matured mind and not pay attention to negativity. I like to remind myself of what I have been able to achieve and see it as way of making more improvements. So, I just try to keep my mind focused on being better till I am the best there is.”  TENNIS GIRL FROM MACAULAY STREET The tennis girl from Macaulay Street-Lagos has high dreams to play among the world’s best. Her work is clearly cut out. “The first step for me was going for tournaments. As time went on, my mentor at the time, Chris Enahoro wanted me to go to an academy. I was at a tournament when I was asked if I would want to attend the high-performance Centre in Morocco. It was the best option for me because it is an ITF certified Centre. The Nigeria tennis federation also trusts them to deliver results as we have had some Nigerians who also went to the centre. So, when the opportunity came, we took it immediately. “For as long as I can remember, I have worked hard at achieving goals I set for myself. I won ITF juniors Under-18 when I was thirteen years old, and at that point I was the youngest in the world with that ranking. So, I think my biggest motivation is to do better than my biggest accomplishments and beat my best records. And I am blessed because I am surrounded by people who encourage me to be better and support me.’ Little wonder the world’s best tennis icons attract her. “Roger Federer inspires me since I was little. I have always seen him as an inspiration. He has managed to make tennis look easy and his calmness is al most contagious. I am still aspiring to reach that level of calmness at some point.  Also, I have always admired Serena Williams.” She hopes to keep working hard and her goal is to play among the best in the world and win a grand slam in the near future. “One goal I have always wanted to accomplish is to beat Serena Williams’ grand slam record and I hope I can still do that soon.” Oyinlomo is already thinking of giving back to the society and has set up a foundation to take care of struggling ball boys. “I have a foundation called Fusion Foundation and it is something my siblings and I set up as a way of giving back to the society. Since when I was younger, I have always been close to tennis ball boys and I see some of them struggle with things like food and even clothes. “Whenever I see them, I ask what tournaments they have played in and most times they’ve not had the opportunity to play and it just breaks my heart. This was my inspiration to set up the foundation, to help the ball boys develop themselves and give them the opportunity to be recognized for their talents. It is something my siblings and I do together and we are hoping to get sponsorships from individuals and organizations too. So far, I have sponsored two tournaments. Although my life is just about tennis, I will like to further my education and get a Master’s degree in psychology. And for my fans, I am quite active on social media and my handles are @oyinlomoquadre on Instagram, twitter and tiktok.”  CHALLENGES Oyinlomo is aware of the challenges faced by tennis players in Nigeria and has become an advocator for tennis to be better funded by both the corporate and public sponsors. “I think tennis is underrated and it is hard to get sponsorships. So, I think the federation should work on getting sponsorships so there can be more tournaments for players to develop themselves in. A lot of players in Nigeria only wait for CBN and after they just hang their rackets till the following year. Another thing is I do not think tennis players are celebrated in Nigeria. There is no recognition unlike some other sports.  If the federation can work on these, I think it would be a good starting point.”