Herself, an actress with a rising profile, Bose Joseph, Opemipo Bamgbopa’s mum speaks of how she groomed her kindergarten girl into the star the world woke up to behold; plus the price she had to pay for that stardom.  OPEMIPO burst into the movie scene with her role in Maradona, almost ready-made; fluent in Yoruba and English, with good acting skills; how did you do it? Well, you may have encountered her first in Maradona, but that was her 13th movie. I became an actor in 1990 at 200 Level in Ogun State University, where I was reading Industrial Chemistry. Aside acting, I did musical, then I stopped. I had Opemipo in 1994. You know, there was this perception of single parents, which I didn’t quite like; so everything I wanted to do better, I started putting it in Opemipo by way of grooming. On her acting career, she was just six and I had taken her to an Opa Williams auditioning; my friends Tina Mba, late Joe Adekwae, Ada Ameh and Gloria Anozie were there. They had a role for a young man but there was none in sight; so everybody said Opemipo should step in it. I had met Uncle Wale Macaulay around my shop, who invited me for auditioning. From there, Opemipo got a role; I didn’t even get. That was Timi, a project on AIT. I was already doing Yoruba movies as well as the English. I was in ‘Everyday People’ by Taju Adepetu; I also got on ‘I Need To Know’ courtesy of Wasiu Onitilo and Uncle Goke Aina, who was DOP on that set. When they wanted to rebrand ‘Family Circle’ and change it to ‘One Love’, Opemipo went for reading and she got the part of Enitan, the baby of the house. My Yoruba people started asking, ‘Won’t you do anything for the Yoruba movies?’ So we had done series of Yoruba movie; when Maradona was to be shot, Muka wasn’t really keen on Opemipo but Iyabo Ojo knew what she wanted. She said Opemipo had that touch. They just wrote that story but I gave it that flesh. The concept, the costume, I handled; so she was able to click quickly because I was there to guide her. At that point, I had to slow down for her. The understanding of the producer was that it wasn’t the best if she was getting roles and I was getting. So most times, you just see me doing just one or two scenes. To the glory of God, she got series of awards, including Best Kid Actor. What challenges did you face raising such a young kid into stardom? I did not see it coming, but we lost each other mid-way. For a huge part of her teenage years, about five or six years, we were not friends. That’s why she’s just in school now. She is 26, I had her September 5, 1994 and ought to have finished school. For a long time, she wanted to leave the country. She didn’t want to do anything here. Literally, she was exerting that teenage exuberance. It was so bad that she didn’t speak to me for like a year or two. I tell you, I was not myself. But I thank God for people, men of God here and there. Some of my friends would go to where she was, even without my knowing it, give her money, encourage her… People said I should have expected it, and that it was a price for stardom. We’re just getting back as friends now. She bought me this (showing off some jewellery) and today I brought her the canvass she is wearing. We’re beginning to relate like mom and daughter again. You said something about trying to make Opemipo everything you couldn’t achieve; would you say she’s a better version of Bose Joseph? Maybe, but the bottom-line is there are lots of things I still need to imbue in her to make her a better person in life. You know most of those who would be flocking around her now are people who want to benefit from her stardom, but I have nothing to benefit from her in that regard. I just want her to be the best that she can be. How easy was it bargaining for her as a kid star? First of all, we didn’t make any money. I wish I was exposed to endorsement at the time. There was a time we met with Senator Remi Tinubu; we had gone to ‘New Dawn with Funmi Iyanda,’ I could have asked for everything I needed, perhaps a better deal that would outlive her career as an actor, because we were struggling then. That would also have enabled me limit her appearances on movies. But people thought she was making a lot of money. No, I was more particular about my daughter’s wellbeing; because people started coming with the line, ‘Is she not our daughter?’ There were even some movies she did do that nearly cost me relationship with some people. Muyiwa Ademola shot a movie, ‘Alapadupe’; he wanted Opemipo on set in Oyo but I had just had her brother and so couldn’t take her. I’m not sure he totally forgave me since then because he wrote that movie with Opemipo and Samuel (Ajirebi) in mind. The money she was paid on ‘Maradona’ was very poor, although it got her a lot of awards. Still, I thank God, because some people have made lots of money but they’re gone. What kind of pupil was she to you? A very fast learner. Growing up, I used to put butter in her beans and now she says she still does it in school. And she still prays with the exact lines I thought her. So now I’m looking at her and I’m like ‘Okay, I haven’t lost everything.’ She’s a very wonderful student. You were also an actor, but you said you had to slow down for her; that was a great sacrifice. It’s a double honour. Your daughter is an actor, you’re an actor. People would say, ‘Don’t you know Maradona? That’s her mum.’ Nobody is saying Bose Joseph. It’s the same till tomorrow. And the doors and opportunities it opens are limitless. And I’m always ready to stake for her. When somebody was getting aggressive with her earlier today and pushing her, I went to push her and say, ‘That’s my daughter, you don’t try mess with her.’ How did you get her off movies sets to go back to school? Well, I told her it’s either education or nothing. I told her everybody that has made a name in the industry today is your senior but they respect you because they met you in the industry. But some of them degrees and masters; some have PhD; it will get to a stage that whoever you are, you would not be able to stand up to them. Funke is there, she’s a lawyer; Dayo Amusa, Toyin Abram; all of them went to Ogun State University, where I finished. So I let her know it’s education or nothing. Education helped me too, such that when I came into acting, I wasn’t given anyhow roles, because I had the delivery they wanted.