 SOME entrepreneurs will play a key role in the year providing young people with access to employment and micro-business opportunities in Nigeria. One of them is the Chief Executive, One Kiosk Adeshina Adewumi. An entrepreneur who has built many businesses from the scratch, he is a consultant to many start-ups. An online platform, One Kiosk connects store owners with customers based on their location. The company, which started in 2019, targets merchants range from informal retail players to medium-scale supermarkets. The system has been able to grow revenue for merchants and then capture their sales data to make them eligible for credit. Chief Executive Officer, TalentQL, Adewale Yusuf, has over 10 years’ experience in visual storytelling through photography and technology. He started as Publisher, Techpoint.africa, a media platform dedicated to startups, entrepreneurship, innovation, and technology in Africa. Lagos has a bubbling tech ecosystem with the majority of the country’s most innovative startups having a presence in it. The Centre of Excellence has the highest paid developers. TalentQL is ensuring that it breeds tech talents that live outside Lagos. Yusuf enlisted the help of co-founder of cloud-hosting company, Whogohost; and Jobberman, one of Africa’s largest online recruitment firms and Sultan Akintunde to build TalentQL. Akintunde is the founder of the non-profit tech accelerator, DevCareer, which pools funds to buy laptops for up-and-coming developers and guide them on a path to proficiency. For now, the company’s focus is on engineering talent, but with time, it will expand into other areas like design and content. Before he left,Techpoint.africa added an academy, coaching business owners to help them on how to grow. He specialises in helping business to business (B2B) firms get more leads, clients and sales by leveraging his growth strategies. Yusuf said the demand for technology professionals such as software engineers and developers has been on the rise as the remote working model accelerated the adoption of digital technologies. Founder & Mum-in-Chief, Baby Grubz Seun Sangoleye, is an entrepreneur to watch. She is an experienced nutrition educator and manufacturer of packaged infant meals and snacks made from grains, fruits and vegetables called Baby Grubz Nigeria ®, a social enterprise based in Lagos, with operations in Ghana and Togo. She creates income opportunities for women. Last year, she won first place in the Global Scaling Up Nutrition (SUN) pitch. Founded by Seun in 2013, Baby Grubz processes cereals for children under five. With a wide product variety range, including ground brown rice cereal, banana and dates, sweet potato cereal, Baby Grubz works with over 300 women across the country. The founder and Chief Executive, Chanja Datti, a waste collection and recycling social enterprise company based in Abuja, Olufunto Boroffice is an entrepreneur who is ready to make a difference. Since the company’s establishment, it has been responsible for diverting three million kg of recyclable waste from landfills in the Abuja metropolis. They have been able to do this by creating 200 green jobs and expanded their manufacturing capabilities, allowing them to recycle 10 tons of plastic film monthly into recycled resins for production of recycled poly bags and construction materials. Olufunto holds a Masters in Financial Management from Pace University’s Lubin School of Business in New York and a Bachelor of Accounting and Finance from Northeastern University in Boston where she graduated cum laude. Founder of Hotels.NG, Mark Essien, has established many businesses. Hotels.NG serves hotels and customers across the country with plans to expand across Africa. Iyinoluwa Aboyeji is the co-founder of Andela. A former managing director of Flutterwave, a business building payments technology and infrastructure to connect Africa to the global economy, he is passionate about partnering missionary talent and capital to build an African future. Aboyeji, a 2016 Quartz Africa Innovator, is up to something.