Chairman of the National Registration Committee of the ongoing All Progressives Congress (APC) membership registration, update and revalidation, Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello has said the success of the exercise will determine the party’s chances in the 2023 general elections. This is even as Kano State Governor Umar Abdullah Ganduje said his state would retain its position as the largest democracy in the country with the expected membership figure the state will return after the exercise. They spoke yesterday while inaugurating the State Registration Committees for the party’s membership registration and revalidation, which started on Monday. Advising the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory (FCT) registration committee chairmen and secretaries in Abuja, Bello said the exercise was conceived to increase the party’s membership base for future electioneering victories, among other reasons. He said: “The whole intention of this exercise is to expand our membership base for we believe that when this (registration) is done, we believe that it will increase our chances in the next elections.” Bello further said the exercise became necessary with influx of new members, increase in number of defectors from opposition parties and young boys and girls who have reached 18 years and are willing to join the party. The Niger governor recalled that APC membership registration was last conducted in 2014. The committee chairman warned party chieftains and members against any attempt to hijack registration materials for ulterior motive. He also warned that the party would not tolerate any act that could undermine the integrity of the exercise, adding: “Domination of registration process by an individual or group will also not be accepted.” Bello urged the committee at the state level to ensure that no one is left unregistered. “Please, note that the objective of this exercise is to ensure that no one is left behind and to make sure that any interested person or group are free to join APC,” he said. Expressing optimism for the success of the exercise, Ganduje said party members and new entrants yet to be registered across the country were eager for the exercise. The Kano governor noted that with the level of preparation for the exercise and the efficient registration process in place, APC would have a higher membership figure. On the preparation for the process in his state, he said as the largest democracy in the country, the state was set to retain it position. “We (Kano) are the largest democracy in Nigeria. Through the registration, we shall prove to all that we are indeed the largest democracy in the country,” Ganduje said.