 TO say that the federal government has literally hit the bottom is simply stating the obvious. Truth is, the government is battling serious cash crunch, no thanks to the rampaging coronavirus pandemic which has caused a lot of financial strain and adversely affected the ability of government to meet its statutory responsibility. To address the gap, government in its wisdom is looking at borrowing from proceeds from unclaimed dividends and dormant accounts. Dividends are cash rewards that a company gives to its shareholder. As simple as that request is, this has not gone down well with major stakeholders, especially shareholder groups, who hold the view and very strongly too that they should be given the right of first refusal before anyone else. At issue is that the federal government plans to borrow from unclaimed dividends and funds from dormant account balances of Deposit Money Banks. This is as contained in Part XII of the Companies and Allied Matters Act in the signed Finance Act 2020. Under Part XII of the Act, it was stated that dividends were special debts due to and recoverable by shareholders within 12 years, and actionable only when declared. The Act stated that dividends that were unclaimed after 12 years should be included in the profits that should be distributed to the other shareholders of the company. It noted that notwithstanding subsections (1) and (2), dividends of a public limited liability company quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) which had remained unclaimed for a period of six years or more from the date of declaring the dividend shall be immediately transferred to the Unclaimed Funds Trust Fund. “Such unclaimed dividends transferred to the Unclaimed Funds Trust Fund shall be a special debt owed by the Federal Government to the shareholders and shall be available for claim by the shareholder at any time, pursuant to the aforementioned perpetual trust,” the Act stated. According to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) the proposal by the federal government to set up unclaimed dividends and balances trust fund is not a bad one after all. Making this submission recently was the Head, Securities and Investments Services (SIS) Department Mr. Abdulkadir Abbas. He spoke while making clarifications on the Commission’s presentation at the one day Public Hearing on the Finance Bill, 2020 in Abuja. He said the Commission is requesting to be allowed to continue to constructively manage the issue of unclaimed dividends for the development of the nation’s capital market. According to him, “We are not against the proposal to set up unclaimed dividends and balances trust fund. Our concerns are with respect to the governance structure of that proposed fund and that is why we are asking for reconsideration. We are advocating modifications of the provisions with regards to management and governance of the trust fund to avoid possible harm to the capital market which is still struggling to survive. “SEC being the capital market regulator and mandated by the Investments and Securities Act to protect the interest of the investors, to be the one to administer or to manage or to supervise the operations of that fund, that is what we are requesting.” Mr. Abbas, who represented the Director-General of the SEC at the Public Hearing assured the Senate that, the SEC would continue to monitor the compliance of the rules and regulations on the treatment of unclaimed dividends adding that its ultimate objective is to pool unclaimed dividends into a well-structured and well governed Fund with independent management under the existing National Investor Protection Fund (NIPF) as found in other jurisdictions like Kenya and India. He added that alternatively, the unclaimed Dividends Trust Fund could be set up as an independent Fund to be managed by the private sector (Professionals Fund Managers) under the supervision of the Commission In a related development, the Director-General of the SEC, Mr Lamido Yuguda, had last November stated this during an investigative hearing on the need to investigate the rising value of inclined dividends, unremitted withholding tax on dividends and their attendant effects on nation’s economy, recalled that SEC had introduced the regularisation of multiple accounts in 2015 where it requested all shareholders with multiple accounts to harmonise their accounts by filing e-dividend mandate forms and submitting same to their banks or stockbrokers for onward transmission to their respective registrars. Yuguda stated the SEC has repeatedly canvassed and maintains that the most viable option is the removal of the 12-year bar for investors to claim their dividends imposed by CAMA. He said additionally, accumulated unclaimed dividends should be invested through a capital market vehicle that will focus on critical infrastructure development for the benefit of investors. This he said, will be a win all round, as the incentive for accumulating unclaimed dividends will be curbed, the investors who earned the dividends will benefit and the taxes levied on the capital market vehicle will generate the much-needed revenue for the government. Yuguda highlighted various initiatives by the SEC to address the challenges of unclaimed dividends to include the abolition of the use of in-house registrars by paying companies, for their operations to improve transparency and remove the conflict of interest which has resulted in registrars becoming separate entities from their parent companies. The SEC DG disclosed that the Commission is currently working on an initiative to ensure consolidation of multiple accounts which involves the verification and isolation of the account beneficiaries with a deadline of the first quarter of 2021. This initiative is in addition to the forbearance window granted by the Commission to holders of multiple accounts to show up and consolidate. Finance Minister allays fears For those still in doubt, especially owners of dormant accounts and unclaimed dividends, they have nothing to lose as they would be paid their entitlements, from the Special Trust Fund to be set up by the federal government, once they are properly identified. The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, made the clarification while fielding questions during the virtual presentation of the 2021 federal government budget recently. “The unclaimed dividend and dormant accounts will be pooled into a Special Trust Fund. At any time that a bank or the registrar confirms that this is the true owner of such funds, the government will release such funds,” the minister said in response to a question on whether the federal government wanted to use the controversial fund to finance its budget deficit. Speaking with a cross-section of experts they argued that the issue is indeed vexatious, arguing that how can the government arm-twist shareholders to surrender the proceeds of their investments without any recourse to them in the first place? This amounts to government trying to rob Peter to pay Paul, they argued, adding that government is not a shareholder so how would it now take delight in taking money that does not belong to it, especially considering the fact that they may not be able to pay back as and when due. They readily cite the case with the pension funds, which has been borrowed by the government in recent times. One of those who have mounted opposition against the government’s action plan is Mr. Boniface Okezie, Chairman, Progressive Shareholders Association of Nigeria. Raising some posers, Okezie said, “If the federal government truly wants to borrow as they have claimed, how are they going to apply to borrow the money? Would they approach the CBN, AMCOM, and SEC?” At the centre of this mess is the issue of 2020 Financial Act, which as far as Boniface is concerned, is akin to Decree 1983. “This is a battle the shareholders have resisted in the past and even right now the matter would be challenged at the court of law. The government has no right to appropriate what does not belong to it. According to the position of the law, once the claims are status barred, only the companies have a right to take the money. That is what the CAMA Act says so the government can just use fiat. It smacks of fraud; it’s simply robbing Peter to pay Paul.” He would rather the government should continue to borrow from the where they have been borrowing from. “We have always told the government to expunge the law and review it upward by removing all the bottlenecks that affect disbursement of claims to the rightful owners from the statutory 12 years to about 50-100 years. This is because there are cases where shareholders die before they get their entitlements but if their families can establish the veracity of their claims they can be paid. There is also poor postage system which leads to mails and notifications getting lost in transit. This is why we stress that the government needs to intensify efforts at awareness and not deliberately cause hiccups for the citizenry. “But sadly, the amendment made on the CAMA as shown in the Financial Act made a mess of the whole thing and that is what has given rise to the government’s plan of action. He would rather the federal government approach its regular sources such as the Bretton woods institutions like the World Bank, the IMF, AfDB, and China.” Unlike most commentators, Chairman, Trusted Shareholders’ Association of Nigeria (TSAN), Alhaji Mukhtar Mukhtar, has a different view entirely. While noting that successive heads of the SEC tried to device possible means and ways of resolving the issue of backlog of unclaimed dividends in the past, Mukhtar said, “Nobody can support anybody to take anybody’s money. With the estimated over N150billion unclaimed dividends, it doesn’t make sense for these funds to be lying fallow.” More importantly, with the Finance Act already passed, Mukhtar said, “There is really nothing anybody can do. As far as I’m concerned, the only option open to us as shareholder groups is to advise on how to manage the funds. Of course, if government borrows these monies it would pay interest on it.” On plans by some shareholders groups to institute legal action against, Mukhtar said it was an exercise in futility as it was already a fait accompli. “Instead of opposing the government, I beseech us to come together. Of course, there must modalities for how such funds would be managed so that it is not misappropriated by those saddled with the responsibility of overseeing the funds.  I also believe the registrars are complicit in this whole matter of unclaimed dividends, most of who in the past abusing the process.  I believe there is some level of connivance with the registrars and some of its backers within the shareholder groups. Everything appears shrouded in secrecy. For long, we fought to ensure that savings accounts rather than only current accounts can also be used to save proceeds of share dividends. It was along-drawn battle, and we only succeeded just two years ago to force down the hand of the government to allow the use of savings accounts. Come to think of it how many Nigerians have current accounts? They deliberately removed savings.” It would be recalled that the apex bank had set fresh guidelines for the management of dormant accounts and other unclaimed funds by banks. According to information sourced from the CBN website, in the circular tagged, “Guidelines for the Management of Dormant Accounts” dated February 16, 2015, the CBN after reviewing and incorporating comments from various stakeholders, noted that the absence of clear guidelines for the management of dormant accounts in Nigeria resulted in different treatments of dormant account balances by deposit taking financial institutions, thus raising concerns among bank account holders, regulators and other stakeholders. Besides, representations received by the CBN from stakeholders on the subject highlighted the need for the CBN to develop a regulatory framework on the management of dormant and inactive accounts as well as other unclaimed funds in Nigeria for the benefit of the banking system. The essence of the guidelines is to curb possible abuses in the operation of dormant and inactive accounts, set operational standards for banks and other financial institutions in line with best practices and to reinforce the rights of depositors and/or customers. Thus, during the inactive period, the bank shall elevate controls on the account in line with its precautionary policies, which may include surveillance procedures and second level authorisation. Also, the customer shall not be required to provide any documentation to activate the account. For dormant account, it shall be classified as dormant if there has been no customer or depositor-initiated transaction in it for a period of one year after the last customer or depositor-initiated transaction. When the account becomes dormant, the bank shall institute controls consistent with its precautionary policies, including surveillance procedures and second level authorisation. To make such account active, the customer is to provide satisfactory evidence of account ownership, means of identification and present place of residence. Specifically, once accounts become dormant, they shall be reported quarterly to Banking Supervision or Other Financial Institutions Supervision Department of the CBN, as the case may be, along with efforts made by the obligor bank to locate the owners or their personal representatives. Three months to dormancy, the bank shall notify the account holder of the status of the account. For individual accounts that the bank cannot reach the account holder during the three (3) months period, it shall contact the next-of-kin to assist in locating the account holder(s). This will be done within one month after the account has been declared dormant. (For corporate accounts the bank shall contact the directors of the entity or seek information from the Corporate Affairs Commission on the Directors). 