 COVER 2,500 vulnerable women and youths in Lagos and Oyo State have benefited from the skill acquisition training programme courtesy Arise Foundation for Women, Youth and Family Development. The training comprises vocation skills such as tailoring, hairdressing, tie and dye, event planning, barbing, welding, aluminium, shoe/bag making, decoration, cleaning services, transport, agricultural/farming and animal husbandry. The women were thereafter provided with business start-up tools, such as sewing machines, make up kits, hair dryers, stove wick-manufacturing equipment, soap-making, barbing kits, catering tools, motorcycles, tricycle, micro vehicle, farming start-ups vulcanizer equipment to start their own business. According to Joke Akinseye, founder of the organisation, her passion in changing the lives of the youths and poor women and their families motivated her to embark on skill acquisition programmes for hapless women in these two states. She believes this will go a long way in making them self-reliant. Akinseye explained that when you empower a woman; you have empowered a nation because a woman is an agent of change. “If given the opportunity, she can build her business, raise her kids, feed her family and employ her neighbours.” She posited that an empowered woman can influence her children and her entire community. “A woman is intelligent and full of potentials that need to be discovered. The world can be transformed in the hand of a woman, if she is given the opportunity. We want to help Nigeria make that dream a reality.” She added that “Young girls who participated in the programme have now become responsible business owners and we have been able to reduce unwanted pregnancy among young girls.” Akinseye further said that what motivated her work in the community was her background, having lived in the United Kingdom (for over two decades), which operates a welfare system, where those who are poor in the society are been looked after by the government or charity organisations to ensure they live a better life. With this background, Akinseye, a pastor believes in assisting the down trodden to be lifted up. She said, “What operates in the UK is exactly what I am practising here in Nigeria. No one can say they have no food to eat, or no education for lack of money. If you want to do business, you have assistance, and also in whatever career you choose”.