Ekiti State Government and organised labour have reached an agreement on the percentage increase on consequential adjustment in workers’ salary as a result of the new N30,000 minimum wage. The deal was struck in Ado-Ekiti following the ability of the organised labour and government representatives to reach a workable compromise on the matter. In a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting and made available to reporters yesterday, it was agreed that the salaries of officers in the civil service be adjusted. The communiqué was signed by the government negotiation team and representatives of the organised labour. The Head of Service, Mrs. ‘Peju Babafemi, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Labour Matters, Comrade Oluyemi Esan and Permanent Secretary, Office of Establishments and Service Matters, Mr. Bayo Opeyemi, signed on behalf of the government. The Chairman, Joint Negotiating Council, Comrade Kayode Fatomiluyi; Secretary, Comrade Gbenga Olowoyo; Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Kolapo Olatunde; NLC Secretary, Comrade Akinyemi Taiwo; Chairman, Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Sola Adegun; and Secretary, Comrade Lawrence Kulogun, signed on behalf of Labour. According to the agreement, the core civil servants on grade level 7 are to get 23.2% adjustment; grade level 8 (20%); grade level 9 (19%); grade levels 10 to14 (16%); and grade levels 15 to17, (14%). Health workers on grade level 01 to 04 will be given 23.2%, grade level 05-07 (16%), grade level 08-14(12%) and grade level 15-17 (7%). The communiqué added that adjustment for workers on grade level 13-17 would be implemented by the government based on the recommendation of the Economic Review Committee, which would comprise labour and government representatives, as federal allocation improves, while implementation for officers on grade level 07-12 will begin this month. It was also agreed that the government would not retrench, victimise or intimidate any worker as a result of the implementation and no labour leader would be penalised or sanctioned over roles played in the course of the negotiations. “It was jointly signed that this agreement has brought to an end the agitation on minimum wage and consequential adjustment for officers on GL 01-12 and shall be implemented for officers on GL13 and above without prejudice. “That the implementation of the minimum wage and consequential adjustment for officers on GL 07 to GL 12 in the civil service, local government, judiciary and health workers will begin by January 2021.” Mrs. Babafemi expressed profound gratitude to the government for creating a conductive and peaceful environment for Ekiti workers. Comrade Fatomiluyi, speaking on behalf of Labour, said the journey towards signing the agreement was hectic and involved brainstorming sessions. He said he was happy that the government and labour had reached a compromise on the matter. 