The Kaduna State Government has announced Monday, 1st February, 2021 as resumption date for SS3, JSS3 and JSS1 for public and private schools in the state. The government said the decision for partial resumption was taken after extensive appraisal of the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic in the state and series of consultations with relevant stakeholders of both state and federal health and education sectors within and across the state. Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Phoebe Sukai Yayi, in a statement, said the government has also approved Primary 6, 5 and 4 of private schools only, to resume on the same day. She however said that all public primary schools remain closed until all the COVID-19 protocols have been properly put in place. According to Yayi, “In view of this, the Kaduna State Ministry of Education is directing all Principals and Head Teachers to make arrangements to receive Boarding and Day students of the above – stated classes on Monday, 1st February 2021. “However, the State COVID-19 Task Force will continue to monitor all schools to ensure safe learning environments against the pandemic in addition to strict adherence to the guidelines issued by the State Government. “Thus, all administrators of public and private schools are to note that they must comply with all COVID-19 Protocols (Temperature checks at the school entrance, compulsory wearing of facemasks, regular hand washing/use of sanitiser and all COVID-19 guidelines as directed by the COVID-19 Task Force as well as those contained in the State FORWARD Campaign).  Any breach in complying with these protocols may lead to the closure of the affected school without any notice.” She explained that schools will be on shift to enable them meet with these guidelines as the first shift will run from 08:00 am – 12:00noon while the second shift will be from 01:00 pm – 05:00 pm. “The class size should not exceed 20 students per normal class with 1.5m to 2.0m physical distancing, schools must also have COVID-19 Committee which will comprise of the SBMC, PTA, Community representative, health personnel, students and teachers representatives to monitor and ensure compliance. Parents are also advised to provide their children/wards with facemasks and other sanitary items to help in curtailing the spread of the virus.” The statement said the directive also covers all Islamiya and Qur’anic schools in the state.”