Tell us about life as a designer. How did you start and what are the things that inspire you? The Kiki Okewale Empire comprises of Hope by Kiki Okewale which is where we sell our exclusive beautiful fabrics and do aso ebi. Then we have our arm of shoe and bag brand. Basically, we cater for every woman from head to toe. It includes jewelry and we have Brazilian jewelry. IT is a one stop store for everyone. Then we have our K O Couture brand where we do party owambe styles and we do evening wears, ready to do dresses. So, you can come into our building and get everything you want for fashion and about fashion. I have always loved fashion, even as a child. I have always loved to style people and make them beautiful. When we have family gatherings, I would make sure I match colours. So, growing up I have always loved fashion and I have always done fashion. But starting the fashion business itself started when I was planning my wedding and everything was so hard and difficult. We didn’t have Instagram and social media like we have now. I had to go somewhere else for fabrics, go somewhere else to make it. I had to go and look for someone to do my aso-oke. Then now start looking for shoes, purses and jewelry and it was such an overwhelming experience. It was exhausting and I said to myself, I am planning a wedding I should enjoy the process. I should enjoy everything up to the day but it wasn’t like that, it was exhausting for me. So, I told myself that I was going to fill in the gap and help the bride or any other events like birthdays. Whatever it is that you are planning; the process has to be smooth and enjoyable. That was how we started. I started by selling fabrics, then we started making the fabrics for them and of course, we match it with shoes, purses and aso oke. We made the process very seamless where you can enter into our store and get everything you need for your big day. That was where the inspiration started from. How did you survive COVID-19 and its impact last year? This are unprecedented times and COVID -19 taught me to look inwards and then be very proactive , think of things that I can do at this time. For me to be honest our business was on lockdown and I looked at ways to proffer solutions because there is always going to be problems. So, I went back to my drawing board and I looked at ways to help people in the fashion industry. I also realized that during this period a lot of people who would travel to places like China or Turkey were stuck. So, the idea came that why am I not producing for this people. So, even in the problem, I found a solution. The truth of the matter is that people would always pay you for solutions. That gave birth to the idea of having a garment factory. It is about time people stop taking our money outside the country. Let us help Nigerian brands, let us support each other. If the government supports Nigerian businesses we would really go far. Nigerians are hard working, we are not lazy. That was how we started with the Garment factory. It’s been really amazing and this period opened my eyes to better ways of doing things. Most important is being ahead in your field. be proactive and finding solutions to people’s problem. We thank God that things are getting better and we have been able to carve a niche for ourselves. What are some of the memorable moments in the sector? For me, it was the moment I met with Jimmy Chill. It was such humbling and fulfilling period. Also when I went to represent Nigeria in Thailand in 2019 for a fashion show. They had one person from each country and I represented Nigeria. We showcased our adire, African print and Ankara too. Jimmy Chill was there at the final stage, meeting him and he said that my designs were phenomenal, beautiful and that Nigeria was going places, if only our government give us the support that we really need. Meeting the owner of Fashion TV, being covered by Fashion TV and meeting Jimmy Chill. I believe that the sky is just the starting point for us. We would keep pushing and doing our best. Showing that there is more to Nigeria part from all the negativity that is shown out there. Tell us about grooming young designers through the academy and the factory? Grooming the younger ones is a very important part of my business. I am doing empowerment classes and even before we started the Kiki Okewale Fashion Academy, we have had regular empowerment programs on how to start their own business making fabric bags, slippers. Some teaching them how to embellish, some teaching them how to sew. We have always done that and then we started our dash ion school. It’s been really good, there is nothing as fulfilling as seeing people you groom doing great and mighty things. We have had students who have started and grown big. After the school, we mentor them, put them on internship before going into the world to make sure they excel. I also take it upon myself to train them personally. What are the challenges? There are lots of challenges; there is no business that doesn’t go through different phases of challenges and setbacks. We are in a country where there are so many bills that is killing businesses. A lot of businesses have closed down because of overheads, exorbitant electricity bills. Getting committed good staff is also a challenge in this industry. Some come in and just want to reap from everything, not knowing that it has to do with hard work. A lot of people look down on Nigerian designers, brands but the truth is we do phenomenal work. We hope that government would help put us on the platform, make people see what we can do. How has working in the sector influenced your personality? I want people to know that in every problem there is a goldmine. I have heard people who started business during the pandemic and they are really thriving. Think of things that can be solutions to people. People would pay anything to live a comfortable life. There is a lot of confusion in the economy at the moment. What advice do you have for Nigerian Youths? My advice to Nigerian youths is to encourage them to be focused. They should be committed to whatever they want to do. I see a lot of young people who want me to mentor them but they get easily distracted by social media and all the negative trends going on in the world. I encourage them to stay firm, stay strong. Be committed to what you are doing. There is no purpose without pain. So, you are going to go through hard times. Nobody got to where they are today by finding it easy. Every successful, rich person has had to go through different phases of setbacks or challenges. So, the most important thing is to be focused and determined. Be proactive, take steps ahead. What are some of the other things that occupy your time? I have a fashion mall where we cater for outfits. The garment factory where we do ready to wear, tee-shirts, uniforms and the fashion school. Asides from all this my family is one thing that I do not joke with. I make sure that I create time for family. My weekends are strictly for my family. I play with my kids, impacting knowledge, sharing ideas and spending time with my husband. Creating family time is important because in the long run that is what really matters. When the children grow up what would they remember? I love to travel a lot. I am also very religious, prayerful and take time out to be in tune with God and have proper communication with HIM. I also create a ME time for ME. You are a philanthropist. What inspired this? I have had to go through tough times in my life. It is not like I have plenty but I know what it feels like to have nothing. I have been in situations where I have absolutely nothing. That is why I made it a point to give as much as I can give. We have empowerment with children. We teach them how to start business. We support schools, children with uniform, schoolbooks and it brings us so much joy to bring smiles to the faces of children. Encouraging them to go to school, helping them with shoes, clothes and schoolbags and every way we can. We go to orphanage homes, take food to people on the streets. We just try to do the little that we can; the truth of the matter is that there is so much to be done. I encourage everyone to touch the lives of people around them. What are you looking forward to in the next few years? I want to own the biggest garment company in Nigeria. To have the equipment, machines which are not cheap? So, we want to have a factory where people do not have to travel out to get the things that we can do here. I want my fashion brand to be known and recognized all over the world. I want to style the who is who in the world. I also want to take Nigeria as a Nation to international and global frontiers. We have a lot of amazing designers in Nigeria. Two years ago we had people come from America to take classes with us. We want people to come from all over the world to take classes with us. Then there is my fashion brand and I would like to be the biggest fabric merchant in Nigeria. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life? First, I want to thank God almighty. HE deserves all the glory because no one would come to you except God makes it possible .I want to acknowledge my mum, her hard work, commitment, selflessness. My mum would give her eye to anyone. This is one of the things that have helped me to be who I am now. My dad was known as a philanthropist before he died. I learnt a lot from him and then there is my Godmother who helped me fulfill my potentials, growing up in my formative years. Also there is my brother who became my father, because I am an only child. My brothers became my father and they made sure that they gave me the best that they could. They were struggling with surviving with themselves but they took care of me and protected me. There is my husband who has been my best support system. He has influenced me in more ways than I can ever mention. He has taught me about sympathy and empathy. Dealing with people, understanding people and where they are coming from. He is my number one cheerleader and supporter. My children, they always encouraged me. God has placed so many amazing people in my path.