Former Anambra Commissioner for Trade and Commerce Dr Christian Madubuko is yet to be seen 13 days after he was allegedly kidnapped. Hundreds of his kindred in Anaku staged a protest over the development on Tuesday. Madubuko was kidnapped few days after he resigned from the administration of Governor Willie Obiano. His kinsmen said they had to take to the streets because the signals they were receiving from security operatives were not encouraging. They displayed placards reading: “Anaku people plead for the rescue of their son”; “We are pleading for his release”; “Is Anambra still the safest state?” among others. Addressing reporters at Anaku, his elder brother, Mr. Richard Madubuko, said his brother had been missing for the past 13 days According to him: “For 13 days, our brother has been missing. Initially, we thought he would resurface after a day or two, but it has come to a stage we are confused. “We have therefore decided to let the world know that our brother has been missing. “We have written to the Commissioner of Police without any response and we decided to let the world know what we are passing through. “We want security agencies to help us locate him wherever he is. The police told us they do not know his where about and we are begging them to assist us in finding him. “We have made enquires in government and the response has always been that we should calm down and that government will intervene. “But for 13 days, we have not heard from him or from government and the security operatives. We are confused and we do not know what other steps to take.  “Our people have decided to continue protesting until we are told the where about of our brother. We spoke with him last on 12th January and since then, we do not know if he is kidnapped or not. “While we are not suspecting anybody, we plead that whoever that knows his where about should let his family and community know.” Another relation, Mr. Benjamin Ginika, recalled he was last seen after his visit to All progressives Graand Alliance (APGA) office in Awka. He said: “While we are not suspecting anybody, we are pleading with Governor Willie Obiano to assist us to ensure that our brother is released unharmed. He has been missing for 13 days now and our community is in disarray. “We have reported to the governor, the police and the state House of Assembly over this sudden disappearance of our brother, but nothing positive has come from it. “Anaku people are begging the Anambra state government to help us search for our brother. “Our brother has been serving Anambra State government diligently and we plead that government should intervene immediately to find out the where about of Dr Madubuko.” Anambra Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO, Mr. Haruna Mohammed, said the Command was investigating the sudden disappearance of the former Commissioner. Haruna said: “the case was reported on the 16/1/2021 at the Central Police Station, Awka and the Commissioner of Police has directed the anti – kidnapping unit to investigate the circumstances surrounding the incident.”