My very sincere condolences to the family of a Digital Strategist,  Ayodele Bandele who reportedly committed suicide last week. He was initially declared missing only for his body and a suicide note to be found later indicating why he took his life. According to the late Bandele, he had battled depression for seven years and previously attempted suicide thrice,  but was discouraged by the consequences on those around him, particularly his mother. “Now that battle is over. l couldn’t continue to live the way l did and make the same bad choices again. The noise got too loud but now the noise can stop again. “Like l have always said, ‘life is like a party, when you stop having fun, leave’. So it had to be today, a week after my birthday. Please pray for my soul. Pray that l finally find peace and rest. It’s all I ever wanted. I love you dearly. Goodnight,” Bandele wrote. It is very unfortunate that Bandele had to opt for taking his life to find the peace he desired when whatever noise he mentioned got too loud for him. While depression is easily written over some people, others can mask their troubled state of mind without those around them knowing. There are many people like Bandele who desperately needs help in our communities due to whatever trouble they are trying hard to cope with, but when they don’t get the required attention, they resort to suicide which appears as the easy way out for them. Indeed the times we live are troubling and it takes a lot to cope with all kinds of challenges people have to contend with. It is against this background that life cannot be a party as Bandele suggested in his suicide note. According to Bandele, Life is a party, when you stop having fun leave. Instead of being a party, I would rather align with those who say life is a battle in many ways. The battle to be born, the battle to live. If life was a party, life would be fun all through. People would not have to battle to survive. Life is indeed a battle. There are many times to fight to get what we want and may never get. Some are lucky to get what they deserve, many don’t. Whatever the case, the option is not to easily give up. This may seem to be easier said than done, but people must not easily give in to challenges. The battles of life are meant to be fought with all our being,  but it will be easier when we get the love and care of those around us. Depending on what people believe in, there are real and imagined battles to be fought and won or lost. The energy of flesh may fail us, but we must trust in the almighty, the creator of heaven and earth who knows our end from the beginning. While those who have challenges must try hard to open up to those around them no matter what they are going through, its important for all to be more aware about the mental health issues. Mental disorder is not only about extreme  cases when people are no longer in control of their senses, but lesser instances of depression that can lead to suicide. There is need for more awareness about mental health to enable more people to know how to respond early enough when the signs begin to show.