Gradely Technology Solutions Limited is set to train 5,000 teachers across 500 schools in Lagos and Abuja as well as other schools across the nation through videoconferencing. With the theme “Teachers’ Academy 2021”, the training which is free will kick-off on January 15th, 18th till 22nd 2021 at the training centres. School Proprietors are advised to register two of their teachers ahead to enable proper planning. According to a statement issued by its content marketer, Eniola Makinde
The training will expose teachers to tangible ways to solve the learning gaps
and online schooling transition problems, caused by the initial Covid-19 school closure and the impending second wave. It reads: “It will also afford teachers the opportunity to learn the intricacies of Adaptive Learning, Critical Thinking and Creativity with Technology, to enable them use complex digital learning environments to ease their students’ pain points and help them improve and achieve mastery in class. “The 5,000 teachers are going to be truly impacted by the training, through the “Train-the-Trainer” approach. “The aproach will be used to train 2 Teachers from each registered school, to pass on the knowledge to their colleagues. “The schools with top performers of the training will be rewarded with a 30-Day free trial of Gradely’s new, soon-to-be launched Learning Management System (LMS), along with CatchUp! Video lesson and Game resources to support at home learning for all their students. This years training will lead by Executive Director, Tech Savvy Teachers International,.Dr. Ify Obidi;National Director at OBAX Academy Worldwide,Mrs Adeiye; Executive Director at Nurture House Limited, Mrs Ayopeju Njideaka; H.O.D Mathematics at Rainbow College, Lagos State, Mr. Adeyinka Adekitan; CEO, Eazy-Digi Edtech Solutions,Mr. Alomaja Adebayo andCo-Founder & Growth Lead at GradelyNG, Mr. Seyi Adelaju. Meanwhile, in support to the public during the first school closure in March last year, Gradely offered free online learning to 1,000 children , through live classes till September 2020, exceeding the initial target by 300. It should also be recalled that on March 3, 2020, Gradely was awarded “The Most Adaptive Learning Software in Nigeria by the Federal Ministry of Education at the inaugural edition of the Edtech Summit Awards. Gradely has since then gone ahead to make appearances in BBC, CNN and local press, showing practical commitment to ensuring every primary and secondary school has the opportunity to leverage a technology-driven learning lifestyle. The Gradely LMS, known as “Gradely For Schools” is a homegrown, world class LMS, built for personalised learning with features such as Live Classes to organize and hold engaging class experiences, Assessment Tools to set up robust and relevant assessment formats fitted with the Nigerian (WASSCE & NECO) and British (IGCSE) Curriculum-aligned Question Pool, a personalised Video Lesson and Games library to support in-class efforts with students at home and a Proctored Examination system to hold credible remote academic evaluations. 