 The insurance industry recorded 10-year Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of gross premium of 10 per cent in the past decade. The latest report released by the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) showed that the industry has a total number of 55 companies and 793 office locations, with 6,033 employees, highest number of males at 60.2 per cent and female 39.8 per cent. Insurance penetration, however, grew from 0.6 per cent to 1.8 per cent, with contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) standing at 0.31 per cent. The “Nigeria Insurers Association 2019 Digest” showed that the industry recorded a profit before tax of N48 billion and paid N185.9 billion claims in 2019. The report stated that the indices and data published are that of 49 companies comprising insurance, reinsurance and takaful companies who are member companies of the NIA and whose 2019 production data were available at the time of the publication. They included AIICO Insurance Group, Allianz Nigeria Insurance Plc; Anchor Insurance Co. Ltd; ARM Life Assurance; AXA Mansard Insurance Plc; Capital Express Assurance Co. Ltd; Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc; Continental Reinsurance Plc; Cornerstone Insurance Plc; Custodian & Allied Insurance Plc; Custodian Life Assurance Limited; FBN General Insurance Co. Ltd; FBN Life Assurance Ltd; Fin Insurance Plc; Goldlink Insurance Plc; Guinea Insurance Plc; International Energy Insurance Plc; Jaiz Takaful Insurance Plc; KBL Insurance Ltd; LASACO Assurance Plc; Law Union & Rock Insurance Plc; Law Union; Leadway Assurance Co. Ltd; Linkage Assurance Plc; Metropolitan Life Insurance Nig. Ltd; Mutual Benefits Assurance Plc; Mutual Benefits Life Assurance Plc; and NEM Insurance Plc. Others were Nigerian Agric. Insurance Corp; Noor Takaful PLC; NSIA Insurance Company Ltd; Old Mutual Nig. General Ins. Co. Limited; Old Mutual Nigeria Life Assurance Company; Prestige Assurance Plc; Prudential Zenith Life Insurance Plc; Regency Alliance Insurance Plc; Royal Exchange General Insurance Co. Ltd; Royal Exchange Prudential Life Plc; Sovereign Trust Insurance Plc; Sterling Assurance Co. Ltd; Sunu Assurance Nigeria Plc; Unitrust Insurance Co. Ltd; Universal Insurance Plc; Veritas Kapital Assurance Plc; Wapic Insurance Plc; Wapic Life Assurance Ltd; and Zenith General Insurance Co. Ltd; and African Alliance Insurance Plc; Tangerine Life Insurance Ltd; Continental Reinsurance Plc; and Nigeria Reinsurance Corporation. Companies whose accounts were not ready and data cannot be accessed are Industrial & General Insurance Plc; NICON Insurance Limited; Niger Insurance Plc; STACO Assurance Plc; and Standard Alliance Insurance Plc; and A & G Insurance Co. Ltd. The report further showed that they recorded a Gross premium written of N490.8 billion and paid N144.1 billion for reinsurance.  The companies however achieved total assets of N1.4 trillion. A breakdown of the report showed that the companies recorded N260.6 billion Gross premium written non-life and N230.2 billion Gross premium written life.  Total underwriting profit stood at N33.6 billion, Shareholders fund N423.4 billion while Management expenses stood at N92.6 billion. Director-General, Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, stated that the industry, like any other sector of the economy, faced some challenges in 2019. These challenges, she said, range from uncertainties resulting from domestic and external policies coupled with economic dynamic which almost halted business activities as effective demand were gradually dwarfed, thereby reducing the demand for Insurance consumption. “In spite of these challenges, the industry experienced significant growth in the year. The 2019 financial year was a favourable one with growth in gross premium written (GPW) rising from N413 billion in 2018 to N490 billion representing an annual growth rate of over 18.6 per cent. The life business recorded a remarkable growth of 29.3 per cent from N178 billion to N230 billion. Similarly, premium for non-life business grew by 10.6 per cent from N235 billion N260 billion while investment income rose tram 77 billion to N98 billion representing a percentage increase of 29.3 per cent over the last one year. “This growth could be attributable to relative ease in macroeconomic variables. commencement of major protects across the country, increase in public awareness on the benefits of insurance and of course increased regulatory support through implementation of some regulatory initiatives. “It is expected that various economic reconstruction policies will boost business planning and investment, thereby revitalising the growth of economic activities. This is expected to increase insurance activities in subsequent years. “Furthermore, the commitment of the National insurance Commission (NAICOM) to building capacity and improving the resilience of the underwriters evidenced by the push for the recapitalisation of the sector will help to improve their capacity for local content utilisation. provide capital buffers for the Industry to support big infrastructural projects, restructure existing market fundamentals and reposition the industry for the greater benefit of all stakeholders. It is noteworthy to mention that insurance became a much talked about subject through the year due to regulatory induced recapitalisation and increased awareness by policyholders,” Ilori said.  