It’s obvious that Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) is desperately seeking relevance.  After launching its Eastern Security Network (ESN), which it described as “a vigilance group, established to protect Biafrans against terrorists,” IPOB says there is no room for another regional security outfit in the Southeast and South-south. This is the group’s response to moves by Southeast governors to establish a security organisation to help tackle insecurity in the region.  “We declare without equivocation that any other group parading as a South-East and South-South security outfit will not be allowed to operate on Biafra soil,” IPOB said.  “Our people have already launched their own defence line… ESN has been launched with the mandate of securing Biafra land, and no force can disband this great movement until it’s done with its mandate!” IPOB conveniently forgets that it is a proscribed group, meaning that it is illegal and its activities are illegal.  It is said that you can’t build something on nothing. How can the group claim to have a security outfit for the mentioned areas when it is not a recognised group itself? Since it is not a recognised group, its security outfit cannot be a recognised organisation. The separatist group is clearly delusional. It has also said that it does not recognise the new President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Prof. George Obiozor.  “We cannot in all honesty work with him because we are not ideologically compatible,” it said. “Obiozor may not be entirely evil but those behind him are unrepentant enemies of Biafra.” It is noteworthy that the Igbo socio-cultural group is a recognised entity. How can an unrecognised group reject the leader of a recognised group? IPOB insists that there is a territory called Biafra within Nigeria. Such a territory is unknown to the country.  But the group is entitled to its delusions. The group contradicts itself by saying it cannot work with certain politicians demanding a president of Igbo origin in 2023.  “We know their real motives. None of the traitors on parade have Igbo Biafra’s interest at heart. They are only after their personal gains going by their antecedents,” it said. This suggests that the group is not against an Igbo presidency in Nigeria, but only against particular politicians clamouring for it. This further suggests that IPOB is ready to work with politicians acceptable to it to bring about an Igbo presidency. But such a president would be president of Nigeria, not Biafra.  In that case, what will happen to IPOB’s noise about Biafra? The group is suffering from delusions, and its condition is getting worse.