The new Commissioner of Police in Cross River State, Sikiru Akande, has declared his ultimate task is to keep the State safe through the deployment of technology. CP Akande, who briefed newsmen on in Calabar, also paraded 10 suspects of sundry crimes arrested within a short period, including the few days he took over the command. From the ten suspects, items retrieved include two locally made pistols, one English made pistol with 6 rounds of 9mm ammunition, 4 live cartridges, one telephone set, ATM cards, scissors, condom and substance suspected to be cocaine. The suspects included four for unlawful possession of firearms, one for kidnapping and cultism, four for armed robbery, and one for kidnapping, the CP said. He explained that one Prince Okon Etim, the second in command to a wanted notorious Kidnapper “Romance” was among those apprehended. Emphasizing that “It is imperative to let the public know that I am in town strictly ensure the security of lives and properties as such the command is going wage relentless and serious onslaught on criminals across the State. His words:” I am not a stranger in Cross River State, to that end, the security situation in the three Senatorial Districts of the State has already been taken note of. “These can be achieved through strategic planning aimed at police-community policing partnership, problems solving an organizational transformation for better and efficient service delivery. “We have created a robust intelligence network/platform with members of the public and private individuals and confidence-building.” He assured residents of the state to sleep with their two eyes closed while appealing that all hands should be on deck by supporting the police to achieve maximum success in the fight against crime. “I have a task and that task is keeping Cross River State safe. The light has come. We need to gainfully engage the youths and reorient their mind so that they can become more productive so as to build their capacity. “We are using technology to police the state so that before the crime is being committed is nipped in the bud, there shall be no hiding place for criminals because they shall all be smoked out, they should just leave Cross River, now,” he warned.
One of the suspects paraded on the crime of kidnap and rape, Ajah Chinobso confessed to the rapping his victim and claimed that “the girl is my girlfriend and she has been chopping my money for a long time without giving me sex. I had to force her sleep with me once and I used condom”.