A United Nations agency, United Nations Special rapporteur on Human Trafficking is seeking to join the police investigation into the alleged child molestation, starvation and neglect incident in the Deeper Life High School Uyo, Akwa Ibom state. An international organization, Mirabelle Center, the International Federation of Women Lawyers in Nigeria(FIDA) Akwa Ibom chapter, and the Sexual and Gender-based Violence Response Unit of the Ministry of Justice, Akwa Ibom State are also investigating the matter. This was disclosed in a press release issued to reporters on Thursday by the Commissioner for information and strategy, Comrade Iniobong Ememobong. Ememobong commended Governor Udom Emmanuel for ordering an investigation into the matter of alleged infractions against, John Davies a pupil at the Deeper Life High school, Uyo. He explained that the commissioner of Education, Mrs Enobong Mbobo had to pull out of the investigation to allow for an independent ”The Governor of Akwa Ibom State, HE Mr. Udom Emmanuel had last week directed the Commissioner of Education to investigate a complain of neglect, starvation and molestation by a parent against the Management, Staff and some Students of Deeper Life High School, Uyo. ”The Commissioner had immediately swung into action by visiting the parents and the child who is the subject of the alleged infractions. She consequently invited the parents, the boy, school management, the accused students with their parents and named witnesses, to the Ministry of Education for a fact finding meeting. ”While the investigation was on going, the Attorney General of the State notified the Commissioner of Education of the concurrent investigation of the same matter by the Police and the interest of several international Organizations like the United Nations Special rapporteur on Human Trafficking, Mirabelle Center, FIDA Akwa Ibom, Sexual and Gender-based Violence Response Unit of the Ministry of Justice, Akwa Ibom State among others,” he said. The government said it was therefore advisable for the Commissioner for Education to hands off the investigation and allow the Police, which is the proper government agency to handle allegations of crime, to take over. The commissioner disclosed that the medical report from the private hospital where the child had been taken for examination and treatment by his parents has been received. ”The child has been taken for further medical investigations at the Agape Sexual referral Center, with the consent of the parents and all interested parties,” Ememobong said. He maintained that the government was committed to ”the revelation of the truth of the circumstance and is determined to prosecute anybody found culpable of any wrongdoing. ”At no time did the Commissioner for Education or any staff of the State Government, harass or intimidate the parent or the affected student, or anybody connected to the matter. ”We appeal to the public to exercise patience for a thorough investigation to be carried out by the Police and other relevant institutions on the matter. The State Government will upon receipt of the reports take necessary actions thereto,” he said.