 The Vice-Chancellor, University of Nigeria Nsukka, Prof. Charles Arinzechukwu Igwe,  has warned that the institution would not tolerate misconduct and social vices. He noted  that internet crime, especially the one called ‘yahoo yahoo’ as well as examination malpractices were not tolerated in the university. “The University of Nigeria has zero tolerance for cultism and other nefarious activities. Anyone caught in the act will be handed over to the police for prosecution. We also abhor cybercrimes, particularly the internet crime known as ‘yahoo yahoo’. Also, there is no place for examination malpractice. So, avoid all these, to have hitch-free academic pursuit in the university, which your college is affiliated to,” he said. The VC spoke through the Dean, Faculty of Education,Prof. Joshua Umeifekwem, at the matriculation of Federal College of Education, Eha-Amufu affiliated to the University of Nigeria, Nsukka. He pointed out that UNN places emphasis on merit while stressing that the degree of the institution is awarded based on character and learning. The Provost, Dr Pauline Ngozi Ikwuegbu, who enjoined them eschew all forms of unethical practices, stressed that defaulters would be severely dealt with. She reminded them that their primary objective of being admitted into the college was to acquire quality education through their chosen academiC programme. “You are fortunate enough to have been admitted to study in this institution. You should be focused, because education comes with responsibility and discipline. I encourage you to strive to become teachers with a difference, professors with passion and leaders with solution,” she said. The Provost assured the students of a conducive environment in the pursuit of their academic programme, adding that the institution has embarked on construction of new buildings and renovation of abandoned lecture theatres. She said the college recently signed a memorandum of understanding with a bank to be sited within the institution. Highlights of the event were the display of the college  de-stoned rice and exhibitions by the Fine Arts/Home Economics Education departments.