The State Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abia State Command; Mr. Vincent Ogu has stated that his command arrested 126 suspected pipeline vandals/oil thieves in the year 2020. Ogu who disclosed this at the command’s headquarters in Umuahia, the state capital in a chat on Friday with journalists while speaking on the achievements of the Command in the year under review commended the efforts of the officers and men of the command who he said have shown unreserved commitment in carrying out the zero tolerance directives of the Commandant General Abdulahi Gana Mohammadu against all forms of Vandalism of Petroleum Pipelines and other Critical National Assets of Government within the state. Further speaking, Mr. Ogu attributed the successes recorded by the command to his strategy of engaging the locals as an extension of the command’s intelligence information gathering network which he said paid off well. According to him ”As a command, we appreciate the locals for having confidence in us as demonstrated by the timely and useful information they provided which helped in no small measures towards the successes the Command has recorded in the fight against all forms of Economic Sabotage against our Nation Nigeria. “In the days ahead the command shall engage more of the locals especially the indigenes of the areas where the Pipelines pass through in our determination to surpass this year’s record.” Giving update on the prosecution of some of the suspects so far arrested, the Abia NSCDC boss stated that “The command has secured a total of 60 convictions with over 35 vehicles (Truck and Passenger Cars) used in various illegal Petroleum Products business forfeited to the federal Government. “We have a total of 66 cases at different stages of trial at the Federal High Court, Umuahia.” Continuing the NSCDC Boss said “The Command’s Peace and Conflict Resolution Unit as well as the Anti-Human Trafficking, Irregular Migration and Gender Unit (AHTIMG) resolved 39 cases in the year under review. “The personnel of the Units having undergone several training sessions organized by the National Headquarters in Conjunction with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) and other development partners, the units have been positioned to do more in the years ahead.” On the challenge being faced by the Command in the discharge of their duties, the State Commandant said the year 2020 threw up many strange developments which exposed the personnel across the federation to great risk in the line of duty. He mentioned some of such strange developments to include the enforcement of the lockdown, tackling general insecurities and battling with the unfortunate hijack of the #ENDSARS protest and was grateful to God that none of his personnel was lost while discharging these onerous tasks. Meanwhile, Mr. Ogu has assured the people of the State that the Command will continue to collaborate with other sister Security Agencies in the State to ensure the protection of lives and properties. He made this assurance while handing over a brand new INNOSON Hilux Van donated by the Security friendly Governor of the State- Okezie Ikpeazu to the Counter Terrorism Unit Commander- SC Ikpeaba Chimezie with the charge to flush out all forms of cult activities recently posing a great Security Challenge to the State. While appreciating the Governor for his kind gesture, the State Commandant further said “the Command needs more Operational Vehicles and modern Security Gadgets to serve the people better. “I hereby appeal to Government at all levels, Philanthropists and the General Public to assist the Command in any way possible to enable her deliver more quality Security Services to the people. We are posed to deliver on our mandate but Security they say is a business of all, hence I call on the general public to volunteer timely and useful information to Security Formations in the State.”