DEAR Mummy Temilolu, I’d like to say a million thanks for being such a huge blessing to me and so many other girls out there. I wish I could meet you someday soon. God bless you mummy! Love you loads! Favour Amadi  Mummy Temilolu Okeowo, Kaaaaiiii, what would I have done without you? I hope to see you some day and give you a big and tight hug! It appears, you were called for this assignment specifically for me. Thanks for yielding. May God continue to inspire you in Jesus name! Emuejevoke Love  Dear Madam Temilolu, How I wish some of these feminist groups would share in your dream of raising sexually-pure girls rather than pursuing what appears to keep them more frustrated. May God bless and enlarge you. Olatunji Liasu  Dear Mummy Temilolu, Even though I haven’t met with you, I must confess I see you as my mother. How I wish I had motherly-care! I thank God for creating someone like you and enabling me to stumble on your articles, if not I definitely would have defiled my body- the temple of God for worldly things. Thanks ma. Precious Olajumoke  My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, Happy new year to you and my highly-esteemed readers! Yes! I have great regards for my fans and consider them very special people in a highly-depraved world as this. While looking forward to meeting many more daughters and giving them a big hug when the world is safer, I pray for you all with all my heart that this decade will grant you the best days of your life in Jesus mighty name! However, girls…girls…girls, if I were you, I’d prepare for the coming glory this year with my body, mind and soul and by keeping it pure and saturated in the power of God! Believe me, everything you want to be is on your finger-tips! I’d start this year with you by sharing some of my golden nuggets on chastity which I believe would transform your mind and encourage you to stay sexually-pure! I have more nuggets that would help you cruise your way to glory this decade and make your dreams come true. However, the earlier you see visions of what God has written for you the better, before the devil snatches it away! That guy may not be going all the way and having sexual intercourse with you but all the other things he’s doing to your body which makes you scream in ecstasy could block your visions of the wonders God has prepared for you. 1 Peter 2:11 And believe me, there are too many people in the world today who lost once-in-a-lifetime opportunities that would have made them rich and famous! May that not be your portion in Jesus name! I love you all!  I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu.