 Lagos, post-1999, appears the classical primer in fiscal federalism, in a Nigerian environment, where most states are still grappling with that reality. But much as Lagos appears a success on that score, it is doubtful if its success is not lagging behind its huge challenges and pressing responsibilities. Nothing perhaps epitomises this sweet-sour reality than the Lagos monthly N60.318 billion internally generated revenue (IGR) push for the 2021 budgetary year.  Indeed, the structure of the budget appears headed in the right direction — again, a primer for other states to follow. Said Sam Egube, Lagos State Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget: “The total budget size is N1.164 trillion and will be funded from a total revenue estimate of N971, 028 billion, comprising total internally generated revenue (TIGR) of N723, 817 billion, capital receipts of N71, 811 billion and Federal transfer of N175, 400 billion.” That Lagos projected IGR (N722, 817 billion) dwarfs the projected transfer from the federal purse (N175, 400 billion) would warm the heart of fiscal federalists, who insist that’s the only path to fiscally sustainable states, in the Nigerian Federal Republic. Though not a few others, even among these fiscal federalists, would argue — and forcefully and rightly too — that Lagos is not getting its fair share of the federal pie, given its huge commitment as the principal national opportunity centre that magnetises economic migrants from all over Nigeria, there is no doubt that the state with far the tiniest land size, is showing the 35 others the path to follow. That is something to cheer, from the pristine path of N600 million monthly IGR, when it all started under Governor Bola Tinubu in 1999.  This is reinforced by the N702.935 billion (capital) to N460.587 billion (recurrent) expenditure ratio, which means the state is spending more cash to build future revenues, than it is drawing from its till to pay salaries and allied expenses.  This is a commendable model even if, according to Ngube, the budget has a deficit component of N192, 494 billion, to be funded by internal and external loans. Still, for all its budgetary smartness and revenue promise, Lagos still lugs severe developmental deficits, which puts it, right now, quite far from its dream status of a smart city, which boasts adequate infrastructure, supporting comfortable livelihood and providing rigorous security. The epitome of this challenge is the new wave of “Light up Lagos”, under the Babajide Sanwo-Olu governorship’s T.H.E.M.E (Transportation & Traffic Management, Health & Environment, Education & Technology, Making Lagos a 21st century economy, Entertainment & Tourism) over-all philosophy, which involves retrofitting the street-lighting system, especially in business precincts, into the more efficient but less energy-consuming LED (light-emitting diode) technology.  State authorities say this is another deliberate step, in the state’s march to a smart city status. This is welcome and the faster the project is accomplished, the better for everyone.  Indeed, adequate lighting is a core security imperative, since crimes often thrive in the blanket of darkness, at night.  Besides, adequate street-lighting also eases night driving and results ultimately, other things being equal, in far reduced auto crashes, and its needless waste of lives. But let the government know the LED retrofitting initiative is just a timely metaphor for lagging critical infrastructure, without which Lagos as smart city, like other global capitals in Europe and the Americas, would be a pipe dream. The “Light up Lagos” project should be a reminder of that heavy deficit infrastructure — in tarred roads, rail to move the state’s ever exploding population in search of livelihood, neighbourhood street lighting, efficient and effective drainage system and requisite maintenance — and even deficit in the housing stock. All of these are always work-in-progress, even with most advanced of economies.  But the street-lighting project should act as constant reminder about, and as a determined push, to start work, on a deliberate and systematic basis, as funds become available. The new light-up programme should also commend sustainability in street-lighting.  The Ambode era boasted its own “Light up Lagos” programme, with its accompanying media plaudits.  That another round of light-up is making news, now stressing retrofitting, perhaps underscores the old programme was not that sustainable. That is why the Sanwo-Olu administration must ensure its own light-up is so strategic and futuristic that future state governments would move into new areas — the work of state is always work-in-progress — instead of re-fixing the ones already done, bar routine repairs and maintenance. The Lagos budget and revenue drive are pointers to the direction to go, to make Nigeria a buzzing and thriving fiscal federation.  But it makes little meaning if these numbers don’t translate into incremental improvements in the quality of lives of Lagosians.  That is the ultimate challenge of Lagos and its government.