 Time is running out on Semi Ajayi and his West Bromwich Albion teammates to start getting positive results in the ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE if they are to remain in the top flight beyond this season. Today’s lunchtime fixture presents a perfect platform for them to correct the negative impression in the minds of purists after their 4-0 home loss to Arsenal in the last league game. Ola Aina and Fulham will host Chelsea today at the Craven Cottage at the back of their thrilling 1-1 away draw at Tottenham on Wednesday. Tosin Adarabioyo and Ademola Lookman who supplied the assist for the Cottagers equaliser against Jose Mourinho’s men are the other Nigerians eligible at Fulham who have also been regular since the beginning of the season. Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho’s Leicester City will host Southampton at home today in another thrilling EPL tie with a win keeping them at least in the top four irrespective of results from other centres. In the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA, FC Cologne’s Kingsley Ehizibue and Toluwase Arokodare have a tough task on their hands to recover from their 5-0 away loss to Freiburg last weekend as they host Hertha Berlin today in a Matchday 16 tie. Cologne cannot endure another negative result as they are currently placed 16th  on the log with 11 points and the two Nigerians in their fold will be expected to brace up to a dogged battle if they are to return to winning ways against Hertha Berlin. Kevin Akpoguma is still unavailable for Hoffenheim who were thrashed 4-0 by Schalke 04 last week. They trade tackles with Arminia Bielefeld today in a bid to redeem their dented image. Akpoguma recently suffered an injury that will reportedly keep him sidelined for quite a while. In the ITALIAN SERIE A, Kingsley Michael’s Bologna host Hellas Verona. They were stopped 2-0 by Genoa last weekend and a home win will help boost morale. Simy Nwankwo saw action for only 46 minutes in Crotone’s 2-1 defeat to Hellas Verona last weekend. He was involved in all the sessions had by Rossoblu ahead of tomorrow’s duel with Benevento and should return to the first eleven for the tie. His five goals from 17 games are yet to lift Crotone off the bottom of the log. There won’t be SPANISH LA LIGA actions this weekend with the Copa Del Rey and Super Cup matches  in full swing. Some Nigerians will be expected to play starring roles for their clubs as they seek places in the quarter final. Impressive Sadiq Umar with nine league goals for Almeria should lead the line for his second division team who face Deportivo Alaves today while Kenneth Omeruo will play a crucial role for Leganes who host Europa League holders, Sevilla also today with a place in the last eight at stake.