 If the crisis between Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde and ex-Governor Ayodele Fayose of Ekiti State is not amicably resolved soon, it may consume the entire Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), a renowned cleric has warned. The warnings form part of the 2021 prophesies and vision released by the Presiding Pastor of Christ Apostolic Church, Arogungbogunmi International, Prophet Richard Kolawole during the end of the year convention of the church which held at the international headquarters, Ibadan. The cleric who also disclosed that there is an ongoing gang up between members of the ruling PDP and leading opposition party, All Progressives Congress (APC) against Governor Makinde, called on the PDP leaders to ensure they amicably resolve the Makinde-Fayose feud to save the PDP in the country. Prophet Kolawole said “PDP and APC are trying to reunite to remove Makinde. These people are working every day to make sure they unseat him. “Everybody should be praying for Seyi Makinde to finish well because these people are trying hard and they have vowed to remove him, so the governor should also put his house in order to make sure that the problem is over. He added that there will be an increase in kidnapping as there will be cases of flooding and fire outbreaks in many states of the federation, just as he charged all state governors to be ready and fight these challenges. “There will be increase in kidnapping and the numbers of bandits. “The Lord says He’s ready to face those in authority with death, a lot of high caliber and eminent personalities will die because they refuse to bring in the change the country desires. The Lord says, He is ready to visit the house of God because a lot of Minister of God that refused to say the truth will do or suffer serious ailments that will stop them from appearing before the church of God. The Lord says, He will strike a lot of Minister that are close to this present government and refuse to do the needful. The Lord says, the economy will remain as it is because this government has lost its focus.