Peace has finally returned to the Cross River State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as the two factions have agreed on a 36-man harmonised Caretaker Committee to run its affairs. Indication to this was contained in a letter dated 11th January, 2021 by the State Acting Chairman, Senator Matthew T Mbu to the chairman Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni. According to the letter available to newsmen in Abuja on Friday, stakeholders in the state resolved to work together to position the party to win elections and take over the state in 2023 general elections. In order to ensure fairness and transparency, the stakeholders also resolved none of the 36-man Caretaker Committee members will run for any office in the forth coming congresses in the state. The letter reads in part: “I write to submit the harmonised list of members of the APC Cross River State Caretaker Committee executive. “The two factions of the former executives came together and resolved to put their differences aside and work fot the commons good of our party. “This has put to rest the existence of factions within the ranks of APC Cross River State and led to the emergence of a single APC Caretaker Committee executive. “The stakeholders have resolved to work together for the unity of our party in order to position thr party effectively to win elections and take over the state in 2023 general elections.” The letter further stated the 36-member State Caretaker Committee has been mandated to work with other stakeholders at all levels to carry out similar harmonisation and unification of the factions across the local government, wards and units within one week. The Committee has Senator Matthew Mbu Jnr as Chairman, Barrister Richard Ogbeche, deputy chairman, Dr. Ntete Bassey Duke serve as Secretary while Barrister Emmanuel Adie – Legal Adviser, Hon. Mike Agbeh – Treasurer, Missang Efim Eka – Financial Secretary, while Owan Ekpe is made Organising Secretary and Bassey Ekpenyong Ita – Publicity Secretary. Other members include: Hon. Who Egbai – Welfare Secretary, Cyril David Ene – Auditor, Hon. Esther Bepeh – Woman Leader, Effiom-Ekaha Out – Youth Leader and Offiong Effanga Okon – Special (Physically Challenged) Leader.