BAYER Leverkusen will look to keep the pressure on Bundesliga leaders Bayern Munich when they travel to Eintracht Frankfurt this afternoon. The German top-flight returns after a brief winter break and, with Leverkusen hot on the heels of the reigning champions, this is undoubtedly the game of the day. Peter Bosz’s men surrendered top spot with a dramatic 2-1 loss to Bayern Munich last time out, with Robert Lewandowski capitalising on some shocking defending to equalise in the 43rd minute to cancel out Patrick Schick’s opener before going on to net the winner in the 93rd minute. Even so, Die Werkself had enjoyed an 11-game unbeaten run across all competitions prior to that defeat, sealing their progression to the Europa League knockout rounds and ensuring that even a loss to their title rivals only leaves them two points off the pace. A win here will return them to the summit for a day at least with Bayern not in action until Sunday. Hosts Frankfurt have become Bundesliga draw specialists this season, playing out eight stalemates from 13 games, including six in their last eight, with Adi Hutter’s side filling out that run with one win and one defeat. Despite a lack of cutting edge, the Eagles remain just seven points adrift of the Champions League places and can make a real statement of intent with a win over high-flying Leverkusen here. Later tonight, RB Leipzig will be looking to keep close to league leaders Bayern Munich when they travel to Stuttgart. Julian Nagelsmann’s side went into the mini-winter break in third, just two points behind Bayern and level alongside Bayer Leverkusen, in what appears to be another close title race. Although Stuttgart are just four places below RB Leipzig in the Bundesliga, there is quite a gap between the two sides this season, and a big difference in their fortunes. Stuttgart, back in the top flight, are 10 points behind their visitors this season, and have won just four of their opening 13 games, while only Eintracht Frankfurt have drawn more games than their six. The youngest side in the Bundesliga this season, with an average age of 24.6 years in their starting XI, Stuttgart are yet to win at home in six attempts so far, drawing four and losing twice. However, they will feel positive about their start overall, not having a better record in the Bundesliga after 13 games (18 points) since 2011/12 when they managed 21. RB Leipzig are also enjoying a good start to the Bundesliga, winning 28 points from their opening 13 games. They have only bettered this in their debut Bundesliga campaign (31) when they ultimately finished second, but Leipzig will be hoping they can go one better this time. Die Roten Bullen have won eight of their opening 13 games, losing only once, to Borussia Monchengladbach in November. That away defeat has, unfortunately, has summed up their season so far, struggling on the road with just two wins from six compared to six victories in seven at home. Neither side have come back from their short breaks with any fresh injury concerns, but as they continue with training, more news could arrive. Tomorrow, Borussia Dortmund will be looking to get off to a winning start in 2021 but they host tough opposition in Wolfsburg. Dortmund finished 2020 fifth in the table, two points behind the final Champions League spot which, coincidentally, Wolfsburg occupy. For Dortmund, 2020/21 has not been a good season for the club in the Bundesliga so far. They have already lost five times, more than any other side in the top half of the table, and are currently eight points adrift from top spot. Their form saw Lucien Favre sacked in mid-December and while his replacement, Edin Terzic, has won two of his three games across all competitions, there is still a lot of work to be done. Tomorrow’s game also represents Terzic’s first home game in charge of Dortmund, where he will be looking to overturn their run of three consecutive defeats. But their opponents this weekend are one of the four teams above them this season, and Wolfsburg have lost just one game so far in 2020/21, the joint-best record in the Bundesliga (alongside the rest of the top four). Wolfsburg’s biggest downfall so far this season has been their draws, with only Eintracht Frankfurt (eight) experiencing more stalemates than the Wolves’ six.