 The Vice-Chancellor, University of Abuja(UNIABUJA),Prof. Abdul-Rasheed Na’allah, has   said  the challenges faced by the institution last year, especially the coronavirus pandemic ,did not hamper its progress. In a statement, Na’allah said the institution recorded many successes which were unprecedented. He said the university received external research grants worth N704 million and an infrastructure grant of N5 billion from Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFUND). ” 2020 saw many remarkable successes for our university to which we must thank God. In the same 2020, University of Abuja academic staff received external research grants to the tune of about N704 million. Also in 2020, our university received an infrastructure grant from Tetfund of N5 billion to construct a new Senate Building, an International Conference Centre, road and landscaping and part of our fencing. The university  has Abuja Leadership Centre which is a Tetfund Centre of Excellence in Public Governance and Leadership, with an initial N1 billion grant,” he said. He continued: “Last year,we were  confronted with the Coronavirus pandemic. Some of our staff and students died, many of us lost loved ones to death in natural, sickness and accident circumstances, and towards the end of December 2020, we also lost our Pioneer Vice Chancellor, Professor Isa Baba Mohammed, may God forgive him his sins. “I am also happy to inform you all that the  Senate on December 30, 2020, unanimously approved a revised calendar for the remaining of 2019/2020 Academic Year, and also revised 2020/2021 calendar. The Senate fixed a tentative date for resumption of classes with the hope that Coronavirus pandemic would ease and the Federal Government would direct the reopening of the university. “Due to Coronavirus pandemic, the 2019/2020 academic session which started normally had to be abandoned for lockdown and eventual ASUU strike. This calendar provides an opportunity to complete the academic year and also catch up on the 2020/2021 Academic Year.”