Senator Nicholas Tofowomo(Ondo South) has assured he would not defect from the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP). Senator Tofowomo is among Ondo PDP chieftains backing the leadership of former Ekiti governor Ayodele Fayose in the leadership crisis rocking the party in the South West region. Tofowomo, who spoke while distributing empowerment materials to some of his constituents, said he would remain in the PDP to build it to greater heights. The Ondo South senator said he won elections in all the six local government areas under the PDP in 2019. He explained that he couldn’t do much in his first year because of an accident that almost took his life. His words: “I have good plans for the people. Before this Easter, we will start women empowerment. I still have two and a half years to empower them. I will soon introduce a scheme where women can borrow money for six months. “I am the only Senator who has paid his aides for one year without stop. It is also important I train them in ICT for them to be able to use the computers given to them to empower themselves.” Senator Tofowomo said the Nigerian police needs to be reformed and put right in terms of provision of operational vehicles, quality personnel for the country to fight insecurity. An aspirant for National Vice Chairmanship of the PDP in the party’s forthcoming South West Zonal Congress, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, said PDP members in Ondo State must be united. Olafeso, who vowed not to leave the PDP, said efforts were on to reunite all members of the Ondo PDP. “We must be united. Nobody wins alone. If anybody makes a mistake we have to correct it. I will not use the media to challenge my people. I appeal to all that it is a privilege to be voted for. “I have lost serially in politics but I still love everybody. The earlier we come together the better. The earlier those making mistake retrace their steps and embrace all and make sure we all work together. We are working very hard to make sure we are united. I have no place to go. I am not known to cross parties. My only responsibility is unity and I will continue to work for it.” Beneficiaries of the empowerment packages got sewing machines, motorcycles, computers and cash support.