A member of Ekiti House of Assembly, Hon. Olajuwon Adegbuyi, is dead. Adegbuyi, who was representing Ekiti East constituency 1, died on Saturday at Ekiti University Teaching Hospital, Ado-Ekiti after a brief illness. Speaker Funminiyi Afuye, who confirmed the incident in a statement by his media aide Akogun Tai-Oguntayo, said he was devastated by Adegbuyi’s death. Afuye described the death as shocking and a devastating one in the New Year, saying the 6th Assembly had lost a rare lawmaker whose penchant for qualitative representation was exemplary. He said: “In fact, I am speechless. Hon Adegbuyi, a complete gentleman who represented his Constituency well, was one of the finest and vibrant lawmakers in the sixth assembly. He died in the hospital after a brief illness. “We are a unique Assembly of 26 brothers and sisters and now the cold hand of death suddenly dealt us this terrible blow! It’s unbelievable and highly unbearable. But we can’t question God” “We pray God to grant the family and Ekiti State the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” The Speaker called on the entire State to raise their voice in prayers to God to stop untimely death of young stars in Ekiti. The All Progressive Congress (APC) in Ekiti also described Adegbuyi’s death as a monumental loss to the progressive family. In a statement by caretaker Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ade Ajayi, on behalf of the caretaker chairman, Barr. Paul Omotosho, the ruling party said the deceased would be sorely missed for his immense contribution to the growth of APC. “The party felt a great loss with his death. He was a role model for a lot of young party and community youths and politicians while alive and he was a constant inspiration to all those who had contact with him. “We members of APC are yet to come to reality about the sudden death of a pragmatic, outspoken and dedicated lawmaker. “His brief but useful stay in the Assembly has really touched the life of people of his constituency through meaningful contributions to debates,” it said.