 Insurance in Nigeria remains fragile and realising the potential of the fragmented sector has been difficult.The number of uninsured Nigerians remains among the world’s largest within prospective insurance markets. According to the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), this is as a result of its inability to enforce the compulsory insurance laws and lack of cooperation among  operators. But all hope may not lost for the regulator as it believes the battle to grow the sector’s potential can be achieved. This year, the regulator is moving forward with its plans on various policies and initiatives to deepen insurance penetration, to ensure that more Nigerians and assets are insured. Most importantly, the regulator is optimistic that the N1 trillion target set for the Market Development and Restructuring Initiative (MDRI) goals will be met. This is not minding the challenges before the regulator in whipping the operators into line, ensuring that all claims, including COVID-19 and #EndSARs, are paid. Other objectives for the commission include consolidating the sector’s capital, Human Capital Development, Financial Inclusion, Bancassurance initiative, Life Annuity, New Insurance Law, African continental free trade agreement, and Improving efficiency in the supervisory processes. The Commissioner for Insurance, Sunday Thomas, told reporters that the interest of the industry is paramount to them and that it would expose the market more. He said: “Our focus for the year basically is how to expose the market. So, the question is: What do we do to deepen our market? We believe that 2021 will be a great year for us. It is unfortunate that the unexpected happened in 2020 with a lot of inactivity in most parts of the country. Hence the initiatives that are lined up to realise some of the goals could not be achieved. But notwithstanding, I must say that deepening the market was our goal and will still be our goal. Part of the mechanism of developing the market was reaching out.We couldn’t do much of this because of COVID-19 and #EndSARs restrictions on movement. But we have been developing some things inhouse that we believe will deepen the market. “In November last year, we registered five additional companies, four insurance companies and one reinsurance company. The last insurance company that was registered  or licensed in Nigeria was about 35 years ago. So, we believe that we need an additional operator in that area because the level of retention is on the downward trend. “We need to shore up this by renting a licence in a local company. We see what is happening within the pension arena that has grown to over N11 trillion. The insurance sector is not playing. We ought to be leading. Out of the four insurance companies that we registered, three of them are life companies that will be playing in the annuity market and this will be big for the sector.”  Market Development The primary mandate of the Market Development Unit is to develop the insurance market and further deepen insurance penetration in all the states of Federation, with the goals of promoting market efficient, fair, safe and stable insurance market for the benefit and protection of policyholders. The Commissioner said these initiatives would cover enforcement of compulsory insurance, introduction of Micro-Insurance for low-income market, and Takaful insurance as an alternative to conventional insurance products. Consolidation Although the recapitalisation mandated by NAICOM on insurance and reinsurance firms has been suspended by the court, the commission is optimistic that it will vacate the injunctions and continue the exercise. Thomas told reporters that the recapitalisation was necessitated by Identified Assets Liabilities mismatch and to avoid imminent systemic collapse and solvency crisis in the sector. He said the principles of Capital Adequacy and Solvency entail an objective and consistent “valuation of assets”. “It is also required that assets have to be appropriate, objectively valued and sufficiently realisable. Capital Adequacy and Solvency regimes are necessary to address assets and liabilities match,” he added. He stated that during their supervisory review and analysis, the commission observed that the symptoms and causes of some ailing insurers with a possible consequence of failure could be attributed primarily to factors that include risks arising from macro-economic environment, high inflation and interest rates (foreign exchange rate – N120 – N153 in 2007 and N306 – N360 in 2019) with consequential effect on the value of insured assets over the years. “Others include investment and financial risks, poor risk analysis, impairment of certain investments; effect of IFRS on fair value assessment; mismatched assets and liabilities; insufficient liquidity. There is also the effect of risks from governance and risk management structure. This includes underpricing which occurs with inadequate premium; under-provisioning and reserving; poor record keeping occurring with paucity of data and inadequate IT infrastructure; poor corporate governance and ineffective risk management practices. “The commission also attributed the symptoms and causes of possible consequence of failure to quality of human capital and emergence of insurance holding companies and conglomerates. We have issues of group risks like contagion, transparency, autonomy and arbitrage which are rarely reflected in consolidated financial statements. “The identified needs made it expedient to increase the paid up share capital of insurance and reinsurance companies from the existing level of N2 billion, N3 billion, N5 billion and N10 billion to N8 billion, N10 billion, N18 billion and N20 billion for life, non-life, composite and reinsurance companies.” He noted that the issue of recapitalisation was expected to strengthen insurance and reinsurance companies so that big ticket risk can be taken and retained largely within the market. “If we see the content of the resolution, then we will see how to progress from there,” he said.  Human Capital Devt NAICOM identified poor quality of human capital as part of symptoms and causes of some ailing insurers as possible consequence of failure According to the Commissioner, there is inadequate human capital for underwriting, claims and investment management; insufficient actuarial services leading to inability to recruit and retain quality personnel; inadequate training and manpower development. “We are pursuing the issue of human capital development with operator by making arrangement to have as many actuarists as we can have in the industry because we know the role of actuarist in risk assessment. This is one profession that is lacking in this part of the world. “We are committing huge resources to actuarial development, in collaboration with the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN), through the College of Insurance and Financial Management, though the entire process has been affected by advent of the COVID-19. “We are engaging some institutions like the Shipper’s Council to see how best we can block some of the leakages we have noticed. Most importantly, awareness creation. This and many more are part of the programmes we will rolling out this year.’’  Financial Inclusion Thomas said the financial inclusion strategy has been central to the Federal Government’s developmental plan and the Commission has over the years invested hugely in the development of financial inclusion mechanisms which include the introduction of Microinsurance and Takaful Insurance products. “The introduction of these lines of insurance is intended to deepen the penetration of insurance in the country and bring into the fold majority of the populace that are hitherto excluded. So far, some milestones have been recorded in this regard with three stand alone Microinsurance and four Takaful insurance companies already granted approvals.’’  Life annuity business The annuity business has become a boost to the sector. According to the NAICOM boss, the public is becoming more knowledgeable about the workings of annuity, noting that they expect it to continue as the future is looking very bright for the business as we have witnessed. “This has also shown a positive growth in trust and confidence in the sector. Annuity business is important to us in the insurance sector. Some three to five years ago, life insurance used to be like 20 percent of the total portfolio of the sector. We are excited that it has grown to 40 per cent in the last two to three years; so it is quite important to us. “With the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed by the commission and the National Pension Commission (PenCom), we are working together to establish limit roles and responsibilities of both institutions in terms of regulatory oversight. We are also looking at areas that may overlap so we avoid regulatory overlap while we also avoid regulatory arbitrage. “On the implementation of the guidelines, we are working together and sometimes we have some standing committees that have been engaging each other. Where we have issues with our regulated entities, we come together and find ways to resolve them.”  Claims Payment The Commission is committed to ensuring financial soundness and viability of the insurers and the adequate protection of policyholders at all times.These will continue to be part of our regulatory priorities. We will continue to ensure that genuine claims are promptly paid while also ensuring a reasonable protection of investments of shareholders. In demonstrating its willingness to protect the policyholders, the commission has further strengthened its Complaint Bureau Unit to respond to public complaints over claims settlement. Available statistics have shown that there has been great improvement in this area.  Technological enhancement Effective deployment of technology for ease of transaction is among the key areas the commission will be emphasising this year, said Thomas. “Digitalisation of insurance business is no longer an option, but an imperative which we and the operators have to work towards its actualisation. As we may all be aware, the industry is lagging behind other financial services sectors in this area. The Commission is working vigorously to see that all its operations are digitalised. 2021 is a year for us to turnaround the fortunes of the industry and this cannot be accomplished without digitalising our processes and encouraging the industry to imbibe same.”  African Continental Free Trade Agreement ‘’The African Continental Free Trade Agreement is a great development. We are quite grateful to President Muhammadu Buhari, for allowing Nigeria to subscribe to this great initiative,’’ Thomas stated. “We believe that with the free trade area, movements of goods will be enhanced. It is important to us in the insurance sector because last year, we started something that tends to harmonise insurance transactions along the West African English-speaking countries in preparation. “Now we have Nigerian companies along the English west African coast and the capacity of the industry is expected to be bigger. So, we will not just be efficient in managing the local risk, but we will also bring in more from other jurisdictions and with the free trade area initiative, we expect this to enhance our access to businesses from another jurisdictions. With bigger capacity, we will be able to retain more and also bring in more businesses to the country.”  Insurance Consolidated Bill The commission is seeking for the passage of the Insurance Consolidated Bill, 2020 to drive the development of the sector. Thomas said realising the potential has been difficult with the sector fragmented and in need of consolidation. “Nigeria has used policy interventions in the past to try and increase the rate of insured customers but execution of these policies has proven challenging as the long-awaited increases in minimum capital requirement is yet to be completed. “To say the least, enormous opportunities abound in the Nigerian insurance sector and we have so many compulsory insurances that one can hardly find in any other jurisdiction. The problem has been enforcement and lack of cooperation among operators. With the advancement and deployment of present-day technology it is expected that all compulsory insurances will be adequately enforced. “The nation’s population is also an advantage as insurance is all about number. Nigeria has that advantage hence major global players in insurance are all rushing to the country to grab a space. But the proposed insurance bill that is before the National Assembly will, no doubt, begin to receive the desired attention than ever from the lawmakers, the bill when it becomes law will assist tremendously in growing the insurance sector. The commission is, therefore, seeking for the passage of the Insurance Consolidated Bill, 2020, to drive the development of the insurance sector,” he noted.  Insurance Consolidated Bill Meanwhile, operators are looking forward to a bill being passed into law but with a preference and resolve to pursue the enactment of a new Act that would help resolve the impasse associated with the suspended recapitalisation. The operators under the umbrella body of the Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) are not comfortable with the procedure adopted by NAICOM to recapitalise the sector based on minimum paid-up share capital as stipulated in Insurance Act 2003. The operators are lobbying members of the National Assembly to infuse the Insurance Industry Consolidated Bill Risk-based Capital adequacy template. NIA Chairman, Ganiyu Musa stated that they were convinced that the template is the best for the industry, especially given that the 2013 International Monetary Fund (IMF) Report has prescribed it and the Commission agreed with it. Director-General of the association, Mrs. Yetunde Ilori also emphasised that risk-based capital is the direction to go if the  industry is to attract the right investment and increase insurance contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).