 TOP Nigerian celebrities led by Mercy Aigbe, Teni and Yvvonne Jegede, graced the grand unveiling of the corporate headquarters of Pertinence Group on December 20, 2020. Pertinence properties, a real estate company that provides luxurious commercial and residential real estate solutions, hosted several entertainers as it opened its headquarters in Akowonjo area of Lagos state. The event also had in attendance Humblesmith, Bimbo Akintola, Ufuoma Mcdermott, Lizzy Jay and many others. It was also graced with special appearances from social media personalities such as Officer Woos, Asiri Comedy, Pamilerin, and others. The celebrity in attendance took to the red carpet to commend Pertinence Group for providing affordable homes for a lot of Nigerians and also empowering a couple of Nigerian Youth with employment. Speaking at the event, Mcdermott said, “With Nigeria, we all understand the effort everyone has put individually because if you are waiting for the Government to do anything for you, you might be waiting for a long time. I think everyone in the real estate space has taken up a personal goal to ensure that every Nigerian owns a home. So they are trying to make land and housing affordable also to make every Nigerian have a piece of the earth. The reason why I say it is personal is that I know that there are not too many things put together by the Government to support them. Honestly, I would like to give kudos to everybody doing this, whether luxury or affordable homes for everyone, well done.” In his words, the Co-Founder of Pertinence Group, Sunday Olorunsheyi says “Pertinence Group started about 9years ago with two young hungry men, We weren’t just hungry for food, we were hungry for success, we were hungry for change, calling this place the centre of innovation is simply because over the years we have seen the transformation, we have created things here, we have birthed things here. All we have done so far is just the tip, we still have a long way to go. We are using this to remind our team that we are just starting. Innovation is just beginning right now, whatever we see in time past, we want to dwarf it by the virtue of the result that we begin to generate from now. All thanks to God for what we have seen so far but I think we have yet more land to possess as an organization. Our mission is enterprise development and people’s empowerment which we are so focused on. We aren’t in a competition with any other brand, we are only in competition with our vision which is to create more businesses in other to empower people.” Teni, Humblesmith and DJ Big N rounded the day off with impressive performances to mark the yuletide.