 A consultant to the World Bank, Prof Abel Ogunwale has called for increased investments to improve food safety, animal welfare and biosecurity at abattoirs. Ogunwale of the Agricultural Economics & Extension Department, Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) Ogbomosho, Oyo State, said livestock imports created opportunities for Transboundary Animal Diseases (TADs) and pests being brought into the abattoirs. With biosecurity being the most effective means of disease control available, he said effort should be made to prevent disease outbreaks leading to mortality at such places. He said it was the responsibility of the health authorities to support the extension service to safeguard public and animal health and welfare, protect the economy and enhance food security through research, surveillance and inspection. These involved teaching farmers how to prevent and control animal disease through activities on farms, at markets and other livestock-related premises, and through specialist veterinary laboratory and scientific services. He further called for establishment of cluster livestock farming areas and implement of animal health and sanitary measures. Promoting cluster arrangement, he added, would enhance management of livestock production, disease surveillance, early warning and early action. He said there should be targeted efforts to support these businesses and the capacity of the agri-food supply chain, particularly after COVID-19.  He said there was increasing concern that about the new wave of COVID-19 pandemic and how it could have dire consequences for food security unless adequate safeguards are established.  He said there was new for biosecurity training for poultry farmers on disease mitigation and control. He said such training should aim at building the capacity of poultry farmers on outbreak investigation, control and containment.  He said extension services improve the knowledge base of farmers through a variety of means, such as demonstrations, model plots, specific training and group meetings. 