 LAST year was, undoubtedly, challenging for businesses as COVID-19 went on rampage, decimating lives and livelihoods. Several economies, including Nigeria’s, inevitably slipped into recession. But the telecoms sector remained resilient as its infrastructure provided the platform for governments, private and public businesses to run seamlessly and remotely. Since every cloud has a silver lining, the telecoms operators are optimistic the year will be better. “We are hopeful that a lasting solution for COVID-19 will be found by first quarter 2021 so that life can start returning to normal as much as possible. However this is (going to) be a (year of) “new normal” as there will be more remote working and digitisation of services.  This means there will be more need for telecom and ICT infrastructure in the coming months and telecom operators are ready to implement the services needed to serve the need of the citizens,”said Ikechukwu Nnamani, President, Association of Telecoms Companies of Nigeria (ALTON). But despite the challenges, the sector’s contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) increased to over 14.30 per cent as at Quarter 2, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). In financial value, the 14.30 per cent translates to N2.272 trillion whereas it was10.60per cent by December, 2019. Also, telecoms investment continued to grow it moved beyond $70 billion threshold. This year however, the first quarter (Q1) might witness a dip in the revenue of both mobile network operators (MNOs) and Federal Government’s by way of taxes as a result of government policies. The directive of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Ibrahim Pantami, to the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to deactivate SIMs not linked to the NINs will definitely impact the sector negatively if not properly managed. Though the government came out with extension to the initial two-week ultimatum, the outbreak of the second wave of COVID-19 that has kept civil servants below grade level 12 may have put spanners into the wheel. Anxious subscribers that thronged the registration centres of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) were disappointed as they got nobody to attend to them. Though all the MNOs, some state governments and over 100 private firms have licences to work for NIMC, it is still not clear how it will be done. But no fewer than 25million subscribers are in fear of being deactivated. Another major issue that will define the industry is the deployment of 5G technology in the country. About two years ago, the NCC had given MTN the go ahead to the trial of the technology in some major cities in the country. The development had generated bitter reaction from both the literate and less literate populace as Coronavirus was linked to the deployment of the technology in China. Following the misinformation, miscommunication, misunderstanding and misconception that greeted the trial of the technology, the Commission in 2020 began a deliberate regulatory measure by developing and a Draft Consultation Document on the Deployment of Fifth Generation (5G) Mobile Technology in Nigeria. The document defined the implementation plan for the deployment of 5G. It provided a background into the benefits of 5G technology and outlined NCC’s plans and strategies for a successful implementation of 5G and clearly presented guidelines for the relevant areas of the technology and the expectations from the operators. The trial, among others, was to study and observe any health or security challenges the 5G network might present. The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said: “For the avoidance of doubt, as with the previous technologies such as 1G, 2G, 3G and 4G, the Commission will not commence 5G deployment without due consultation with all relevant stakeholders.” The consultation and eventual deployment of the technology is expected to take a new speed this year. Push for the attainment of the new broadband target of the Federal Government is expected to gather more steam. Further to this, the NCC started the review of Infrastructure Company (InfraCos) framework and funding options. A committee was constituted to review the framework for licensing InfraCos and recommend sustainable funding options for effective implementation of the proposed national fibre project. The constitution of the committee was sequel to the requirements of the new Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP 2020-2025) and reports of relevant committees set up by the Federal Executive Council (FEC), which include the Inter-Ministerial Review Committee on Multiple Taxation on Telecommunications Operators over Right-of-Way (RoW) and the Technical Sub-Committee on Right-of-Way for Deepening Broadband Penetration in Nigeria. These requirements and reports relate to the imperative of reviewing the InfraCo framework to cater for the delays in take-off, change in exchange rate, supply chain and other challenges imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The InfraCo project is dear to the government because of its ability to enhance robust and pervasive broadband infrastructure to drive service availability, accessibility and affordability,” Dambatta said. Dear to the heart of the Federal Government is the push for knowledge based and digital economy. To actually drive this, a new Strategic Management Plan (SMP) 2020-2024 was unveiled at the twilight of last year. It is believed that SMP will accelerate the implementation of the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (NDEPS) and the NBP 2020 – 2025 of the Federal Government. During the year, it is expected that the SMP, which is a vision document for planning, monitoring, analysing, and assessment of the Commission to meet its goals and set objectives, will be aggressively pursued with its five pillars, which include regulatory excellence, universal broadband, promote development of digital economy, market development; and strategic partnership and 25 intended outcomes. Initiatives such as embedded (e-SIM) and national roaming are expected to take firm footing during the year. Two MNOs, MTN Nigeria and 9mobile, got approval to carry out trial on the workability of e-SIM service in the country. The trial, approved to run for one year, will involve testing 5,000 e-SIMs in line with regulatory conditions. The NCC had said the primary objective of the e-SIM trial was to assess the technical performance of the e-SIM on telecoms service providers’ network towards eventual rollout, if satisfactory. He said the e-SIMs is a technology that will eliminate the need for physical SIM card slots on mobile devices in the near future, adding that the trial is in line with the Commission’s forward-looking regulatory approach to ensure Nigeria’s telecoms ecosystem is in tandem with global best practices. Similarly, the MNOs were granted regulatory approval to trial national roaming service. The two telcos are expected to configure their networks to begin test and simulation for customer experience. The trial approval covers a few local governments, designated as the National Roaming geographic area, in Ondo State. Basically, roaming service will enable a mobile subscriber to automatically make and receive voice calls, send and receive data, or access other services when travelling outside a particular network geographical area by utilising the network coverage of other networks with roaming arrangements to access service. The primary objective of the National Roaming Service trial was to encourage network resource sharing among operators. It is will also lead to operational expenditure (OPEX) optimisation and capital expenditure (CAPEX) efficiencies leading to freeing up of resources to expand mobile network coverage to unserved and underserved communities across the country, which will lead to improved Quality of Service (QoS) delivery to subscribers. The lifting of the suspension on the Spectrum Trading Guidelines (STG) 2018, pending the conclusion of the ongoing review of the Guidelines, will also boost the industry. The lifting of the suspension followed deliberations on the subject by the Board of NCC. The Commission had, in a statement on May 27, 2020, announced the suspension of STG 2018 for the telecommunications industry and informed licensed telecoms operators, prospective investors, industry stakeholders and the public of the regulatory decision. The Board of NCC had earlier taken the decision for Spectrum Trading in response to telecommunications global dynamics, as well as the efforts to optimally utilise and maximise the benefits of Spectrum as a scarce resource. Spectrum is a limited resource, which, when inefficiently utilised, greatly limits broadband coverage and speed. The current STGs were developed in 2018 after industry-wide consultations and this instrument allows that the spectrum resource be traded on the Secondary Market through Transfer, Sharing or Leasing (TSL) upon satisfying stipulated regulatory conditions. The guidelines review was necessitated by the launch of NBP to ensure that unutilised Spectrum is fairly traded to facilitate rollout by other operators among others. The guidelines will also help to address the need for ubiquitous broadband deployment to accelerate penetration and access in line with the economic agenda of the Federal Government.