The Nigeria Army has continued to search for fresh ideas to fight Boko Haram and criminality across the country with a new operational name launched in Yobe State Thursday. The new operation which is code-named: Operation TUKA TAKAIBANGO according to the Chief of Training and Operations Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. NE Angbazo will tackle the emerging threats and renewed offensive of BTH/ISWAP in the northeast region. The Chief of Army Training who represented the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. TY Buratai at the launching of the operation at the 27 Brigade Tactical Headquarters Buni Gari, Yobe State said the operation will smoke the insurgents from their hideouts and neutralized them to enable citizens have free movement of conducting the businesses. “Operation TUKA TAKAIBANGO has become more expedient as it will boost the efforts by troops of the Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole to enable the Nigeria Army to deal with the emerging threats of the BHT/ISWAP with the Northeastern part of the country. The operation is meant to be theatre wide targeting known insurgents’ enclaves/hideouts for neutralization and clearance. At the end of the operation, it is envisaged that citizens will be free to move about, conduct their farming and other businesses in a safe and secured atmosphere devoid of any insurgents’ threat and harassment,” Maj. Angbazo explained. Gen. Angbazo also called on the rural people not to panic during the course of the operation, as according to him, “the safety and wellbeing of the innocent and law-abiding citizens especially those living in the rural areas have been deliberately factored in the planning of this operation.” He added that “the troops taking part in the operation would be guided by the professional Code of Conduct, Rules of Engagement and respect for human rights, ”while the general public is enjoined to remain vigilant of fleeing suspected terrorists and criminals trying to find safe havens within the communities from military operation”. He announced that the operation had since started on 3rd, January 2021 and has already started achieving results. Some of which he mentioned were the encounter between troops of 402 Special Forces Brigade on the 6th, January 2021 and some Boko Haram elements where the insurgents suffered a heavy defeat and a success repelling of the insurgents at Geidam Thursday. He thanked the President, Muhammadu Buhari for his support for the army against the Boko Haram fight.