 Governor of Ekiti State Dr Kayode Fayemi has underscored the need to tailor university curriculum towards solving problems afflicting the country. Fayemi also encouraged graduates to be innovative,  describing it  as catalyst to success in the 21st century. He spoke at the 24th Convocation  of Ekiti State University (EKSU), Ado-Ekiti, recently. Fayemi, who  urged  the graduating students to see themselves as future leaders, described education as  the most powerful weapon that can change the world.He said he prioritised knowledge economy, stressing its importance to socio-economic development. He noted that university autonomy would not be eroded while promising to support  leadership of the institution. Fayemi said: “This is a period where  curriculum of our citadels of learning should be tailored towards meeting the realities of our contemporary Nigeria and the antidote for its various challenges. “It is a generally acceptable norm that only qualified and students could innovate and steer the ship of our university system as well as Nigeria as a nation, to our expected shore. “Therefore, I challenge the graduating students of today to see themselves as the future of Nigeria and the earlier the responsibility of leadership is embraced by their generation, the better for them as a people and to us as nation.” A major highlight of the convocation which held in strict compliance with COVID-19 safety protocols was the investiture of former Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II as  Chancellor. Fayemi said he appointed Sanusi  to nationalise and globalise the institution. “The Chancellor, a respected man of international repute is currently enrolled in Oxford University, UK for a fellowship programme. It is my firm belief that he shall be of tremendous help to EKSU,” he said. The former CBN Governor applauded Fayemi’s commitment to the growth of education in the country. He noted that convocation provides  opportunity to reflect on previous achievements,  challenges being faced, prospects and strategies to be deployed for the realisation of  goals and objectives. He lauded the governing council for working diligently towards  transforming the university. “I assure his Excellency that this appointment will only further encourage me to continue joining hands with him (Fayemi) as we seek to make contributions to resolving some of the intractable issues currently facing this country”. The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Edward Olanipekun said 11,437 students were  conferred with various degrees, with 48 of them graduating with first class honours. He  noted that the essence of the event was to appreciate  hard work and doggedness of students who had distinguished themselves. 