The Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) on Thursday described the signing of the COVID-19 Health Protection Regulations 2021 as a welcome development to bolster the country’s response to the pandemic. Also, foremost virologist, Prof. Oyewole Tomori, while speaking on a television show, stated that the new regulation was 11 months late. He stressed that persuasion is a more effective measure to get people to comply with the non-pharmaceutical protocols. The NMA, however, stated that the government and its agencies need to focus more on persuasion as opposed to using force to let people know the benefits of complying with non-pharmaceutical protocols issued by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC). President Muhammadu Buhari, on Wednesday, signed the COVID-19 Health Protection Regulations 2021 as part of efforts to boost the country’s response to the pandemic. Asides other measures, the guideline recommends  that any person, who contravenes the provisions of the regulations, upon conviction, risks a fine or a term of six months imprisonment or both in accordance with Section 5 of the Quarantine Act. Speaking with our correspondent, the NMA President, Prof. Innocent Ujah, said: “As far as we are concerned, it is a welcome development, and putting the law into it is very important. But, we also think that we need persuasion. People should be persuaded in terms of information dissemination and sensitisation. This is because the law itself does not mean much if it is not obeyed. The challenge that we will have will be based on enforcement. Up till now, we are still having problems with compliance. So, we need a lot of sensitisation and information so that people can comply. “Perfection is a moving target. So, it is important that we first start and we can amend as we move on. If they find issues with the present one, that can be amended. The mere fact that we have even started at all is an achievement. Also during the implementation, if there are other issues, I believe that it can be amended because it is an executive order, which obviously the President can decide, depending on the information available to him and the areas of compliance. We need to test this one and then use that as a template to improve on it.” Also speaking, Prof. Tomori said: “It’s been 11 months now since we had the first case and just getting a regulation as the President calls it, to make people abide by those non-pharmaceutical interventions, I think it’s 11 months too late. “Also, we are using a law that has been in existence since 1926, that is, the Quarantine Law of 1926, and was also amended at different stages and time. That tells you about which kind of country we are if we had to wait to use the law of the 1920s, which was not really thoroughly amended. If you check that law, the disease it is talking about is smallpox, which has been eradicated more than I don’t know how many years ago.”