Worried about the prevailing level of child malnutrition in Jigawa State, chairmen of the 27 local government areas in the state, on Thursday met to improve on their efforts in the fight against childhood malnutrition. The meeting, organised by the Aisha Buhari Foundation and Jigawa State government, was held at R and K Guest Palace, Kano State. It was gathered that Jigawa is the worst hit by child malnutrition. Aminu Sani Gumel, who is the ALGON Chairman in Jigawa State said each of the council chairmen has been donating N250,000 monthly to battle malnutrition. He added that about N100 million was also set aside by Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar to tackle the issue of malnutrition across the 27 councils. “This meeting is intended to adopt measures towards improving on our efforts and ensure funds are released timely,” he said. Shehu Sambo, who gave the situation analysis of nutrition in Jigawa at the meeting,  said over 50 per cent of Jigawa children below the age of five are “stunted” and more than 38 per cent are “severely underweight” due to malnutrition,” he said. According to him, malnutrition weakens the immune system and worsens illnesses. “It is the underlying cause of more than half the deaths of under-five children and it is widespread in Nigeria. “Every year, about 20 million children under five years of age suffer from severe acute malnutrition and of these, about one million die annually. Severe acute malnutrition can be a direct or indirect cause of death,” he said. He gave the causes of malnutrition as insufficient nutritious food, lack of care for mothers and children and poor feeding as well as inadequate access to health, sanitation and water services. He added poverty, political and economic, legal and ideological factors as other causes of malnutrition. The Nation learnt the most affected are remote council areas where parents do not believe in immunisation and other government programmes aimed at tackling malnutrition and childhood diseases.