 When President Muhammadu Buhari snapped alive on Tuesday to “accept the resignation” of the former service chiefs of the country’s armed forces, many Nigerians hurrahed and did a jig, no doubt labouring under the impression that the move by the presidency was a one-cure solution to all the country’s security woes. The narrative that the presidency ‘accepted’ their resignations created an image that they had probably been planning to resign for a long time but were kept in service. Chief of Defence Staff, Gen Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin, served from 1981 to 2021 and should have retired since 2016. That same year, Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen Tukur Buratai, should have retired, having also served for 35 years. Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas, should have retired in 2018 after serving for 35 years, while Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, should have retired in 2014, about a year to his appointment as service chief, having also served for 35 years. The new appointees meanwhile, Major General Lucky Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff; Major General Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff, Rear Admiral Auwal Gambo, Chief of Naval Staff; Air Vice-Marshal Isiaka Amao, Chief of Air Staff, have been thrown in at the deep end. Nigerians are watching them closely and expecting immediate, overnight results. The immediate hurdle they face is the legality of their appointments. That battle is, however, not theirs to fight, but they will not be able to shake off the feeling of helplessness they may experience as the presidency tries to legitimise their appointments. There were reports in the media that the Buhari administration, familiar to a leitmotif of judicial controversy, did not plan to follow due process in the appointment of the service chiefs. Some said the presidency planned to bypass the legislature’s confirmation of the service chiefs, but the presidency on Friday alleviated those fears. A source within the Buhari administration reportedly said that the presidency did not need to submit the names to the National Assembly. The National Assembly, although tired by the delay it took to rouse the president from his somnolent fidelity to the underwhelming retired service chiefs, had expressed confidence the presidency would not bypass the legislature. So far, their confidence has been rewarded with a letter the presidency claimed was dated January 27, 2021. More importantly, however, there are doubts concerning whether changing the service chiefs will solve the problem dogging the Nigerian Armed Forces’ inability to stymie the wave of insecurity in the land. The appointment of the now retired service chiefs was also greeted with fanfare in 2015, especially as it followed a daring wave of attacks by Boko Haram insurgents that included the kidnap of the Chibok girls. At the time, President Muhammadu Buhari, still eager to prove himself, had said that the appointments were on merit. The concern for Nigerians was not whether their service in the army should have been terminated or not; it was that the former service chiefs before them needed to go. Being thus appointed with so much promise, what registered them in Nigerians’ black books? The president’s glowing testimony on their appointments in 2015 meant they should have delivered far more than the public saw. It would be mistaken and almost unfair to lay the blame totally on their porches even though they were not entirely exculpable. To start with, at least one of the retired service chiefs suffered from a classic case of misplaced loyalties. He was quoted unequivocally stating that the army’s loyalty was to the president and that the army would not be shy about using any means necessary to straighten up any dissenters among Nigerians. This is a terrible snare that the freshly appointed service chiefs must evade at all costs, for no meriting commander in the Nigerian armed forces would have made such a pronouncement. Such a mistake would quickly alienate the army from the people who felt that things were getting too dictatorial for comfort. The former service chiefs were also only too happy to ignore invitations by the senate, prompting Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Femi Gbajabiamila, to note that the House felt insulted and he in particular was embarrassed. The acting service chiefs must embrace accountability as a hallmark of Nigeria’s democracy. Failure of that democracy would constitute more of a threat to nationhood than banditry, for weapons cannot combat an ideology. The country’s security architecture may have contributed to failing the outgoing service chiefs and the people. The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) should be a key component of the country’s security, but they have been reduced to little more than traffic wardens and personal bodyguards. Analysts fear that until the NPF is retrained, retooled and reoriented to combat insecurity, the army will continue to labour under heavy pressure with cumbersome duties of internal security that the police should otherwise handle. Its forces will continue to be stretched beyond safe elastic limits. In short, until something is done about the security architecture, Shakespeare’s words will continue to ring true as follows, “What’s in a name? That which we call a rose would by any other name smell as sweet.” Although there has been no formal declaration of a state of emergency by law, the presidency stated otherwise and indicated its intention to help the new security crew combat insecurity. “There’s nothing I can tell you about the service, because you are in it. I was also in it, and I will pray for you. I also assure you that whatever I can do as Commander-in-Chief will be done, so that the people will appreciate your efforts. You know the stage we were in 2015, you know the stage we are now, and the undertakings we made. We promised to secure the country, revive the economy, and fight corruption. None has been easy, but we have certainly made progress. We’re in a state of emergency. Be patriotic, serve the country well, as your loyalty is to the country,” the president said on Wednesday. The Buhari administration must be careful to treat the disease itself and stop addressing only the symptoms. If a clear chain of command is not spelt out and respected in the security architecture, even the current service chiefs will fail. The National Security Adviser, Minister of Defence, and Chief of Defence Staff, who should traditionally lead the joint force of the service chiefs, should work as a cohesive unit to formulate and execute security measures and strategies. More responsibilities and better welfare should also be given to the country’s ailing, senile, impotent and universally loathed police force. Recruitment into both the army and police would be welcome by both security agencies but they have not always been handled with the circumspection and gravitas expected. Even aspects that had to do with appointments and promotion have badly been politicised. A cloud shadows the president’s commitment to combat insecurity, and it is hoped he will not stop at only changing the service chiefs.