 The Lagos State Ferry Services (LAGFERRY) has commuted 200,000 passengers in 150 days, its Managing Director, Abdoulbaq Ladi Balogun said. This, he said, was part of making water transportation operations alternative mode of movement from road and rail services. Balogun said this during a Two–Day Performance Appraisal/Capacity Building Training for the Management staff organised by the State Government. The training was meant to double the staff efforts in making water transportation more attractive and a considered alternative. With an average of 800 and 900 daily passengers, LAGFERRY, he said, recorded success last year. “In the same year, one of our boats, MV Ayangburen, christened the sea warrior of water transport, accomplished a feat of completing 22 trips in seven hours six minutes. A total number of 2,857 persons have been commuted on our chattered services to different part of the state for pleasure, recreation and business. Balogun stated that the workshop was aimed at reviewing the success made by the agency last year with a view to preparing it for the challenges ahead. He announced the Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s approval for additional seven commercial Ferry boats for LAGFERRY to enhance its operational capacity. “With the approval of additional seven passenger Ferry boats, our agency would have a total of 20 boats in its fleet. I promise that our men would double their efforts to ensure that the mandate given to us by the state government to commute 30 per cent of the residents through water transportation will be met in record time,” he said. Balogun stated that the agency had extended commercial operations to Epe, Badgry, Agbowa-Ikosi, Agbara, Ibeju Lekki and other riverine communities. The Chief Resilient Officer, Lagos State Resilience Office, Mr Gbolahan Oki hailed LAGFERRY’s management for organising the workshop. Oki enjoined LAGFERRY to put in place strategies that would allow it to grow in the face of any challenges. Managing Director of PMC Consultants, Semiu Okanlawon, applauded the state government for various reforms in the transport sector. Okanlawon said an efficient integrated transport system was genuinely required in an emerging Smart City. He praised Governor Sanwo-Olu for working hard to find lasting solutions to the lingering Apapa/Oshodi traffic bottlenecks. The road, he said, was too important to the economic growth of the country to be neglected.  