 THE founder of The Synagogue Church Of All Nations (SCOAN), Temitope Balogun (TB) Joshua, has urged Nigerians to cooperate with government on the use of vaccines to check the COVID-19 pandemic. He noted that there were several conspiracy theories around the world about the virus and vaccines, but expressed belief that the vaccines were the result of governments’ efforts for a solution to “this very challenging situation”. The cleric stated this in a message broadcast on the SCOAN’s Emmanuel TV. It was the first time the cleric would be baring his mind on the COVID-19 vaccine, a subject which has been the source of much controversy and conspiracy, especially within Evangelical Christian circles. Prophet Joshua said: “Concerning the ongoing situation in the world, I have received thousands of emails on the COVID-19 vaccine. “No doubt, there are many conspiracy theories surrounding this vaccine. However, my belief is that our governments are only trying to look for a way out of this very challenging situation, although there may be bad faith in certain quarters.” Joshua observed that the vaccines might have negative side effects on some people, but that this was not unusual. He said: “Many people have complained of some negative reactions but this is always the case with vaccines of this nature. I remember I used to have such reactions whenever I took chloroquine. “That does not mean chloroquine is bad. It works positively for many. At this time, our governments need our support and our cooperation – because the world is in a dilemma.” Earlier in the footage, Joshua spoke about the ‘New Anointing Water’ and ‘New Anointing Sticker’ he had released at the beginning of 2021, stressing the importance of having Godly intentions when using them. “Jesus looks at the motive of our actions but men look at the action. I mean, Jesus looks at why we do what we do but men look at what we do,” he explained, adding: “That is why we must not be in a haste to judge someone’s actions”. “Once any selfish intention or motive is involved – that is, if money exchanges hands in whatever way – the anointing in the bottle will go away, leaving only ordinary water in the bottle,” he warned. The cleric stressed that these ‘faith tools’ would be sent freely to people. “The Anointing Water is God’s gift to us. What it costs to get to you is our own contribution. The level of our sacrifice will determine the level of anointing we enjoy,” he clarified. Clips showing the anointing water being shipped worldwide from Paris, France were subsequently shown, alongside the reaction of people who “fell under the anointing’ by merely touching its packaging, notably a blind South African lady, who claimed she regained her sight. A video further showed someone ministering Joshua’s Anointing Water to a critically ill coronavirus patient in an isolation ward, who, it would appear, dramatically recovered and was released from the hospital shortly afterwards.