 NO fewer than three persons have been injured in a clash that occurred in Gaa Seriki village, Alagolo, Iganga, Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State. One person was also said to be missing with about 10 huts razed in an incident that began Thursday afternoon. The victims both from the Yoruba and Fulani residents of the area. While two Yoruba indigenes identified as Jamiu Junaid and Sunday Isaiah suffered machete wounds at the hands of rampaging youths after some huts in their hamlet were burnt, a Fulani, Ahmed Isah was axed. The victims are receiving medical attention at different hospitals in the community. Trouble was said to have started Thursday afternoon when a popular indigene of the area, Mr Sunday Adeyemo (popularly known as Sunday Igboho) stormed  the residence of the Seriki Fulani of Oyo State, Alhaji Saliu Abdul-Kadir to complain about what he termed the  incessant attacks on people of the area. When The Nation visited the Igangan community, it was gathered that while the brief meeting was ongoing, some hamlets in the area were being set on fire. However, immediately after the departure of Sunday Igboho and his team, it was gathered that some angry Fulani residents attacked four youths who were returning to the village from the farm on a bike. Speaking with The Nation, the Seriki Fulani, Alhaji Abdul-Kadir denied knowledge of the attack, saying the Fulani in the community now live in fear. He called on the government to come to their aid, adding that they have lived peacefully in the area as responsible citizens of the state. Speaking on the incident, a member of Iganga Development Advocates, Mr Oguntade Blessing accused the security operative of negligence, noting that the attack on the resident by the Fulanis happened in their full glare. The Executive Assistance to Governor Seyi Makinde, CP Sunday Odukoya (retd) said the government has commenced investigation into the matter, assuring that those found culpable would be made to face the full wrath of the law. Odukoya who visited Iganga and all the victims at the separate hospitals where they are receiving medical attention, said the government is not asking the law abiding residents irrespective of their tribe or creed to leave any part of the state but only criminal elements. He said the governor gave an order on the adequate safety and protection of all the residents of the community the moment the information of the incident got to him, urging the people to support the government by exposing criminal elements in their midst as a final panacea to the crisis. 