 The Aare Onakakanfo of Owu Kingdom, Prince Bolu Akin Olugbade, might be gone from our sight but not our mind. While he was alive, he lived like a king. He was generous, stylish, and cosmopolitan. The trained lawyer never hid his passion and love for the popular high-end Rolls Royce automobile. Anytime a new edition launches, he is ever ready to break the bank to secure the newest edition. With the sobriquet; ‘Mr Rolls Royce’, he is one of the world’s largest collectors of Rolls Royce automobiles. At the height of the pandemic last year, the astute businessman was caught up in the United States of America as international flights were grounded globally to curtail the spread of the virus. He returned to the country late last year. Despite taking several precautions, he eventually caught the virus and died at Paelon Hospital in Ikeja Lagos, where he was being treated on January 13. However, before his death, the 64 years old billionaire made the last reconciliation with his estranged old friend. It would be recalled that for many years, Akin-Olugbade was involved in a serious cold fight with his erstwhile friend and fellow billionaire property merchant, Sir Olu Okeowo, over irreconcilable difference, supremacy, and age. Their fight was so messy that they never saw eye to eye even at social gatherings. They were like light and darkness and they chose never to meet again to avoid physical confrontation. Mutual friends of the hitherto besties tried to reconcile them but all efforts proved abortive. Sources told Society Rendezvous that sometimes in December 2020, a former Governor of Ogun State and chieftain of All Progressive Congress, Chief Olusegun Osoba, reconciled the duo at a private location on Banana island, before they retired to Olu Okeowo’s palatial mansion at Parkview for celebration. “The most surprising thing was that Akin Olugbade made the move for the reconciliation after he got back from the United States of America. He made peace with his long time ally,” a close ally of the billionaires disclosed.