Umar Sadiq, 23, has made stops in eight European clubs before berthing in Spain. The Nigeria international, who has an Olympic football bronze to show after playing in all matches of the 2016 summer Olympics in Brazil and notching four goals along the way, has scored in nearly all the clubs he has featured. Born in Kaduna, Sadiq started playing football on the streets of his hometown at an early age. He later played for local team Kusa Boys before joining the Future of Africa Football Academy and finally the Football College Abuja (FCA). At 16, he travelled with FCA to Croatia and participated in the Kvarnerska Rivijera Youth Tournament finishing as the competition’s top scorer with his team emerging champions. Scouts spotted the lanky player, quite tall for his age, but it was Italian club Spezia that came for his signature. Playing in Spezia youth team, Sadiq made appearances in 24 games and scored an impressive 26 goals in his first season with them. At the end of the 2015 season, Serie A side Roma came for Sadiq and he did not disappoint as he bagged eight goals in his first three Primavera matches for Roma. By November of same year, he was ready for his Serie A debut. He played five more times for Roma and netted two goals. By 2020, Sadiq has made stopover in Bologna (Italy), Torino (Italy) NAC Breda (Eredivisie), Rangers (Scotland) Perugia (Italy) and Partizan Belgrade (Serbia). Sadiq nicked goals in all these teams before Partizan gave him a permanent contract six months ago. That was not to be permanent for him with Spanish side Almeria that have been on a lookout for him coming for him on the 5th of October 2020. Sadiq signed for the second division side on a five-year deal. Speaking exclusively with The Nation, the 6ft 4in striker who was named in Nigeria’s final 18-man squad for the 2016 Summer Olympics in Brazil and appeared in all six of his team’s games, scoring four goals in the process, including a brace in the third-place victory over Honduras, spoke extensively on his street to stardom story. “I was born and grow up in Kaduna in a family of three girls and two boys. I attended nursery, primary and secondary schools all in Kaduna. After attending two other schools, I finished at Standard Foundation School.” He said of his journey to Europe. “I was playing for an academy in Nigeria and went to Croatia to play a tournament where I emerged the highest goal scorer. From there I got offer to Spezia in Italy and became the youth highest goal scorer. So, I made a transfer to Roma youth side and from there I moved to Almeria-Spain after going through some loan spell.” In all these, Sadiq remembered his childhood friend Nura Abdullahi who was with him in Spezia and Roma. “Abdullahi is my very good friend and we are always together. We were together in Italy but there is a thing in life you just have to keep the faith believing that what you desire will come if you work harder. He has been waiting for result and now he’s okay and just waiting for permit to come back to the system and he’s training harder than ever to be in good shape. It is not over for him because he had a medical recently and the result is good. I think this New Year will be better. You know Kaduna is like the Brazil of soccer in Nigeria. You will see a lot of players in Kaduna that can hold their own anywhere. He’s a good friend and I wish him all the best. He’s also a good guy apart from being a good player. That is also important.” He said the transfer to Roma helped him made progress by learning the rope in the youth team, which assisted him to get the call up to the Nigeria Olympic team. “Taking a retrospective look at the Olympic team and winning a bronze medal under Coach Samson Siasia, I would say that was my first international tournament and its always a pleasure for me to represent my country. I will say it is like a dream come true because when I was young the first thing I know watching football on TV is watching the Super Eagles and I wake up seeing myself in green and white jersey. It is a big dream come true. “Playing regularly in Roma was a booster and I’ve already made my debut with Roma as I was on the bench in the Champions league, but playing in the Olympics and for the national team is a different feeling entirely.” He also had a chance to play against his dream club Manchester United at Partizan Belgrade in the 2019 Europa League. “I’m living my dream. At Partizan we played Manchester United at home but unfortunately, we lost. That game is a big one but we were unlucky and I always remember the match in my mind. Sometimes, when I think about how we lost that match, I feel sad.” What is your Phobia? Losing my mum is my phobia. I’m so so afraid of losing her because I lost my dad five years ago and she’s the only thing I have now. I’m scared of losing my mum. What do you live for? I live for my family and people in need. Who bought your first boot? It was my uncle Mohammed Naiara who bought my first boot and he’s late now. What was your first signing outside Nigeria? That must be Roma in Italy. What did you do with the first professional pay? I sent the money home and my dad used it to fix the house and I don’t know what he did with the rest. Who was the first coach that taught you the basis in football? He’s now in the military and his name is Alilu Kusso and I remember that during the u-13 competitions, even if it is raining, he used to come to our house and insist we come out. Who is that first football hero you wanted to meet? To be honest those days watching Ronaldinho is like a great thing and when I came to playing in Europe I remember telling my Brazilian teammate in Roma that he would greet Ronaldinho for me whenever he is going to Brazil.  The second meeting at Old Trafford also did not go as planned for Sadiq. Partizan were whitewashed 3-0 in the November 2019 Europa League clash. Now that he has landed in Spain, he looks forward to playing in the La-liga. “The ambition first is to play first division (La-liga). That is why I signed for Almeria because they have a huge budget and everyone at the club wants to go to the first division. “Even right now with the budget of the new stadium, everyone knows that the team are supposed to be in La-liga because it is a big budget, but you have to go to the first step, which is to promote then from there and we see what will happen. “Well! Spain has one of the best leagues in the world. After the World Cup, Champions League and the Europa Cup, everyone knows that La-liga is next. I can say that it’s like the premier league of Europe because it’s always about one on one counter attacks and it’s a good experience for me and I look forward to playing there.” How ready is Sadiq to play for the Super Eagles? He answered: “First of all, Nigeria is blessed with young talented players. We have a lot of them. We are growing and there in all leagues of Europe. You can see a good number of Nigerian players in all the leagues of Europe. Some are even playing for the England national team. I will say that I will just wait for my time and when it comes, I hope I will just grab it. I have no doubt about it one day it will happen and we would all see it. At the moment I’m focusing on my club after playing in the Olympics.”