There was low turnout of pupils in private schools in Lagos State yesterday as academic activities resumed for the second term of 2020/21 session. The Lagos State government had, last Friday, directed public and private schools below the tertiary level to resume for the new term. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) correspondent who visited some private schools across the state, observed that many pupils in private schools did not turn up for the academic activities. NAN reports that few pupils and parents were seen at the private schools, like Krisbetel College, Egbeda, Honeyland Schools, Ipaja, Daystar Montessori School, Ipaja and Sophem High School, Iyana-Ipaja. Most schools had “No face mask, no entry” banners with hand-washing basins, water, soap, sanitisers and infrared thermometers at their gates. At Honeyland Schools, Ipaja, few parents were seen dropping their children. The school did not allow parents to wait behind after dropping their children and wards. Head teacher of Honeyland Schools, Ipaja, Mr. Oluyemi Faleke said the school management had put in place safety measures for COVID-19 protocols. “Some of the pupils have not resumed because of school fees and some parents are also skeptical about resumption because they want to observe before bringing their children back to school. “We are ready for resumption and COVID-19 is not really affecting our school because we always assess our facilities before admitting students,” he said. A parent, Mrs. Yemi Shokunbi, urged private schools to also practise the shift system in schools because many parents were scared of bringing their children to school. Shokunbi said she believed that pupils could be learning from home, but with serious supervision from their parents. “I came to pay my daughter’s school fees, but she is not resuming today until I thoroughly observe the compliance to the COVID-19 protocols,” she said. Another parent, Mrs. Aminat Rasaki, said she allowed her children to resume yesterday because the school and parents had provided the necessary safety materials for the students. Public schools in Lagos are still maintaining the shift system introduced last year by the state government when it reopened for the first term of the 2020/21 session. The shift system entails students in Senior Secondary One (SS 1) and Junior Secondary Three (JS 3) classes, going to school on Monday, Wednesday and Friday, while students in Senior Secondary Two and Junior Secondary Two attend classes only on Tuesday and Thursday. The shift system is to allow observance of the safety protocols put in place by the government to curb the spread of the virus. At the State Junior and Senior High School, Alimosho, only (JS 3) and (SS 1) were allowed to enter the school premises with the face mask, while those without it were sent home. The head teacher of the State Junior and Senior High School, Alimosho, who did not want his name on record, directed the NAN correspondent to the Ministry of Education, Alausa, for further clarifications on the students’ turnout on resumption date.