 After a loud clamour for change of the leadership of the Nigerian Armed Forces, President Muhammadu Buhari did the needful last week by appointing Major-General Lucky Irabor to replace General Gabriel Olonisakin as the Chief of Defence Staff. The new Chief of Army Staff is Major-General Ibrahim Attahiru, who replaced General Tukur Buratai while Air Vice Marshal Isiaka Amao is the new Chief of Air Staff. He takes over from Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. Rear Admiral A. Z. Gambo, the new Chief of Naval Staff succeeds Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas. The four men have since assumed duties after meeting with the President and pledging their loyalty to the Commander-in-Chief and the nation. The calls for the changes came from all sectors of the society. Retired generals, political leadership of the North East states, the media, civil society and the general public became exasperated that the insecurity challenge in the country was worsening by the day despite the billions of Naira being committed to combatting the challenge. Even the President once complained aloud that the best being offered by the former service chiefs who assumed office in July 2015 was not good enough. Yet, he kept them in office. At different times, indication that the morale of the fighting men had become very low came to the fore, but the President used his prerogative to keep them. Not even when the National Assembly took the unprecedented step of passing resolutions calling for a change of personnel at the top, or when last year the House of Representatives invited the Commander-in-Chief to brief them did anything change. Now that the change has been effected, it remains to be seen how it would help to check the spate of attacks in Borno State, the banditry in states of the North West and kidnapping in all parts of the country. Can these men deliver? All four are not new to the turf. Each of them has put in more than 30 years of active service. The chiefs of defence and army staff have both commanded the counter insurgency action in Borno State at different times, while the Chief of Air Staff was once commander of the air component of the Operation Lafiya Dole. However, that is not all that is needed to secure Nigeria. In a way, it could be said that they contributed to the failure to win the battle in the previous years. Now that President Buhari himself has indicated that all that is needed is a final push, with game changing equipment on the way, we look forward to the new military chiefs to give their all in boosting the morale of the men at the theatre of war, ensuring that funds released for welfare of the soldiers are not hijacked and misappropriated, and present accurate picture of the situation of things to the defence minister and the Commander-in-Chief so that they could obtain the necessary support. Lawmakers at the federal level who have the power of appropriation should ensure that enough funds are voted. Senator Ali Ndume who heads the army committee in the upper legislative chamber has consistently argued that the token votes for the armed forces would not help in pushing back the enemy. It is obvious that the battle is not being fought by only Boko Haram. It has support from the Islamic State of West Africa and other fighting men from Mali and Libya. It would therefore take more to get this battle behind us as Sri Lanka has done in permanently defeating the Tamil Tigers. The Nigerian state should not consistently be presented as impotent, one that a group of untrained men could stand up to and sometimes sack its military barracks. This should be a turning point. The former Chief of Air Staff did a lot to fix the Nigeria Air Force by constantly giving the enemy a bloody nose. It would appear that the missing link was coordination of efforts of the various units of the army, air force and security forces. There appeared to be no harmonisation of the plans and strategies. This is a time for General Irabor to ensure that all the men work as one. There should be clearing house for plans and strategies. The Commander-in-Chief would do well to call the men, the National Security Adviser and the Director of Military Intelligence together in realisation that the national interest surpasses personal interests and ego. It is obvious that intelligence is at the heart of success in modern warfare. This has been largely lacking. On a number of occasions, it had been pointed out that some politicians, traditional rulers, civilians and even internal saboteurs have been leaking information to the enemy. All those responsible should be fished out and dealt with. The new military chiefs should note that no excuses would be enough for failure. Henceforth, failure should be swiftly punished. It is time for a resounding success.