 The appointment of Brig-Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (rtd), former chairman, Presidential Advisory Committee for the Elimination of Drug Abuse, PACEDA (2018-2020); and military-era administrator of Lagos State, as new chairman of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), has beamed fresh searchlight on Nigeria’s drug use crises. Marwa himself appears to have hit the ground running, and blazing from both sides of the hip.  In his first press conference, the retired military officer said no less than 15 million Nigerians, between the ages of 16 and 62, abused drugs in one way or another. Marwa, therefore, gave an early warning: everyone involved in the dubious value chain of harmful drugs, from planting to manufacturing, importation to marketing, had better scram; for sooner than later, the long arms of NDLEA would catch up with them.  A new sherif just galloped into town! Nice opening flourish!  But the drug challenge would appear much more endemic.  Indeed, the stats are grim. Over 2018, according to a joint survey by Nigeria’s National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and the Centre for Research and Information on Substance Abuse, enjoying funding from the European Union and technical support from the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), some 14.3 million Nigerians (nearly 15% of the country’s adult population) were found to use psychoactive drug substances at a “considerable level”.  That almost tripled the 5.6% average among global adults.  Besides, Marwa’s own 15 million number appears in sync with this finding. The disturbing numbers also exposed the high level of drug misuse among youths between 25 and 39.  That suggests a correlation between drug abuse and felt hopelessness and allied stress: from joblessness, rural and urban poverty and economic frustration.  Cannabis, heroin, cocaine and opioids, used as arbitrary but dangerous analgesics, were the choice drugs. Indeed, a NBS statistics, which breaks down estimated drug users, was sobering, though the comparatively high number of cannabis users, in comparison to cocaine and heroin, somewhat suggests the age-old Indian hemp, rather than imported destructive powders, still rules the roost: cannabis (10.6 million), opioids (4.6 million), cough syrups (2.3 million), tranquilizers/sedatives (0.4 million), cocaine (0.09 million) and heroin (0.08 million). Still, the bad news is that the importation of dangerous drugs, like Maghreb-pushed terrorism after the fall of Gaddafi’s Libya, is more a regional hub than a Nigerian isolated crisis.  According to a UNODC finding, almost nine of 10 (87%), of every illicit pharmaceutical opiates seized anywhere in the world, are in West, North and Central Africa.  This suggests these axes are a hub in such trafficking. But while the hoi polloi of the streets still stick with good, old “Igbo” (and that you could glimpse from the near-mainstreaming of the hitherto taboo, in urban seedy precincts), perhaps because it is cheap and readily available, the spoilt children of the rich appear to have graduated into a cocktail called “gutter water” — a mix of tramadol, rohypnol and cannabis, all soaked in water or juice. Even then, the UNODC study excluded the abuse of alcohol and tobacco.  Some other reckless youths have also turned to wild new (mis)adventure of sniffing glue, petrol, sewage and urine, aside from smoking lizard parts and dungs to “get high”.  Overdoses of all these wild drugs could prove fatal, in terms of life and sanity. All these different manifestation of drug misuse ram home one serious point: drug is no lineal crisis to be checkmated by a single approach.  It is rather a multi-faceted challenge which calls for flexibility and creativity, all round.  While the NDLEA should not let off on the trafficking side, it should launch efficient and effective initiatives on mass drug misuse, as a public health crisis. That is why it must initiate dynamic, multi-sectoral programmes involving the drug agency as the policing force; communities (staging outreaches, encouraging them to expose drug dens; and public service campaigns to discourage drug misuse); and medical institutions (for treatment, rehabilitation and institutional/group support after). The NDLEA should also keep in close view the link between drug abuse, on one hand; and banditry/terrorism, on another.  If indeed getting high on drugs powers these violent crimes, ridding those felons their drug supply could be a principal strategy to checkmate the insecurity, which these crimes fuel. Marwa has had a chequered record as a performer during his military days.  Indeed, not a few still fondly look back to his stellar record as Lagos military administrator — stellar, at least, according to the humble standard of military rule. So, anything less than eradicating, or at least greatly reducing to the barest minimum, drug misuse among Nigerian youths would be a disservice to his hitherto glowing record.  He has his job cut out!