The brouhaha between Ondo State and the Federal Government over the quit notice issued to herdsmen to leave the state’s forest reserve is unnecessary. After all, the primary purpose of government, according to section 14(2)(b) of the 1999 constitution (as amended) is “the security and welfare of the people”. So, if officials of the federal and state governments bear this fundamental responsibility in mind, in their actions and inactions, then there should be no basis for any quarrel. We therefore urge both governments to ensure that words and actions are in tandem with that provision of the constitution. The controversy was sparked following a directive from Governor Rotimi Akeredolu to herdsmen to quit the state’s forest reserve. In his words: “As the chief law and security officer of the state, it is my constitutional obligation to do everything lawful to protect the lives and property of all residents of the state.” The governor went further: “we decided that all the criminal elements who hide under various guises to aid the destruction of farmlands as well as perpetuate other violent crimes such as kidnapping, drug peddling and other nefarious activities, must be stamped out of our dear state.” Reports said the governor consequently ordered herdsmen to vacate the forest reserve within seven days, as well as stop night grazing. The government also ordered herders to register their activities like other farmers. Surprisingly, to the consternation of many, including the state government, the president’s spokesman, Garba Shehu, quickly disagreed with the directive of the governor on behalf the president. Shehu said: “There is little to be said other than to call for restraint on both sides and urge the state government and the leadership of the Fulani communities to continue their dialogue for a good understanding that will bring to an urgent end, the nightmarish security challenges facing the state.” He claimed that the governor’s action could “set off a chain of events which the makers of our constitution foresaw and tried to guard against.” We disagree with the president’s spokesman that the directives of the governor could set up a chain of events detrimental to security and welfare of residents of the states, including the Fulani communities, whom Shehu mentioned. By his utterances, it appears Shehu is more concerned about the Fulani communities more than other residents of Ondo, particularly the victims of the kidnapping, drug peddling and other nefarious activities, which the governor spoke about. It is even more disheartening that by his disingenuous inference, Shehu is equating the criminal elements which the governor is working to stamp out with the Fulani communities. We doubt if the governor by his words and conduct is seeking to evict the Fulani communities living in the state, and we urge Shehu not to make such inference. If however, Governor Akeredolu intends such an order, he would have infringed the constitution and other extant laws. But it is within his powers as the state governor, to preserve the sanctity of the properties of the state, including the forest reserve. So, if persons, regardless of their tribe or religion have been using the state’s private property for decades, we doubt if that long stay expropriates the rights of the owner. Such persons remain trespassers, and the argument that a trespasser on a private property who has stayed very long on a property acquires proprietary rights adverse to the owner, flies in the face of logic. Even more worrisome is the request for dialogue in the face of proven cases of armed banditry, kidnapping and sundry crimes. What the president’s spokesperson should have offered instead are words of encouragement to the people of the state, and an offer to collaborate with the state government to stamp out the criminals masquerading as herders, so that both the Fulani communities and the other residents of Ondo State, could live in peace. It is instructive that Ondo State government has reiterated the instruction for herders to comply with the lawful directive of the governor, and we urge them to do so. The herders who are engaged in lawful activities in the state deserve to ply their business in peace, and they should join hands with the state government to isolate the killer herdsmen. They never appointed Garba Shehu as their spokesman, and we doubt if he spoke the mind of the president on this issue. We consider it strange for Shehu to compare the lawful directive of an elected governor with that of unlawful or fringe organisations, who are clearly seeking relevance. If, as admitted by Shehu, Governor Akeredolu “has fought crime in his state with passion and commitment, greater sensitivity and compassion for the four years he has run its affairs”, we urge the Federal Government to cooperate with him, rather than clog the new tactics the governor has proposed to deal with a debilitating menace.