The Coalition of South East Professionals Network in Nigeria and Diaspora (CSEPNND) has called for the extradition of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu to face trial over his involvement in an alleged treasonable felony. Kanu is facing charges bordering on treasonable felony instituted against him in response to years of the campaign for IPOB. He was granted bail in April 2017 for health reasons but skipped his bail after reportedly flouting all the conditions given to him by the court. The IPOB leader has been on the run since. The group, in an open letter to the Federal Government, appealed to the governments of the United Kingdom and Israel especially to cooperate with the Nigerian government to have Kanu brought back into the country to continue his trial. In the letter dated January 8th, 2021, addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari, and copies made available to the media on Saturday, explained that its action was predicated on Kanu’s ceaseless treasonable activities in Nigeria. Noting that Kanu possessed citizenship of the two foreign nations, the coalition, according to the letter signed by its National President, Prof. Madumere Chika and National Secretary, Mazi Anayo Uchemba, alleged that the IPOB leader is hiding under the cordial relationship between the two nations and Nigeria to plan and launch attacks on Nigeria with a view to destroying it. Describing Kanu as a fugitive who escaped the law after being granted bail following his arrest and detention over treasonable felony, the coalition insisted that Israel and the UK can turn in the IPOB leader given that he was on the nation’s wanted list. It recalled with regret that Kanu, having evaded justice in the country, boastfully posted some video clips on the internet where he threatened in a live broadcast not to ever submit himself to the trial that was abruptly suspended due to his sudden disappearance from the country. The coalition appealed to all foreign nations to direct their embassies to cooperate and assist Nigeria in tracking down Kanu and subsequently hand him over to Nigerian authorities with a view to facing the law of the country. The group said: “We are constrained to write this open letter to the Federal Government of Nigeria through the President and Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, to immediately write the Government of the United Kingdom, requesting the extradition of our fugitive son and founder of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, to Nigeria to continue his trial over alleged treasonable felony. “Since Kanu escaped justice to the United Kingdom where he has another citizenship, we have watched him on some video clips he posted on the Internet where he did not only boast that he would not submit himself before the trial that was abruptly suspended due to his sudden disappearance from the country but also threatened that he would destroy our dear country. “He has no doubt, followed the threat with a number of attacks on the country apart from the formation of a militia group which information at our disposal suggest he has armed to the teeth to fight the Nigerian Government. “We call on the Federal Government of Nigeria being ably led by President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, whose ministry deals with all extradition issues, to immediately forward extradition request on Kanu to the UK for action.” The group reminded the foreign nations that Kanu remained a fugitive to the law, having jumped bail that was granted him by a court of competent jurisdiction trying him here on a criminal charge of treasonable felony and other related offences. While noting that Kanu is a threat to the country and must be immediately brought to book, the Igbo professionals expressed displeasure with the UK government for continuously harbouring him. The group assured President Muhammadu Buhari and other Nigerians that Igbos were fully committed to the Nigerian project, asking him to see the action of Mr Kanu as a lone one. “Having worked and contributed effortlessly to see Nigeria at its present state, we believe that the United Kingdom and Israel would not want to see Nigeria a shattered state. “It is in this regard that we are strongly appealing to them to assist in the extradition of Kanu, whose activities have been against the unity of Nigeria. “As Igbo sons and daughters, we wish to inform Nigerians that Kanu is alone in his cessation project and has no reasonable person behind him,” the group added.