 What has been NACCIMA’s position on AfCFTA? From the onset we supported the position that Nigeria must be part of this historic continental trade agreement because our country has been part of it. From the onset, when our pioneer leaders, close on the heels, of the formation of the OAU in 1963, announced that an African Continental Economic and Trade Agreement must be put in place to ensure true and economic independence of Africa and to give meaning to political independence. We must also remember that Nigeria has always been part of the evolution and trajectory of the agreement, which received a boost through the 1991 Abuja Treaty. Can you mention the key roles played by NACCIMA towards the success of the trade treaty? We played a key role in the negotiations of the AfCFTA, and as the leading economy in Africa we cannot escape the role that will devolve on us. In terms of capacity, is Nigeria prepared? There are, of course, fears about our capacity to effectively compete due to problems in our manufacturing sector which is beleaguered and struggling for reasons we all know. But even at that, we have shown the capacity to compete. Some of our manufactured products such as cement, soap, agric products and some pharmaceutical products can compete under the AfCFTA. We need to stand up to be counted and reposition ourselves and I am delighted to know that this is already going on. This was why NACCIMA started the AfCFTA Dialogue Series to educate and sensitise its members on the nitty-gritty and details of the agreement, including major issues such as Rules of Origin and Tariff Concessions. What are the areas of strength? We must identify our areas of strength where Nigerian private sector operators especially our SMEs can, and should be able to, effectively compete. In this regard I must commend the activities of the National Action Committee on AfCFTA for its Series of Workshops on the Agreement. Through these workshops, a whole range of sensitisation has been carried out and the areas of Strength, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) of the various sectors have received significant attention. They include Food and Beverages, Pharmaceuticals, Textiles, Services, Agriculture and its value chains etc.  These series of discussions have helped to boost our confidence that we have private sector operators and companies that can play. 