Most of what you’ve heard about Bitcoin is how people invest and quickly cash out when the price increases. It’s true but you won’t believe that’s only a small part of the story. And if you only look at things from this angle, you’ll think it’s too late to buy Bitcoin especially now that 1 Bitcoin is more than ₦11 million. But here are 3 solid reasons why it’s not too late to buy Bitcoin in 2021: As long as Bitcoin exists, people will always ask whether it’s too late to buy it. At some point, Bitcoin was $500 and there must have been people asking if it’s too late to buy some. The same thing must have happened when it was ₦10,000, ₦500,000, and even ₦1,000,000. Even people who bought at ₦9 million have made some profit. So the way it looks, and with the potential that Bitcoin has, you might want to look into adding it as a new investment in 2021 Just like small chops at a Nigerian wedding, the supply of Bitcoin is very limited. Very soon, there won’t be enough Bitcoin to meet the demand. This means that its price will increase. When this happens, you definitely want to be someone who already has Bitcoin instead of entering the market at that point. 2020 was full of big announcements from popular companies like Paypal and Square concerning cryptocurrency. 2021 will see even more companies endorsing Bitcoin in one form or the other. This will increase Bitcoin’s use and value. The United States is also moving to a new presidency that will likely have positive effects on Bitcoin use and trade. It’s a good idea to secure your slice of this particular cake now, because believe it or not, it’s still early. There are a couple of cryptocurrency exchanges that make it easy for you to buy Bitcoin with Naira quickly and easily 24/7. Exchanges like Quidax have instant buy and sell options on their website and mobile app. So if you’re just starting out, that something you may want to look out for. Speed and simplicity are extremely important because of how fast Bitcoin changes in price. One minute it can be ₦9 million and all you have to do is take a nap and it could be ₦9.5 million when you wake up. So being able to buy and sell “sharp sharp” without any complications or confusing software is key.