Geared up for a more successful Year, Ajayi Solomon Ovie, the CEO of TMY Media Company has reiterated his commitment to utmost client satisfaction by constantly challenging himself when it comes to production and management. As a b2b PR agency with clients in Nigeria, Ghana, Dubai UK Canada the USA New York, Michigan, Maryland Los angeles), TMY media offers extensive content marketing service packages to suit the needs of every business type small or large. “In the next 5 years starting with this Year 2021, TMY media would be one of the biggest media firms in the world. In line with my visions towards TMY Media, we are also planning to go into real estate. We have a quality audience who can afford properties through our brand. We are ready for the New Year,” he says while stating his plans for 2021 and other forthcoming years. Worldwide, the Year 2020 was indeed a tough one due to covid-19, the entrepreneur recalls the pandemic impact on his company. “Honestly, I can’t say Covid-19 affected my business. Although, it affected our media production with our digital strategies I believe we still had a successful 2020. I had also planned to travel to different countries but couldn’t make it due to Covid-19 .” Sharing his toughest moment as the CEO of TMY Media and how he was able to scale the hurdles, Ajayi narrated, “My toughest moment was when a Dubai business Company paid me a huge amount of money for a branding project, unfortunately, a few days later he came back and demanded a refund. The project had already started. This led to a lot of other challenges but we finally resolved it.” Speaking on the widely dispersed clients of TMY Media, Ajayi assures TMY Media’s undefeated commitment to all levels of celebrities. He says, “TMY Media has gone wide across different countries in the world due to our Digital Exposure. We are an internet site; providing links to other sites. We are an entrance portal due to our music production. At TMY Media don’t select clients for preferential services, we treat all equally and we know our right clients when we meet them at the first chat. Our policy remains that all clients must be treated equally.”