Governors under the auspices of the Northern States’ Governors Forum (NSGF) have agreed to take the first doses of the vaccine, when they arrive in the country. Chairman of the forum and Plateau State Governor Lalong stated this in his address to a webinar organised by the Sir Ahmadu Bello Memorial Foundation (SABMF), where the safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccine was discussed. The governor, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof. Danladi Atu, in a bid to tackle fears and controversies surrounding the vaccines, said: “We the northern governors have agreed to take the first doses of the vaccines.” The foundation’s managing director and chief executive officer, Abubakar Gambo Umar, in his welcome address to kick start the webinar, said it was aimed at sensitising the public and providing answers to issues surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic and the vaccines. The webinar featured a team of medical experts, who gave their opinions about the COVID-19 vaccines, its safety and efficacy. In their presentations, Executive Director National Primary Health Care Development Agency (NPHCDA) Dr. Faisal Shu’aibu and a pioneer epidemiologist, Prof. Abdulsalam Nasidi, gave insight into the efficacy of the vaccines. Dr. Shuaibu said the projection was that 70 per cent of Nigerians would be vaccinated over the period of two years, adding that in the first phase, 40 per cent of the population will be vaccinated. In the second phase, 39 per cent of the population is expected to be vaccinated. In doing so, he said risk communication strategies would be implemented across the different phases of the COVID-19 vaccine introduction. Prof. Clara Ejembi, a lecturer from the Department of Community Medicine of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria emphasised that vaccination does not prevent infection and stressed the need for people to continue to practice preventive measures. Others who spoke on the subject matter include Dr. Nasiru Sani Gwarzo, an epidemiologist and Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Industry Trade and Investments, Prof. Zubairu Iliyasu, Director of Centre for Infectious Diseases, Bayero University Kano Prof. Sarki Abba, Director, Centre for Urologic Oncology, Northwestern University Chicago, USA and Dr. Muhammed Adis, Executive Secretary of Nasarawa State Primary Health Care Development Agency (NSPHCDA) among others.