The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) has handed over 126 units of patient monitors and 63 units of oxygen concentrators to 21 healthcare institutions across the nation. Speaking at the virtual handing over ceremony, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha, said the COVID-19 pandemic has had a huge negative impact on the global community disrupting well established health care systems. Mustapha, who is also the Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Covid-19, said since the outbreak of the pandemic in Nigeria, government had taken stringent measures to combat the spread of the virus. According to him: “We know that our nation is at war with this pervasive enemy and we will ensure that the virus won’t spread further. “We are happy that the NSIA has assisted in providing these facilities and this equipment is a welcome development. It could not have come at a better time.” He charged the healthcare centres that got the facilities to ensure that they are deployed in a manner that would help to save the lives of Nigerians. The SGF commended the frontline health workers for their zeal and commitment in fighting the battle against the virus. Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, commended the NSIA for its intervention in the healthcare centres in the Lagos University Teaching Hospital; Federal Medical Centre Umuahia and the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital Kano. The Minister said that with the success so far recorded by the NSIA in the running of these centres, the Federal Government would be studying the model with a view to adopting it. He said while the nation’s healthcare system is not where the government wants it to be, the NSIA model in the healthcare sector would help the country have a good health care system. He said the government would also be working closely with the NSIA to reverse the level of medical tourism in Nigeria. He described the equipment by the NSIA as commendable as it would help to scale up government’s response to the Covid-19 fight The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, said that since the outbreak of the pandemic, government has been coming up with policy measures to cushion the negative impact of the pandemic on the economy. She also said the Federal Government has adjusted the 2021 budget to boost funding for the health care sector, noting that work is ongoing to raise funds to acquire Covid-19 vaccines for Nigerians. She commended the NSIA board for providing the equipment, adding that through this gesture, the authority has been able to demonstrate that investment in healthcare is investment in the economy as it guarantees greater returns. “I want to encourage the NSIA to continue its assistance in the health care sector. The equipment will help to offer succour to families affected by Covid-19,” she added. Director-General of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, Chikwe Ihekweazu, said in the last one year, over 120,000 Covid-19 cases have been recorded with the death of 1500 people. He said while the pandemic has affected many people and the economy, it has provided an opportunity to reposition the health care sector for effective service delivery. The NCDC boss explained that NSIA has been very passionate in improving health care infrastructure in the country, noting that the provision of the equipment is a good development for the country. Ihekweazu explained that the NCDC partnership with the NSIA will help to tackle the challenges of COVID-19. “One of our priorities is to build a sustainable relationship with NSIA to strengthen health care facilities and have an innovative way to fund health care,” he added. Managing Director of NSIA, Mr Uche Orji, said the healthcare sector is a key focus for NSIA. He said with the provision of the facilities, the NSIA has been able to boost the ability of the government to effectively tackle the pandemic.