 NIGERIAN music star, Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun aka Wizkid has opened up being a parent, finding peace and the type of music he enjoys listening to. In a recent virtual chat with Zane Lowe on Apple Music, the music star opened up on varied issues that include the success of his latest album Made In Lagos, the resilience of music, and parenting. In the exclusive chat, Wizkid, who is currently holidaying with his three sons in the United States of America said he would not want his children to emulate him but rather be better human beings. “First of all, it’s a crazy generation we’re living in, and as time goes by as they are exposed to everything. So it is very, very important to let my kids understand life and understand themselves,” he began. “I wouldn’t want them to emulate me, be even better human beings. That is my own important role to be able to raise great, amazing human beings, man. But I mean from the soul, cause whenever I meet a great person, I’m happy. Like I feel I go out and like there’s a whole lot of us around. You feel me? So I would just want to always in the midst of everything, in the midst of the madness, in the midst of how fast the world is growing as I would just always want my kids to stay true to that. Just by me just staying true to who I am, so yeah,” he said. A relaxed Wizkid said he has just found himself even though he finds it difficult explaining the process. “Man, I just found myself. I found my peace, man. I found myself. I found my peace in ways I can’t even put words to explain. I can’t explain it. As we are growing as older people… So when you’re young, it’s like you’re searching like, “Okay, who am I? What?” You’re inspired by a lot of people. So it’s like you’re trying to find yourself. But right now I feel like I’m in the best, I’m in my zone. I know exactly why I’m here. I just found my peace, man. I found my peace in ways I can’t explain.” The 30-year-old award-winning singer says he listens to every music he can lay his hands on because, for him, music is his life. “I listen to everything, man. You’d be shocked. I listen to everything, everything that comes out I’ll listen. I listen, man, everything, everything I listen to because… As I said, music is life and I stay, sleep, eat music, that’s in anything I do. So. Yeah. I listen to everything, man. I will get down so like… You think about it, anything you can imagine I listen to. And I listen to a lot of old music too, cause I’m old. So like I love, I love, I love all records.”