 The Coca-Cola Foundation has awarded a grant to SWEEP Foundation to launch a new environmental sustainability initiative, titled ‘Waste In The City’ across key locations in Lagos, Nigeria. As part of the company’s commitment to fostering a waste-free world, the grant was awarded to the NGO to bolster efforts to reduce plastic pollution and engender a positive orientation towards environmental wellness practices. Through this grant, the Waste In The City initiative will be rolled out across three local government areas within Lagos State comprising Surulere LGA, Coker-Aguda LCDA and Itire-Ikate LCDA. Its implementation will include advocacy, deployment of waste collection receptacles and provision of sustainable livelihood for the youth across selected communities. SWEEP Foundation will establish 100 pilot collection receptacles (drop-off centres) for the recovery of recyclable waste within Surulere LGA; Coker-Aguda and Itire-Ikate LCDA empowering 100 youths’ recyclers under this partnership. Speaking on this partnership with SWEEP Foundation, Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, Head, Public Affairs, Communications and Sustainability, Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited explained, “This is aligned with global efforts to increase the recycling and recovery of PET bottles while promoting the right attitude around waste management. It also provides a unique opportunity to impact the lives of the youth demographic through job creation. We believe projects such as Waste In The City are a real and effective means of driving change around the world, “she added. While environmental waste in Lagos State poses a problem to the increasing human population, drainages and canals continue to be clogged with plastic and other domestic waste despite the good efforts of waste evacuation operators, Recyclers Association of Nigeria (RAN), the Association Waste Managers of Nigeria (AWMAN) and the Lagos Waste Management Authority, (LAWMA). According to Phillips Obuesi, President and CEO, Statewide Waste and Environmental Education Foundation (SWEEP), this formed the basis for the initiative. “The Waste In The City initiative was borne out of a survey conducted by the Foundation, the results of which indicated the unsustainable waste disposal lifestyles occasioned by lack of environmental education and a lack of collection centres within the target communities.”