The General Overseer of Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, has dismissed reports the Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, ordered for his probe over allegations that he slept with wife of an estranged Pastor Mike Davids. Davids had accused the popular preacher of sleeping with his wife, Pastor Faith Edeko, who heads the Utako, Abuja branch of the church. In his petition to the police, he also said Apostles Suleman was threatening him and denying him access to his children. However, Apostle Suleman, via his verified Twitter handle, @APOSTLESULEMAN, reacted to reports he was under police probe over the petition. He dismissed the report, stating there was nothing of such. He tweeted: “IGP orders probe on me? Where, when? Maybe my ghost. Just reading stories now. Please discard. There is no such thing.” The Nation had reported the IGP ordered the probe of Apostle Suleman in letter addressed to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Force Intelligence Bureau, Garki, dated January 5, 2021. The letter with reference number CB:7000/IGP.SEC/ABJ/Vol.515/561, was signed by the Principal Staff Officer II to the Inspector-General of Police, ACP Iliya Doma. It was in response to a petition by V.C Ezenagu & Associates on behalf of the aggrieved Pastor Davids. The letter was titled: ‘Re: Criminal Petition Against Apostle Johnson Suleman for Enticement of a Married Woman; Adultery; Unlawful Criminal Restraint to Access Children and Threat to Life’. It reads in part: “I attach herewith a copy of a letter dated December 30, 2020 with its attachments received from V.C Ezenagu & Associates on the above-underlined subject. The Inspector-General of Police directs that you treat. Accept the assurances of my esteemed regards please.” Davids, in a video, had alleged: “Apostle Suleman has damaged my life. I have not seen my wife and children for two years and Apostle Suleman says if I ever go near them, he will have me taken out. I have a video where he said he will make me disappear. I don’t want to lose my life.” However, his wife, Pastor Faith Edeko, in a video, described her husband’s allegations as cheap blackmail. “I don’t know what you hope to achieve, I don’t know who paid you but the only thing I will say is haven’t you done enough? Are you not tired of flogging someone’s daughter in pain?” she had said. Resident Pastor, Omega Fire ministry, Headquarters, Joseph Iyare, said Davids “frustrated by his own evil deeds.”