Eight teachers in public secondary schools in Ogun State died during the first term holiday, which began on December 18 and ended on Monday, with schools resuming across the state. The Nation learnt that their pupils and colleagues were shocked and sad to discover that the affected teachers did not resume like others and upon inquiries, they were told that the teachers died during the holiday. The teachers, until their death, were said to be members of the Academic Staff Union of Secondary Schools (ASUSS), Ogun State chapter. The chapter Chairman, Akeem Lasisi, confirmed the death of the teachers to our reporter. He said what the union lost and suffered during the holiday had affected their psyche, adding: “We now discharge our duties amid fears and pains.” He said the eight were just the ones the union officially documented, expressing fears that more may be discovered to have died when inventory is taken about public school teachers. Lasisi, also the national vice chairman of ASUSS, identified the teachers as Mr. Seyi Odufoye of Commercial Secondary School, Atan Ota in Ado Odo/Ota Local Government, who died on December 28; Mr. Rasheed Adeneye, a teacher at Area Community High School, Owode Yewa in Yewa South Local Government, who died on December 29; and Mr. Godwin Okoro, a teacher at Remo Divisional High School, Sagamu, whose sudden death occurred while on holiday in his hometown in the Southeast on January 1. Others were Mr. Falola Temiloluwa Michael, a teacher at AUD College, Ota in Ado Odo/Ota Local Government, who died on January 2; Mr. Adeniyi Ogundipe, a teacher at Remo Divisional High School, Sagamu, who died at the Olabisi Onabanjo Teaching Hospital, Sagamu on January 2; Miss Ogunjobi Oluwakemi Lateefat, a teaching staff at Lafenwa High School, Abeokuta, whose sudden death occurred on January 4; and Mrs. O. Odukoya, a teacher at AUD High School, Ijebu-Ode in Ijebu-Ode Local Government, whose sudden death occurred on January 16. He said the eighth person died on Monday. Lasisi noted that “he has no explanation about what is happening to teachers.” The Teaching Service Commission (TESCOM) yesterday inducted 94 head teachers into the commission in Abeokuta. The Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, told our reporter that the government was not aware of the deaths. He, however, expressed sadness, saying the government would employ teachers to fill the vacancies.