First Lady of Lagos State, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu on new year day welcomed the first babies of the year in state-owned health facilities at Mushin General Hospital, Alimosho General Hospital, Orile Agege General Hospital and Ayinke House, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital. The babies are, Baby Amoo, a male who weighed 3kg delivered at exactly 12:01am by Mrs Tomilola Amao at the Mushin General Hospital, another baby, a male who weighed 4.35kg and delivered at 2:38am by Mrs.Onumba Foluke at Alimosho General Hospital. Also, baby Ajayi, a girl, who weighed 2.35kg and delivered at 12:01a.m. by Mrs. Abosede Ajayi at the Orile-Agege General Hospital, while the first baby of the year at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (Ayinke House, LASUTH) is baby Adesola-Fagade. The baby who weighed 3.3kg was delivered at 12.21am to the family of Mr and Mrs Adesola-Fagade. Sanwo-Olu was at these hospitals to celebrate the arrival of the new born babies. She stated that the birth of a child, for most people, symbolizes the assurance that our heritage and life force is carried on to the next generation. Said she: “As with a lot of cultures, not just in Yoruba Land but across the world, the birth of a child brings good fortune to a society. But we must recognize that these events do not happen by chance.” She stated further that the event is not just to celebrate new life but also to seek opportunities to make a difference in the lives of the people by showing kindness and compassion. She expressed hope that the year will be full of accomplishments and the state will grow stronger despite the COVID-19 pandemic currently ravaging the world. The wife of the Governor while highlighting strategies implemented by the administration of her husband to strengthen the health sector and halt the trend of maternal and child mortality in Lagos State disclosed that the health sector in the course of last year was supported with the provision of Neonatal Care Units, equipment and resources to various State Health facilities to enhance the quality of maternal and child care services in Lagos State. She acknowledged the efforts of the State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi and his team for the great improvement recorded in the State health sector especially in the fight against COVID-19 in the last few months stressing that the his commitment towards infrastructural upgrade, provision of relevant equipment, and human resource development is exemplary. Sanwo-Olu call on all residents to continue to support the State Government in the fight against COVID-19 stressing that COVID-19 is real and still in the community. Earlier in his remarks, the State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi noted that the first baby of the year remains a symbolic event as it shows that the very first activity of the State government every year is seen to focus on health. “Its significance is demonstrated by the priority it is given, with the visit of the wife of our Governor and the many important dignitaries, who could have been elsewhere, but have chosen to spend their first few hours of the new year here in our public hospitals. They make it a duty to be here to rejoice with our mothers on the birth of their children and that, in itself, speaks volumes”, he said. The Commissioner who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr Olusegun Ogboye stressed that State Government is committed to reducing Maternal and Child Mortality by implementing various interventions including implementing advocacy, sensitization campaigns and community dialogues targeted at maternal and child survival, upgrading of existing health infrastructure to provide basic and comprehensive obstetrics care, as well as other maternal and child health services. Speaking at the Alimosho General Hospital Centre, the Medical Director of the facility, Dr. Madewa Adebajo acknowledged the several interventions by the State government in form of recruitment of additional health workers and provision of latest medical equipment, saying that the Hospital is now better positioned to attend to the medical needs of about 50,000 patients who seek medical care on monthly basis from the facility. He maintained that the successes recorded by the hospital was made possible through the support of the State Government and the passion which the First Lady, Dr. Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu has for qualitative Healthcare delivery. Also, the Chief Medical Director of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, LASUTH, Professor Adetokunbo Fabamwo who outlined the various successes recorded by the State Government in the area of assistive births, surgeries among several others, craved for more support from the populace so that the hospital can continue to deliver on its mandates.