Senator Rochas Okorocha has called for a new political alliance ahead of the 2023 general elections to rescue the country. Okorocha, a former Governor of Imo State and Senator representing Imo West, spoke on Monday when the Rivers Governor, Nyesom Wike led him to inaugurate the Rumuche/Rumuakunde/Ohna Awuse Link Road in Emohua Local Government Area. Inaugurating the road project, Okorocha in a statement by Wike’s Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebrington, said it was time for people of like-minds desiring the best for Nigeria to stop complaining and come together to join forces to make the country great. He said: “In this dispensation, there are many bad people in APC, many bad people in PDP. “I think the good people of APC and good people of PDP must come together for purpose of making Nigeria great. I could imagine where I join forces with Wike.
“Governor Wike, this is my hand of friendship. Let us bring all like minds, all great people of Nigeria. “Rather than complaining, let us come together to make this country greater and greater as it should be.” The senator said Nigerians must embrace one another no matter the political affiliation and break the barriers that made it difficult to work together as Nigerians for the good of the country. He added: “What brought me here today is not party. What brought me here today is love and friendship. I am not PDP, I am APC. “But the time has come when we must break the jinx of party division and begin to embrace brotherhood and friendship and be able to state what is good and what is bad. A bad man is a bad man, even if he is PDP or APC.” Okorocha said Wike was a courageous leader, who had spoken truth to power and continued to improve the lot of Rivers people with his project delivery mantra. Okorocha said political power remained a trust, which could only be justified when used for the common good.
He said it was obvious the masses were not asking for too much from their leaders other than basic necessities of life. He said leaders, unable to provide basic amenities such as electricity, water and road must be considered as failed. Wike counselled members of the APC in the state to discard politics of bitterness that often made them frustrate developmental projects attracted by others to their communities. He said politics was a game of interest and future looking-politicians like him were not vindictive, but only pursued the interest that would enhance the overall socioeconomic life of communities and individuals. The governor challenged Senator Andrew Uchendu of the APC to show what he had achieved for his community while a member of both the House of Representatives and Senate. Wike announced the immediate award of contract for the reconstruction of the Mgbuitawo Road in Senator Andrew Uchendu’s community to serve as a proof that he was a liberal politician. He said: “I am different, so, I will do the Mgbuitawo Road immediately. I am going to do it because I am not a vindictive politician. If I am a vindictive politician, that road will not be done. “Also, I want to tell him, there is no need to play politics with bitterness. Politics is a game, we will talk today and talk tomorrow. No permanent friend and enemy but permanent interest. For Mgbuitawo Community people, Ohna Awuse, and Emeka Woke do not hold anything against you. “Therefore the road will be constructed. So, the Commissioner for Works is hereby directed to go and scoop the Mgbuitawo community road, and also go for the internal roads in Ogbakiri Town.” The governor also announced that streetlights would be installed on the just inaugurated Rumuche/Rumuakunde/Ohna Awuse link Road and Isiodu Road all in Emohua Local Government Area to further appreciate the support that they gave to him. He said: I came here, I told you that I will do this road, I give God the glory that I have done it using one of the best constructing firms in Nigeria”. The governor clarified that bringing Senator Rochas Okorocha, a member of the APC to inaugurate the road project did not mean that he was fraternising with the opposition party. He said: “But let me tell you what you may not understand. I don’t believe that you must only have friends in your own party. You must have to build relationship across boards but that doesn’t not mean that you’ll sell your party. “Senator Okorocha has been my friend since I was Deputy National President of ALGON down to when I became the President of ALGON. “He was a member of the PDP. He left us and said they are going to make Nigeria great. “He is still there, I believe that in these two years that they have, they’ll make us to be that great. But as at today, we are not great.”