The 22nd edition of the men’s FIFA World Cup is fast approaching, to be held between 21 November and 18 December 2022. It is the first time the tournament has been held in the Arab world, which is a factor in the decision to move the competition to December, away from its usual summer slot. 32 teams will contest international soccer’s most coveted trophy, with France heading into the matches as holders following their victory over Croatia in 2018’s Final in Russia. In this article, we will consider who will enter into the tournament as contenders to wrestle the trophy away from Didier Deschamps’ side. With well over a year to go until the start of the tournament, it’s very difficult to predict the strength and form of the competing nations. At this stage, it’s not even clear who’ll qualify, although Qatar, as hosts, and France, as holders, automatically receive a place. All of that means that if you wanted to place a bet on football at Space Casino then you will find fairly open odds. Favorites Brazil are priced at 11/2, holders France are 6/1, while the current top-ranked team Belgium are way out at 10/1. Brazil are the World Cup’s most successful nation, lifting the trophy on five occasions. However, 2022 will mark 20 years since their last appearance in a final, with 2018 seeing the Selecao knocked out at the quarter-final stage. For these reasons, the pressure will be on Tite’s side to reverse recent fortunes and usher in a new era of success for the South American nation, with a maturing Neymar set to be tasked with leading the side’s attack once more. Younger stars like Vinicius Junior, Richarlison, Renan Lodi, Lucas Parqueta and Douglas Luiz will also be challenged to play their part, while veteran defender Thiago Silva will likely feature in his last ever World Cup. Brazil superstar Neymar Jr. has teamed up with PUMA for the launch of the new FUTURE Z boot. Full story  https://t.co/i0eqEe3EJu pic.twitter.com/D8lwCTC2ff — Kick Off (@KickOffMagazine) December 9, 2020 Will Belgium deliver on the big stage? Ranked number one in the world, the small nation of Belgium appears capable of challenging for international soccer’s big prizes. The Red Devils squad boasts a superb array of talent, including players that ply their trade across Europe’s toughest leagues. Players like Thibaut Courtois, Toby Alderweireld, Jan Vertonghen, Kevin De Bruyne, Romelu Lukaku and Eden Hazard could grace any international squad and have all matured since their semi-final defeat to France in 2018. With a population of 11 million, Belgium’s success at the World Cup would represent a major upset, despite the obvious talent that runs through their side. They will probably never get a better opportunity to win the World Cup. Kevin De Bruyne is the first Manchester City player to be included in the FIFPro World XI. His first inclusion in the team. #TheBest pic.twitter.com/GAypbHhBeK — Squawka Football (@Squawka) December 17, 2020  As you can see, the field is heavy with nations capable of lifting the World Cup in Qatar in less than two years’ time. Whether it’s one of the favorites, or an outside bet hitting form at just the right time, the stage appears set for another epic tournament.