A middle-aged woman simply identified as Mrs Soares Febisola has petitioned the Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi over alleged threat to her life by his Special Assistant on Security Matters, Mr Sola Durodola. Febisola, in a petition dated January 12, 2021, and made available to journalists on Thursday by her lawyer, A.O Okeya, Febisola alleged that Durodola assaulted and harrassed her in public after driving recklessly against her on the road, on Monday, 11th January 2021. She explained that the incident occurred around 4.45 pm at Okesa area of Ado Ekiti, where Durodola, who was in a car, had allegedly driven recklessly and nearly hit her vehicle occupied by family members after her car had been passed by traffic lights. The petition reads; “Instead of showing remorse and apologized to our client for his behaviour, Mr Durodola came down and started ranting, insulting and assaulting our client to the extent of calling her names. “Mr. Durodola later made a call and within some minutes, three military personnel drove down in their truck and pointed a gun at our client’s head and drove her to the pavilion at Fajuyi. “Our client then quickly made some calls to her colleagues to come to her aid. Though they appealed to my client and asked her to go, but they said Mr Durodola told our client that she has been marked and that he will deal with her appropriately using his power, position and all he has”. Febisola who appealed to Governor Fayemi to rein in, Durodola and stop him from further carrying out attacks on her, demanded an in-depth investigation on the incident. “It is, therefore, the instruction of our client to appeal to the Governor, to help use his good offices to call Mr. Durodola to order as the stories about his attitude and behaviour can end up soiling the good name Governor Fayemi has built over years,” she said. But in his reaction, Durodola debunked the allegations, describing ‘it as a tissue of lies that only exist in the realm of conjectures”. “Everything was a lie and I did not harass the woman. The woman damaged my vehicle. The woman in question was here begging for her wrong actions on the day of the incident,” he said.