 The Caretaker Secretary of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State, Abdulrasaq Salinsile, has accused three commissioners of stalling his chieftaincy installation as Otun of Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi. An Osun State High Court stopped Oba Akanbi from installing Salinsile,  after the ceremony was fixed for January 16, as part of the fifth anniversary of Oba Akanbi on the throne. However, Salinsile during a press conference in Osogbo yesterday said the court order stopping Oluwo from installing him as Otun Oba was  politically motivated. He explained that the move to honour him as a chief started three years ago when Oluwo approached him that he would like to have him close and would install him as Otun. Salinsile added: “I was first reluctant to the Oluwo’s proposal but about two months ago I informed him that I am ready and he fixed 16th January 2021 for the ceremony. On 4th January 2021, Oluwo called me to his palace and asked me if I had any issue with the state government which I told him, nothing.” “Oluwo told me that three commissioners visited him in his palace to warned him not to install me as chief. He said he was threatened that great consequences await him and Iwo community. Also, the Commissioner of Police and DSS warned him not to install him as Otun because of security reports. I went to see the CP and DSS and they refute the claim of the king. I went to meet Chief Bisi Akande to intervene and he called Governor about it. Oyetola said he knew nothing about it. “Oluwo’s message to me read “I hold you to high esteem and I appreciate your love for me and Iwo in general, you are the Otun Oluwo of Iwo but the political rhetorics recently in the state requires a bit of caution. Do bear with me. Definitely, your installation will come up immediately the political tension subsides. Please understand my plight I can’t do the installation except you don’t love me. I can’t face the consequences else I will pay dearly. It will cost this stool in a negative way and Iwo in general.” He Iamented that he wondered why installation as a community chief turned political. The spokesperson of Oluwo, Mr Alli Ibraheem, when contacted said, the claim of Hon Salinsile is unfounded. “No commissioner compelled the king not to install him. There was court order restraining us not to install him and we can’t disrespect our court. Commissioners don’t have any business with Iwo chiefs.” Also, the Political Affairs and Intergovernmental Relations commissioner, Hon Taiwo Akeju said, the APC caretaker not sincere with his claim. “No cabinet compelled or threatened Oluwo over the chieftaincy installation. None of us has the power to do so because only the king has the power to appoint who becomes his chief. Oyetola is not aware of anything of such.” Ends. 