The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) has formally handed over 126 units of Patient Monitors and 63 units of Oxygen Concentrators to 21 healthcare institutions across the six geopolitical zones of the country. The move is part of the authority’s COVID-19 relief programme and a bid to assist the Federal Government to scale up its COVID-19 response, as the country battles the second wave of the pandemic. The relief equipment, according to NSIA, will add to the current stock of critical medical equipment required for the containment of the virus in Nigeria. The supply of oxygen concentrators and patient monitors is expected to boost government’s efforts to provide an efficient and effective healthcare response for those affected by the virus. As of Wednesday, the country recorded 1,861 new cases in 22 states and the Federal Capital Territory, taking the total confirmed cases to 126,160. The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) had stated that 22 persons died of the virus on Wednesday, bringing the number of deaths to 1,544 so far. Speaking at the virtual handing over ceremony yesterday, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr, Boss Mustapha, said the COVID-19 pandemic has had a huge negative impact on the global community, disrupting well-established health care systems. Mustapha, who is also the chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, said since the outbreak of the pandemic in Nigeria, the Federal Government had taken stringent measures to combat the spread of the virus. He listed some of the measures so far as including the ban on flights, the imposition of curfew, nationwide lockdown, and compulsory wearing of face masks among others. However, despite these measures, the SGF lamented that the lack of compliance with non-pharmaceutical measures had compelled the government to issue the Coronavirus Disease Health Protection Regulation of 2021, which was signed by President Muhammadu Buhari on January 26. He also said the Federal Government had rehabilitated oxygen plants and will be constructing one each in every state of the federation to boost its response to the pandemic. Mustapha told the participants at the virtual launch that the Federal Government will not rest until it ensures that the battle against the pandemic is won. He added, “We know that our nation is at war with this pervasive enemy and we will ensure that the virus won’t spread further. “We are happy that the NSIA has assisted in providing these facilities and this equipment is a welcome development. It could not have come at a better time.” Minister of Health Osagie Ehanire lauded the NSIA for its intervention in the healthcare centres in the Lagos University Teaching Hospital; Federal Medical Centre Umuahia and the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital Kano. The minister said with the success so far recorded by the NSIA in the running of these centres, the Federal Government would be studying the model with a view to adopting it. He said while the nation’s healthcare system is not where the government wants it to be, the NSIA model in the healthcare sector would help the country have a good healthcare system. Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning Mrs. Zainab Ahmed said since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Federal Government has been coming up with policy measures to cushion the negative impact of the pandemic on the economy. She also said the Federal Government has adjusted the 2021 budget to boost funding for the health care sector, noting that currently, work is ongoing to raise funds to acquire COVID-19 vaccines for Nigerians. On his part, the Director-General of the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control, Chikwe Ihekweazu, said in the last one year, over 120,000 Covid-19 cases have been recorded with the death of 1,500 people. He said while the pandemic has affected many people and the economy, it has provided an opportunity to reposition the health care sector for effective service delivery. Managing Director of NSIA Mr Uche Orji said the healthcare sector is a key focus for NSIA.  He said with the provision of the facilities, the NSIA has been able to boost the ability of government to effectively tackle the pandemic.