  The Managing Director of First City Monument Bank (FCMB), Adam Nuru, has volunteered to go on leave over the allegation of unethical conduct, The lender, in a public notice, said it is aware of several stories circulating across several media platforms about its MD and a former employee, Mrs Moyo Thomas and her deceased husband, Mr Tunde Thomas. “While this is a personal matter, the tragedy of the deatj of Mr Tunde Thomas and the allegations of unethical conduct require the bank’s board to conduct a review of what transpired, any violations of our code of ethics and the adequacy of this code of ethics. This is already under way. “During the period of the review, the managing Director has volunteered to proceed on leave. This will guarantee the sanctity of the review process,” the bank explained. Nuru was alleged to have had an affair with Moyo Thomas, a former official of the bank, who is married. According to reports, Moyo had reportedly left Tunde, her husband, and travelled to the United States with her two kids, later informing him that the children were not his, but Nuru’s. Tunde reportedly suffered a cardiac arrest and died on December 16, 2020. Over 1,000 people had signed a petition to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), calling for the sack of Nuru. The petitioners had alleged that the bank chieftain was responsible for the demise of Tunde. They claimed that Tunde was down with a stroke but later recovered and thereafter met another lady whom he planned to marry. He was, however, said to have died two days before his introduction to his already pregnant girlfriend. “This is a case of gross misconduct based on ethical grounds and unjustifiable economic oppression by the elites (Adam Nuru) against the less privileged in the society,” it read. “The MD has been doing everything possible to sweep this case under the carpet. We implore the Central Bank of Nigeria as the apex regulator and the board of FCMB to investigate this for the integrity of the bank and Nigerian banking industry. “This is a case too many, while I agree that this is not the full story, the barest minimum will be an investigation of this unethical conduct by the current MD of FCMB Bank Adam Nuru.”