SIR: With Nigeria ranked at 131 out of 190 countries in the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business Index, the giant of Africa qualifies to be among the unenviable league of the worst countries to do business in the world. But, who needs the World Bank to paint a pathetic picture of a situation that is already in our faces? Is it, for instance, a fairy tale that Nigeria is battling a multifaceted security challenge that is capable of scaring away local and foreign investors? What shall we say about Nigeria’s grotesque power situation? But, in spite of the prevailing harsh business environment, there are Nigerians who have braved all odds to make a heaven of a hellish situation. That is why Aisha Yakubu’s story is touching. Remember Aisha Yakubu – the woman whose restaurant was demolished by the Kaduna State Urban Planning Development Agency (KASUPDA) allegedly on the instruction of Governor Nasir El-Rufai because it was suspected to be the proposed venue of a sex party that never held until the state government made a U-turn on the original reason for its action. The travails of Aisha Yakubu has once again brought to the fore how Nigeria kills her own by literally having her knees pressed against the necks of enterprising Nigerians struggling to shake off the effects of the failings of  their leaders. If we pretend to concede that there was actually a sex party, should the state government have been the prosecutor, judge and executioner in its own case? Didn’t El-Rufai sign the Urban and Regional Planning Law, 2018, which its section 79 disapprove of demolishing a building without an opportunity for a defence? It must be said that destruction is not the attitude of a mature society. Not when it is done with the brashness of men of power and contempt for decency. Apparently overwhelmed by the opprobrium it attracted for its action, the Kaduna State government changed the narrative; something the late Afrobeat creator, Fela Kuti, would have described as government magic. According to Ismail Dikko, Director General of KASUPDA, the demolition was not hinged on the sex party that never held as previously stated on the Twitter account of the agency. He blamed the ‘misinformation on an error by its social media handler. Dikko argued that the building was demolished for its lack of permit. These are definitely not the vibes to get from a state looking to attract investors. Impunity must not be encouraged under the guise of keeping law and order. Back to the sex party that never held. One man whose crucifixion nails were quick to get the back of Aisha Yakubu to the cross, even without any particle of evidence is the Director General  of the National Council for Arts and Culture(NCAC), Segun Runsewe. Runsewe had hailed the Kaduna State government for its action, expressing confidence that the demons of immorality will one day be defeated. While it is gratifying that Runsewe is passionate about defeating the demons of immorality, it is also apropos to add that the war against immorality can never be won when the warriors see with one eye, or fail to lead by example. Was it up to a year that not less than 67 women groups demanded the prosecution of El-Rufai’s son, Bello, for threatening violence and gang-rape of a woman on Twitter? Truth be told, the sins of the vilified organisers of the purported Kaduna sex party and Bello El-Rufai who issued a sexual violence threat are in the realm of sexual immorality. But, neither Runsewe – the now vociferous warrior of morality- nor El Rufai publicly condemned Bello, let alone call for his prosecution. Advocates of morality must be reminded that there is a wide gulf between law and morality. While it is important to fight immorality to a standstill, it is equally important for the law not to be trampled upon.