Running a successful real estate marketing company doesn’t rely on any abracadabra but on time-honoured principles of hard work, persistence and integrity. This was according to Bridget Adeyemi, one of the outstanding female figures in the Nigerian property market. Adeyemi and her husband joint owners and directors of the award-winning Lekkiajahikoyi Property Investment Limited. Citing her company as an example and drawing from her experience of marketing in the real estate sector, she explained: “We were the first real estate company to post houses for sale on Instagram. Our sales statistics bear us out on the use of this innovative approach to marketing property. Secondly, we took dedication and consistency as our watchwords. We do only real estate and it’s a tough business enough to take all of our time and attention. We also improve on strategy regularly. That is to tell you that we are innovative in our thinking. And we have passion for what we do; anyway, it was that passion that motivated us to go into real estate business in the first place.” According to her, it is no fluke then that Lekkiajahikoyi Property Investment Limited is the leading real estate marketing company in Nigeria. “We are not relenting in our effort and we do not leave any stone unturned in our marketing effort. For instance, we have the highest number of followers on Instagram for a property marketing company,” she said. The Adeyemis, both alumni of University of Lagos where they earned bachelor’s degree in Business Administration, have taken their company to the height of property marketing winning in the process the 2018 Young Entrepreneurs Award for Best Real Estate Marketing Company and 2020 GMYT Academy Award for Real Estate. Speaking further, Bridget Adeyemi offered an advice: “One of the lessons we have learnt running Lekkiajahikoyi Property Investment Limited is that as an entrepreneur, you need to give yourself and your business time to develop, while in the meantime, you continue to strengthen the foundation by being diligent and consistent.” 