There comes a time in every man’s life when you have to sit down and ask yourself questions. You started out well in life but things are not working for you the way you expect them to work out, events are not unfolding for you the way you expect them to unfold, and the chips are not falling well for you, if you are such a person, then this message is for you, because you are at a point in your life now when you desire new beginnings, and you crave for a fresh start. However to my dear friends who have it all going good; you are at the top of your game, the chips are falling fine for you, your kitchen sink doesn’t stink, hooray comes out of your water fountain, and your life is all peaches and cream, you can as well stop reading right here because this article is for people who want to rediscover themselves and step into the good things that life has in store for them. Let’s get it started… Now you have reviewed your life, you have re-evaluated your goals, and you want to put yourself back in the mix, I will share with you five things you need to do if you desire New Beginnings. At any age, at any stage of life you are in at the moment, if you can follow these five things and do them, I assure you that you are well on your path to create New Beginnings for yourself, for your life, and for your future. 1. CREATE YOUR VISION: Creating your vision is the beginning of your incredible journey towards New Beginnings. Create your vision; have a mental picture of your destination even before you begin your journey, determine the end you have in view right before your plane takes off; it’s your destination, it’s your destiny, and you need to go all out for it. Create the vision; this includes the why and how you will go about it, have the vision from the start, see it from the start. There was this quote I saw many years ago; you have to see it before you see it, or else you will never see it. 2. SET YOUR GOALS: It is highly important that you should set new goals if you are desirous of New Beginnings. Setting your goal puts you on your toes; it keeps you walking and keeps you working because you know you have something you are working towards. Setting a goal for yourself helps to streamline your activities and you don’t dabble into things haphazardly; you know what it is you want, and you know you must go after it. 3. GET TOXIC PEOPLE OUT OF YOUR LIFE: There are some people you need to get out of your life, you need to ease them out of your life because if you keep rolling with them, you will not get to your destination at all, or if peradventure you get there; you will be bruised and battered already, you need to get these folks out of your life; they are Energy Drainers. They do you more harm than good, they talk down on any positive step you want to take, they don’t see anything good in you, they don’t believe in you, and if you are not careful they will pollute you so much with their negativity that you will not believe in yourself. They are toxic people, they are naysayers, they are elite members of the discouragement club, and you need to flush them out of your life if you want New Beginnings so that you can make room for the next category of people. 4. GET POSITIVE PEOPLE INTO YOUR LIFE: But you need to replace them ASAP with positive people; people who see the good in you, people who tell you to believe in yourself and to keep your dreams, folks who tell you that It’s possible, yes you can. You need to surround yourself with positive people. 5. MOVE INTO YOUR FUTURE; you have already taken the first four steps, now tell me; what are you still waiting for? It’s time to move into your future, It’s time to step into NEW BEGINNINGS! Adenuga, an author and conference speaker, writes via lamideadenuga@gmail.com