 WOULD Seyi Makinde, engineer and governor of Oyo State, not have reacted to the Oke-Ogun security challenge differently, if he had reserved his comments till the outcome of the fact-finding mission to the affected communities? Would he not have handled the delicate issue much more better, if he had adequate information about the violence and plight of victims? The lesson is instructive.Those in power should have the patient to dissect issues to avoid the danger of acting before thinking. The issue at hand is delicate. As governor, Makinde has a duty to provide an atmosphere for harmony between indigenes and settlers or non-indigenes. His worry was the yardstick for measuring crime by those who are not security personnel. Therefore, he saw the quit notice by an ordinary person to alleged kidnappers in the state as illogical, abrasive and criminal. The governor asked the new police commissioner Ngozi Onadeko to go after those behind the quit order. The governor is right by insisting that nobody has the right to sack any Nigerian residing in any part of Oyo State. It is their fundamental right to chose a place to reside in any part of the country. But, are the villagers also wrong in calling for the sack of criminals tormenting them? Are they not at liberty to raise eye brow when some strangers were trying to breach the peace of the land? There are other puzzles. The kidnappers are not from Oke-Ogun and Ibarapa. When they are kidnapped, the victims are not taken outside Yorubaland. Does that not suggest complicity? Are collaborators not at work? The kidnappers use GSM to ask for ransom. Can’t the phone be tracked and the kidnappers be traced by security men? The governor is trying to find a solution to a protracted security crisis that is not his own making. Lamentably, he is not even strengthened by the lopsided federal constitution to fully secure his people. That reality made the governor to team up with his brothers from other Southwest states of Lagos, Ogun, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti to float the security outfit, Amotekun. Makinde, like his 35 colleagues in the Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF), are puppet chief security officers of their states. Across the fragile federation, no governor can issue any command or directive to any  commisioner of police without clearance from the Inspector-General, who is domiciled in Abuja. Policemen on duty are usually few relative to the general population. In various communities, they are strangers who lack the knowledge of the geography, sociology, custom and language of the area of operation. They are slow to combat crime as they lack the benefit of intelligence gathering. The snail-like speed may have driven community leaders on edge. In the face of threats and clear dangers, locals may resort to self-defence for preservation, when they are pushed to the wall. Thus, while flaying indigenes who were resisting the invasion of their communities, observers believe that Makinde may have overreacted due to lack of prior briefing. To many, Oyo State appears to be in a fix. The towns and villages ravaged by banditry are in distress. It may take some time before the victims recover. According to the aggrieved rural dwellers, help was not coming quickly to the far-flung, rural Ibarapa and Oke-Ogun communities, where residents were terrorised, killed, maimed, raped and harassed by non-native, itinerant herdsmen. The farmers were lamenting over the destruction of their crops and farmlands by the invaders and interlopers. They lost their source of income and means of survival. Scores were being kidnapped for ransom. The area has lost its peace. The Pacesetter State is strategic to Southwest, Ibadan, its capital, being the headquarters of the region. Ibarapa and Oke Ogun, which has been crying foul over decades of marginalisation, is under siege. Fears are rife that the problems in that axis, if not curtailed, may spread to other parts of the state and region, in the speed of lightening. The federal and state governments were aware of the cries of despondency by Igangan, Tede and Ago-Are people. Their voices were not suppressed, but they were not clearly heard or understood by government. In the process of repudiating the unconventional defensive initiative, Makinde  may have inadvertently elevated a venerable trouble maker to the status of a hero. Townspeople, particularly youths, are warning against the arrest of their leader. On this note too, tension is brewing. The perception now is that Chief Sunday (Adeyemo) Igboho, who has been branded a thug and criminal by government, saw the need to protect lives and property of his people when no assistance was coming from government. He is now perceived as a rallying point by the neglected people. Full of bravado, he conducts himself as a sub-ethnic champion. Threading on populism, he even had the effontery to dare the governor by visiting Ibarapa to assess the level of compliance with his quit order. To the villagers, since delay could be  dangerous, the youths, led by Sunday Igboho, motivated them to take their destiny in their own hands. If soldiers, police and Amotekun  could not rescue their far-flung towns and villages from invading criminal herdsmen, should they regress into self-pity permanently and shun the critical option of self-defence? It is a complex matter. Igboho and his men are rural dwellers lacking cosmopolitan disposition. They look like semi-literates bubbling with patriotic feelings. They may not understand the language of unity when other tribes are inflicting much pains on their kinsmen. This is the  dilemma. The commissioner of police and Makinde’s security adviser, Fatai Owoseni, were alarmed at the evidence of atrocities unleashed on innocent natives. The traditional rulers, community leaders and victims of horror came with tales of woes and lamentations. The destruction has rendered many people homeless. The attacks on the natives were unprovoked. The message triggered by the face-off has been properly passed. No hersdman will trample on farmlands and crops in Yorubaland without a fight from the natives. If Yoruba who live in other parts of the country conduct themselves properly and respect the traditions and culture of their hosts, it is not a bad idea if other Nigerians they host on their soil should bestow the same respect for the sake of peaceful co-existence. Makinde and Igboho want an end to banditry. Igboho gave the impression that he was an ally of the governor during the electioneering. Therefore, the sudden conflict and parting of ways   stem from differential or antagonistic approaches to safeguarding security. The governor is insisting on legal framework. It is better. But, Igboho is saying that a quicker response is required to alleviate the suffering of his people. How to tackle mindless criminal herdsmen and kidnappers have created a gulf between the governor and Igboho, who is now posing as a ” people’s General.