 WHAT is RSA Transfer? RSA Transfer is the transfer of an individual’s Retirement Savings Account (RSA) from one Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to another, processed through the RSA Transfer System (RTS). How often can an RSA holder transfer his/her RSA? An RSA holder is only allowed to transfer his/her RSA once in every 365 days (12 calendar months) as stipulated in Section 13 of the Pension Reform Act 2014 (PRA2014). How is an RSA transfer initiated? An RSA transfer is initiated by the RSA holder through the PFA to which his RSA is being transferred. It is based on the provision of the PRA 2014, which empowers the RSA holder to select and change the PFA that will manage his/her RSA. What is the RSA Transfer System? The RTS is a computer-based application deployed by the National Pension Commission (PenCom) for the purpose of initiating, processing and monitoring the RSA Transfer process. What is a Receiving PFA? This refers to the PFA to which an RSA is being transferred. What is a Transferring PFA? This refers to the PFA, from which an RSA is being moved to a Receiving PFA. How does an RSA holder start the RSA transfer process? The RSA holder must first ensure that his/her personal details (Biometrics & Biodata) have been recaptured and updated on the Enhanced Contributor Registration System (ECRS). This also entails providing his/her National Identity Number (NIN) to the PFA. This requirement only applies to contributors that registered before July 1, 2019). Thereafter, the RSA holder should approach the receiving PFA and initiate the transfer request by providing his/her RSA PIN, surname, telephone number and email address. After the successful validation of the biodata, the RSA holder’s fingerprint will then be captured to authenticate his/her identity and conclude the transfer request. The receiving PFA prints two copies of the confirmation slip, which should be signed by the RSA holder as proof that he/she initiated the transfer. A copy of the confirmation slip will be given to the RSA holder while the other copy is retained by the receiving PFA. What information does an RSA holder need to provide to enable him/her transfer an RSA? The RSA holder needs to provide the following details to the receiving PFA to enable him/her transfer his/her RSA from his PFA: Surname, RSA PIN, telephone number, email address (not compulsory but highly desirable for receiving updates on the status of the RSA transfer request) and fingerprint of the RSA holder, which should be captured live by the receiving PFA. When can an RSA holder submit an RSA transfer request? An RSA holder can submit an RSA transfer request any time within the year, provided that the request is not submitted before the expiration of 365 days after the last RSA transfer. Does an RSA holder need to inform his/her PFA before transferring his/her RSA? No, the RSA holder does not need to inform his/her current PFA before transferring his/her RSA. However, it is important for an RSA holder that registered before July 1 2019, to have recaptured his biometrics and biodata with his/her current PFA, otherwise the transfer request cannot be initiated.