Another batch of 37 kidnap victims, including newlywed, were freed from the bandits in Katsina, late Friday evening The victims who were mostly women and children were abducted in the last two weeks from Unguwar Malamai community in Yantumaki District of Danmusa Local Government Area and Babban Duhu village in Safana Local Government Areas of the State. Their rescue was in continuation of the efforts by the Katsina State Government to find a lasting solution to the menace of Banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling and other related crimes confronting the state. The Nation recalled that the present community-based initiative which was in partnership with the security agencies and relevant stakeholders was introduced with the recovery of the recently abducted 344 schoolboys of Ƙanƙara Science Secondary School in December last year. One of the victims and a newly wedded couple simply identified as Farida Sani who was abducted at Runka town in Safana Local Government Area of the state, nine days after her marriage recounted her ordeal in the kidnappers’ den. According to her: “When the Bandits attacked our town, they met me inside our bedroom. Upon their arrival, they met me lying on the ground and woke me up, and took me to their enclave . We spent 15 days there”. “During our stay, they have been beating my husband and his other male counterparts but left me. ”The accommodation was not a room but an open place more of grasses and plants.” The Special Adviser to the Governor on Security Matters, Alhaji Ahmed Katsina in his speech, counted that the release of the latest batch brings the total number of freed victims to 141 since the commencement of the community-based initiative on banditry. He disclosed that the rehabilitation and integration of the rescued victims is the next stage and that they will be reintegrated with their communities after going through a lot of trauma. He said ‘”Medical Doctors have also been brought in to examine the health status of the victims and psychologists will also talk to them and by extension, the state government will, in turn, give them some palliatives to start life in a better way.” While addressing the rescued victims on behalf of the state government, the Secretary to the State Government, Dr. Mustapha Inuwa urged them to take it as an act of God and be prayerful as well as to continue to support the security agencies in the ongoing onslaught against the menace of Banditry, kidnapping and cattle rustling. 