REAL MADRID will be looking to return to winning ways in La Liga when they host a revitalised Celta Vigo tonight in their first match of 2021. Zinedine Zidane’s side will enter the contest off the back of a 1-1 draw with Elche on Wednesday night, while Celta continued their excellent form with a 2-1 success over Huesca. Madrid would have been looking to make it six straight league victories on Wednesday night, and the champions took the lead at Estadio Manuel Martinez Valero in the 20th  minute through Luka Modric. Elche levelled the scores early in the second period, though, and Zidane’s side could not find a second as they failed to win in Spain’s top flight for the first time since the end of November. Los Blancos have impressed in recent weeks, though, recording wins over Sevilla, Atletico Madrid, Athletic Bilbao, Eibar and Granada to rise up the table into second position. The reigning champions are only two points behind leaders Atletico Madrid, but Diego Simeone’s side have two games in hand on their rivals, which is an indication of their strength at the summit heading into 2021. Madrid will be eyeing their 11th  league victory of the season this weekend, but they were held to a 1-1 draw by Celta in the corresponding match during the 2019-20 campaign and will be wary of the in-form visitors. Celta’s form since Eduardo Coudet became the club’s new head coach has been terrific, winning six and losing just one of their eight fixtures under the 46-year-old. The Sky Blues have risen from just outside the relegation zone into eighth position and are now just two points behind sixth-placed Barcelona, which is a demonstration of their turnaround. A record of six wins, five draws and five defeats has brought them 23 points, and they have won five of their last six matches in the league, including a 2-1 success over Huesca on Wednesday night. O Celtina will certainly be the underdogs heading into Saturday’s contest, but Madrid’s dropped points against Elche has given them reason to be optimistic, and there is no question that the visitors are capable of harming the champions due to their quality in the final third of the field.  Elsewhere, Villarreal will be looking to return to winning ways in Spain’s top flight when they welcome an in-form Levante side to Estadio de la Ceramica this  afternoon. The Yellow Submarine will enter the contest off the back of a 2-0 defeat to Sevilla, while Levante won a seven-goal thriller against Real Betis to make it three victories in their last four matches. Villarreal lost just their second league game of the season on Tuesday night as they went down 2-0 at Sevilla, which saw them drop behind Julen Lopetegui’s side in the table. The Yellow Submarine currently occupy fifth position, having picked up 26 points from their 16 matches this season courtesy of six wins and eight draws. Recent injury problems have harmed Unai Emery’s side, and they have actually only won one of their last seven in Spain’s top flight, sharing the points in five of those encounters. Villarreal have finished fifth in three of their last four campaigns and last claimed fourth in 2015-16; there is a lot of competition for the Champions League places in La Liga, but El Submarino Amarillo will certainly be eyeing another top-four spot in the second half of the campaign. Levante, meanwhile, will enter this weekend’s contest off the back of a 4-3 win over Betis on Tuesday night; Manuel Pellegrini’s side scored twice in the latter stages to set up a grandstand finish, but the home team held on to claim another three points, which moved them into 12th  position. The Frogs have now won three of their last four matches in all competitions, including an impressive 2-1 home success over Real Sociedad on December 19. Paco Lopez’s team have only been beaten in one of their last 10 league matches, meanwhile, and the loss was a narrow one at Barcelona, with Lionel Messi scoring the only goal of the contest late on. The visitors will therefore enter this match full of confidence and knowing that a victory could see them move into the top half of the division depending on other results. Levante suffered a 2-1 defeat to Villarreal when the two teams last locked horns at Estadio de la Ceramica but recorded a 2-1 victory when the pair met in Valencia in the reverse match.