Sir: The Southwest Security Network, popularly known as Amotekun, was conceptualized by the six governors in the Southwestern part of Nigeria in order to tackle threats to security of lives and property in Yorubaland. It was accepted with the hope that this will aid unity in the region. However, there are certain trends that has started making people ask if these are also part of the mandate of this security outfit What does Amotekun has to do with checkmating dressing, hairstyle, motorcycle full-light amongst others? This bothers me, as I don’t know if the aforementioned happen to be part of the modalities in fighting against insecurity in our region. The outfit was created to reduce the problem of inadequate manpower in the Nigeria Police, as they complement police personnel in undertaking robust routine patrols in the nooks and cranny of the region. The initiative as well is to serve as grassroots intelligence network for conventional security, hence it is expected that operatives would gather information about crimes and suspicious activities from the communities for necessary action The role of the outfit in combating criminality such as kidnapping, armed robbery, ritual killing, herdsmen/ farmer clash may lead them to go beyond just providing intelligence for the police. Sometimes, they may need to tackle criminals, even without proper notification of the Police. In the Oke-ogun areas of Oyo State such as Iwajowa, Itesiwaju, there have been kidnappings and maimings in recent times. This has created fear in the heart of the people, who cannot even move around the region freely without the fear of being potential victims. Although it was reported that those  behind the recent attack in the area are herdsmen, I think it is high time Amotekun operatives stand up to the task of protecting lives and properties of the people in collaboration with other security operatives. Dear Amotekun, the lives of the Yoruba are at risk as this is not the time to be checking hairstyles, dressings and other frivolities. It is time for you to bring out the real attribute of an Amotekun in you. I want to implore all stakeholders of Amotekun to do all that is necessary about this issue before people will eventually lose interest and trust in them, just as was the case with SARS unit of the police. There is nothing too big in securing the lives and property of citizens, which is the primary function of government. The spate at which people are being attacked in the South-western part of the country is really getting alarming. Our traditional institutions are being desecrated because of all these security lapses. Would Amotekun make a difference?