  What has been the challenge putting the show together? There have been a lot of challenges because the finalists today are of the best. We had about 700 people registered to participate in the pageant. Now, they have come down to 70, which is ten percent of the total. Then today, only 50 people are able to make it to the venue.  There was audition in Camp and we have been in camp for about  ten days to select this beautiful girls.  So, there have been a lot of challenges for the brand.  We have gone round the whole country.  Some of these girls came from  Ghana, Abuja, Lagos.  We did the audition in about 12 cities to get the bunch that we have here today. I thank God for the journey so far. Tell us about your Proudly Made In Nigeria Products? Zikel Cosmetics is a Nigerian brand.  So, far we have encouraged many Nigerians to embrace and buy Nigerian products.  I must say that the support has been really awesome.  However, I must say that when we say made in Nigeria, we need to be careful.  This is because you discover that sometimes many of this Nigerian brands are being created abroad. This is because of a lot of Logistics in production, lack of electricity, transportation and so many other things. We thank God that Zikel is setting the pace in the industry. How would you describe the experience in 2020 looking at COVID-19 and other threats? To be frank with you, this event was supposed to hold in June but we had to shift to December because of COVID 19 and the restlessness in the economy. Nevertheless, we give God the glory because when you have life, you have hope. I know that we would see the end of COVID 19 in Jesus name. Are you satisfied with the 50 girls shortlisted for the pageant? I have been with them in the Camp for 10 days…I must say that the set that we have this year have been awesome It is left for the judges to choose who the winner is. But if I am to crown, I will have about 15 or 20 girls They have done well and we have  already  seen that they have what the brand is looking for.  These girls came prepared, they came ready and they are willing to put in their best. Apart from the competition, what plans do you have for the girls afterwards? After the pageants, the selected girls are going to be Zikels brand ambassadors for one year. Some of them are going to be travelling to Dubai, Canada, South Africa, Ghana and then some within the country, basically to promote the brand.  Again, the idea behind this is to carve a niche in the industry.  We are using the talents to pilot the Affairs and vision of the company. Let’s talk about the challenges you had putting this together? I must say that at a point, I was afraid and wondered if we were going to host the event this year. It hasn’t been easy but we thank God that it is finally happening today and it is better late than never. How long have you been doing this pageant? This is the second edition and the experience has been awesome. The first edition took place in January last year. We hope that the third edition would be better and bigger as well as impacting more lives. This year they were in the camp for ten days and we had to bring a trainer to get the best out of them. It’s been very interesting.  I just love to do make up and when I was in school at the Covenant University, So, it started in school and I love Make up on a normal day.  I used to do make up for people, my friends, classmates and the people around me. So, it just became something that I love doing to make money on the side, earn something and that was how it started. Did you meet your husband while you were doing this? Actually, I met my husband at my sister’s wedding. It had nothing to do with make up at all. We just started talking and then I realised that he was into make-up and I was also into this. So, he then said that we had something to talk about. We spoke at length and then later we started discussing and got to know each other better. And I got to know about the different things that he was into. I would say that it’s been good; it wasn’t easy  at the beginning. It was tough and we had to deal with critics and so many other things. Then we didn’t have many Nigerian brands and if you wanted the best, you had to pay so much. They were not cheap, not even close to cheap. So, we decided to start with something and make it affordable. Some cheap and good, I said I was not going to do rubbish but something good with quality. He spoke with one of his friends who had a factory. So, we tried it with the basic things and it went very well. The quality was amazing and people gave honest reviews and so we told ourselves that we have to just continue for the best. If people can give us honest reviews like this, we have to just push on. I thank God that we have gotten to a point where people are getting to reckon with what we are doing now. How would you describe the experience with the Face of Zikel? It’s been awesome. Last year, was the baby stage. It was challenging and we were able to see a lot of faults and we used that to correct what we did this year. Last year we did three days camp, had fewer people but now we have gotten to a stage where people can reckon with us. This year we had three camps, 70 girls. It was a better experience and we had more people to appreciate what we are doing. The contestants learnt a lot and got something out of it. So, the experience is really amazing. For, 2021 I would tell our fans to expect something really bigger than this because it gets better every year. It’s like wine, the older it gets, the better it becomes. For the auditions, we started with 700 girls and then it reduced to 70 girls later. And from camp they reduced to 50 girls. What are you expecting from the girls? We are expecting someone who can represent the brand any day and any time. Someone that people want to reckon with because of her personality.  Someone that I can take out and be proud that she is representing my brand and that is exactly what I am looking forward to. And I believe that most of them actually have what we are looking for but only one will emerge. What influenced the theme, empowered to lead? It is inspired by my husband. He always wants to give back. Actually, the whole essence of the Face of Zikel is because he wants to give back to the society, to women. Women have patronised him and his business a lot. So, he said which better way that to empower the youths and that is the reason for the theme. What advice do you have for Nigerian youths? Right now, I can’t really say we have anyone leading us. I would tell them to put their hand to work that is the only way to forge ahead. They are making a lot of stringent rules that are crippling us but we just have to keep pushing, as long as there is life, there is hope.