 As part of efforts to reduce housing deficit challenge in the state, Lagos State governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu yesterday commissioned the Affordable Public Housing Scheme in Idale, Badagry. Speaking at the event, Sanwo-Olu said the estate which is a joint venture with Echostone Development consists of 252 two bedroom terrace bungalows in an eco-friendly environment. The governor said the collaboration with investors in housing development has yielded fruitful results in housing delivery in the state by adding to the existing stock of homes. He called on genuine investors to partner with the government in meeting the increasing housing needs. Earlier, Commissioner for Housing Moruf Akinderu-Fatai said joint ventures with the private sector has resulted in the addition of new homes in the state within the past 18 months. These, he mentioned, include Courtland Villas Igbokushu (120 units) and Lekki Apartments in Lekki Phase 1 (124 units), with more being expected from schemes at Lagoshoms Lekki Phase 2 (84 units) and Lagoshoms Iponri (132 units). He described the commissioning of the Affordable Public Housing Scheme in Idale as an historic because it is the first green and eco-friendly estate constructed by Lagos state. He pointed out that the estate comes “with the convenience of low cost maintenance in terms of water usage and energy efficiency. It also boasts of infrastructure such as street lights, water treatment plant, central sewage treatment plant, perimeter fence and good road network.” Akinderu-Fatai stated that the government has finalised agreement with Echostone Development and Family Home Funds for the construction of a Workers Village in Imota. The commissioner also pointed out that soon another State Workers Village Scheme comprising of 608 homes which will be constructed through direct budgetary allocation will commence at Ishefun in Ayobo-Ipaja. Other housing schemes which are ready for public use are Igbogbo 2b in Ikorodu-Bayeku LCDA with 360 homes, Lagoshoms Iponri (132)and LagosHOMS Lekki phase 2(84). Akinderu-Fatai said there are Odo-Onosa /Ayandelu with 662 units, LagosHoms Sangotedo with 744 units in one cluster and Egan – Igando scheme with 684 units are receiving attention and will be delivered in due course.