 It is soothing to know how much time and money women now spend on their looks and physique. It is even more soothing to know that the aftermath of the ‘investment’ is paying off; ladies in relationships now keep their homes. Most men no longer stray and even when they do, they oftentimes come back home. Suffice it to say then that the modern women have come of age. Women now watch what they eat. We are now more conscious of our weight especially the tummy which is very key. Our armpits are always shaved. Our nails are often fixed or at least trimmed. We are conscious of using tissues after we urinate to avoid status on our undies and to avoid offensive odour when we open to our men. We wash thoroughly during bath. And oh, our hair do’s? Our greatest asset ever! We braid, we fix weave-on, we perm, and the list is endless. In fact, sometimes we dye our hair to darker shades to give it vitality. We are more conscious now of the type of brassier we wear. Women now put on firmer bras that will change and enhance their looks. Most women now attempt to put on very crazy high heeled shoes it is the trend now. As I write this piece, not a few women would be unhappy leaving their homes without either a roll on or perfume/ deodorant in their bags. Of course, we need to smell good at all times. These measures, most women have taken in order to consolidate their relationships. The clause here, however, is that these might not be enough to get and keep a man. Oh, no doubt about it; men are indeed wired by sight, studies have shown. In fact, to buttress these findings, try and conduct an experiment on your own. Notice that a man that is chatting with you and is so engrossed in the conversation can easily be distracted when a pretty lady walks past. As a matter of fact, if they don’t stare out of respect for you, they struggle to ignore the lady, if one is observant she can tell easily. I have an admirer in my office that will oftentimes tell me how much he loves to see my face but as soon as a pretty lady passes by he will forget me for that split second and stare at the lady. It is not right, but it is the way men are. If your man does that sometimes, please do not be upset, it is their nature. Beauty attracts them and they react on impulse, they do not mean any disrespect to the lady they are with. Having said that, I have also observed that a lady’s good looks may attract a man but it may not be enough to sustain the relationship for long. Oftentimes, to keep a man, women need to be intellectually sound. This is where our mind come-in. studies have shown that most men prefer women that can either match them intellectually or at least have something upstairs. Findings has shown that outward beauty can only keep a man temporarily but hey want more for an enduring relationship. There are many misconceptions about what sort of women, men prefer. Not all men are the same and their preferences depend on their personalities. Men make different choices depending on the long and the short term relationship. Let’s consider the long term aspect which is more important. Men hate nagging women. Men simply cannot stand chatter boxes. As human beings, there’s always a limit to what men can take and communication is always the key when it comes to a long term constantly nag and argue are disliked by men. Men love decisive women. – when it comes to long term relationship, men always prefer women who are good decision makers and who can help men with their problems. Men do not like to lead all the time therefore a decisive woman who can occasionally lead rates high on their most wanted women list. Beauty with brains. The aspect of attraction cannot be taken out of account here. Men prefer women who are attractive to them. But beauty alone cannot induce them into a long term relationship rather brains and intelligence is something which keep them strongly attracted to a woman for a long term. Problem solvers – men prefer women who are smart enough to solve their problems. Men prefer women who are more intelligent than them and can act as problem solvers when it is necessary. Should be a mother – long term relationship is all about having a family and taking care of the house. Therefore, most men prefer to have a woman that can take care of them like their mother. Men love to be pampers them more but their mothers. Therefore, if you give them a caring touch like their mother, men would find you more attractive and would be more attractive and would be more than willing to get into a long term relationship with you. But these tips do not guarantee success with men but I assure you it is a great start.