Senate President Ahmad Lawan on Tuesday urged leaders at all levels to confront the challenges bedeviling the country. He said the nation’s leaders should disallow the current harsh realities from festering by pointing fingers. The Senate President spoke on Tuesday at a brief ceremony to mark his 62nd birthday organised by his aides in Abuja. “It is absolutely necessary and incumbent on all of us as leaders today to apply ourselves fully to address the various challenges facing Nigerians. “It is not easy. And sometimes, when you are outside the system, you think two plus two is four. “Until you get in, then you will discover it’s beyond that arithmetic. But there should be no excuses,” he said. Lawan expressed confidence in the ability of the Ninth National Assembly to confront the nation’s challenges through effective legislation. He hailed the Federal lawmakers for working in unison, despite party differences, to give Nigerians laws that would push the nation to greater heights. Also, the Chairman of Senate Committee on Finance, Solomon Adeola (APC, Lagos West), felicitated with Lawan on his 62nd birthday. In a statement on Tuesday in Abuja through his Media Adviser, Mr. Kayode Odunaro, Senator Adeola said: “On this important day in the life of our President of the Senate, I want to place it on record that he is a patriotic leader that places the interest of the people and nation foremost in his leadership of the National Assembly. “The cordial relationship he engendered between the Executive and Legislative arm of government has led to many positive developments. “This includes the return of the Nigerian budget cycle back to January-December after a decade and the unprecedented passage of Finance Bills among other landmark legislative interventions.” Also, Senate Chief Whip Orji Uzor Kalu has described Lawan as a patriotic statesman who is passionate about the welfare of Nigerians and the nation’s growth. In a goodwill message on Tuesday on the Senate President’s 62nd birthday anniversary, Kalu said: “On behalf of the good people of Abia North Senatorial District, I extend my warm greetings to the President of the Senate, Senator Ahmad Lawan, as he clocks 62. “Mr. President of the Senate, your good works in public service, over the years, have earned you a robust goodwill among Nigerians. “The contributions of the National Assembly to nation-building couldn’t have been possible without your inclusive and participatory leadership approach. “As you continue to complement the efforts of President Muhammadu Buhari in advancing the cause of Nigerians, I am confident that the country will attain greater heights. “On this occasion of your birthday anniversary, it is my prayer that God will grant you longer life and wisdom as you serve the nation.”