followed the earlier warnings by the Imo state Lotteries Board that it would from Tuesday, January 12 commence a shut down of all illegal operators in the lotteries, pools and sports betting industry in the state. The state government through the lotteries board had delivered a final demand notices to lottery and sports betting operators in the state for payment of all outstanding Operating Permit Fees for all categories of sports betting and lotto operators in the state as agreed during the stakeholders meeting of December 2020. It was however learned that the operators had, during the December stakeholders meeting, unanimously agreed to pay up all outstanding operating permits and other levies on or before the 31st December 2020, with the agreement that non-compliance would attract a one percent daily surcharge on the outstanding payment value. However, following the expiration of the agreed deadline, the Lotteries Board stormed the business promises of some operators in some parts of the capital city to enforce the payment and to also fish out illegal operators in the business. Speaking to newsmen, the DG/CEO of the Imo State Lotteries Board, Mr. Victor Nwaobia disclosed that the board decided to carry out the exercise in line with the agreement reached between the board and operators in the state, adding that the board had advised all operators and stakeholders to ensure they settle all outstanding fees on or before the deadline of 11th January 2021. The DG/CEO, who was accompanied by the Special Assistant to the Governor of Imo state on Lotteries and Pool Betting, Hon Sam Ejiogu, regretted that alot of operators did not comply with the directives. According to him, out of the about 35 outlets inspected, 15 were either operating illegally or defaulted in meeting up with their financial obligations to the state. He stated that the board would sustain the tempo and rid the state of illegal operators, insisting that all fees must be paid to the Treasury Single Account of the state government as, according to him, the board does not collect money in cash but only deal with receipts. The special assistant to the governor, Hon Sam Ejiogu, added that all of such payments should be immediately made through the IMO PAY DIRECT TSA Account in any bank. According to him, “Non-compliance attracts a one percent surcharge on the outstanding payment value daily stressing that the board is sealing off all defaulting operators’ outlets untill the right things are done.”