When pro-democracy campaigners battled with military dictatorship over the soul of Nigeria in the 1990s, he fought on the side of the people. Considering his military background, and having been a two-time governor under military rule, his fiery opposition to the continuity of military dictatorship seemed too good to be true. But he was genuine. Ultimately, his pro-democracy activism outshone his military record. Ndubuisi Kanu, a retired rear admiral, regarded military rule as an aberration in which he was a circumstantial participant. He died on January 13, aged 77. Perhaps it was also circumstantial that he fought on the Igbo-led Biafran side in the Nigerian Civil War in the 1960s. Kanu was of Igbo origin. He was born in Ovim village in Isuikwuato, in present-day Abia State.  He was, however, reabsorbed into the Nigerian military at the end of the war in 1970. He joined the Nigerian Navy in 1962, and was trained in India. In 1975, as a lieutenant commander he became a member of the Supreme Military Council that ruled Nigeria. He became military governor of Imo State when it was created in 1976. As the first governor of the state, he was instrumental in laying the foundation for its development, including constructing new roads, increasing the number of local government areas and establishing a broadcasting organisation. His appointment as military governor of Lagos State in 1977 was significant because it made him perhaps the most important governor in the country, given that Lagos was the capital at the time. In the navy, he was flag officer, Eastern Fleet; chief of personnel, naval headquarters; flag officer, Naval Training Command; chief of naval operations, naval headquarters; and director of logistics, joint operations.  He also served with the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). After he retired from the military, Kanu reinvented himself.  The brutal Sani Abacha military regime of the 1990s brought out the pro-democracy spirit in him. He was in the vanguard of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO) that pressed for the exit of the military dictator and the installation of Chief M.K.O. Abiola who had won the 1993 presidential election annulled by the Ibrahim Babangida military regime. It was a dangerous time to identify with democracy in the country, and many pro-democracy activists, faced with the fear of assassination, fled into exile. It was testimony to his bravery that Kanu remained in the country in that perilous period. He recounted his experience in an interview: “There was so much harassment meted out at me thereafter purposely to break me down. I don’t want to go into all that. But at a time, I decided to send a message to Abacha. Admiral Akhigbe was by then the naval chief. The message I sent then was that I shouldn’t be subjected to unnecessary harassment after serving my country well defending her territorial integrity.” Kanu earned the status of a hero by his role in the pro-democracy movement that ultimately led to the restoration of democracy in the country.  When the battle changed, he also fought for federalism.  “If we want things to improve,” he said, “we have got to go back to federation which we are not and which is not being run right now, we only answer that in name. We are running a unitary system of governance in the country.” It is significant that the federalism debate, also called the restructuring debate, is still on the front burner in the country, and indeed getting hotter. He received honorary doctorates from Imo State University and Federal University of Technology, Owerri, Imo State, in recognition of his contribution to the development of the state. Similarly, the Lagos State government named a park near its secretariat in his honour. Kanu’s heroism in the struggle for democracy, and his strong advocacy of federalism, remain relevant. He fought for ideals that Nigeria needs to make progress.