Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar has declared Nigeria is not a failed State. He, however, noted it is at the risk of becoming a failed state if nothing is done to remedy the situation. This was contained in an article titled: “Nigeria Needs The Peace Serum of Restructuring”. He reinforced the calls for restructuring, saying that Nigeria has a foundational problem that needs to be resolved. “Nigeria needs to be restructured. Just look at Nigeria today. This truth is staring us in our collective faces. The current ethnic and religious clashes bedevilling Nigeria are symptoms of the disease. “They themselves are not the illness. We must address the root causes of the various symptoms of insecurity Nigeria now faces. Nigeria needs peace, unity and prosperity. But all three of these virtues are dependent on Nigeria having social justice. “Without justice, there cannot be cohesiveness in a multi-ethnic and multi-religious nation as Nigeria. Nigeria has foundational issues, which we have to resolve. “Until we resolve those issues, our nation may not fulfil its potentials of being the beacon of light for the Black Race, even if we have the most righteous people at the helm. It has been said by many behavioural scientists that ‘the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, but expecting different results.’ “We have been operating from the same unitary foundation, and have given it several names since January 15, 1966. Other than slight name changes, the mould has remained the same, and the yield has changed little. “Yes, there will be improvements and retrogressions here and there, due to the character and personality differences of the men and women at the helm. “However, until the foundational fault lines are addressed, whatever progress one man makes, can be undone by his predecessor, often in a matter of months. “If half of our people expand their energies pulling Nigeria in one direction, and the other half counter by pulling her in the other direction, our motherland will never know peace, unity and prosperity. “Nigeria needs to restructure to avoid the various failed state prophecies, first advanced by an American think-tank against Nigeria in 2006. Most recently regurgitated by the Financial Times of London, about a month ago. To be forewarned is to be forearmed. What is a failed state? A failed state is a political sovereign geographic territory whose government has deteriorated to a level where it cannot fulfill a sovereign government’s basic responsibilities, such as the security of life and property and upholding law and order. Nigeria is not a failed state. However, we are at risk of becoming a failed state, if we do not resolve our foundational challenges that make it rather difficult for the central government to discharge her responsibilities effectively. We should have done this long ago.”