State Independent Electoral Commissions (SIECs) will henceforth rely on the Electoral Act and use Card Readers to conduct local government elections, Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege has said. Omo-Agege stated this on Wednesday during the presentation of the draft report on the Electoral Bill 2020 in Abuja. A statement by his spokesman Yomi Odunuga said the Deputy Senate President, who is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on INEC; Senator Kabiru Gaya and his counterpart from the House of Representatives, Aishatu Dukku, said the National Assembly would consider and pass the new Electoral Bill on resumption for plenary by February 9, 2021. Omo-Agege expressed delight at some of the provisions of the proposed law, especially the mandatory use of card readers for the conduct of local government elections. The Deputy Senate President explained that this does not take away the independence of the SIECs but to ensure that elections at the local government levels are sanitised and conducted in line with global best practices. SIECs, he added, would still conduct local government polls. “One of the most important provisions to me is the Second Schedule of the Constitution dealing with local government elections, which hitherto had never been within the remit of INEC. “But we believe that we need to have the system sanitised by also mandating the application of the Electoral Act to the conduct of local government elections. “We all know that based on the law, INEC is the only body authorised to maintain a voters register and there is no way you are going to be conducting elections without a voters register. “So, the SIECs are already resorting to INEC for the use of the voters register. What we are just saying is that in addition to that, we will also use the Electoral Act and request for the card readers from INEC in the conduct of local government elections. And that does not in any way take away their independence. “We know under Section 7 that it is their remit clearly, but here we are saying we are only dealing with procedure not the substantive law. “Even under Second Schedule, they also can make their laws to the extent that it is not inconsistent with the laws passed by the National Assembly. “So, this is very critical. If nothing else, what you have done is very critical and the entire country will be grateful for the work you have done. “In addition to that is the issue of the card readers. It was always your (INEC) intervention. It has worked, but before now, we have not given it legal framework. With this right now, that issue is going to be settled for good,” Omo-Agege added. Also, the Joint Committee on INEC and Electoral Matters is expected to adopt a harmonised report on the Bill this weekend for onward presentation to both chambers of the National Assembly for consideration and approval. Omo-Agege, Gaya and Dukku said the National Assembly would pass the Bill before the end of the first quarter of 2021. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and the Executive Director of Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre (PLAC), Clement Nwankwo, praised the technical committee for working round the clock to produce the draft report. They noted that the development was expected to lay the foundation for significant development in the country’s electoral system. The Bill seeks to repeal the Electoral Act, 2010, and provide a more stable and progressive legal framework for elections in Nigeria. Specifically, it alters several provisions relating to establishment of polling units, issue of ballot paper, limitation of election expenses, conduct and postponement of elections in an emergency, oath of neutrality by election officers, among other provisions.