President Muhammadu Buhari and state governors on Friday paid homage to the nation’s fallen heroes in different ceremonies across the country to mark the Armed Forces Remembrance Day (AFRD). They also reminded Nigerians of the need to guard jealously the unity of the nation, which they said was won at great cost. In Abuja, President Buhari led an array of government officials, including the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), and service chiefs, to lay wreaths for the nation’s fallen heroes and offer prayers for them. The event marked the climax of the 2021 AFRD, which started with the inauguration of the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Emblem and Appeal Fund where the president appealed to Nigerians to desist from actions and comments that could jeopardise the unity and progress of the nation.  Buhari, who arrived at the venue of the event at about 10.02 a.m, led Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, the leadership of the National Assembly, and the Judiciary as well as Ministers and Service Chiefs to lay a wreath at the Arcade. On arrival, Buhari, in the company of the Parade Commander inspected the parade by the Army, Navy, Airport and the Nigerian Legion. The high point of the ceremony held at the National Arcade, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja was the signing of Register by President Buhari, who later released pigeons as part of the special events to mark the annual event. Prayers were also offered by  the Director, Chaplain Services, Roman Catholic, Nigerian Airforce, Group Captain Pasau, and the Director, Islamic Affairs, Nigerian Army, Brig-Gen. Mustafa, for both Christian and Islamic faiths. The annual wreath-laying event marked the end of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day, during which parades were mounted and inspected while prayers were offered to commemorate those who paid the supreme price in battles to enthrone peace. Other senior government personalities who also laid wreaths at the ceremony included the Senate President, Dr Ahmed Lawan; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila; and the Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Tanko Muhammad. Other dignitaries who took part in the wreath-laying ceremony included the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari; the Minister for the FCT, Mallam Mohammed Bello, among others. It would be recalled that a Jumaat prayers and an Interdenominational Church Service had earlier been held as part of the celebration. At the wreath-laying and parade ceremony in Port Harcourt, Rivers State governor, Nyesom Wike, called on the Federal Government to change the service chiefs and alter its security strategies to allow fresh ideas tackle the threats to the country’s internal insecurity. The governor acknowledged the efforts made so far by the country’s security chiefs in the battle against insurgents. He, however, noted that despite full military engagement with Boko Haram and killer bandits, the threats appeared to be overwhelming the country’s security agencies. The governor noted that Boko Haram insurgents, bandits and killer herdsmen have continued to overrun communities, randomly killing and abducting helpless people. He said the insurgents also destroyed private and public property with relative ease, insisting it was time the federal government took decisive action to end the menace. He said: “A country is as strong as its Armed Forces. Her inability to defeat the Boko Haram insurgency despite years of full military engagement shows that all is not well with our approaches and commitments to the battle against the internal insecurity. “Today, therefore, also raises the need for all of us to be worried by the deteriorating security situation across the country and restate the call on the federal government to do everything necessary to bring the security threat by Boko Haram and armed bandits to a decisive end in the shortest possible time. “We thank the service chiefs for their efforts so far in the battle against the insurgents. But we also align with the concern of citizens that having seemingly reached their wit’s end, they should now give way for fresh hands and ideas to give the fight the impetus that it so strongly needs to ensure that Boko Haram and killer bandits are comprehensively defeated and smoked out of existence. “The time has come for the federal government to stop the pretence, change strategy, seek help from our friends and confront the urgency of the internal insecurity situation in Nigeria with every weaponry at its disposal to stop the killing, free all hostages and improve the physical security of our country for all Nigerians.” In Kwara State, Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq called on Nigerians to continue to offer support and prayers for the families of fallen heroes. He saluted the sacrifice made by men and officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces, urging citizens to rally round them and embrace peace for sustainable development of the country. The governor said this minutes after he inspected the parade guards and later laid the wreath in honour of soldiers who died in various wars. He said: “We must continue to seek peace and believe in one Nigeria, and continue to pray for the souls of the departed; those who risked their lives for this country to be one. “We must continue to cherish their services and never forget them.” Other dignitaries who laid wreaths at the ceremony included the Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi; Deputy Speaker Raphael Adetiba; the Chief Judge of the state Durosinlohun Kawu; Grand Khadi Ola Abdulkadir; representative of the Emir of Ilorin and the Olomu of Omuaran, Oba AbdulRaheem Olaoti; Chairman of the state branch of Nigeria Legion Brig. Gen. Aliu Akano; and Permanent Secretary Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajia Nike Ibrahim. The event was well attended by government functionaries, including the Secretary to the State Government Prof. Mamman Saba Jibril; and the Head of Service Mrs. Sussan Modupe Oluwole. Enugu State governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, on Friday donated the sum of N5 million and 150 bags of 50kg rice to widows of fallen heroes in the state in commemoration of the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day. Governor Ugwuanyi, who handed over a cheque of N5 million to the General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Lasisi Adegboye, for onward transmission to the widows at a brief ceremony held at the Parade Ground, Abakpa Cantonment, Enugu, also made symbolic presentations of the food items to select wives of the fallen heroes. The governor also supported the skills acquisition project of the Nigeria Army Officers Wives Association (NAOWA), 82 Division Chapter, with the sum of N5 million and made bulk purchase of the products of the trainees. Responding, the GOC, 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Adegboye, disclosed that it was because of the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic that the conventional ceremony organized annually to commemorate the Armed Forces Remembrance Day in Enugu State, did not hold at the usual venue. The GOC thanked Gov. Ugwuanyi for deeming it necessary to identify with the military to pray for the repose of the souls of their departed colleagues, those who are in the frontline as well as the nation. Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State has reiterated his commitment to a peaceful, secure and progressive Oyo State under his watch. This was as the governor also commended security agencies in the state for their services, commitment and effort at ensuring that the people of the state sleep with their two eyes closed. The governor made the remarks yesterday at the laying of wreath ceremony to commemorate the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration held at the Remembrance Arcade, Agodi Government House, Agodi, Ibadan. According to Makinde, the remembrance ceremony for the nation’s fallen heroes and war veteran was an opportunity to reassure the people of government’s unflinching determination to continue to guarantee peace and safety across the nation and Oyo State in particular, in spite of the nation’s security challenges. He said: “First, I will like to take this opportunity to thank the men and officers of our security agencies. This is an unusual time and they are doing their best. So, for us as a government, our responsibility is to encourage and support them. “So, on that note, I want to give a reassurance to the people of Oyo State that for us and our security agencies, we will continue to do our best to ensure a safe, secure and stable environment. “I salute the men and officers of our security operatives that despite the challenges in terms of pandemic and poor funding, they are still doing all they are supposed to do. I thank them seriously.” The governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, has assured of continued support of his administration to security agencies in their fight against insecurity and other forms of criminality in the state. Ikpeazu, who was represented by the Deputy Governor of the state, Dr. Ude Oko Chukwu, at the Aguiyi Ironsi Cenotaph, Ogurube Layout, Umuahia, the state capital to mark the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day, noted that members of the Nigeria Armed Forces paid the ultimate price while ensuring lasting peace in the country. Ikpeazu, who described the theme of this year’s celebration (Paying The Supreme Price In Line Of Duty) as apt, given the security challenges and other forms of criminality that men and women of the Nigerian Armed Forces and other security agencies are contending with at the expense of their lives to defend, protect and secure the nation and her citizens, noted that the efforts of the serving and retired members of the armed forces and those who died in the line of duty cannot be forgotten. “It is unarguably a fact that no day passes without news of soldiers, policemen and members of other paramilitary outfits and security agencies being killed in the line of duty. “These heroes and heroines gave their lives so that our nation and our global environment will remain peaceful, united and secured. “The achievements of the Nigerian Legion in Abia State cannot be overemphasised, given her commitment in the training of security personnel for churches, schools, banks, government ministries and private homes. “As a security-conscious government in Abia State, we will continue to prioritise security and will always partner the Nigerian Legion and other security agencies in our efforts to sustain the prevailing peace and security in the state.” Dignitaries at the event include the Brigade Commander 14 Brigade Ohafia, Brig-Gen. Solomon Kumapayi; Commodore S.H. Abdullahi; Commandant Nigeria Navy, Finance and Logistics College, Owerrenta, Comptroller of Nigeria Immigration; S.O. Ngini, Commandant Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC); State Comptroller Nigeria Correctional Service, Mr. Julius Ezugwu, among other state functionaries. Plateau State governor, Simon Bako Lalong, yesterday said it was high time Nigerians desisted from criticising security personnel, especially soldiers, saying they are also human beings. Lalong who is Chairman Northern Governors’ Forum, said instead of criticising soldiers, we should rally round and support for them. He said: “It is time to encourage our soldiers and support the armed forces in fighting against insurgency, kidnapping, banditry and other vices bedeviling our country, because they have paid the supreme price.” The governor gave the admonition after laying a wreath at Joseph Gomwalk Secretariat Roundabout in Jos during the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day celebration. He also commiserated with the families of men and officers who lost their lives while serving Nigeria. Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, yesterday called on Nigerians to strive for national harmony and shun calls for division, insurgency, banditry and all inter-ethnic, religious and politically motivated wrangling capable of tearing the country apart. Abiodun also advised Nigerians to embrace team spirit, brotherliness and compassion for fellow compatriots. The governor made this call at the 2021 edition of the Armed Forces Remembrance Day held at the Arcade Ground, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. He noted that in order not to allow the supreme sacrifice made by the country’s fallen heroes be in vain, Nigerians must encourage the use of democratic and appropriate institutions in the processes of seeking redress. Abiodun was represented by his deputy, Mrs. Noimot Salako-Oyedele, at the event attended by traditional rulers, top government functionaries, military and para-military organisations. He noted that whatever peace could not achieve, war is not likely to achieve it, urging Nigerians to rebuild confidence and trust in the nation’s system and leadership. He said: “As Nigerians, we should love ourselves. We may speak in different tongues. We may face different directions in our worships. But, in our diversity lies our strength. “We have walked hand-in-hand and shoulder-to-shoulder to scale many hurdles in the past. We can do it again. “All that we need is our joint will and collective determination. “Like the heroes that we are honouring today, we must be willing to give our all. Development is only possible in an atmosphere devoid of rancour and acrimony. “As a matter of fact, we must shun the call for division, insurgency, banditry and all inter-ethnic, religious and politically motivated wrangling. “We should embrace team-spirit, brotherliness and compassion for our fellow beings. We must encourage the use of democratic and appropriate institutions in the processes of seeking redress. “We should bear it in mind that whatever peace cannot achieve, war is not likely to achieve it, and if it does, it is at a great expense. “Let us, therefore, rebuild confidence and trust in our system. Far above all, let us bequeath a nation that is free of troubles and woes to our children.” Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has lauded departed soldiers for their selfless service to the nation. Speaking yesterday during the wreath-laying ceremonies as part of the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day at the Peace Park cenotaph in Yenagoa, he appreciated Nigerian soldiers for their sacrifice in defence of the country against external and internal aggression. His Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as acknowledging the selfless lifestyle of men of the Nigerian military, saying they deserve the citizens’ honour and highest regards for putting the interest of the nation ahead of theirs. Diri called on Bayelsans and Nigerians to emulate the ideals of the departed and serving soldiers by always ensuring that the interest of the state and nation comes ahead of any personal or group consideration. He expressed the hope that due to the shining example of the sacrifices of men and women that have served meritoriously, Nigeria can be great if we all complement their efforts. He tasked Nigerians to give meaning to the yearly remembrance by playing their part in the process of building the nation. Diri said: “Each of us must depart from this arena today with the resolve to strengthen our commitment to our state and nation and the values which we stand for. “If we walk away from today’s ceremony, be reminded that progress requires hard work and sacrifice. “If we walk away with a rekindled sense of obligation to our values, if we walk away determined to defend those values, the labour of our heroes past would not have been in vain.”