 IN the history of the Nigerian Labour movement, the late Michael Imoudu is regarded as Number One. The man fought fearlessly and tirelessly for workers’ interests. He was a man who did not care about his personal welfare and placed his vocation as labour leader above all else. It affected his educational and career progress, but his commitment marked him out, and even those who had better education deferred to him when it came to labour matters. Next to him in the hierarchy of labour leaders is, undoubtedly, Hassan Taiwo Adebayo Sunmonu who emerged the first elected President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in 1978. Whereas Pa Imoudu was crowned Labour Leader Number One after leading workers in the unprecedented nationwide strike over the quest for a Cost of Living Allowance (COLA) in 1945, 37-year-old Sunmonu was the choice of workers to lead the unified labour centre in 1978. The NLC was the product of struggle after the Obasanjo regime proscribed the existing four labour centres. The choice of a leader at a time ideological consideration was of prime concern was by no means easy, especially when titans like Comrades Imoudu and Wahab Goodluck were still around. It was the proper setting for the unveiling of Sunmonu as the national labour leader. Before then, he had been very active in unions and labour associations in the civil service. Soon after he joined the Federal Ministry of Works and Survey in 1961, he emerged the General Secretary of the Association of Technical Officers. Later, he was made President of the Public Works Aerodrome and General Workers Union in 1974. It was in that capacity that he interacted with national labour leaders who noticed his commitment and devotion to duty. He worked so assiduously in the Labour movement that he had become a leading force by the time the military regime decided it could not tolerate the wrangling in the sector. The leadership qualities of Sunmonu came to the fore as a student at Yaba College of Technology where he emerged President of the Students Union Government in his final year. It formed the foundation of his activism of latter years. Although he was born in Ghana, he completed his primary education at All Saints Primary School, Osogbo, Osun State, before proceeding to Osogbo Grammar School where he and his twin brother, Hussein, had to drop out after the first year, owing to paucity of funds. It was to Ghana that the twins turned to complete their secondary education. At the Federal Ministry of Works and Survey, the brothers were found suitable for leadership positions such that when Hassan served out his term as general secretary of the technical workers body, it was to his twin brother, Hussein, that the workers turned. Labour leaders have eulogised Comrade Sunmonu as trusted and dogged. His activism took him to the Organisation of African Trade Union Unity (OATUU) where he became the General Secretary and left his print on the annals of the organisation’s history. On the international plane, he was Africa’s notable ambassador to the International Labour Organisation (ILO). He has consistently led the campaign for the continent’s representation on the governing council of the ILO. He maintains his stance. Whenever there is crisis in the NLC, Sunmonu has always received summons to wade in as an elder statesman who commands respect of all and sundry. As he clocked 80 on January 7, the Labour movement brought out the drums to celebrate him, even if the prevailing environment fouled by COVID-19 would not allow them gather workers in their thousands as the occasion demands. Labour Leader Number 2 demands the salute of all, even as President Muhammadu Buhari sent his greeting on the country’s behalf.