 Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola’s disclosure that the Federal Government proposes to build a modern custodial facility in each of the six-geo-political zones in the country is heartwarming. The minister disclosed this while inspecting the Model Maximum Security Custodial Facility project, Janguza, Kumbotso Local Government Area of Kano State, which is under construction. “We are actualising our commitment to reform Correctional Service that we have in Nigeria. “What we have here is a model of what we expect to have nationwide and here is a 3,000 custodial facility, and we plan to have it in each of the six geo-political zones”, the minister said. He added that “This is more advanced in terms of space and other facilities. It is designed for inmates awaiting trial, petty, medium and maximum security facility.” We commend the Federal Government for its thoughtfulness on this neglected aspect of our national life. Without doubt, most of our custodial facilities are old and can no longer stand the test of time. The proposed model correctional facilities would seem a continuation of the prison reforms that the Buhari administration has embarked upon, with the renaming of the former Nigerian Prison Service (NPS) to Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS) in August 2019. Obviously, the prison service had been badly affected by the long years of military rule. While in power, the soldiers regarded the prisons as punishment centres and related to them in that manner, either by way of funding or provision of facilities. Indeed, for about 40 years, no new prisons were built in the country despite the increase in the number of people requiring the facilities. It is true that the military rulers sometimes paid visits to the prisons, the aim was not necessarily to see to the welfare of the inmates but, to ensure they were not too comfortable, as a way of making them sober for whatever crime or offence that took them there. Perhaps nothing demonstrates the neglect suffered by both the inmates and their wardens than the fact that the prison service did not have a befitting headquarters until 1999. It is heartwarming that some of these areas of neglect are being addressed. For instance, we now have situations where some chief judges of states have had to visit the custodial facilities, with a view to seeing how the inmates are faring. For example, Justice Ishaq Usman Bello had cause to free 14 inmates in his capacity as chairman of a Presidential Committee on Prison Reform and Decongestion. One of them, a woman, had spent more time in prison than the jail term for her alleged crime. “In light of the duration of detention exceeding the maximum penalty for the alleged crime, I hereby discharge you from this prison. You are free to go”, he told the woman who could not believe freedom could be so near and swift for people like her. In Rivers State, the judge also freed 14 inmates awaiting trial for 15 years without appearing in court once. Exercising  this kind of prerogative is good. First, it ensures some fairness for inmates. Second, it helps significantly in addressing one of the age-long problems of our prisons – prison congestion. So, while the government has done well with its proposed model custodial facilities, it must bear in mind that structures alone do not make a modern prison. The problems in the prisons – prison congestion, inadequate funding, healthcare challenges, poor feeding, delays in taking suspects to court, judicial delays, etc. are multi-sectoral but most of them are still in the hands of the Federal Government. They have to be addressed holistically to compliment government’s efforts in building more conductive facilities for the inmates. We have to do away with the impression that prisons are punishment centres. As Justice Bello noted, “To be in prison is a very dangerous thing. Some of them have attained some level of mental deterioration because of the horrendous nature of the environment they live in.” It should not be so. We are not saying prisoners should live like kings; but being prisoners should not condemn them to subhuman treatment, especially in our clime where people awaiting trial are more than those already convicted. The prisons are supposed to be correctional centres where inmates are reformed and rehabilitated, with the ultimate aim of reintegrating them back into the society.