 Original equipment manufacturer (OEM) Samsung yesterday said the outbreak of the pandemic has demonstrated the indispensable role technology plays in the entire lives of people across the world. Speaking at the unveiling of the firm’s Galaxy S21 Series in Lagos, Head of Marketing at Samsung Nigeria, Iretiogo Oke, said the firm is not unmindful of what the customers are passing through at these times, adding that the realities on ground have shown that the smartphone, as a technology tool, could do a lot. “Given how indispensable technology has been to our lives during these times, we wanted to take another leap forward and push the boundaries of what a smartphone can do. Galaxy S21 Ultra is another example of how Samsung is driving meaningful innovation forward to give people personalised experiences that enrich their lives and empower them to express who they are,” she said. According to her, the Galaxy S21 Series pushes the boundaries of what a smartphone can do. Galaxy S21 is loaded with state-of-the-art innovations so you can make the most of every moment. The new flagship series debuts a unique design, an epic pro-grade camera for users of any skill level and the most advanced processor ever in a Galaxy device. And each device offers the connectivity, power and performance that only Samsung can deliver. Galaxy S21 series features a bold new style that sets it apart from other smartphones. It introduces an all-new, iconic Contour Cut Camera housing that seamlessly blends into the device’s metal frame for a sleek, yet striking, aesthetic, she explained. “Galaxy S21 Ultra delivers with our most advanced pro-grade camera system, so that you can capture stunning, studio-quality photos in various lightings and settings, or shoot and edit videos with a toolbox of new AI-powered features that elevate every shot. “For the first time on any S Series device, Samsung is bringing the fan favorite S Pen experience to the Galaxy S21 Ultra with Wacom’s technology.‘’ Use an existing S Pen from a Galaxy Note or Galaxy Tab or purchase an S Pen separately on its own or with a compatible case. “With hyper-fast, ultra-low latency 5G, S21 series is built to provide fast video downloading, smooth video conferencing and streaming depending on network availability,” Oke said. Galaxy S21 offers faster speed, advanced computing and greater energy efficiency. And when the battery gets low, Galaxy S21 Ultra can reach a 50 per cent charge in just 30 minutes. Galaxy S21 is secured by Samsung Knox Vault, Samsung’s own proprietary chipset level (SoC) security platform. With a new tool to protect and monitor your privacy, you can now safely remove location metadata from photos before sharing, control who gets access to the content you send, and how long it’s available. It has a quad rear camera (ultra-wide, wide and dual tele-lenses) that features a upgraded 108MP pro sensor from which you can capture 12 bit HDR photos with 64 times richer color data and more than three times wider dynamic range while the S21+ and S21 feature a 64MP Tele triple camera. The Galaxy S21 Series are available in 256GB memory space with a limited option for S21 Ultra at 512GB. The Galaxy S21 Ultra feature an intelligent all day battery of 5000mAh while S21+ and S21 battery are 4800mAh and 40000mAh respectively. Galaxy S21 Ultra is the largest member of the Galaxy S21 series with a 6.8-inch Dynamic AMOLED 2X display.  It is our most intelligent screen yet. The Galaxy S21+ and S21 both have a display of 6.7’ and 6.2. The Galaxy S21 can be pre ordered from the 22nd of January to the 11th of February with limited offer of Buds Pro or Buds live, Smart Tag and Samsung Care +