The Ekiti State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has vowed to dislodge the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the 2022 governorship election in the state. The opposition party said the days of the ruling APC in the state are numbered, saying that it would do everything that is lawful to secure the state from ‘clutches of hyenas parading themselves as progressives’. The party said the result of the election in the state would shock the APC, which it said has betrayed the electorates by outrightly failing to redeem its electoral promises. The party which stated this at a meeting held by PDP leaders across the 16 local government areas of the state, said the APC-led government had inflicted more sufferings on the people with incoherent policies and obnoxious actions. Present at the meeting included; Senator Biodun Olujimi, ex-deputy governor Sikiru Lawal, former acting-governor, Hon. Tunji Odeyemi, Alhaji Lateef Ajijola, Eng. Alana Agboola, Chief Makanjuola Ogundipe. Others were immediate past Chairman, Barr. Gboyega Oguntuase, members of the PDP State Working Committee, Local Government party Chairmen and party leaders across the 16 LGAs. In a communique issued at the end of the meeting and signed by the Chairman, Kehinde Odebunmi, PDP said it was ready to liberate the Ekiti people from the of poverty, unemployment, insecurity and among other challenges confronting the state. The party, however, tasked its executive members across all levels to commence aggressive membership mobilization in order to seize control of the state from the jugular of the ruling APC. It urged party members to forge unity of purpose and togetherness, saying with such the party will succeed in returning to power and deliver superlative benefits inherent in democratic governance to the people. According to the communique, the party agreed that members should co-operate with the two reconciliation committees set up at both zonal and national levels, chaired by, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola and Senator Bukola Saraki respectively. “It is however germane to know that the reconciliation of the party is sacrosanct and compulsory if we want to win the coming Governorship election in the state next year. “We should know that no individual’s ambition should be placed above our collective interests, and therefore, nobody should adopt a “do-or-die” approach to his/her ambition. “Governorship aspirants were enjoined to see themselves as partners in progress, as whoever emerges as the party’s flag bearer will need other aspirants to win the general election. “However, elders Committee comprising of men and women of substance was set up to serve as the conscience of the party,” it added.