 ALL is set for an exclusive screening of ‘The Milkmaid,’ with the Honorable Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Lai Mohammed in attendance. Mohammed will join filmmakers, enthusiasts, and industry personalities as the exclusive screening of the highly talked about film hold on Sunday, January 10, 2021, at Terra Kulture. The minister is billed to lead other dignitaries to the event where he holds the position of the special guest of honour. ‘The Milkmaid’ received eight nominations and won five at the 16th edition of the Africa Movie Academy Awards (AMAA) in December 2020. The film won awards for Best Film, Best Supporting Actress, Best Nigerian Film, Best Film in an African Language, and Achievement in Make-up. In the same month, ‘The Milkmaid’ was announced by the 12-member Nigeria Official Selection Committee (NOSC) as Nigeria’s representative to the 93rd Oscars in the category of Best International Feature Film. The announcement of ‘The Milkmaid’ as Nigeria’s representatives at the 2021 Oscars followed a statutory vetting and subsequent voting of entries received from Nigerian filmmakers at home and abroad. ‘The Milkmaid’ is written, produced, and directed by Desmond Ovbiagele. The Hausa language-based thriller spotlights insurgency and extremism, especially as they affect women and children in Sub-Saharan Africa. Technically crafted to the highest international cinematic standards, the film showcases the natural beauty of Nigeria’s topography such as the Mambilla Plateau in Taraba state, while highlighting the richness of the subregion’s colourful Hausa and Fulani cultures. The film features Maryam Booth, Anthonieta Kalunta, and Gambo Usman Kona. With US-based Nigerian surgeon, Dr. Oluseun Sowemimo, as its Executive Producer, the film follows Aisha, a Fulani milkmaid, searching for the whereabouts of her younger sister, Zainab after a forced separation. Dire personal circumstances force her to approach the extremists who were responsible for their predicament in the first instance, but she is determined to find her despite the compromises she must make to do so. However, her quest to recapture her blithe past proves to be unexpectedly complicated in a world whose seething conflict provides several paths to becoming a victim with typically irreversible consequences.