  The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is planning to hold a conference to discuss the nation’s security situation, electoral reforms and state of the economy. According to the main opposition party, the objective of the planned conference is to seek ways of salvaging the nation and returning it to the path of peace, national cohesiveness and economic prosperity. In a statement on Friday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, had briefed the British High Commission’s Political Counsellor on Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), Jonathan Bacon on the proposed conference. The statement added that the discussion took place during Bacon’s visit to the party’s Abuja secretariat on Friday. The PDP hinted that it has already commenced consultations with critical stakeholders across board on ways to rescue the nation from misrule through institutional reforms ahead of the 2023 general elections. The PDP chairman was quoted to have bemoaned the sorry state of the nation, regretting that the electoral reforms put in place by the PDP administration to deepen democracy before the 2015 general elections, had all been destroyed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. The statement said in part: “For five and half years now that the APC held sway, our democracy has been under severe stress. All critical institutions of democracy have been brutalized. The judiciary, legislature and the media have been under siege while human rights and rule of law; the necessary ingredients of democracy, have all been flagrantly abused. “Though the APC administration came into power as beneficiary of a transparent and credible election conducted under the PDP, it has not been able to conduct any free and fair election but had rather continued to abuse our electoral process and frustrate the desires and efforts of Nigerians to further amend our Electoral Act to guarantee acceptable elections in our country”, Prince Secondus stated”. The chairman was also reported to have bewailed the escalated insecurity in the country under the APC and the seeming lack of commitment on the path of the administration to decisively tackle the problem. He was said to have flayed the failure of the Buhari administration to neutralise the outlaws and end the mindless killings, bloodletting, kidnaping, banditry and other acts of terrorism in the country. According to the main opposition party, the security situation in the country has reached a despondent curve where critical stakeholders, out of frustration, are now calling on the people to defend themselves in the face of government’s failure to defend them. The leadership of the party also knocked the Buhari administration for plunging the nation into the worst economic hardship, which the PDP said, has been exacerbated by the incompetence and lack of clear-cut policy direction, insensitivity to the plight of Nigerians and unprecedented corruption in the APC administration. “Indeed, this is not the way our nation should be. We must come together to rescue our nation by commencing critical conversations within the ambit of the law and democratic practice to salvage the situation”, the statement said. The PDP leadership was however said to have commended the international community and development partners for their support, especially in strengthening the nation’s electoral system and urged them to show more interest in Nigeria’s  democracy ahead of the 2023 general elections. Bacon was quoted to have told the party leadership  that he was at the PDP secretariat to discuss the United Kingdom/Nigeria bilateral relations with the party. 