A yet-to-be-identified baby girl and her mother died on Wednesday afternoon, as a tipper truck rammed into a moving tricycle in Effurun, Uvwie council area of Delta state. The Nation learnt that the incident occurred near the popular PTI Junction axis of the East-West Road at about 1:30 pm. According to witnesses, the driver of the sand-laden truck drove into the tricycle as he tried to evade a Police van that was chasing the vehicle of some suspected internet fraudsters. The tricycle, popularly known as Keke Napep was reportedly making a U-turn when it was hit. Other sources claim it was the Police van that hit the tricycle as it pursued the ‘yahoo boys’. While the deceased mother and child died instantly, the rider of the Keke Napep and another passenger, a woman, are said to have escaped but sustained injuries. The witnesses who spoke in confidence said the deceased woman appeared to have been breastfeeding her child inside the tricycle when the ugly incident took place. A tricycle operator who spoke in confidence claimed the deceased mother is a native of Agbarho community in Ughelli North council area of the state. It was further gathered that soldiers around the vicinity rescued the security operatives from angry sympathizers and helped douse rising tension in the area. The sympathizers who rushed to the accident scene in a bid to salvage the situation had threatened to burn down the Police van, with shouts of not wanting to see policemen in the area anymore. However, about two hours after the accident took place, a police van reportedly from Ebrumede Police Station, is reported to have been torched by an angry mob. It was not clear if it was the same van that was said to have caused the accident. As at the time of filing this report, the corpses of the victims were still lying on a side of the expressway, leading to traffic congestion. When reached for comments, spokesperson of the Delta State Police Command, DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya, said the Police were still trying to unravel the cause of the accident. “So we heard, but we are yet to get the details of what happened. We are yet to hear the exact thing that happened. We want to get to the bottom of it,” Onovwakpoyeya stated.