The Coalition for A Better Nigeria has said criminals masquerading as herdsmen pose a greater threat to the country’s existence than coup plotters. In a statement by its Co-ordinator, Awa Bamiji, the group said the herdsmen crisis was becoming a blight on President Muhammadu Buhari’s peaceful reputation. It urged the Seriki Fulani to step up efforts to help the authorities find a solution to the problem, following the impression that some recalcitrant members of his ethnic group were behind the crisis in some states. The group said: “People have been pointing fingers at criminal elements among the Fulani herdsmen in various parts of the country for alleged complicity in the series of kidnapping, maiming, raping and killing of innocent souls.” It said there is a theory that the perpetrators are emboldened because, “the usual response is that they always claim that their kinsman is Mr President”. The coalition said this was “a stigma on President Muhammadu Buhari” and an attempt “to cause major uprising against the President, because there is no traditional, religious and political leader that will be happy while his subjects are being killed. “We expect their leader, Seriki Fulani, to make sure that Nigeria is at peace no matter how and particularly now that their kinsman is in power rather than adding to the problem of Boko Haram insurgency.” The group lamented that an “uncountable number of lives have been lost and yet, people are still struggling to survive by seeking alternative means through Amotekun and other security outfits. “The Federal, State and Local Government have not been able to arrest the dangerous trend of insecurity, for them to be able to protect lives and properties of their subjects adequately. “Our lives are being threatened in our individual communities on a daily basis and the host communities are now subjected to various forms of attack from these criminal elements and dangerous residents in our midst and this has been leading to one form of resistance or the other as it is now playing out in various parts of Nigeria like in Borno, Nassarawa, Ebonyi, Ondo, Oyo and Ogun states, to mention just a few states. “Nationally, the various communities are being pushed to the wall more than before and it is now logical for Mr President to take the immediate steps towards calling a peace meeting between the Seriki Fulani and their host communities and its communique should have a legal backing that the host communities must not hesitate to sack them in case they are found quilty of any criminal offence in the future. “This is the only way they could co-exist within the system called Nigeria.” It said what we’re witnessing is the “cause and effect” of decades of tolerance by host communities. The coalition added: “The host communities across Nigeria must also know that their kinsmen are residing elsewhere within the Fulani environments and this is more reason why we must give peace a chance at this stage with legal agreement to coexist. “This country can not avoid to go into any tribal or religious war at all. Continuous dialogue is the only way we can achieve peace within ourselves in Nigeria.”