 Youth have been advised to embrace entrepreneurship to combat their challenges and the problems the world is grappling since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at a webinar yesterday, entitled “The entrepreneurial  mindset: Transforming Nigerian economic ecosystem”, the President, Institute of Entrepreneurial Excellence Innovation and Sustainability (IEEIS), Ngozi Ogoke, said the world needs men and women who will solve problems for humanity. Ogoke, a life coach and an entrepreneur, said IEEIS and Entrepreneurial Learning Initiative (ELI) encourages Nigeria’seducation sector to integrate entrepreneurship mindset into their curriculum, which is necessary to equip the young generation with the skills to face the 21st Century skills. She added that IEEIS will provide seed money to entrepreneurs who have acquired the entrepreneurial education, skills, and knowledge to pursue a viable venture or a viable opportunity discovery that is sustainable for his community, state, nation and the continent. Ogoke said youths from the educational sector needed to develop the entrepreneurial mindset that would enable them thrive in the midst of adversity and learn how to identify opportunities, set goals and pursue them as a way to contribute to the society by solving problems for themselves and others. “If all young students left school with this type of mindset, there would have been hundreds of thousands of graduates each year actively looking to solve the myriad problems that Nigerians and Africans as a whole face every day. Consequently, I encourage the entrepreneurship mindset in the education sector across all levels,” she said. According to her, the possibilities are endless. “As citizens, we can’t sit around and wait for the government to come to our rescue and solve all of the problems around us. It is up to us to turn those problems into opportunities for our own growth and well-being. “Young Nigerians have to embrace the entrepreneurial mindset to enable them solve problems for humanity which is identifying opportunity which subsequently lead to sustainable entrepreneurship and have positive effect on the Nigeria economy and Africa as a whole,” she affirmed. Ogoke added that IEEIS and ELI had teamed up to provide professional training for educators and impactful entrepreneurial mindset programmes for their students. With the training , she said the goal is to create an environment where youths see opportunity to create positive change in the society.  It also provides a strong method for them to create and move toward goals that they have for themselves.