  The Senator Biodun Olujimi’s faction of the People’s Democratic Party in Ekiti State has declared it would be heading to the Supreme Court to challenge the ruling of the Appeal Court which affirmed pro-Ayodele Fayose’s ward congresses. The Appeal Court sitting in Ado-Ekiti on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by the Olujimi – led faction of the Peoples Democratic Party against the judgment of a Federal High Court over the party’s ward congresses. Delivering judgment in the case with suit number: CA /EK / 57 / 2020, the Judge, Justice T. N Orji -Abadua, upheld the decision of the trial court and held that the appellant’s case was not justifiable on the ground that it was a matter that emanated from intra-party affairs. Olujimi’s loyalists and those in the camp of Fayose had been locked in a legal battle over the conduct and outcome of the March 2020 , PDP congress held in the state.  But, reacting to the Appeal Court verdict, the Olujimi-backed PDP urged members of the party to remain calm, declared that the ruling would be appealled at the Apex Court after considering the pros and cons of the judgement. This was contained in a communique signed by a factional PDP State Public Secretary, Sanya Adesua issued at the end of a party’ leaders meeting in Ado-Ekiti yesterday. According to the communique, the party resolved that it would be challenging the ruling of the Appellate Court at the Apex Court, “where it is believed that justice will be manifestly done”. It was also agreed that ”the SWC under the leadership of Hon Kehinde Odebunmi should be sustained and encouraged to go ahead with the running of the party in Ekiti. “That all governorship aspirants are encouraged to go ahead with their consultation and mobilisation of the generality of Ekiti people, who are anxiously waiting for a PDP Governor in 2022.However, such sensitization must be devoid of rancour. “The meeting commended all our party members for their steadfastness and beliefs in the eventual triumph of Justice over Injustice, and truth over falsehood. forward ever, backward never”, it said.