Whether you are speaking at a close range with a colleague, sharing a mic with your chorister, or kissing your significant other, it is very important to have fresh breath. Though not many people will want to offend you by pointing out that you have foul breath, many people will find it offensive. There are people who, every day every time, halitosis is constant with them, there is an explanation for this. There is a difference between having an underlying dental health issue that causes halitosis and having halitosis because of poor dental hygiene. Most people suffer from the latter, dental hygiene has been an issue most people do not take seriously but is one of the most serious things in general personal hygiene. Here are 5 unconventional ways that guarantee fresher breath. While brushing, it is advisable to spit out all the foam and residue but not to rinse the mouth, weird right? Yea, toothpaste contains fluoride and fluoride has been proven to be good for the teeth, it energizes and strengthens the teeth, it also reduces teeth sensitivity, it will not be wise to wash away the substance that helps the teeth. This habit has also proven to be more effective for a fresher breath. It can be uncomfortable at the beginning but as time goes on, it becomes a part of you. Flossing entails using a piece of medically approved rope to clean between the teeth, this way the part where a toothbrush cannot get to, flossing is able to. It is very unconventional in Nigeria to floss; most people feel it is a waste of time. But flossing has so many advantages, it prevents bad breath cleans in between the teeth, reduces the buildup of tartar (the white stuff that appears on the teeth of people) and sometimes removes tiny bones from in-between the teeth. There are little and more comfortable flosses produced now and it can be used everywhere. The thing about changing toothbrushes regularly is that it prevents cavities, and it prevents tartar buildup. Most people are not concerned about tartar in their mouths and the presence of this gives an impression that a person has poor dental hygiene. Using one brush for over three months weakens the edges of the toothbrush and makes it less effective to clean the mouth hence tartar. There are also healthy chemical substances good for the teeth that are contained in the toothbrush, they fade within 3 months after that, the toothbrush becomes more or less useless. The part of the teeth that is opposite the tongue, I mean the back of the teeth, needs to be washed, as often as the teeth are brushed. Regular oval-shaped toothbrushes alone cannot effectively clean this part of the teeth, there are specific brushes meant for it, often round in shape, these brushes will wash parts of the teeth that the regular oval-shaped brushes cannot which of course cleans the teeth better and gives fresher breath. The standard number of times to brush the teeth is three times a day, but sometimes, we know that it is unattainable, mouthwash will come in handy then. Mouthwash is supposed to be used after each meal, to maintain fresh breath. There are different flavors of mouthwash and one can choose according to preferences. Mouthwash should also be gagged and used to rinse the mouth. Note also that it is not an alternative to water after brushing. Not rinsing the mouth after brushing should be maintained.