 Governor Sam Ortom’s Chief of Staff Terwase Orbunde has unfolded his governorship ambition. At a meeting with Igede traditional rulers in Oju, he solicited their blessings on his desire to succeed his principal in 2023. The meeting with the class chiefs as well as district heads from Oju and Obi local government areas took place at the palace of the First Class Chief at Oju. The Chief of Staff said he sought the blessings on account of his historical and political links with Igede people over the years. He said he had the privilege of making a contribution to the decision to choose the late Chief Ogiri Ajene as deputy governor and Moses Ajima a member of the State Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), and the appointment of other Igede sons and daughters into government positions. Orbunde said he was seeking to be governor because  he was familiar with  statecraft and that if given the opportunity, his priorities would include sustained security, mechanised agriculture and power for industrialisation. Igede Chief Oga Ero, led the royal fathers, including Chiefs Daniel Ulegede and Chris Ijale, second class traditional rulers of Oju and Obi to give Orbunde their blessings. PDP stalwarts from the area were present at the occasion. At the meeting were Chief Godwin Owulo, State Zonal Chairman for Benue South, Atujor Oko and Bulus Ikpechi, PDP local government chairmen for Oju and Obi, and Oju council chairman, Clement Onaa, Peter Adikpe, Secretary Obi local government area who represented the council chairman who was indisposed. Others were Dr Adoga Ona, and Deputy Majority Whip House of Assembly, Peter Onche. Prominent government officials present included Mrs Ladi Ajene, Commissioner of Trade and Investment, Ode Enyi, Special Adviser on Labour and Employment, Blessed Onah, Special Adviser, Religion, Ethics and Civil Society, Dan Onda, Board Member BIPC, Emmanuel Okoh, Senior Special Assistant, as well as Moses Egbodo, member, Health Management Board. On the entourage of the Chief of Staff were Ngunan Addingi, Commissioner of Information, Culture and Tourism, Professor Magdalene Dura, Special Advisers on Development Cooperation, and Politics, Dr Bem Dzoho, former Commissioners, Hycient Nyakuma and Comrade Joseph Shimaor, Principal Special Assistant on Culture and Tourism, Tahav Agerzua as well as Emmanuel Ukaa, Abuja-based business man. 