Political bigwigs in Adamawa State, who have just been officially received as defectors from other parties to the All Progressives Congress (APC), have vowed to play down on their personal ambitions to present an united APC against governing Peoples Demicratic Party (PDP). They and their followers stated disunity within APC caused it to fall from power in 2019 in Adamawa. Sen Abdulaziz Nyako, who left the APC towards the 2019 elections to become the governorship candidate of African Democratic Congress (ADC) and led the ADC to fuse into the APC during the weekend, said he and the other prominent politicians coming into the APC were resolved to forge an united front against PDP. “From today, we are full-fledged APC members. We must use this reunion to work and produce credible aspirants to contest elective positions in 2023,” Abdulaziz said. The formal reception for the new APC members, which took place at the APC Secretariat in Yola was also attended by Sen Ishaku Abbo, who officially defected to the APC from PDP and former governor Bala Ngillari. Abbo who has a reputation for deep differences with his former party, the PDP and Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, spoke excitedly of needs to get the PDP out of power in 2023. Against widespread view across Adamawa State that Abbo was joining APC to seek its governorship ticket, he said: “We are not desperate politicians who must have power. None of us in particular must be governor, but somebody in APC must be governor. We are not after our personal interests. We want to rescue Adamawa.” Ngillari said although he was governor under PDP (from October 1 2014 to May 29 2015) and dislikes jumping from one party to another, he decided to leave for APC because of his faith in it as one with serious minded people who can push out the PDP government. The APC National Caretaker Committee member for Northeast, Prof Tahir Mamman, charged the APC in the state to target two million Adamawa residents in the party’s registration exercise. He asserted: “We want to see at least two million residents of Adamawa as bonadide members of APC in the exercise. By God’s grace, in 2023 it is going to be APC ‘sak’ at all levels.”