SIR: Discerning minds would attest to the fact that the multi-dimensional ills bedevilling the North, particularly the prevailing insecurity, has its fundamentals rooted in the absence of cohesive and vibrant educational system. This is where the Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje got it right when he said during the flag-off of the free and compulsory primary (basic) and secondary education in Kano, that “the North, in particular, needs heavy investment in education if it were to tackle some of the developmental problems besetting the region” It is astonishing to note that the northern political establishment has failed to curb the Almajiri menace which of course is anti-culture and not in any way Islamic. One recalls that the northern governors, at the peak of the dreaded Covid-19 pandemic, actually agreed, unanimously, to repatriate all the Almajiris across the states of the federation to their states of origin and ultimately to reunite them with their parents. As laudable as the project was, the exercise soon became another conduit-pipe to drain state resources. Now, the Almajiris are back to the streets of most cities across the country, even as most of the governors have since opted to remain indifferent to the menace that they pose. It is at this point that one commends Governor Ganduje for his commitment to the development and investment in education in Kano State. To demonstrate his willingness to up-lift the standard of education, he had proclaimed free and compulsory primary (basic) and secondary education in Kano State, including the integrated Almajiri schools across the 44 LGAs, as well as implementing the Kano state Girls Child Education Policy (KNGEP). About 5,000 teachers have, reportedly, been engaged to complement the man-power needed and to assist in the smooth take-off of the integration of the Qur’anic and conventional curriculum in selected pilot schools across the 44 LGAs of the state. Similarly, the traditional Almajiri schools Mallams (teachers) have all been registered and incorporated into the integrated school system. To further to demonstrate his administration’s commitment towards eradicating the menace of the Almajiri, Ganduje directed the five emirs and their lieutenants to undertake a census of all parents in their domain, who may be inclined to flout the free and compulsory education scheme, for possible sanctions. With these radical and revolutionary interventions by Ganduje, he is no doubt set to rewrite the history of the Hausaman and Kano State in particular. In the fullness of time, posterity will record him as being the first among the northern leaders to institute the administrative framework that would ultimately liberate the Almajiri system from its current pariah status.