The Osun State Panel of Inquiry investigating police brutality and extra-judicial killing on Thursday threatened ex-Commissioner of Police, Mr John Omoronike, former Area Commander Officer, Mr Joshua Atunise and two senior police officers alleged of violation of human right, extortion, killing and flaunt of the court order. Ex CP Omoronike and Atunise were alleged in a petition and evidence given by the father, Taiwo Daniel of one Babatunde Daniel, a final-year student studying mechanical engineering at Osun State College of Technology Esa-Oke, killed in 2008. The Nation reports that the father told the panel that his son was gruesomely killed by the Area Commander Officer of Ilesha, Osun State identified as Mr Joshua Atunise after tagging him a robber in Ilesha while Omoronike was the CP. He noted that the corpse of his son was held till date despite the court order to pay the sum of N30 million and release the remains. Also, Mr Yekin Busari corroborated the evidence of the head of Olobedu Community, Chief Adanku Oyinlola who alleged that he was arrested illegally by one Superintendent Omoyale attached to AIG Zone XI office, Osogbo on June 23, 2016, in his house and was jointly extorted of over N1 million by one Inspector Muyiwa in Abuja Police station before he was released. The Chairman of the panel, Justice Akin Oladimeji ordered that Police counsel, Mr F B Osie, should ensure that the ex-Commissioner of Police, Mr John Omoronike and former Area Commander, Ilesha, Mr Joshua Atunise who was alleged in the gruesome killing of one Babatunde Daniel and for not complying with the judgement of the court. Police Counsel, Mr Osie informed the court that those involved are his superiors and summoning them will amount to insubordination. He urged the panel to state it clearly that he was not behind their summon but directly from the sitting. Justice Oladimeji said, “They have been alleged and for them to hear their name, they must come before the panel or be arrested. The CP will be served with a writ of summon of the two officers either in service or retired.” “Also, the two officers alleged in the case of Chief Oyinlola must appear before the panel, else, I will order there arrest and make do with the evidence before us to determine the matter.” He adjourned that two cases to February 18, 2020, for further hearing.