Embelekpo Apere, a former Senior Special Assistant on Millennium Development Goals (MDG) to the immediate past Bayelsa Governor, Seriake Dickson, has been arraigned by the Port Harcourt Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Apere was arraigned alongside Rollins Amacree, Clever Loveday and a company, Oriazy Global Link Limited before Justice Jane E. Inyang of the Federal High Court sitting in Yenagoa, on 10-count charge bordering on alleged conspiracy and procurement fraud worth N864m. A statement by the EFCC Head, Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, said the charges were read to the defendants on Thursday. According to the count three, Apere and Amacree, on or about 2015 and 2016 in Bayelsa State within the jurisdiction of the court, did without soliciting for expression of interest by publishing a notice to that effect in two National newspapers awarded and paid contract worth over N352million to Dekams World Global Nigeria Ltd. They were alleged to have committed an offence contrary to Section 44 (a) and 45 (2) of the Public Procurement Act 2007 and punishable under Section 58(1) of the same Act”. On count three, Apere and Amacre, were said to have allegedly committed a similar offence within on or about 2015 and 2016 in Bayelsa State while awarding and paying for a contract worth N182million to Ayebomateke & Son’s Ltd and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 44 (a) and 45 (2) of the Public Procurement Act 2007 and punishable under Section 58(1) of the same Act. The statement said the defendants pleaded “not guilty” to the charges adding that the prosecution lawyer, M.T Iko demanded a date for the commencement of trial. But the lawyers to the first and second defendants, Oyebiyi O and P.J. Fawei and the lawyer to the third and fourth defendants, W. Ogberipou informed the judge that they had already filed bail applications at the court. But Iko countered the application expressing fears that the defendants could interfere with the prosecution of the case “by threatening witnesses and the prosecution”. He prayed the court to reject the application and order an accelerated hearing on the matter. JInyang, however, granted the defendants bail in the sum of N20million each and one surety in like sum, who must be residents within the jurisdiction of the court. She said all the sureties should depose to an affidavit of means and deposit their original Certificates of Occupancy with the Deputy Court Registrar. The Judge also ordered that international passports of defendants be handed over to the Registrar of the Court while sureties should be verified by the Investigating Officers. The matter was adjourned till February 17, 22 and 24, 2021 for hearing. The statement said the defendants got into trouble by awarding contracts without following due processes. They allegedly made payments to third parties exceeding N50million without passing through a financial institution, in violation of provisions of the Money Laundering Act.