Coalition of Oduduwa Elders (COE) has warned against another civil unrest from rising tension as a result of insecurity in the country. Particularly, the elders bemoaned the growing tension in the South West, insisting that President Muhammadu Buhari should intervene urgently. The elders warned that with the spate of insecurity taking its toll in the country, Nigeria may soon cease to exist unless proactive steps are taken by the Federal Government to salvage the situation. Their reaction came on Monday, following the tension generated across the country occasioned by violent attacks and burning of houses and cars in Oyo State. The socio-cultural group however advised that one of the urgent steps the Presidency must adopt should be to overhaul the entire security system. “The reported attacks on some Fulanis in the South West, and gloomy security situation in the region and the country at large, calls for urgent and deliberate action on the part of President Muhammadu Buhari,” the elders said in a statement by its National Coordinator, Dr Tunde Aremu. The elders warned that if action was not taken to stem the tide, Nigeria is likely going to witness another civil unrest which has the potential of threatening her existence. They alleged that suspected terrorist elements – in the mould of foreign herders – were infiltrating the South West without molestation. They accused the Armed Forces of failing in its primary duty of defending the nation’s territorial integrity against external aggression. The elders maintained that the Yorubas have the inalienable right to raise concerns about the failure of the federal government to protect them and their communities against armed men. The Oduduwa elders, however, sued for peaceful co-existence between the Yorubas as well as residents, saying violence remained antithetical to meaningful development. As a way out of the security situation in the country, the coalition has joined well-meaning Nigerians and groups to call for the immediate replacement of Service Chiefs with a new set of officers with fresh perspective on proactive defense and security management. The statement reads: “As stakeholders in Yoruba land and the Nigerian project as a whole, we have watched with keen interest the unfolding events in the country, especially as they relate to the South West region, and we wish to advise Mr. President to urgently take steps that will restore public confidence in the nation. “We say this with all sense of responsibility, as our investigations show that failure to take action on the part of Mr. President may well be an invitation to another civil war, the end of which we cannot predict. “Our country is sitting on a keg of gunpowder, a time bomb if you like, and if nothing is done urgently, we may face another civil unrest, as the citizens are tired of the actions and inactions of the president in the area of security of lives and property. This has to change now before it is too late. “We dare say that the challenges faced by Nigerians currently, are fallout of government’s failure to secure communities, and there is an urgent need for immediate and total restructuring of the entire security architecture of the country. “We mince no words in saying that restructuring must begin with the sack of the country’s Services Chiefs, and replacement with young and more competent officers.”