By A group of leaders in Imo State, under the aegis of Okigwe Leaders Assembly (OLA), has appealed to the state governor, Senator Hope Uzodimma to favourably consider Imo North Senatorial District otherwise known as Okigwe Zone in his appointment of the new chairman of the State Council of Traditional Rulers otherwise known as Eze Imo. The appeal followed the dissolution of the council headed by HRM Eze Samuel Ohiri a week ago and rumours that the governor is planning to appoint a new chairman of the council from Imo West otherwise known as Orlu Zone. At a press conference in Owerri, the state capital, secretary of the group, Deacon Henry Anyanwu, said appointing a chairman of the council from Okigwe Zone would ensure equity and fairness in the sharing of the chairmanship seat across the three senatorial zones in the state. According to him, appointment and election of the chairman of the Imo State Council of Traditional Rulers had always been based on zoning and rotation. “In the most recent past, Orlu Zone with Eze Cletus Ilomuanya, Obi of Obinugwu served nine years from the governments of Achike Udenwa and Ikedi Ohakim. Eze Samuel Ohiri served nine years under the administrations of Rochas Okorocha, Emeka Ihedioha and Senator Hope Uzodimma. It naturally follows that the next chairman of Imo Council of Traditional Rulers should come from Okigwe Zone. “However, in the past few days, there have been consistent rumours attempts to appoint a traditional ruler from Orlu Zone as the new chairman of Imo Council of Traditional Rulers. This information, which we believe is a rumour, was given some credence by some Owerri-based newspapers,” Anyanwu said. He accused a cabal from Orlu Zone of sponsoring the plot to appoint the council’s chairman from the zone. He insisted that the attempt to appoint a traditional ruler from Orlu Zone as the new chairman of the council would be against equity, a good conscience, fairness and natural justice. The group, therefore, demanded that the next chairman, Imo Council of Traditional Rulers be chosen from Okigwe, expressing the belief that Governor Uzodimma would not fall prey to the divisive attempt by some cabal to bring instability into the administration.