The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has opened its defence against Aisha Alkali Wakil (aka Mama Boko Haram) at the Borno State High Court. It called Bilkisu Mohammed Abubakar as its first witness. Wakil is standing trial on three-count charges alongside Tahiru Saidu Daura and Prince Lawal Shoyede, Programme Manager and Country Director of Complete Care and Aid Foundation, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) belonging to Wakil. The charges, according to the EFCC, include criminal conspiracy, inducement and obtaining by false pretence and fraud. Abubakar, of Ihasan Vendor Services, alleged that the defendants cajoled her to supply goods and provide services valued at N41 million but for which they did not pay her after the contract was executed. “I supplied to Complete Care and Aid Foundation office two television sets, two sets of telecom, nine stabilisers, 13 extension wires, cutleries, three electronic kettles, two gas cylinders, toiletries, beverages, bottled water, amongst others, for 13 months,” Abubakar told the court. The witness said she provided lunch for Wakil’s daughter, Khadija Alkali, for four months on WAkil’s instruction. She told the court that she supplied four beds, five big mattresses and 16 pillows for Mama Boko Haram’s husband and children. “I supplied one Italian bed, a complete set of show glass, two centre tables, one Italian dining table and one cushion chair to her husband. I also supplied food flasks, electronics, gas cooker, one deep freezer, two industrial fans, four rechargeable fans, three sets of bedside carpets and 10 ready-made clothes and 10 veils as well,” Abubakar added. The Nation gathered that house furniture, electronics and food items were valued at N34.6 million. The witness also said Mama Boko Haram directed her to transfer some money to Ekechukwu Modo’s bank account number to buy foodstuffs from Enugu on five occasions as well as buy an Arabian gown from Harira in Malaysia. “My lord, during the naming ceremony of Wakil’s grandchild, I supplied all the things needed to the tune of N1.5 million,” she added. The EFCC counsel, Mukhtar Ali Ahmed, presented the evidence before the court. The trial was adjourned till February 15 for cross-examination of a prosecution witness.