The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Niger state has vowed to use the bye-election for the Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency as a means of redeeming itself politically in Niger state. PDP Stakeholders made this vow during the inauguration of the 36 man campaign Committee for the Magama/Rijau Federal Constituency election at the PDP Secretariat in Minna. The Chairman of the state caretaker committee, Dr Halilu Indabawa who inaugurated the campaign council urged stakeholders to pull resources together for the success of the party in the elections. “This is the best opportunity for the party to redeem itself politically in Niger state. This is an opportunity for us to reclaim our right,” Indabawa said. He tasked the 36 member Council to work in ensuring that PDP wins the by-election at the end of the day calling for seriousness and diligence. The Chairperson of the Federal constituency campaign council, Senator Zaynab Kure who echoed the stand of the Chairman of the Caretaker committee said that the federal constituency election will be one that will serve as a test to what 2023 elections will be. She said that she accepted the challenge of chairing the Committee because she wants to ensure that the party wins the election. “We want PDP back. I accept to serve on the council because I love challenges, the terrain I know will be a difficult one but I am convinced that my team will make winning possible. We will hit the ground running. We are starting immediately.” Kure expressed joy over the fact that a lot of aggrieved people within the party has been saying that this would ensure teamwork and unity in the party. “We lose elections because of the problems that are within. But this time, we are expecting everyone’s input and we are working to ensure that there is unity and peace within the party.” She promised that the Council will discharge its duty responsibly and make sure the candidate of the party wins in the election. The candidate for the election, Mr Emmanuel Alamu in his remarks solicited the support of all members of the party so that “Niger state PDP will have a voice in the House of Representatives.”