 The Peoples Democratic Party in Central Uruan Ward 2, Uruan Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, has suspended one of its member, Joseph Effiong, for allegedly celebrating the recent deaths of some political leaders of the state. Effiong, who is the central Uruan zonal leader, was suspended over comments he made on social media which tended to give the impression that he was happy over the death of the leaders. The suspended member was quoted to have said, “God is also at work in decimating those oppressors. Check out the recent happenings in the state. Would like to advise all those in the business of depriving other stakeholders from government patronage to learn from the recent calls to glory. All the powers inherent are vanity.” Recall that the state recently lost some political leaders of the PDP including the first indigenous military governor of the state, Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga, the state Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP), Mr. Udo Ekpenyong and a former Chief of Air Staff, Air Vice Marshall Nsikak Eduok. While Nkanga and Ekpenyong were said to have died from Covid-19 complications, Eduok died of kidney failure. In the suspension letter dated January 22, 2021 and signed by the PDP chairman of Central Uruan Ward 3, Sanday Otobong Ndem and Secretary, Glory Okon Udo, the party said Ekpenyong’s comments amounted to anti-party activity.  The suspension letter was copied to the Uruan chapter chairman of the PDP, Uruan local government chairman, State Women Leader and the Speaker of the State House of Assembly among others. The letter partly read: “That you wrote the said write-ups in response to the unfortunate deaths that have claimed the lives of prominent members of our party(PDP) and the illustrious sons of Akwa Ibom state in general and posted same on social media platforms, one of them being ‘Uruan Arise’-a social media platform which has many members and had been widely circulated to the knowledge of wider members of the public. ”That the contents and meaning of your write-up had caused a stir in the polity particularly as it comes from you who is a prominent member of the party. Death is an act of God and is for every living being. One should neither mock nor celebrate the death of a fellow human being. ”After much deliberations in the meeting,  it was resolved that your write-up considering all intents and purpose is reasonably interpreted as anti-party hence we hereby suspend you from the Peoples Democratic Party, Central Uruan Ward 2”. 