 Perhaps nothing paints a clearer picture of the chaos that has become the trademark of Apapa port, the busiest port in Nigeria, than the Financial Times of London report about the cost of transporting containers from the port to mainland Lagos. The report shows that it costs about $4,000 to transport a container to mainland Lagos, almost the same amount shippers pay from China to Lagos. Additionally, the Seaport Terminal Operators Association  has also estimated that the port congestion costs the country about $55m  (N20.9b) daily in economic losses. Additionally, there has been no improvement in the port’s facilities in the last 23 years. For an import-dependent nation like Nigeria, we are outraged that such financial losses have been going on at the port. This is in addition to the collateral effects on all the ancillary services around the Apapa area. The loss in man-hours and the effects on businesses are all pushed to the final consumers in an economy that has been struggling for years. The direct beneficiaries of the chaos at the Apapa port are the neighbouring countries of Benin Republic and Togo whose ports are  more attractive to importers. What is particularly annoying is that the port chaos is not a natural disaster that man has no answers to. It is the result of a nation that has been very lethargic about improving its infrastructure and the chain effect of decayed or totally absent transportation systems. With a population of over 200 million, successive governments have failed to plan, and the result is the standstill being experienced in and around the port, and the very outrageous loss of revenue by the country. No serious twenty-first century economy still relies wholly on road transportation for goods. For a country that relies solely on imported petroleum products, the gridlock caused by fuel tankers and other articulated trucks heading out of the port is one of the greatest nightmares of the residents of one of the most populated cities in the world. In an age of technology, it has been a disaster transacting officially at the ports as operations there are largely still manual. It is surprising that government agencies that ought to embrace automated transactions still cling on to the outdated analogue methods. Sadly, with uncontrolled population explosion, it gets very complex with a consumer nation like Nigeria. The government can privatise the port for better functionality. It is scandalous that it costs almost the same amount or more to transport a container from Apapa port to mainland Lagos as to import from China. This is one of the greatest disincentives to investors and even local manufacturers whose frustration has led to closures and some businesses relocating to neighbouring countries. The Federal Ministry of Transportation must feel the embarrassment that this ugly reality brings to the country. The fact that rail transportation has not really taken off solidly, especially with a view to decongesting the roads, should seriously worry the ministry. It is worrisome that neither the railway nor the roads is in the best state, and this has led to preventable human and material losses. Most businesses in and around the Apapa port have had to close down because of the gridlock caused by a chain of trucks that wait endlessly to get into the ports to move containers. Most of the truck drivers virtually live on queues inside their trucks and in those periods most of them contract different infections, while some even die due to lack of good medical help. Nigeria must have a serious rethink about the Apapa port. The gridlock and the attendant loses – human capital, financial losses – and sundry inconveniences must be reversed with better policies and execution of same.