President Muhammadu Buhari has sworn-in new members for the Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB) and the Police Service Commission (PSC). The President performed the brief ceremony for the three new members of the CCB and one for the PSC just before he presided over the maiden virtual Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting of the year in the Executive Council Chambers of the Aso Rock Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Wednesday. The three members of the CCB that took their oath of office were Hon. Ehiozuwa Johnson Agbonayinma, representing South-South; Babatunde Balogun (retired Commissioner of Police) representing Southwest and Barrister Benedict Umeano representing Southeast. Chief Onyemuche Nnamani was inaugurated as a member of the Police Service Commission. Meanwhile, the virtual FEC meeting commenced immediately after the inauguration with Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, SGF, Boss Mustapha and Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari physically present. Nine Ministers were also physically attending the meeting. They were those of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, Police Affairs, Muhammadu Dingyadi and Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Others were Ministers of Education, Adamu Adamu, Industry Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, Environment, Muhammad Mahmood and Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono. The Head of Cicil Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan and other Ministers are participating in the weekly council meeting from their various offices in Abuja. Also, before the commencement of the weekly cabinet meeting, a minute silence was observed in honour of two former Ministers, Jubril Martins Kuye and Bala Kaoje, who died recently. Kuye, who was Minister of Finance from 1999-2003 and later Minister of Commerce form 2010-2011. He died on Sunday 17th January 2021, at the age of 78, while Bala Kaoje, who died on Tuesday 19th January, at the age of 60, was Nigeria’s Minister of Sports in 1999.