 The Lagos State Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency (HEFAMAA), has directed that application for registration of health facilities and renewal of certificates shall be done online. Speaking in her office in Ikeja, the Executive Secretary of HEFAMAA, Dr. Abiola Idowu, explained that the decision was taken to optimise the use of the agency’s e-platform, which she said was developed few years back to ease registration by the users and give facility owners and the public the opportunity to interface with the agency. She advised health providers who want to register their facilities or renew their certificates to log on to the website of the agency for instructions. She added that any facility that fails to renew its licence between January and March  31,2021 will be sanctioned as, according to her, “it means such facilities are operating illegally.” The HEFAMAA chief observed that the use of the e-portal would go a long way in reducing the number of visitors to the agency, which she said, is in tandem with the measures put in place by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19. She further explained that the agency will no longer issue assessment form at its office, stressing that service providers should generate invoices online for bank payment. “The agency will no longer issue assessment form. Therefore, we urge facility owners to generate the invoice for payment after uploading all the necessary documents to the portal,” she explained. Idowu, who emphasised the need to upload tellers generated after paying at designated banks to the portal, also stated that the profile details used for processing 2020 renewal/registration are still valid. She, however, charged facility operators in the state to improve the quality of healthcare services they provide to the citizens to actualise the agenda of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration. For enquiries and to report facilities engaging in unprofessional conducts, she advised the public to call the agency’s dedicated phone numbers, including 09015637023, 09057273396, 09038795500 and 08172704228.