Operators of Point of Sale (POS) outlets in Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State and its environs have cried out to heads of security agencies in the state to protect their businesses. The operators who spoke to our reporter on Friday lamented series of attacks on their business by hoodlums who have made them their target. Their appeal is coming on the heels of the recent killing of a POS operator identified as Mr. Victor Igbokwe by gang of gunmen. Igbokwe as gathered by our correspondent was once a staff of a popular commercial bank, before opening his POS shop at NO: 98 market road Aba. The incident as gathered from sources occurred by 10:30 on Thursday morning and sent many business operators running for their dear lives. It was learnt that four armed men who came on a tricycle (keke), moved straight to Igbokwe’s POS shop, shot at him, collected his money and zoomed off. One of the sources said that the shooting sent fear into all business operators around, who ran leaving Igbokwe in the pool of his own blood. The source added that Igbokwe managed to drag himself out from his shop calling for help while bleeding profusely, but got no help. According to the source, by the time help could come his way, Igbokwe had already lost a lot of blood because everyone around ran away for fear of losing their lives. The source said that Igbokwe was confirmed dead by a doctor when he was taken to a hospital located around Azikiwe road. Another source who gave his name as Chika Ifeanyi corroborating others said the number of POS operators attacked over the past weeks is alarming, fearing that if nothing was done to check, the attack on their members would increase. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) in Abia State, SP Geoffrey Ogbonna confirmed the killing of Igbokwe by suspected armed robbers. Ogbonna said that the manner in which Igbokwe was killed points towards murder rather than armed robbery. He however said investigation will prove whether the incident is murder or armed robbery, and urged residents to remain calm.