 As 2020 was preparing to give way to 2021, the coronavirus pandemic that had come to define last year decided to garner more strength. It surged in a way that the health authorities of Nigeria could not understand, let alone explain to a doubting public. The caregivers – doctors, nurses and others – are aghast as they had begun to turn the page back to the normal mode. In the process, before they could readjust to the new reality that COVID-19 was staging a ferocious comeback, 22 doctors had been reported struck with the disease in one week. That brought the alarm bell ringing. Is Nigeria in a position to cope with the second wave? National coordinator of the presidential task force set up to roll back the disease has said Nigerians should prepare for a tougher 2021. A tougher month or year is the last thing Nigerians would expect at this point, but it’s already here with us. The number of cases has continued to surge, standing at an average of about 1,500 daily. Yet, we were warned by the information coming from the United States of America, United Kingdom, India and Brazil, among others. The good news that the authorities cannot fail to harp on is more of lullabies in the ears of a sick child. The breakthrough recorded in production of vaccines to curb the spread has not reached Nigeria. It does not seem that the leaders know exactly the route by which the vaccine would make its way to the country. There are vaccines already produced in China, Russia, India, United States and United Kingdom. Even when we are told that each dose would cost the nation a hefty eight United States dollars, the information just leaves us more bewildered as they do not cost the same amount, yet we have arrived at a cost before knowing which we have settled for. Then, there is the concern about preservation. Some require special freezing conditions for preservation. Such, we are told, are not available here. But, we are expecting 100,000 doses by the end of this month. The prognosis is dire. We are running out of isolation centres and bed spaces; the request for oxygen in treatment is rising by the day and tests in public-owned laboratories that are said to be cheap are largely unavailable nationwide. The Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests that we have settled for as the more reliable means of discovering and checking the rate of spread of the disease has not helped in coping with the need to ascertain how far the disease has spread in Nigeria. Almost one year after the index case arrived here from Italy, we are yet to test up to one million Nigerians. Given our population put at 206 million this year, the tests have been grossly inadequate. The authorities at the federal and state levels acknowledge this but have done very little about it. This does not show that we are about winning the battle. Our general attitude to the non-pharmaceutical protocols is probably the most serious stumbling block to defeating the disease. By now, all Nigerians have heard that mass gathering is a nursery for the virus .It spreads so fast, and the second wave came with a deadlier variant. Nigerians have heard, but most are not complying. And the enforcement has been poor, perhaps owing to the outcome of the #EndSARS protest and the attendant mayhem. Night clubs, churches, mosques, are still as packed as ever. Many move from such functions to the isolation centres. In the 10 first days of the year, about four professors have already been claimed by the disease. Other requirements, including use of masks in public places, keeping physical distancing, and regular application of sanitiser are adhered to only in the breach. But, if Nigerians could be blamed for failing to comply with simple instructions, the leaders should be held responsible, at least, in one respect. Potable water supply is hardly available in many parts of the country. Many have to rely on purchase of water from unsafe quarters, and they hardly have enough for the already accepted hygiene needs and cooking. How could anyone expect that the people would readily adopt any admonition to seek such rare commodity for an additional purpose? Regular use of water to wash the hands is central to keeping the virus at bay, but water is unavailable. Every year, governments budget so much for water supply, but the taps remain dry. State of emergency is not only applicable in situations of political crisis. When faced with public health disaster, we should realise the need for extraordinary measures. This is one war that must be won. Both the leaders and the led must be prepared to play their parts. Government should decentralise prevention and control measures to all levels of government and governance. So far, little has been heard of the roles of local governments, the councillors and traditional rulers. Apart from being paid from public coffers, being the closest to the grassroots, they should be recruited to fight this battle. Water should be provided in all public places. Modes of public transportation should respect social distancing. So far, by providence, we have avoided the crippling experience of the advanced western countries. We cannot take this for granted in the second wave since the mutating virus cannot be predicted. The time for action is now.