The Lions’ Den, arguably one of the world’s biggest business reality shows has received the backing of major players in the economy. The event, which would allow entrepreneurs and innovators with creative ideas to redefine the business landscape in Nigeria are have received the support of Ecobank Nigeria (Gold Sponsors), Chapel Hill Denham (Silver Sponsor) and Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) and the Bank of Industry (Bronze Sponsors) and  Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS) Strategic Partners. The reality show which is known as Dragons’ Den and Shark Tank in the UK and USA respectively will give bold and passionate entrepreneurs the opportunity to pitch their businesses or ideas in the Lions’ Den, a business reality TV show brought to you by the producers of Who Wants To Be a Millionaire and Project Fame West Africa, Ultima Limited. In his remark regarding being a Gold Sponsor of Lions’ Den, the Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan said: “The SMEs and entrepreneurs in the country are looking for viable partners that will help them build sustainable businesses. Our customers have become more discerning, they are not looking for any partner, but the right partner – one that is not just providing financial support but is investing in their growth. This is what Ecobank represents. We have been supporting SMEs because we recognise them as the engine of growth of any economy.” Commenting on the importance of Lions’ Den as a platform for providing support for Nigerian entrepreneurs, the Chief Executive Officer of Chapel Hill Denham, Bolaji Balogun said, “We believe that supporting entrepreneurship and innovation in Nigeria is critical to Nigeria’s sustainable economic development and will create opportunity and jobs for our talented youth, reduce poverty, tackle social issues and enhance trade. It is an incredible opportunity to support businesses to scale by providing access to capital, to mentorship and to networks. Chapel Hill Denham is pleased to support Lions’ Den and we believe that this series will not only provide great entertainment and education but also have an incredible impact on Nigerian entrepreneurship.” Also speaking on the why the Development Bank of Nigeria chose to sponsor the TV Reality Show, the Managing Director, Tony Okpanachi said, “As a Development Financial Institution,  established to bridge the funding gap for MSMEs, our strategic focus has always been to provide funding and adequate capacity building for the underserved, but a critical sector of the Nigeria economy.”