The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari over the killing and abduction of about 18 security operatives in Kaduna State yesterday. Condemning the actions of the criminals, the PDP urged President Buhari to end his lethargic approach to security challenges in the country by taking very urgent steps to tackle terrorism. In a statement yesterday by the spokesman of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party lamented the rising level of terrorism. It stressed that the situation is now worsened by incessant attacks on security operatives, the latest being the abduction of no fewer than 18 police operatives by bandits in Kaduna State. The main opposition party declared that the heightened state of insecurity in the land further highlights the failure on the part of the President to coordinate an effective fight against terrorism. The statement said: “Our party, as the voice of the people, urges President Buhari to show concern to the plight of Nigerians who are being ravaged by terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and vandals whose activities have been emboldened by the indolent and languid attitude of his administration, including its recent dismissive statement to Nigerians to ‘wait on God’ for a solution. “President Buhari should listen to Nigerians and rejig his command structure, which has become so weak that officials now rationalise acts of terrorism to the extent of blaming victims, as was the case in the 43 farmers recently beheaded by terrorists in Borno State. “The situation has become so bad that it took Chadian President Idris Derby to personally lead his troops into our territories to rout out insurgents and free Nigerian communities and our soldiers held captive by terrorists. “It is unfortunate that despite the manifest security lapses, Mr President has refused to respect the consensus by Nigerians, as validated by the two chambers of the National Assembly to rejig his security architecture, by replacing his service chiefs with more competent hands.” The PDP further called on President Buhari to demonstrate a sense of responsibility to the duties of his office in the interest of vulnerable Nigerians who are daily falling victim to bandits, terrorists and kidnappers prowling the land. “Mr President must know that Nigerians have become despondent due to his failure to provide leadership to our troubled nation. “Our party, however, identifies with the police and other security agencies. We urge them not to be deterred. “The PDP also called on Nigerians to continue to be at alert and not to relent in providing useful information to our security agencies in the fight against terrorism in the country,” the statement added.  