The Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Nigeria (NEPWHAN) Sunday urged the Federal Government to fast track its commitment to procure life-saving antiretroviral drugs and test kits. It noted that the availability of these drugs and test kits were critical to achieving the UNAIDS 90-90-90 goals – which Nigeria failed to attain in 2020. The National Coordinator of NEPWHAN, Abdulkadir Ibrahim, made this known in a statement in Abuja. He said, “These goals cannot be achieved without the government’s commitment to procure from domestic resources adequate test kits so that more Nigerians can be tested and those who test positive placed on lifesaving HIV treatment. “We sincerely appreciate the efforts and commitment of His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari GCFR, for providing all resources for HIV treatment. With the Commitment made by Mr. President, approvals by the Federal Ministry of Health should not be delayed any further in providing adequate treatment for persons living with HIV as part of government’s efforts to meeting its co-financing and counterparts funding requirements requested by our generous donors, especially the Global Fund which just gave Nigeria about $900 million to address HIV, TB and Malaria in the country. “We are currently talking with the Federal Ministry of Health to fast track the release of available resources in the Ministry to procure HIV drugs and test kits to keep Nigerians living with HIV alive and we hope the by end of next week approval and release will be granted by the Honorable Minister of Health and his team to redeem Nigeria’s commitment and respect in the eyes of the international community, and to also demonstrate the importance of global solidarity and shared responsibility to end the AIDS epidemic as a public health threat. “Failure to meet this commitment within the stipulated time will surely allow people living with HIV to advise themselves for their voices to heard by the world. We hope we shall not be compelled to such an action once the Federal Ministry of Health does the right thing. “Similarly, we are looking forward to the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA), to sooner than later update NEPWHAN and the HIV partners on the status of the procurement of antiretroviral drugs into the national HIV commodity pool.”