 Students of Ondo State origin in tertiary institutions may look forward to a better year in terms of access to bursary and scholarships. The state government has budgeted N209m for bursary and scholarship awards in 2021. Given that since 2016, the bursary and scholarship awards have been irregular and only students who are indigenes of Ese-Odo and Ilaje local governments that produce petroleum have had annual opportunities for such benefits under the Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (OSOPADEC) scheme, it is gratifying that the state has included state-wide bursary and scholarship awards in its priorities for this year, despite the challenges from the coronavirus pandemic. Doubtless, this is a remarkable progress from previous years of complaints from eligible students for such awards. We also commend the government for reducing the cost of tuition in the state’s universities in August 2020 by an average of 20 percent, and for committing, in 2021, N209 million to award of bursary and scholarships for students from the entire state in their second year in tertiary institutions. The amount may look small in view of the number of the state’s children in tertiary institutions across the country, but in the context of the uncertainties surrounding the pandemic, the readiness of the government to return to Ondo State’s tradition of equal access to education to all children and the capacity of higher education to impact life chances deserves some acknowledgment. As the country and the rest of the world prepare to triumph over the pandemic, we urge the government to ensure that payment of bursary and scholarship awards are regular and prompt, to enable awardees receive the fund early enough to serve the purpose for which it is intended. In addition, we call on the governor to review, for subsequent budgets, the monetary value of bursary in the state which, according to the most recent call for applications by the state’s board of bursary and scholarships, remains at N10,000. Given the threats by inflation and decline in value of the naira, such upward review to 20-25% of the cost of tuition would be of greater and more realistic assistance to students found to be eligible for bursary awards. We also find the automatic awards to indigenes of the state with physical disadvantage highly commendable. Furthermore, the policy of the state to defer implementation for international scholarships needs reconsideration for subsequent budget years. The benefits of overseas education, especially at the tertiary level are numerous and too significant for any state in the country to put in abeyance at any time. Most of Ondo State’s peer states within Nigeria find funding to give scholarships for studies abroad. All the countries at the cutting edge of science and technology also do fund their students for overseas study regularly for the sake of cross-fertilisation of ideas and methods. Providing scholarships for overseas postgraduate studies for Ondo State indigenes, especially now that internationally trained Yoruba academics and professionals do so as immigrants, will provide constant link in the culture of research, teaching, and service between Ondo State and international centres of excellence, particularly at the current pace of the spread of business and cultural interactions across the globe.