Aston University has been named University of the Year 2020 by The Guardian, a crucial league table that focuses on student satisfaction, graduate employability and quality of teaching.  Professor Alec Cameron, Vice-Chancellor of Aston University, said: “Being named ‘University of the Year’ by The Guardian is a fantastic testament to the hard work of all our staff and students here at Aston. I am incredibly proud of our diverse, creative and dynamic community who, particularly since the start of the coronavirus pandemic, have proven that we are truly a team. “I’ve been particularly inspired by how our staff and students have risen to the challenge of the last nine months, as the education and assessment of our students was disrupted and we moved to online education. Our staff have worked tirelessly to enable us to prepare for a blended delivery model of teaching starting in the autumn term. “This award is also a recognition of the work by our staff across the University to ensure we are giving students the best possible learning experience and supporting them to achieve the best possible outcomes. “The resilience and flexibility of everyone in our community during this difficult time has been outstanding and I am delighted that they have received this accolade.” Other notable areas include Aston University’s engagement with the Race Equality Charter and gaining the institutional Silver Athena SWAN award in 2018. The award encourages and recognises commitment to advancing the careers of women in science, technology, engineering, maths and medicine (STEMM) employment in higher education and research. The University also signed up as a member of the Race Equality Charter in November 2019. Rachel Hall, Universities Editor at The Guardian, said: “Aston University came top of the measure this year thanks to its sustained improvement in The Guardian University Guide, along with its commitment to sustainability and a focus on enabling students from a wide range of backgrounds to achieve their potential, including graduate employability.” Matt Hiely-Rayner, compiler of the University of the Year award and the University Guide, added: “Aston University has been on an upward trajectory since our 2017 Guide, when the University fell out of the top 50 for the first time. Climbing in steady increments, the University has reached 30th position and has achieved this while catering to a very diverse student body. “Meanwhile the University has been taking its commitment to sustainability very seriously. Scoring 63% in the people & planet rankings of 2019, Aston University has the ninth highest score of the institutions included in our rankings.” The awards usually take place at an event held in London, but this year the ceremony was hosted online due to Covid-19. A full list of winners is available on The Guardian website. For details on application and generous scholarship opportunities at Aston University, you may visit  https://www2.aston.ac.uk/international-students/your-country/africa or contact Babajide Ogundeji, our Regional Manager for Africa via b.ogundeji@aston.ac.uk or africa@aston.ac.uk or call +2348136091160