The Federal Capital Territory (FCT) police command has vowed to rescue 11 persons kidnapped at an orphanage home, in Abuja. Gunmen in Abuja suspected to be kidnappers abducted seven orphans from Rachael’s Orphanage Home opposite UBE Junior Secondary School in Naharati, Abaji Area Council, Abuja. The raid of the FCT orphanage is bound to further raise concerns about the security situation in the country. The gunmen who raided the orphanage in large numbers also the security guard of the home and two house wives, Rukaiyyat Salihu, Suwaiba Momoh and Momoh Jomih, who reside behind the orphanage home. According to reports, the names of the orphans abducted are Elizabeth Andrew, Dayo Udeh, Jacob Ukpas, Melody Ijeh, Benard Itim, Issac Mathew and Laruba Emmanuel as well as the security guard of the home, Joseph Mathew. A resident of the area where the FCT orphanage is located who spoke on the condition of anonymity said the gunmen came in large numbers and with sophisticated weapons at about 1.00 a.m. on Saturday. They reportedly forced the gate open and went to the rooms of the orphans and took seven of them away at gun point. “In fact, they came in, in their large numbers heavily armed, even though they didn’t shoot as they carried out the operation quietly before they proceeded to neighbors houses,” the eye witness said Mohammed Nurudeen, whose wife, Rukaiyyat Salihu, was taken away by the gunmen who raided the FCT orphanage said he was sleeping when gunmen came and forcefully opened the door and whisked his wife away at gunpoint. “I was sleeping when they came and threatened to shoot me if I refused to open the door for them, in which I refused until they forced the door opened and entered inside the room and whisked my wife away,” he said. Nurudeen, who sustained bullet wound from the shot by one of the Kidnappers, said the gunmen spared him after they discovered that he was bleeding profusely due to gun shot. The FCT Police Public Relations Officer, (PRO), Yusuf Mariam, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, who spoke on the development told THE NATION that since the incident happened on Saturday, the force has launched strategic operations to rescue the people that were kidnapped and also arrest the perpetrators. Her words: “we have launched strategic operations to rescue them and arrest the perpetrators”.