The Abia State government says that it is worried about the continued rise in the confirmed cases of COVID-19 in the country. It says that it has continued to review measures already put in place to check the incidents of the new surge in the state, particularly with the massive influx of people into the State during the Yuletide celebration. It, therefore, urged all Abians to make available themselves for COVID-19 test across the Sample Collection Centres at the various Local Government Areas including Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Aba and Molecular Testing Laboratory at Amachara, Umuopara in Umuahia South LGA which they said is free of charge. The state government in a statement signed by the Secretary to the State Government; Barr. Chris Ezem on behalf of the State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu said that as a responsible Government, it would continue to evolve ways to protect Abians, and our environment with a view to preventing further community transmission. According to Ezem, the test and compulsory wearing of face masks at all times was part of the state government’s measures to mitigate the effect of the pandemic in the State. The State government further directed all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), Public Offices, Eateries, Hospitals and Banks to paste on all their entrances “No Face Mask, No Entry” notice/inscription and warned that failure to abide by the government’s directives would attract sanction, adding that such MDAs and public offices and places are required as a matter of necessity to provide all Covid-19 Protocols particularly running water and hand sanitizers within their offices. The statement which further directed all Local Government Chairmen, Traditional Institutions, Leadership of various Market Unions and Religious bodies, including the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) etc to embark on Advocacy/Sensitization Exercise on COVID-19, stated that religious worship center must be open in line with laid down Covid-19 protocols. “The State workforce will still operate with Grade Level 12 and above and those on essential services will continue to work Mondays through Fridays. “It is absolutely expedient that all Abians must take advantage of the ongoing community testing to ascertain their Covid-19 status. “Our Isolation Centres are in operation and all our Medical Protocol Team are in place. “The State COVID-19 Enforcement Team will immediately begin routine visits to public places to ensure compliance. “Government directs all and sundry to observe the protocol of social distancing, hand washing, use of sanitizers and to take personal responsibility in order to save their families and loved ones,” the statement read in part. Sent from Yahoo Mail on Android