 THE former military administrator of Benue and Kogi states, Col. Aminu Isah Kontagora, has died of COVID-19 complications. Kontagora, 65, reportedly died on Monday morning at a health facility in Abuja. He was the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in 2015. Niger State Government described the deceased as a respected officer who spent his life in the service of the state, country and humanity. It said his death was a tragedy and a monumental loss to Niger State “at this very critical period of our history.” The Secretary to the Government of Niger State (SSG), Ahmed Ibrahim Matane, in a condolence message said: “On behalf of the government and people of the state, I want to convey my sincere and heartfelt condolences to the immediate family of the late Col. Aminu Isah Kontagora, the Sarkin Sudan, Kontagora, Alhaji Saidu Namaska, people of Kontagora Emirate and Nigerlites as a whole on this huge loss.” He prayed that the Almighty Allah (SWT) grant the soul of the deceased eternal rest, reward him with Jannatul Firdausi and give the entire family the courage to bear the irreparable loss. President Muhammadu Buhari has condoled with the family of Col. Kontagora. He urged family, friends and associates to accept the will of God, and seek solace in Kontogora’s good work. The President’s message was contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu. PDP has commiserated with the government and people of Niger State over the death of Col. Kontagora. The party, in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, yesterday in Abuja also commiserated with the Kontagora family, describing the death of the retired military officer as a huge national loss. Benue State Government has declared today as a work-free day to mourn Kontagora. Governor Samuel Ortom directed that flags be flown at half-mast in honour of the deceased. Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has condoled with the Niger State Government and families of Kontagora. Former Minister of Communications Maj.- Gen. Tajudeen Olanrewaju yesterday mourned the passage of Col. Kontagora. He described him as a patriot and a star in the Artillery Corps. 