 OSUN State University (UNIOSUN) has installed mechanised sanitising cubicles on all campuses for staff, students and visitors to tackle spread of the virus. This is part of measures to stem the tide of rising infections of COVID-19 in the state. The spokesperson of the institution, Mr Adesoji Ademola, noted that the cubicles will serve three purposes of checking temperature, hand wash and full-body sanitising. “The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Labo Popoola, is committed to ensuring the safety of staff and students of the institution. We are indeed in perilous times as the numbers of victims are mounting day by day and these numbers are gradually becoming names of those we know. We urge everyone to commence the prevention of this scourge by accepting the realities, taking responsibilities and joining us in enforcing compliance of the COVID-19 protocols in all our campuses and beyond. As we pray for protection, let us please help the prayers by demonstrating strict obedience.” He explained that in the sanitizing cubicle, users will be required to check their temperature, wash hands with soap and water by matching on a pedal without using hands to touch anything. “A sprayer is also built in the cubicle that will spray all your body from head to toe to disinfect you of any virus that might be hiding in the body. If your temperature is high, an alarm will sound and you will not be able to proceed to enter the campus but if your temperature is within an acceptable limit and you have washed your hands and sanitized your body, then you will be allowed to enter the campus with your facemask.” Meanwhile, the alumni of Great Ife and Friends have donated equipment worth N1.2million to Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals Complex, Ile-Ife, Osun State, to assist in combating COVID-19. The equipment donated included eight plastics bedside cabinets, six feet changing cabinet, two wheelchairs, rechargeable sprayers, six bedpans, four oximeters, four drip giving stands, 200 white light bulbs, 1000 disposable face masks, 1000 surgical gloves and 50liters of bleach. While donating the equipment, the Coordinator of Great Ife and Friends, Dr Bisi Anyadike, said the gesture of giving back to the school is showing their gratitude. “The COVID-19 pandemic that is ravaging the world gave us a serious concern and we have come to OAUTHC to give equipment worth N1.2million. We are impressed with the efforts put in place by the management to combat the deadly virus and we are here today to contribute to it. With the efforts of the management, we are compelled to support the hospital by raising funds to provide the needed equipment to help fight COVID-19.” Corroborating the Coordinator, the Director, National Population Commission, Mr Lanre Anifowose, who is a member of the alumni, said they learnt that the hospital lacks equipment and they contacted few friends, tasked themselves within a month and raised N1.2 million to get the equipment. The Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC), Dr Afolabi Owojuyigbe, commended the alumni and friends for the gesture. “It will foster effectiveness in their work. We are so glad and happy to receive this donation from Great Ife Alumni and Friends of Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospitals who deemed it fit to donate these equipment to our COVID-19 ward.”