 A RENOWNED publisher and politician, Chief Ikechi Emenike, has hailed Prof. George Obiozor on his emergence as the President General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Emenike, in a letter to Obiozor, described his election as well-deserved. The letter reads: “I write to warmly congratulate you on your well-deserved election as the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Given your pedigree and deep sense of history you are a natural choice, at this time, for Ndigbo leadership. “It is clear that for hundreds of Igbo leaders cutting across political divides coming together to overwhelmingly elect you is evidence of your unifying status.  You should ride high on this. “Your exposure at both local and international levels spanning the academia, public service, and diplomatic relations is worthy of note, having creditably served as director-general of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, Nigeria’s High Commissioner to Cyprus, Nigeria’s Ambassador to Israel, and  lastly, Nigeria’s Ambassador to the United States of America. “Your predecessor, Chief Nnia Nwodo, deserves all the commendations he is getting for standing up for Ndigbo when it matters most. However, your team needs to sit down to review and articulate solutions to the persisting existential threats facing the Igbo people and the  deep frustrations of Igbo youths.  Your Excellency may need to go back and adopt the strategies of Igbo State Union of yore, including practising the mantra “Onye Ahala Nwanne Ya”, which ensures that all Igbo youths were engaged in both educational and mentorship pursuits.  Simply put, you have the capacity to take the Igbos to the Next Level.  Under your able leadership, Ndigbo can escape from their current status as Nigeria’s major ethnic minority. “You cannot afford to fail.  Under you, the Ohanaeze  Ndigbo should neither be a platform for  regular hollow pronouncements nor a forum for elites who wish to be heard or seen.  I have no iota of doubt that your leadership will do the needful to change the current curious Igbo narrative. We can overcome! You can count on my support, as I sincerely pray for your success.”