SIR: The recent statement issued by the Presidency against the Governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN is most divisive. It is a deliberate attempt to plunge the country into unnecessary strife.  The statement undermines and ridicules the essence of the constitution which grants each tier government the power to promote policies towards enhancing the well-being of the people. The order, proclaimed by the governor, ordering herders to vacate the state’s forest reserves is not out of place. It is basically an attempt at ensuring that the destruction of government properties most especially forest reserve is not encouraged all in the name of grazing. It is also an attempt to guarantee the safety of the people of the state as the forests are being turned havens of terror by herdsmen. One would have expected the federal government to support the call made by the governor given the dire security situation. Rather, the presidency’s statement not only appears to support the invasion of government land by the herdsmen, it opted to misconstrue the intention of the Ondo State government. This is most unfortunate. Merely by the text of the statement issued by the federal government, it is tempting to conclude that the Buhari-led government is making change from the old ways difficult while making new ways a journey into the unknown. By the letters of the law, the state governors are the custodians of all the lands in their domain.  Also, the governor is duty-bound to protect lives and properties of the citizens and he can go to any length permissible by law to ensure that the security of the people is guaranteed. That the herdsmen are being ordered to vacate the government reserve is certainly a far cry from the narrative being promoted by the Presidency that the governor has ordered that Fulanis vacate Ondo State. The misinterpretation of the governor’s proclamation shows how low and mischievous this federal government can go. It was Chief Obafemi Awolowo who declared at the convocation ceremony of the then University of Ife in 1971 that “except the country urgently go back to agriculture, our country may soon be importing food to feed the population.” Today, herdsmen have discouraged many people from engaging in farming with invasion and destruction of farmlands with their cows which has in many cases resulted to blood-letting. Meanwhile, the federal government has maintained a deafening silence as regards this which shows the level at which the lives of the citizens matter to this ‘change’ government. I appeal to the Ondo State Government to ensure that the proclamation is enforced to the letter not just to ensure prosperity in the agriculture sector but to ensure that lives and properties of the people are guaranteed.