 Two goals and an assist by Simy Nwankwo helped FC Crotone to a big 4-1 win over Benevento in the Italian Serie A, helping the  Red and Blue return to winning ways after three consecutive defeats – to Inter Milan, AS Roma and Hellas Verona. The 28-year-old was handed his 15th  league start of the season and utilized the opportunity to add to his tally in the encounter. Simy has six goals this season and these were his first goals from open play since October. Meanwhile, Semi Ajayi scored his second goal in two consecutive games as West Brom bagged their first away win of the season from nine attempts against Wolves. Ajayi’s goal in the 52nd minute and Matheus Pereira’s brace in the eighth and 56th  minutes both from the spot lifted the Baggies to 19th with 11 points from 18 games in the English Premier League. Wilfred Ndidi was involved from beginning to the end for Leicester City who toppled Southampton 2-0 at the King Power Stadium to displace Liverpool from second position with 35 points from 18 games. James Maddison’s 37th-minute strike and Harvey Barnes’ 90th-minute effort were enough to turn back stubborn Saints on Saturday evening while Kelechi Iheanacho was a 90th min sub.
Ola Aina was on for 83 minutes as Fulham fell to a narrowly 1-0 defeat to his former employers Chelsea. In Germany’s Bundesliga, Kingsley Ehizibue returned to FC Cologne squad after sitting on the bench for their previous two games with Freiburg and RB Leipzig and featured for 78 minutes as the Goats were held to a goalless dead at home by Hertha Berlin. FC Cologne are still in search of their first win of the year. In Holland, Super Eagles Goalkeeper, Maduka Okoye failed to add to his four clean sheets of the season for Sparta Rotterdam in their home game with former Dutch League champions, PSV Eindhoven which they lost 5-3. In Portugal, Chidozie Awaziem received his third professional red card as Boavista who ended the game with nine men collapsed to a 3-1 defeat at Tondela. The Nigerian was sent packing in the 30th minute of the encounter in his 13th game of the season.
In Spain, Sadiq Umar scored twice to lead UD Almeria into the Copa del Rey round of 16. 