 THE Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has inaugurated its claims review panel in furtherance of its demutualisation and pursuant to the provisions of the Demutualisation of the Nigerian Stock Exchange Act 2018. The panel serves as an independent alternative dispute resolution mechanism for the review and determination of claims made by individuals or entities in respect of any assertion of rights in the shares of the demutualised Exchange. Under the arrangements, the panel will sit in an appellate capacity and review claims from claimants’ who are dissatisfied with any decision of the national council of the Exchange on a claim  pre-demutualisation, or the board of directors of the emergent holding company after demutualisation and post demutualisation issues around the Exchange. As part of the demutualisation, the NSE, which is a company limited by guarantee, would be converted into and re-registered as a public company limited by shares. Consequently, members of the Exchange will be allocated shares in the holding company, Nigerian Exchange Group (NEG) Plc. The securities exchange license of the current Exchange would be transferred to Nigerian Exchange Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the holdco, which would carry on the securities exchange business. Another subsidiary, NGX Regulation Limited, would be licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to carry out regulatory services. The members of the panel included Mr. George Etomi  as chairman, Mr. Seni Adio (SAN), Mr. Abatcha Bulama, Dr. Paul Anababa, SAN and Prince Aghatise Erediauwa. The NSE stated that the composition of the penal reflected its desire to to safeguard the independence of the panel, noting that distinguished individuals with the required expertise and extensive track records of integrity, excellence and achievements in their respective fields of specialization were selected. At inauguration of the panel, President, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Otunba Abimbola Ogunbanjo, said he expected members of the panel to discharge their responsibilities without any fear or favour in an objective and dispassionate manner, being guided by principles of fair hearing, equity and natural justice.