 A LEADING Real Estate company in Lagos, Landwey has concluded plans to open Nigeria’s first ever wellness and polo city on the 3rd of April. The city called “Isimi Lagos”, according to the firm, is an ode to the peace of mind it promises to give to its future residents. The Managing Director of LandWey, Olawale Ayilara said this yesterday to journalists, that Isimi Lagos holds the promise of countless ways to enjoy an active and beautifully diverse lifestyle within nature; the perfect meeting point of technology and architecture. He said that nothing beats the picturesque scenery of the city, and residents would be privy to the 360 panoramic view of nature at its finest. He said that residents of this majestic city would not only enjoy quality time away from the bustle of Lagos, but they get the gift of nature and the world around them to explore, all the while investing in their physical and emotional well-being. He explained further that the idyll of the city is punctuated by an all-natural lake which can be used for everything from kayaking to family picnics, and residents who have dreamed of destination weddings can take advantage of the waterfront which makes for the perfect wedding venue. Ayilara posited that fine dining restaurants in the city make for the most exquisite dining experience, set to satisfy even the most sophisticated palates, with organic ingredients freshly harvested from the farm. Asides an extensive array of amenities, the city offers a range of home styles, and residents can choose the best suited home for them. “A utopia for sports lovers, the city boasts of a standard polo turf with a stable that houses some of the world’s best horses, and being surrounded by kilometers of riding trails provides a state-of-the-art riding experience. The golf course is certain to thrill both the pros and the beginners, and would make residents fall in love with the game.” “Sophisticated meeting rooms and workspaces situated within the tech valley are equipped with high-speed internet and uninterrupted power to boost efficiency of the residents, and the sheer elegance of these spaces make them the perfect place to harness intellectual capacity, fueled by the peace that abounds around.”    