Edo State Police Command o confirmed a cell break at its headquarters in Benin. It, however, dispelled rumour on the number of escapees. The confirmation is contained in a statement by spokesman Chidi Nwabuzor. According to the statement, the incident occurred about 02:45 hours of January 1. Nwabuzor said the command decided to set the record straight, contrary to publications that had gone viral on social media and other platforms alleging that hundreds of armed robbery and kidnapping suspects had escaped. “Only 10 suspects escaped after the cell break, two of the escapees have been re-arrested, while we have intensified hunt for the remaining eight,” he said. The statement said the publication on social media and other platforms alleging that hundreds of suspected robbers and kidnappers escaped from the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) facility was false. “Edo Police Command wishes to inform the public that 10 suspects escaped on January 1 about 0245hrs (2.45a.m) “Out of this figure, two have been re-arrested and brought back to custody. “The figure is not as being maliciously and falsely speculated on social media.” The spokesman said eight of the suspects were detained on the orders of the court. Giving a breakdown of the escapees, he said one was in custody for stealing, another for murder, three for cultism, three for robbery, while the other two were under police investigation for stealing. “It is worthy to note that the quick mobilisation and response of officers curbed further escape of suspects. “The policemen, who were responsible for the safe custody of the escaped suspects, have been identified, arrested and detained for departmental disciplinary process. “Effort is being intensified to re-arrest the fleeing suspects. “The command has the wherewithal/intelligence to re-arrest the remaining suspects who are on the run, but will still appreciate any useful information from the public. “No stone will be left unturned in ensuring that the suspects are re-arrested. “The command assures the public of its commitment to protect lives and property of law abiding citizens,” Nwabuzor said.