 Former Super Eagles striker Yakubu Aiyegbeni said he would not apologise for the goal he missed at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa against South Korea. On June 22, 2010 at the Moses Mabhida Stadium, Durban, Yakubu notably missed an open goal from three metres against South Korea in the last Group game but later went on to score a penalty. Aiyegbeni ‘s penalty made sure that Nigeria earned a 2–2 draw, but this was not enough for his side to progress out of the group stages. The miss is often regarded as one of the worst misses ever in the World Cup and The Yak still receives angry messages eleven years later from angry Super Eagles fans. “I don’t need to say sorry to Nigerians. I did not do it on purpose. People miss chances,” Aiyegbeni fondly called Yak said in an interview with The Nation TV yesterday. “Even Obafemi Martins missed some chances at that World Cup but nobody talks about it. “I have always done my best to help the country but Nigerians forget about the sacrifices I have made on their behalf. “I played in all the games during 2002 Korea-Japan World Cup Qualifiers and scored two goals in the all-important 4-0 win at Sudan but I was still dropped by Adegboye Onigbinde before the tournament – Did anybody say I deserved to be there? I deserved to be at that World Cup.” “I do not need to say sorry for that miss because nobody has come to tell me “sorry, Yak, we did not take you to the World Cup”. It’s the same,” the second highest African goal scorer in Premier League history added. Meanwhile, Yakubu has no interest in coaching the national team or any team in particular, saying he is available to render any other assistance to the Nigerian Football Federation except coaching. When asked if he would consider coaching, Yakubu, who is the third highest scorer in the history of the Super Eagles said: “At this point, I am not thinking about coaching the national team.” “I don’t even have a coaching license because I am not interested in coaching but if the federation needs my help, they have my numbers.”