 AKACHUKWU Emmanuel Uche aka Mmzy has explained why he featured Afrobeat singer, Seun Kuti in his latest single, Animal. After the release of the song in January 2021, Mmzy opened up on why he decided to feature the son of his late mentor, Fela Anikulapo Kuti. Mmzy said he doesn’t think there’s anything to cheer about the country while describing the polity as worrisome as a result of bad leadership, corruption, and maladministration. On having Seun Kuti, he said the move was to further drive his message home, using one of the strongest music activists in the country. “I think he (Seun) is the best person to interpret the message of the song. Again, he has a long history of activism. He is unapologetic about his stand on social justice and good governance. He is a voice of the oppressed and a thorn in the flesh of the government because of their history of bad leadership. Another reason I featured him is his mastery of the saxophone,” Mmzy began. Continuing, he said, “I wanted a feel of sax on the song and Seun Kuti was the perfect answer. I think for the song to get the Afrobeat sound right I needed someone like him. Another reason I featured him is his family’s long history of standing up to the government. The fight against oppression, maladministration, and corruption in the land is in his DNA as the son of the legendary Fela Anikulapo Kuti who created Afrobeats. It was great working with him. He brought a whole new dimension to the single.” On the making of his new single, Mmzy said, “I actually recorded the song after the #EndSars protests. The tollgate shootings and the bad way our government handled the situation spurred the inspiration for the song. But what really got me going was when I heard a beat by my producer, Cracker Marley. I was in the hotel room with him. “When he played the instrumental I knew we could work out something special with it. When I heard the beat the first thing that came to my mind was Fela’s song “Beasts of No Nation”. The personification of “Animal” in the song” sparked a fire in me. It aptly described the situation in the country at that time. We immediately started recording. The situation in the country is so bad that it is only someone that is not in Nigeria that would not feel it. Everything happening in Nigeria inspired the song; bad leadership, bad governance, and corruption in government. One day you read in the paper that Animals swallowed money. A monkey was said to have gone into a heavily guarded office and took away millions of naira. Another day you heard of a snake swallowing another million,” he said. Mmzy is signed to Kerae Records. In 2019, Mimzy released a song under his label titled, Miracle Lover and the video was shot by TG Omori.