The Coalition of Civil Society Organisations for Transparency and Good Governance, South-South zone, has called on the Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed, to join the 2023 presidential race. Speaking in Port Harcourt, Rivers State at the weekend, the coalition’s South-South Coordinator, Chief Henry Nabena, said Bala possessed qualities to lead the country and turn around her fortunes. Nabena, who spoke during a meeting of the coalition described Bala as patriotic recalling that in 2010 he put party politics aside for the country’s interest when he moved the “Doctrine of Necessity” Motion on the floor of the Senate which eventually paved the way for the then Vice-President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan to emerge acting President. He said Bala took such a crucial step despite belonging to the then opposition party, the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). Nabena said: “Bala’s doggedness and ability to fix the numerous challenges confronting the nation was seen in his outstanding and impeccable performance as the FCT Minister for six consecutive years, which is yet to be surpassed till date years after he left office. “Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed is a detribalized Nigerian devoid of nepotism and has been able to build bridges of friendship and unity across the country over the years. “His appointments as FCT Minister reflected his detribalization with people from every part of the country given the opportunity to serve their Fatherland. As a governor today, he still does this. “We are of the strong view that age is on his side and he is a politician without extra baggage, competent transparent and immensely resourceful. He equally possesses the political sagacity and will to not only confront but also successfully tackle the problems bedeviling the country today.” Nabena said the country was in desperate need of a competent, transparent,detribalised, loyal but dogged and immensely resourceful leader with democratic credentials to steer the ship of the nation through transparency and good governance. “We believe, that Senator Bala Mohammed as a proven, tested and trusted loyal public servant feats naturally into this category, hence, we are calling on him to throw his hat into the ring. “We equally support the emergence of the next President if the Federal Republic of Nigeria from the North-East geopolitical zone which is the least developed zone in the country as of today.”