The hope of amicable resolution of the crisis rocking the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the Southwest on Thursday suffered a setback as a stakeholder meeting slated for the Oyo Government House was stalled. Although many of the party leaders, who were identified as the arrowhead of the crisis were absent, those present said the meeting was shelved due to logistics reasons. Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike, who has been involved to broker peace between the key figures, was on hand to address leaders who and elders who were at the meeting. Fielding question from reporters after a brief meeting with the leaders, Wike said he was in the state to visit his friend and in-law, Governor Seyi Makinde, while also being on the ground to inspect some ongoing projects in the state. According to Wike, all the leaders and stakeholders had agreed since Wednesday night to shelve the meeting due to the absence of some other leaders due to logistics reasons. He said he was around because he had already promised Governor Makinde of a visit but merely decided to respect some leaders from the region who were also in the state initially for a meeting. He added the leaders also decided to postpone the meeting to a later date so as not to do a job that would be requiring another urgent meeting thereafter. When asked on how soon peace should be expected back in the region, Wike said it would be presumptuous to give a definite timeframe due to the fact that all interest must be carried along and secure their commitment. “We should not be in a hurry. Peace takes a lot of talking to people and you know in politics, you need to talk to people for people to understand. “It is not something you see that because you met today, and because you are meeting tomorrow, everything must be resolved on that particular thing. “Politics is of interest and so you need to make sure that everybody is fully involved. So, let us not be in a hurry to see when do you think. “But, what is important is that the SW PDP is our belief and our hope that the way they have been is the way they will continue to be.” He also commended Makinde for his efforts at representing the party well in the region appealing to the people off Oyo state to give him time to deliver on his good plans. Makinde vowed to continue his pursuit of peace in the party in the region, noting that the region plays pivotal role in the scheme of things of the country. Some of the party leaders present at the meeting include a former Governor of Ekiti state, Segun Oni; Ondo PDP Governorship candidate, Eyitayo Jegede and Senator Abiodun Olujimi among others.