 One of President Muhammadu Buhari’s priorities in the oil and gas sector is the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) and he has given a matching order to Minister of State for Petroleum Resources Timipre Sylva to work with the National Assembly to get the bill passed into law. Sylva believes the National Assembly is at the centre of the actualisation of the passage of the PIB. He is working to ensure that the bill is passed into law in the first quarter of 2021. “The PIB is out of the executive’s hand right now. We completed our part by drafting the Bill. It is currently with the National Assembly. The process has already passed the second reading in the Senate. They have sent the draft to the relevant Committees for consideration. “The House of Representatives would take up from there and look at it next week. We are expecting that both Chambers would go through the committee stages by the first quarter of next year and pass it into law. “I am not saying categorically and conclusively that the PIB will be passed then. But, what I am saying is that from the pace of work we can see the National Assembly working so far, everything being equal, we are projecting that the PIB will be passed latest by the first quarter of 2021. “Everybody concerned feel this is the best time to get the PIB passed to stimulate progress in the oil and gas industry. The passage of the PIB will involve a lot. But, we believe that will be a major foundation to move the petroleum industry forward from where it is at the moment. “Since the beginning of the oil industry in Nigeria in the 1950s, this is the first major rehabilitation process being undertaken by any administration in the oil industry. There is no doubt that the PIB will help resolve some of the knotty issues that constituted the contradictions in the industry all these years. When all these issues are smoothened out, it would have laid a solid foundation for the growth of the petroleum industry,” he said. The bill has become some sort of demon. Demons are to be feared and avoided, but the president seems set to defeat this one. It takes courage, determination and bravery to resolve to confront a demon. In the political realm, demons come in various shapes and forms to frustrate and hold-down government policies and programmes. Human demons normally work behind the scene to attack and upset government policies planned for the good of society. These are the naysayers who never see anything good in government. Senate President Ahmad Lawan identified demons as being responsible for the non-passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill. Good news though is that Lawan has assured that the ninth National Assembly is determined to exorcise the demons militating against the passage of the PIB. He did not only give his words on the extermination of demons holding-down the passage of the PIB, the Senate President gave March deadline for the passage of the all-important bill. The controversial bill has been in the National Assembly under a multiplicity of names since 2008. No doubt, Lawan is at home with the politics of the PIB, having been in the National Assembly since 1999. This time around, he expressed concern that forces that have always worked against the bill are again out to frustrate it. Though he did not name names, those familiar with the schemes and intrigues surrounding the bill say it cannot be far from multinational oil firms and their local collaborators who see a potential PIB act as a threat to their humongous gains over the years from the country’s oil resources. Observers of the oil sector agree that the PIB is long overdue for passage. To them, what is required is for the ninth assembly to summon the necessary political will to defeat the forces working to frustrate the passage of the PIB. The Senate President expressed the tenacity of the lawmakers to keep a date with history. For him, the ‘forces’, which he described as ‘demons’, would be vanquished this year. “The PIB demon: there are people both inside and outside the country, who would work against it, but it is going to take the strength of our patriotism to pass it,” Lawan declared. What is more, Nigerians are breathlessly waiting for Lawan’s onslaught against PIB demons. With the resolve to deliver on PIB this year come high expectations by Nigerians and industry players. There are also questions as to what a PIB Act portends for the country, the government and host communities. Will the government realise additional revenue to boost its development drive. Will IOCs be comfortable with the law such that they continue their operations and equally expand their investments. Will the PIB attract other investors into the nation’s oil sector. Will the law guarantee the security and safety of oil installations. Will there be employment opportunities for Nigerians such that will curb the youth restiveness in the Niger Delta. Will the PIB governance structure engender enhanced transparency and accountability in the petroleum sector? Will it enhance the local refining capacity of crude oil and lower prices of petroleum products. Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi, enunciated the benefits of the long-overdue oil industry bill during the second reading of the executive bill titled: “A Bill for an Act to provide legal, governance, regulatory, and fiscal framework for the Nigerian Petroleum Industry, the development of host communities and for related matters 2020.” For the Kebbi North lawmaker, a successful PIB would pave the way for the creation of efficient and effective governance institutions, with clear and separate roles for the varied players in the petroleum sector in Nigeria. He said that the Bill is targeted at establishing a framework for the creation of a commercially oriented and profit-driven national petroleum company. The bill when passed, he said, would promote the exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources in the country for the benefit of the Nigerians and the efficient, effective and sustainable development of the petroleum industry. Other benefits of the bill, he listed include: “To promote the safe and efficient operation of the transportation and distribution infrastructure for the petroleum industry and the framework for developing third party access arrangements to petroleum infrastructure. “To promote the competitive and liberalized downstream petroleum industry that promotes the processing of petroleum within Nigeria, create a conducive business environment for operations in the petroleum industry that enhances peaceful and harmonious co-existence between licensees or lessees and host communities by conferring direct social and economic benefits from petroleum operations on host communities.’ Abdullahi added that the PIB will also ensure that “petroleum operations are conducted in a manner that protects the health and safety of persons, property and the environment as well as establish a fiscal framework that is forward-looking, progressive and based on a simplified tax administration that encourages investment in the Nigerian petroleum industry, balancing rewards with risk and enhancing revenues to the Federal Government of Nigeria while ensuring a fair return to investors.” He further disclosed that the Bill was drafted based on three sets of principles, “To establish good governance, competitiveness, global best practices and ease of doing business in the Nigerian oil and gas industry. “To ensure early revenues for Government, simplicity of administration, equity and fairness, competitiveness and transparency; and “To provide for predictability, responsiveness, best practice, sustainability and role clarity in the regulation and management of the industry.” A cursory look at the bill shows that it unbundled the amorphous Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation into three manageable bits. The PIB equally listed the functions of the three agencies that would take over from the NNPC behemoth when the Bill becomes law to include the Nigerian Upstream Regulatory Commission (NURC), Nigerian Midstream and Downstream Petroleum Regulatory Authority (NMDPRA) and the Nigerian National Petroleum Company Limited (NNPCL). According to the Bill, the NURC shall be responsible for the technical and commercial regulation of upstream petroleum operations and ensure compliance with all applicable laws and regulations governing the upstream petroleum operations. The new agency is also to ensure that such operations are carried out in a manner that would minimise waste and achieve optimal government revenues, promote healthy, safe, efficient and effective conduct of upstream petroleum operations in an environmentally acceptable and sustainable manner. One of the companies to emerge from the commercialisation of the NNPC – NMDPRA – according to the bill “shall be responsible for the technical and commercial regulation of midstream and downstream petroleum operations in the petroleum industry.” The agency is also expected to promote a competitive market for midstream and downstream petroleum operations, including the supply and distribution of natural gas and petroleum products in midstream and downstream petroleum operations. It would also ensure the security of natural gas supply for the domestic gas market and implement government policies for midstream and downstream petroleum operations as directed by the minister and under the Act. Will the nation’s oil industry remain attractive to oil majors’ operating in the sector. Will the host communities heave a sigh of relief in terms of more development funds that would accrue to them through the Host Community Trust Fund? Senate President Lawan had on October 28, 2019, assured International Oil Companies operating in Nigeria that the passage of the PIB would not frustrate their operations. Lawan who spoke when the French Ambassador to Nigeria, Jerome Pasquier, visited him in Abuja, said: “Going forward from next year (2020), we will be working on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB). That bill is for the petroleum industry in Nigeria to be properly regulated. “It will not be a bill or an eventual Act that will put any business in Nigeria in jeopardy or disadvantage. “It is going to be a bill that will give Nigeria a lot more revenue from the oil and gas sector to develop our country. “We are going to be engaging the IOCs at the appropriate time to ensure that we have an oil industry that will be regulated properly in a way that makes both sides winners in that respect.” Deputy Senate President Ovie Omo-Agege said it would enhance the development of host communities as well as ensure adequate protection for oil facilities in the Niger Delta region. Omo-Agege made this assertion when the Oil and Gas Host Communities of Nigeria (HOSCON), led by the Amayanabo of Twon-Brass and Chairman of the Bayelsa State Traditional Rulers Council, Chief Alfred Diete-Spiff, visited him in Abuja. “Under this PIB, if you give us what we are now asking for by way of enhanced contribution of five per cent operational expenses to host communities trust fund, what it means is that the communities will now assume responsibilities for the protection of the oil facilities in their host community,” Omo-Agege said. The PIB has lofty ideas for the country’s oil sector. The ninth National Assembly would have written its name in gold if it will against all odds pass the bill.