Ex-agitators from the Third Phase Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP) and the Niger Delta Students’ Union Government have thrown their weight behind the decision of the Interim Administrator, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Effiong Akwa, to appoint Udengs Eradiri as his Special Adviser on Youths. The Bayelsa State Third Phase Coordinator, Osaanya B. Osaanya, described the appointment of Eradiri, who was a former President, Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide as strategic. Osaanya said: “The appointment is also strategic because it has calmed frayed nerves in the region. We need to at this point give Akwa a chance to allow Eradiri deploy his wealth of experience in tackling some of the challenges facing us in the region”. But Osaanya said the Presidency and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio should quickly conclude the ongoing forensic audit of the commission and appoint a substantive board for the NDDC in line with the Act establishing the commission. Also, the Niger Delta Students Union Government (NIDSUG), commended Akwa for appointing Eradiri, saying he had capacity as a former Secretary and President of IYC, Commissioner for Environment and Commissioner for Youths in Bayelsa. The students’ union, in a statement by its National President, Nepba Goodness and Secretary, Ogunderu Gbenga said the move justified its earlier position that the commission was for everybody. The statement said: “This has also vindicated our position that NDDC is a commission for all Niger Delta people, irrespective of your ethnic differences, political affiliations, and religious beliefs. “This is remarkable and indeed, we thank the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Sen. Godswill Akpabio for ensuring that sanity and the right attitudes are always at the centre of appointments. “Therefore, we call for calm decorum, and a ceasefire by all angry youth groups. Let us give Udengs Eradiri the needed support and collaboration. Without peace, our needs cannot be attended attended to and time is of essence. “We call on Eradiri to be friendly to students and float programmes that can help us develop. This is because the students are integral part of the future of the Niger Delta Region, and investment in education is a direct fight against insecurity, unrest and social vices”.