Gombe State Police Command on Wednesday displayed the body of a kidnap suspect and paraded three others arrested in connection with the abduction of Babayo Magaji at Pinga. The slain kidnap suspect, identified as Ustas, was killed during gunshot exchange with the policemen, who traced them to the bush where the kidnapped victim was taken. Police Commissioner Maikudi Shehu, who briefed reporters on the incident, said the victim was abducted from his home on Monday. “The incident happened on Monday. The victim, Babayo Magaji, was kidnapped from his home by seven armed men suspected to be herdsmen. They led him into the bush and got to a rock where they decided to rest. It was while they were resting that their victim, Magaji, escaped and drew the attention of the people living around the area. Later, vigilance group members, hunters and the police were informed,” he added. Shehu said Magaji led the police, hunters and vigilance group members to the scene of the incident and as soon as the kidnappers sighted the police, they opened fire. He said it was during the exchange of gunshots that one of them was shot dead and others escaped with bullet wounds. “All of them came from Adamawa to kidnap the man, with the belief that they will get money from him, because he has a lot of cattle. Aminu Musa from Song Local Government was arrested at a motor park. Another suspect was arrested while trying to board a vehicle at Pinga to Adamawa,” the police commissioner said. He said the person that sent the hoodlums to kidnap Magaji had been arrested by the police. Magaji told reporters that he was asked to pay N300,000 ransom. “I was in my home when they came and picked me up,” he said. The commissioner said: “Of the seven kidnap suspects, we have nabbed three. We have the body of one of them called Ustas. Three others are on the run. Incidentally, we have a similar case that happened around the same axis, so we are trying to see how we can link the two together.” He said the second gang of kidnappers was trying to kidnap a person when the police ran into them and opened fire. Shehu said the police are investigating to know whether it is the same syndicate that is operating in the area and assured the public that the command will ensure security.