An upscale player in the real estate sector in the South East and Lagos area has called on the government to check the high cost of land acquisition and documentation. He said many people are not able to live in proper and adequate houses because the cost and processes that go into land matters are enormous. He lamented that the same challenge encountered in Lagos where land is a highly-priced resource and all the encumbrances that discourage housing development is also present in the Southeast area of the nation. He said a typical developer is encumbered by challenges in land acquisition and documentation. CEO, ESSO Properties Limited, Smith Sosochukwu Ezenagu who plays largely in Anambra, Enugu and Lagos state in the upscale sector of housing development says the panacea for massive housing development for all strata of the populace is the liberisation of the documentation and the reduction on charges on land procurement, registration and associated fees. Some of his prime estates in Awka are Berry Prime and Sunray estate. He spoke on the sideline of the award of Patriotic Personality and Corporate Investments Leadership Category by the League of Africa Development Students (LEADS Africa) in Lagos for the ingenuity and creativity he has brought into the real sector. Ezenagu who plays in the GRA areas of Awka and Enugu the Anambra and Enugu state capitals and the Lekki area in an interview with The Nation Lagos said the long gestation period for land documentation for developers and other operators in the sector has created an avenue for dubious activities and scams with several people defrauded in the process. He said: “The process also is increasingly high, which affects the cost of land, making it hard for the low-income earners to get involved in land purchases and homeownership. This in a way has also made many delay in being players in the real estate sector by either buying land or houses. For example, why will it cost as much as N1.2million to process C of O of the land of N 5million? Government at all strata must find a way of liberalising this important sector if our quest for decent and affordable housing must be achieved.” He, however, pledged that their houses will ever remain competitive and easier for prospective residents and others to own houses of their own. He also further asked the government to look for ways of curbing the high cost of building materials especially cement which is a major component of construction in the county. He decried the recent astronomical increase in the cost of cement and asked basic infrastructure be provided to aid manufacturers incur less cost which will translate to a cheaper cost of products and less expensive houses.