Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde has inaugurated a nine-man steering committee on COVID-19 Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus (CARES) Programme to cushion the effects of COVID-19 on the people. CARES is a World Bank intervention programme for the 36 states of the federation, including Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. The effort is geared towards providing necessary interventions and support that would improve livelihoods of Nigerians. The inauguration of the nine-man committee chaired by the Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Akinola Ojo, held at the Executive Chamber, Governor’s Office, Agodi, Ibadan. The governor said the intention of the project is basically to cushion the effect occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that it would cater to the poor and vulnerable, guarantee food security, support micro small and medium enterprises, as well as increases access to health care. Makinde noted that the World Bank grant is in addition to measures and provisions his administration has provided to cushion the effect of the deadly novel coronavirus. He recalled that his government’s plans covered all people in the state including the poor, vulnerable and civil servants, adding that the CARES programme is not for mere money sharing but also to ensure measurable results are achieved. Ojo, in his remarks, explained that the project is to the tune of $750 million and it is expected to cover the period of two years. The state Coordinator of the programme, Mrs. Kikelomo Adegoke assured that the state would ensure thorough implementation of the programme in accordance with its objectives. Other members of the committee include Commissioners Alhaja Faosat Joke Sanni (Women Affairs and Social Inclusion), Mr. Ojemuyiwa Ojekunle (Agriculture), Mr. Adebisi Adeniyi (Trade, Investment and Cooperative) and Mr. Lateef Oyeleke (Environment and Natural Resources). Others are Executive Assistant to Governor Makinde on Agribusiness, Dr. Adebowale Akande, Director-General Oyo State Investment and Promotion Council, Mr. Segun Ogunwuyi, Executive Assistance on Intervention Fund Mrs. Aderonke Adebayo, and the Board Chairman, Community and Social Development Agency (CSDP), Mr. Ahmed Eesuola.