SIR: Anambra State is approaching a fiscal cliff. The stories the numbers tell are that of financial mismanagement and profligacy. The Willie Obiano-administration has proven itself adept at spending, but without replacement or sustainable results. Consequently, a state once headlined for its frugality is now a cautionary tale about how quick reserves can be depleted and debts incurred when the public purse is placed under immoderate pressure. A governor saved, another plundered. Peter Obi, Anambra’s former governor, left billions in the state coffers as savings and built a national profile as a prudent manager of resources on the back of that. Those billions have now reportedly vanished, replaced by rising debts. In this simplistic terms, if savings could be described as Peter Obi’s legacy, is debt that of Willie Obiano, his successor whom he recommended? Economists have issued several warnings about the long-term negative effects of excessive state borrowing. Debts can power a state’s growth but when unchecked and poorly deployed, it can cripple it for decades. Given the loud complaints from the citizens of Anambra State, it is easy to tell which side of the divide the state falls in this regard. In his defence, Governor Willie Obiano may point at a few overhead bridges and other similar construction works, but declining growth and quality level of education and agriculture are indisputable proof of his failings. A slip in education, for instance, points at deeper socio-economic problems. Multiple studies have shown solid ties between socioeconomic status (SES) and learning. More indicting is the fact that under his watch, and oftentimes with his misguided meddling actions, social relations in Anambra State has worsened. At the local level, unnecessary impositions of administrators informed by self-serving political calculations have caused sharp divisions and confusion. Traditional rulers have suffered suspensions at the hands of the state government to the chagrin of their people. There is a growing sense of discord that derails governance and needlessly dissipates resources. Fortunately, in a matter of months, the state will get to elect a new leader and draw the final curtains on Willie Obiano’s leadership, having served the constitutionally permitted two terms. But the process of change is one that must be managed carefully as though it presents an opportunity for course-correction and renewal, it could hasten the state’s rush to the cliff, if not completely tip it over. Those who are presenting themselves to the people for consideration must pass the test of a dispassionate and objective examination that prioritizes effectiveness, political maturity and rigour, and workable economic knowledge. Certainly, such a test will prune what is already a growing list filled with numerous candidates, many of whom are new to overt partisan politics, others with untested ideas that fail to inspire. One of the likely candidates on the list whose interest remains a subject of strong speculations is Senator Andy Uba. As senator representing Anambra South Senatorial District, his broad legislative agenda and focused work produced notable positive outcomes for the country and his constituents. Using insights derived from years of study and unparalleled understanding of Nigeria’s polity, he introduced Bills that strengthened consumer protection laws and organized the private sector for efficient and ethical practices, raised the standards of public administration through comprehensive oversight and results-based service, and updated regulations and quality delivery in arbitration, infrastructure, and agriculture. At home, he facilitated infrastructure and economic development in his constituency through sustainable schemes and championed the move to secure the classification of Anambra State as an oil-producing one – a move that will raise revenue through the constitutional 13 per cent derivative payment advantage. Andy Uba is an experienced politician with cultivated friendships and extensive networks that transcend familiar divides. This wide acceptance – a result of his matured brand of politics and sensible bi-partisanship when required, has helped him rally seemingly different sides behind a single cause in the interest of development and results. This is a crucial skill missing in Anambra State and one needed to heal the sharp divides that have poisoned relations and frustrated governance. Rough seas require experienced captains. Obiano has steered the ship of Anambra State into delicate territories. Time to reverse this and spur growth.