 ANAMBRA State Police Command has arrested and paraded 56-year old  Philip Emeka Chinwuba, a Senior Special Assistant (SSA)  to Governor Willie Obiano  over false and malicious publication against his boss. The suspect alleged that Obiano and his wife Ebelechukwu were infected with Coronavirus through the wife of Chief of Staff (CoS), Chief Primus Odili, who returned to Nigeria from abroad. He was also accused of alleging that over 30 other government officials in Anambra State were infected with COVID -19 from the returnee lady. In the publication, the suspect reportedly said the situation made Obiano to go into isolation with his aides Parading the suspect on Tuesday at the State Police headquarters in Amawbia, near Awka,  the police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, said the suspects action was a cause for hatred and panic, which could lead to a breach of peace and order in the state. He said: “The suspect claimed that Coronavirus has hit Government House, Awka with more than 30 senior government officials, including Obiano, in isolation and that late Igwe Kelly of Igbariam contracted the virus after visiting the governor to thank him for lifting his suspension and died three days to the last Ofala celebration. “That the virus was brought into Government House by Mrs. Maureen Odili from USA, who is the wife of Chief of Staff to the governor.” Mohammed added that a preliminary investigation conducted by the police revealed that same publication, which was traceable to the suspect’s own platform was what was sent to a blogger, who the command subsequently invited for briefing. “The blogger corroborated that the item was sent to him by the suspect to disseminate. “We have them as witnesses and will stand before the court to give his own evidence in line with the allegation levelled against the suspect,” the police spokesman said. He said the suspect would be charged after investigations are concluded. However, in his reaction, the suspect denied the allegations, claiming that his platform might have been breached. “Around November 27, last year, my laptop and some of my devices were stolen from my vehicle at Access Bank, but I reported at the Central Police Station (CPS), Awka and the incident is still being investigated. “My phone may have been breached and same thing with the information in it. Unfortunately, I read the said information like everyone else,” he said. The suspect, who claimed to have a good relationship with the governor and the chief of staff, said he was sorry. “All I have to say to the Governor of Anambra State is that I am sorry because my platform was used against Odili and his wife but I did not publish anything against the governor,” he said.  