MUSIC business impresario, Abisagboola Oluseun John, 45, has been in the Nigerian music scene for over three decades and has made indelible marks. He’s more in the background but his name resonates among young and old music stars from D’banj, 2Baba to Omah Lay. He recently spoke about his music, Grammy nominations, beef with a younger act, Yungsix, and his personality in an interview with SAMPSON UNAMKA.  YOU were honored recently with a Grammy certificate on Beyoncé’s album, did you just get the certificate? If you work on a project that was nominated, it is part of the process for you to get a kind of document or something to show that you were on the project just like a young pupil who attended an inter-house sport to compete even if he comes 1st or 4th there is always a kind of way they show appreciation or something, they call it appearance fee. In this country, everybody knows what grammy is all about and recognizing artist from different region that put down materials that were submitted and in this case, I am part of the process for the creation of the Lion king project by Beyonce, getting that certificate just show something to show commemoration that you were part of the project and of course it is on request. It is very appreciative when you get such, that is like our own award. It is something to show you were part of the project which is commendable on the part of the recording academy and of course the artist themselves for inviting us to be part of the project. Grammy is a big deal for music acts across the globe, how it feels being nominated? It is an exciting thing it is worth celebrating because if you are nominated if you don’t win, you are a nominee your name gets attached to it, this is my second nomination anyways not the first, I was nominated on the ‘Watch The Throne’, Kanye West and Jay-Z’s project and also this one so it is the second nomination. I give God the glory that at least we were part of something that was recognized internationally and worldwide. The glory is not just for us it is also for everybody within the industry to encourage people to keep on participating in the production and others too, one day you will get spotted. Many would remember your relationship with the American rap act, Kanye West. What is the status now? He is a friend and he is someone that I respect so much and we all call him a creative genius and he is a good friend. You have been at the forefront of linking Nigerian music acts with international acts like Kanye West, I once saw you and Kiddominant meeting with Kanye West; tell us about these moves? It was something that happened spontaneously, I didn’t even know it was being recorded but my own thing was that we were attending an event me and Kiddominant, along the line he was telling me about how Kanye was one of the role model that he looks up too within the circle of music production he respects his creativity and all that and to me, it is a humbling situation if someone says that’s somebody I so much respect, and I know Kanye for who he is he wants to meet everybody as long as you are very creative it is easy to be his friend so I approached Kanye and I explained to him who Kiddominant is. Kiddominant himself has one of the biggest tracks on the African continent, in terms of Davido’s track that he co-wrote and produced, so I spoke to him and told him stuff that he had done that is worth respect and recognition and so they exchanged pleasantries that was it. What do you think can be done between record label owners and their artists that terminate their contracts after hitting the limelight from your international exposure? It is very easy and it is something that I always hammer on. It is basically education. Is it possible for you to work in an oil company without going through university education or go through different educational platforms for you to be one of the best in what you do? So it is important if you are a record label, yes it is important. It is good for you to have all the money do all production, recording the business part but also education about the business venture that you are getting into is also very important, as a label, you must know your responsibility you must know how to protect yourself, you must know that this is my right and this is the right of the artist and you must be very careful in protecting your own and that person’s own so that there won’t be a bridge of contract, there won’t be underestimation coming from both sides it is not just owning record label it is also artist, yes it is music business it is not just you alone if you do not know the business you can seek knowledge from people that know it and have people that surround you with all those knowledge, there will always be friction and that friction will cause people going their different ways, yes people go there different ways also even without friction because human wants are insatiable. Your single Gbemiro was recently featured on Apple playlist. What inspired the song? I always give glory to God because we are nothing without God when it comes to inspiration you know everything flows down from God, I remember very well I think it was October or November last year and I was in the studio with Maleek Berry and Nonso Amadi for sometime Maleek berry stepped out of the room and Nonso Amadi just played the beat and I started singing ‘Gbemiro’ and he was like have I written the song before? and I said no I’m just flowing to the beat you played now and he said we should record and we quickly recorded it and Maleek Berry stepped in and said wow what he listened to is fire and I just left it like that at the time I was signing the song, what was on my mind was we are going into 2020 there is so many stuffs to do and of course early 2020 we traveled for the grammy and stuff like that and before then like every normal human being you have stuff in your mind I believe that the beat he dropped just inspired me through the Holy Spirit came up with that idea and I left it like that until I traveled and got back, so I was just chatting with Nonso Amadi and he said that song is always getting him emotional and I said which song and he said ‘Gbemiro’ and I said I only listened to that song ones when we recorded and I said I would like to put somebody on it to give it soft landing so we spoke to Shizzi the producer and he said it was good and we reached out to Wurld and I sent it to Wurld and I think when he wanted to listen to it something happened he played it in front of his mother and he’s mum loved it and she was dancing and he said wow okay Bankuli I want to do the song so he recorded it. For me at that time, this kind of song is a song that speaks to your heart there is a lot of uncertainty, the music itself speaks for itself everything was just perfect. And for Apple, you know one thing I can always say for digital platform is that Apple supports Afrobeat, Apple supports African music if you look at this music platforms, others do support too but if you are saying in a very massive way, Apple does a lot for Afrobeat, think of what they have done for the likes of Rema, Omah lay, Oxlade so you can see they support the growth of a lot of young aspiring and even including the established ones. In 2020, Yung6ix called you out saying you take advantage of younger artists. Do you mind telling us about the whole back and forth? I saw the tweet you know, I do not understand what was going up in his mind, number one I don’t even know him that is the funny part. I have never seen him in my life, I have never had any interaction with him so you can understand. So when you see people put out that tweet for whatever reason he may have that doesn’t make sense, what are you going to do? You are helpless can you lay your hands on him? No, so sometimes is better you don’t answer the call of things that do not matter, for me it is all about positivity, it is all about the growth of the industry, I can understand what was going on around that COVID 19, people were stressed out, people were looking for different ways to get noticed which is okay, I understand how the business works, a lot of negativity, some people that’s what they want for me it’s all positive, it’s all growth really for me; that is why I just kept quiet and I just gave a mild response ‘I hope you’re okay’ because sometimes people go through a lot of stuff so you just send prayers, I have never seen him in my life.