The Nigerian Legion, the umbrella body for retired Military men, has said no dues or any form of payment is required to be registered as a member of the organisation. Qualified members are to simply log in and register on the Nigerian Legion platform, it said. The Director of Corporate Affairs, Nigerian Legion, Morenike Grace Henry, made the closure at the interdenominational Church Service to mark the 2021 Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebration, Sunday. She disclosed the present management of the Nigerian Legion led by the National Chairman Brig. Gen. Adakole Jones Akpa (Rtd), has introduced a lot of reforms consistent with accelerated development and inclusiveness among the three Services. According to her: “The desire to make Nigerian Legion a non –Service dominated or Army dominated establishment, prompted the continuous nomination of other Services, in line with the objective of the Legion to constitute in a democratic and non –sectarian manner, an association of persons who have served in the Nigerian Army and Nigerian Air Force, to ensure that the association shall not be affiliated to or connected directly or indirectly with any political party or other political organisation.” She explained that organisation is for all ex-servicemen, adding “they needed not to have served for a particular number of years to be regarded as a Legionnaire, neither did they have to qualify for a pension to be regarded as a member of the Nigerian Legion.” She also informed: “The Headquarters of Nigerian Legion has been organised into five functional directorates to take care of the expectations of veterans and families of the dead heroes. We partner with a notable initiative that benefits veterans and families. “On 12th October 2020, the Defence Headquarters launched the Military Widows Association (NIWA) and the Nigerian Legion supported and participated in the successful outing of this initiative”. She revealed further that in line with the function and Act of Nigerian Legion to ensure that decent employment was given to interested veterans, “the Legion kept going into partnership with various private driven organizations that have promised to give up to 40% strength in their organization to Legionnaires”, noting that the “partnership has begun and the results would soon be felt by veterans”. Meanwhile, she disclosed that Nigerian Legion through its establishment act has the power to canvass for and collect donations on any occasion, especially during the Armed Forces Remembrance Day Celebrations, assuring”monies realized at any time would be utilised for its intended purpose”.