 TWO Osun State Executive Council (exco) members have tested positive to COVID-19, a statement by Information and Civic Orientation Commissioner Mrs. Funke Egbemonde indicated yesterday. This came to light after Governor Adegboyega Oyetola ordered his exco members to take COVID-19 test to ascertain their status. The statement said: “The governor also directed all drivers in his convoy, domestic staff and aides attached to senior government officials to present themselves for similar screening.” He has also advised citizens to follow suit because of early detection. She noted that the government had increased testing capacities across the local government areas at no cost to citizens. Oyetola has ordered “no entry into Governor’s Office without COVID-19 test result” after the two exco members tested positive to the virus. Our correspondent, who visited the Governor’s Office in Abere, Osogbo yesterday observed that an order of no entry without COVID-19 result was pasted at the entrance and offices in the complex. The order, which was issued by the Office of Public Health, reads: “No COVID-19 status, no entry — Osun Public Health”. A set of fresh guidelines issued by the state government also directed that only civil servants from Level 12 and above are expected to report physically at their offices. It added, among others, that there will be a dusk to dawn curfew every day from 10:00pm till 5:00am. The government said it has become imperative to release the new set of guidelines to enforce non-pharmaceutical safety protocols aimed at protecting the people against the virus On social events and gatherings, the guidelines said no social events can hold forthwith without the approval from the government. These special phone lines – 0813 508 1156 and +234 8187187678 – were released through which those seeking to hold social events may apply via WhatsApp. It added that no social gathering (having obtained approval) can have more than 50 participants and all applications for social events must show commitment that the organisers will strictly adherence to the new guidelines. On religious gatherings, no religious gatherings should exceed two hours per time of gathering; vigils and crusades are banned till further notice and religious organisations should operate at only 30 per cent capacity of their space On schools, the government said parents and guardians should continue to ensure their children and wards comply with the safety protocols against COVID-19, especially the use of nose mask/face shield and regular washing of their hands.