 ASTON VILLA’S FA Cup third round clash with Liverpool on Friday will be called off if manager Dean Smith is unable to field 14 fit players after the club reported a “significant coronavirus outbreak” at their training ground. Villa, who beat Liverpool 7-2 at Villa Park in the Premier League earlier this season, are due to host Jurgen Klopp’s team in one of the outstanding ties of the round. But the fixture is now in doubt, with Villa facing the prospect of having to forfeit the tie completely if they cannot meet the Football Association’s minimum requirement of 14 fit players –including youth-team players — in order to play the Premier League champions.   MANCHESTER United have completed the signing of Amad Diallo from Atalanta on a four-and-a-half-year deal. An agreement was reached between the two clubs for the 18-year-old during the last transfer window but the move was subject to a medical, work permit, and personal terms. The Ivorian winger has the option to extend his contract, which runs until June 2025, by a further year. On his arrival at Old Trafford, Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said: “As a club, we have followed Amad for a number of years and having watched him myself, I believe he is one of the most exciting young prospects in the game. “Manchester United has such a proud history of developing young players and everything is in place to enable Amad to reach his potential here.”   INTER midfielder Christian Eriksen could return to Tottenham Hotspur if Dele Alli reunites with Mauricio Pochettino at PSG, claim Italian reports. Nerazzurri director Beppe Marotta has confirmed several times that Eriksen is not “functional” to Antonio Conte’s football and is therefore on the market in the January window. According to La Gazzetta dello Sport, a return to Spurs is on the cards, especially if Dele Alli makes the move to Paris Saint-Germain.   ARSENAL have taken out a short-term £120 million loan ($163 million, 133 million euros) from the British government to help them cope with the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, the Premier League club has announced. In August of last year, the Gunners announced plans to make 55 posts in their staff redundant because of the financial hit the north London side had suffered as a result of Covid-19. At that stage, the bulk of the club’s players had agreed to a 12.5 percent pay cut from their largely lucrative pay packets in a bid to help other Arsenal staff retain their jobs.