 BETWEEN President Muhammadu Buhari and the majority of Nigerians, there appears to be an optical chasm on the performance of service chiefs. Whereas majority of Nigerians, including governors, federal legislators, traditional rulers, journalists and religious leaders, see the glaring failure of the service chiefs in their duty to curtail the insurgency ravaging the north-east in particular, President  Buhari is touted to see the opposite. The President’s spokesman, Mallam Garba Shehu when asked why the President is still retaining the service chiefs despite the clamour for their change said: “It is because he (Buhari) is seeing things that critics are not seeing. He is seeing things most people don’t see.” While the president has his own pair of eyes, different from the rest of Nigerians, it is strange that he is seeing what many are not seeing. Or is it that he is not seeing what many other Nigerians are seeing? Regardless of who has an impaired vision between the president and the people, what is pertinent is that the present service chiefs have not delivered on their mandate. On several occasions, the service chiefs have made the president to promise Nigerians that Boko Haram and its affiliate groups would soon be destroyed, but none of such promises has been kept. The people of the north-east in particular, who suffer the brunt of the despicable acts of the insurgents, have visible scars to show. So, when Shehu says that President Buhari is seeing what Nigerians are not seeing, we are worried whether such insights are not delusional? Many who have called for the sacking of service chiefs base their call on their glaring inability to curtail the insurgency. Those who make the call rely on the failed promises of the service chiefs. They also rely on the complaints from serving military officers and men that the available men and machineries do not match the assignment given to them. Yet, huge resources have been expended in the prosecution of the war. With the glaring failure gaping at the country, we think it is fair to consider the competence of the service chiefs, when discussing why our army is not making commensurate progress. Of course, like Garba Shehu said, the president has the exclusive power to determine whether to sack the service chiefs or not. In his words: “There is no part of the law that says chief of army staff must serve for two years.” Shehu also reminds Nigerians that the army chief “serves at the pleasure of the president.” While truly the president has that prerogative, it doesn’t confer superior vision when the issue is the performance of the service chiefs he appointed. So, while the president can decide not to change the service chiefs, regardless of their performance, he should not push forward a false claim that he sees more clearly than other critical stakeholders, particularly those who feel the heat of the unending war. For us, since the president is accountable to Nigerians who elected him, we expect him to see through the prism of the majority vision. Indeed, as a matter of fact, there is no mysticism with respect to work and output. As in other endeavours, every worker has targets and performance is measured based on ability to meet such targets. It is absurd to argue that when targets are not met, the person being assessed is marked excellent. That will amount to mystifying an ordinary issue. Nevertheless, since the president is deemed to see better than other Nigerians, we will hold him to the promise that: “2021 is going to be very decisive in dealing with Boko Haram, banditry, and kidnapping.”