 ALL Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains are sensitising members to the importance of membership registration. House of Representatives member Rotimi Agunsoye took the message to party members in Agboyi-Ketu Council at the weekend, urging them to obey the party’s directive in the spirit of loyalty. But, he noted that registration may contributed to the spread of COVID-19 or discourage people from participating in the exercise. The grassroots politician spoke at the opening of his Constituency Office Annex on Oyebanjo Street, Agboyi-Ketu, Kosofe Federal Constituency, Lagos. The event was witnessed by state and local government leaders of the party from Kosofe sub-division. “The reason is rooted in the spirits of equity and fairness to my good people of Agboyi-Ketu LCDA. If Kosofe LGA can have the main Constituency Office in Ojota and Ikosi-Isheri LCDA too can boast of an office annex in Magodo, then, their sister LCDA deserves an annex of her own. “The new annex is already attracting developments to its host community with the grading of Oyebanjo Solarin Street only a few days ago,” he said. Urging party faithful to prepare for membership registration, Agunsoye said: “Let us mobilise ourselves as old members. Let us mobilise other new people in the renewed membership drive. We should be loyal and disciplined party members obeying party directive. In the process, our party, APC, will be enlarging its coast.” He added: “Our party will remain strong by the grace of our collective commitment.” At the Constiyuency Office,  Agunsoye tendered his stewardship as a federal legislator in the last six years. Thanking the party and the electorate for electing him, he said he had lived to expectation through effective representation, lawmaking and exercise of oversight functions. The legislator was hailed by constituents for ploughing back into the constituency. In December last year, he had organised an empowerment programme during which  500 entrepreneurs received take-off grants. Glowing in the pride of performance, the lawmaker listed the federal projects he had attracted to Kosofe. These include the construction of two blocks of six classrooms with VIP toilets at Comprehensive Senior High School, Alapere-Ketu,  fully equipped ICT Centres at Ojota Senior Secondary School, Ojota, Ayedere Ajibola Senior High School, Ketu, Education District II, Maryland, and Agboyi Town. Others are a 45,000L capacity borehole water system at the Vegetables Section of Mile 12 International Market, a 4,000L capacity borehole water System at the Shukura Yam Section of Mile 12 International Market, a 4,000L capacity borehole water system at the car park of Mile 12 International Market, Binukonu Ultra-modern Market, Ogudu Road, Ojota, Gbadebo Street, Ojota, Gidan Kwali Quarters, Ojota, Aladura, Anthony Village, Ireku Street, Oworonshoki, and community water project in Omojuwa Estate, Kosofe-Mile 12 and Mosafejo Nursery/Primary School, Owo-ronshoki. Agunsoye said: “I have facilitated to the Kosofe Federal Constituency Employment and Wealth Creation Scheme, the National Directorate of Employment Skills Acquisition Program, the 2018 Kosofe Youth and  Women Empowerment Program, four ICT Training Programmes by the National Human Rights Commission, the NEPZA Youth Empowerment Programme and the recent empowerment program organized in partnership with the Office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs (OSSA-SDGs). “These are aside several ROT Empowerment Programs in which many benefitted from motorcycles, tricycles and cash donations. “The beauty of it all is that everybody is covered under different categories in all my programs with party faithfuls benefitting from slots allotted party leaders in the three LGAs and 21 wards of Kosofe Federal Constituency. “This is apart from the special welfare package for widows and the financial assistance register opened for indigent people at the main office in Ojota.” 