 One of the high points of the oil and gas industry in 2020 was the offer of marginal fields to indigenous oil and gas industry players to enhance local participation in the capital intensive upstream industry that also requires cutting-edge technology application. Participants were excited. They have a reason to be because the last time industry players had an opportunity to jostle for marginal fields was over about two decades ago, when 24 fields were on offer and bid for by 171 firms. According to industry sources, the 2020 bid round which ran for almost four months took place from July-September, including few days in the next month used for the conclusion of the bid analysis by the DPR. The process created a three-layered platform, in which no one had one asset allocated to him, alone. In other words, three tiers of frontrunners are likely to emerge in the result of the marginal field bid round. The first tier contains a list of two companies awarded the same field. The second tier comprises a list of three companies awarded the same field, while as many as 10, awarded the same field are on the tier three list.  Marginal fields According to BudgIT, civic organisation that applies technology for citizen engagement with institutional improvement to facilitate societal change, marginal fields are oil fields that have been discovered by major international oil companies (IOCs) in Nigeria in the course of exploring larger acreages and which fields have not been developed for more than 10 years. “When identified, the IOCs may decide to farm out this field to another company to exploit it as a sole risk venture. This means the contractor would bear all the costs and risks of exploitation and also to earn the entire rewards from exploitation. The President, by the provisions of the Petroleum (Amendment) Act of 1996 also has the power to declare a field as a marginal field where a discovery has been made in such a field but it has been left unattended for 10 years. The major reasons for awarding marginal fields are to create new and diverse investment and boost reserves. Marginal fields are located onshore and in the shallow waters. There are about 178 marginal oil fields. In 2003, the government awarded 24 out of these. Statistics show that nine out of these 24 are productive while the others are under- utilised. Consequently reports show that the marginal fields only contribute a minimal 2.1per cent to the total crude oil production and 67per cent of marginal fields allocated in the 2003 licensing round have not produced a single barrel of oil 10 years after. Spread across onshore; swamp and shallow water and coming with combined resources of around 800 million barrels (mmbbl) oil and 4.5 trillion cubic feet (tcf) gas, mainly owned by Shell, ExxonMobil, Chevron and Total, this year’s bid round had (on offer) 57 fields; with only 161 firms out of the 600 companies that participated, making it to the three-tier shortlist. Attached to each field is usually cash technically known as signature bonus (SB) that would be shared by several companies attached to the oil field. Should the other competing companies be unable to pay their share of the SB, a company might find itself, becoming the sole holder of a marginal field licence. Director/CEO at DPR, Sarki Anwalu said marginal fields provide the opportunity to gainfully engage the pool of high level technically competent Nigerians in the oil and gas sector.  Waiting game According to government sources, the process to secure approval of the award list has dragged on  because of the Nigerian factor. There has been alleged pressure from several bidders who bid, paid all the fees and made it through all the milestones. With the economy in recession and oil prices fluctuating, the government is in search of how to fund the budget and provide the needed infrastructure, Anwalu made it clear that it will be very strict with signature bonus payment, as they have been with royalty, lease rentals, and other tariffs recently. The government may be shooting itself in the foot by delaying the announcement of the winners of the fields which is allegedly being delayed at the Presidency. But DPR source said the bid process has not been concluded, adding that when it is, the announcement would be made. The marginal fields programme was introduced to encourage indigenous participation in the oil industry and also to increase government’s take on undeveloped acreages. The programme was developed to discourage continuous holding of undeveloped fields by International Oil Companies (IOCs). The creation of marginal fields was therefore designed, to reduce the rates of abandonment of depleting fields and assure the government’s take in acreages that would otherwise have become unproductive. Experts say the 25 largest oilfields have the potential to unlock $9.4billion of investment over the first five years and generate over $38billion in revenue over the life of the fields. Since the signing of farm out agreements in 2003 between the IOCs, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the indigenous firms, the marginal field initiative has come to stay in the oil industry. BudgIT said some factors contribute to the under-utilisation of the marginal fields and its consequent minimal contribution to the country’s oil revenue “Discretionary decision-making, political interference and lack of transparency are the bane of the process of awarding marginal oil fields. The Department for Petroleum Resources (DPR), the institution in charge of managing the exploration licenses, does not publicly provide the criteria for prequalification of awardees. This makes the entire process opaque. Reports show that in the past many of the winning companies were closely associated to government officials This factor alone significantly affects the field performance, as most of the awardees do not have the technical skills to exploit the skills. This is also the reason why most of the marginal fields are dormant. “More so, there is no consistency or reliability in the bid process The sudden suspension of the 2013/2014 bid rounds is an evidence of this. This again deters investment. Again, because the marginal fields are onshore, the production growth is greatly affected by infrastructure constraints resulting from attacks on the pipelines and oil theft in the Niger Delta,” the group said.