Former BBN Housemte Antoniette Munirat Lecky better known as “Anto Lecky” has lamented the increasing meanness of Nigerians. According to her, it seems the more awareness is gotten In Nigeria, the meaner people become. She gave scenarios of how on one hand people sympathize in suicidal scenarios but show the lack of empathy thereof. She advised that people should create happiness for themselves as the world doesnot seem to be getting better. She further volunteered to be a listening ear and a shoulder to lean on anyone who needs help on the condition that discretion is applied, meaning the person sending the message shouls be direct and discreet. Her post reads:” “I’m just here to rant today… “I took this picture 2 years ago at a Mental Health Seminar in South Africa. While I’m grateful that 2 years later, people are becoming more mentally aware, it also seems like people have gotten meaner! What happened to us?? Someone commits suicide, another person will tweet “Be Kind” but you will scroll down their page and see them trolling people all day long. Make it make sense! Someone will ask their fellow human to report a blog posting lies and humans will say they rather continue reading the gossip. Someone will shave their hair for whatever reason and someone else will say they look like a cancer patient. Someone will get skinny, they must have AIDS. Someone will have big stomach, they must be pregnant. Where did this bad behavior come from? “I remember I wrote a post last year about my feelings and problems people close to me were dealing with and humans read it as I was depressed. Some even offered me money thinking I was broke. What is this type of thinking? Who is doing you people? “I don’t have the answers but I hope everyone can find happiness. The world around us doesn’t seem to be getting better so you must create happiness for yourself. “I would love to be a sounding board for anyone that wants to get things off their chest. My DM is open but you have to be very direct and specific. Saying “Hi” will not get you a response. I also won’t be able to answer everyone as my personal mental health is key, but I’ll continue to try and Be Kind to all.”