Imo State has said Governor Hope Uzodimma is not borrowing to fund ongoing road projects across the state. The government said it would soon complete 49 roads within the state capital and across the state, 29 of which were inherited from the previous administration. Commissioner for Works Ralph Nwosu, who addressed reporters at the weekend, said the governor was deploying best prudent manner to utilise funds saved in the last one year and ‘is not borrowing to fund ongoing road projects’. According to him, the governor is working to surpass the people’s expectations, especially on road construction, design and maintenance. “Despite the rising cost of materials, we’re assuring you of best jobs. We’re not compromising quality and won’t allow anyone to cut corners with our projects,” Nwosu said. The commissioner also assured the people that no contractor would abscond with money without completing the project. The Naze-Nekede-Ihiagwa-Obinze road, he said, is set to be re-awarded to a new contractor following the ‘headache’ the government was getting from the road. “That road and others became embarrassing to us because they became impassable. It’s a shame we’re still talking of road construction in Owerri. If the people, who had been here in the last eight years, had given the people quality roads, we won’t be talking about road construction in Owerri today. “But, the good thing is that the potholes have gone. This is courtesy of the heavy interventions we have made to save our people of the embarrassment of potholes after de-silting the drains,” he added. The governor has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for the initiative in engaging 774,000 youths as part of its Social Intervention Programme (SIP). Uzodimma said the 27,000 beneficiaries from Imo will assist in stimulating the economy and curb crimes. The governor, who spoke at the kick off of the Extended Special Public Works Programme, thanked the president for always thinking of how best to serve the interests of Nigerians. Uzodimma, who was represented by the Secretary to State Government, Cosmas Iwu, said: “For us in Imo State, we are appreciative of the federal government’s gesture because it means the youths who have been engaged in this programme will ameliorate the economic situation in their various homes and the state at large.”