 At first a couple of naysayers dismissed his bid as laughable, others thought it was just a blitzkrieg of fantasies, but little did they know that the Oko  born business man and philanthropist extraordinaire, Dr. Chidozie Nwankwo had entered the Anambra State guber race with both his feet. Truth be told, many felt that the CEO of Wichtech had a tall task ahead of him, as he contests amongst a sea of political bigwigs for the ticket of the All Progressives Congress in Anambra State, even, he understands that but what the naysayers did not take into account was his preparedness to go the long haul for the party’s nomination. As I write this missive, not only the APC but the state has been agog since his entry into the 2021 race, Dr. Nwankwo’s aspiration has already started bridging the gap between all known stratified interests within and outside the state; whether they be workers, business class, the church ,the academia and the political class, with each class accepting the man’s credentials as the best to lead the state come March 14, 2022. One is not talking about credentials that are half baked, not some makeshift credentials patched up for the sake of elections. The man’s CV is indeed electrifying in nature, while his achievements in the business sector tower above a number of other aspirants across the parties jostling  to occupy Government  House Awka. Now, before they think, he is all Naira and Kobo, like some Shakespearean Shylock , Dr. Nwankwo is also a household name in philanthropy, engaging in the challenges of providing succor for the needy for the past 33 years through the Kingdom Care Foundation. At 55, it means that he did not dabble into such a social responsibility because of politics, since he began such at the young age of 22, unlike many aspirants who do so only when elections are in view and park up after the whole excercise. In this Dr. Nwankwo truly stands out.  Dr. Nwankwo’s philanthropy ranges from free healthcare to education, empowerment of widows in the rural areas, provision of food , educational endowments , start up funds for young entrepreneurs, businessmen and artisans and legal services for those who cannot afford it. Asides philanthropy, Dr Nwankwo  possesses the camaraderie perhaps required by anyone wanting to be governor of a state like Anambra. He is at home with all, is it the low and downtrodden who have always had access to him and the largesse he gives out to them via philanthropy or the high and mighty , who admire Nwankwo’s amiable nature. Even in the field of business, he has built a number of success stories for many who either worked for him or had a number of business transactions with him. As a clearing agent , his clients vouched so much for him that he had to open new offices in four states to handle his booming clientele. A one on one with Dr. Nwankwo will reveal him as a charismatic individual, he is quite knowledgeable and possesses an IQ one will agree is quite impressive. Nevertheless, even with his numerous successes in the corporate field, this hasn’t quenched Dr. Nwankwo’s eagerness for learning, bagging a couple of degrees from prestigious institutions, including a Ph.D. Another factor that would obviously count in his favor would be the fact that he is wealthy and can afford to finance his own campaign without seeking for assistance from other quarters that might possess a vested interest much inimical to the interests of the state’s citizens. Even at that his source of wealth too isn’t questionable , as Nigerians all over can attest to how he built his empire through his dint of hard work and unalloyed integrity. Lastly, a peep into  Dr. Nwankwo’s manifesto  and plans for the state will reveal much, firstly it is without the noisy hubbub similar to what we experience from the political class who campaign in lavish poetry but then fail to deliver even a sentence when they find themselves in power. The manifesto is laden with a number of critical interventions in a number of sectors  that are likely to impact more on the lives of the citizens and help propel the state to top four status within Nigeria. For the sake of space, I will not be able to dissect all that he intends to achieve as governor but here are some hints: Industrial parks, agricultural settlements similar to Jewish Kibbutz system, quality education with emphasis on Technical education, infrastructural leaps and security. In concluding, it is important to draw a parallel between Dr. Nwankwo and a former governor of the state, Mr. Peter Obi. This is in response to many who believe that Dr. Nwankwo is a rookie and does not have the political expertise to govern a state like Anambra. The question is did Peter Obi have any form of political sagacity? The answer is no and yet he left his indelible mark in the state and has gone on to become a household name in the country. Now, if this was so for Okwute why are many dubiously hanging on to that requirement as a means of ruling Dr. Nwankwo out? In the realest of terms, Dr Nwankwo possesses the best of credentials to lead Anambra to the promised land, the people  much need him to govern the state: it is a task that must be done.