 AS an HR expert, do you think Nigerians are prepared for the future of work? I don’t think Nigerians are prepared but they will eventually and inevitably adapt to the changing future of work. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought a lot of changes to the workplace and challenged/disrupted established norms about how employees can deliver on their employment obligations. For example, the use of zoom, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet and the like fir meetings has made the future of work more AI (artificial intelligence) powered. With the world at large, and Nigeria at the behest of second wave of the pandemic, virtual meetings though the aforementioned platforms remain the only options in a fast-changing world of work. What are some of the realities must employers in Nigeria should look forward to? We now have more remote working arrangement. There has been a shift from the traditional or classic practice of working in the office, to remote working. New concerns that employers have to deal with include identifying new key performance indicators as well as provide new forms of employee benefits and allowances such as electricity and internet data allowance, to enable employees to work optimally from home given the poor infrastructure. Considering data protection and data security concerns and re-negotiating the terms of employment contracts to reflect the realities of the times. Besides, there is the advantage of flexible work as well. The easing of physical lockdown directives from the federal government have come with conditions which include reduced working laws and restrictions on the number of people that can be in the office at the same time. This has led to staff rotation, shifts and flexible work hours. A direct consequence of the economic effect of the pandemic on businesses is the inability of employers to maintain compensation at pre-COVID-19 level, and in some cases, the inability of certain employees to work optimally from home. Now, more focus is being given to employees’ mental and psychological health. Employers therefore have to devise agile strategies to assist their employees to mange their wellbeing. What are the skills set and training that would be must sought after new and in the distant future? Some of the most sought for skills post pandemic will be data skills, relevant careers/training, business analyst, data scientist, marketer, artificial Intelligence, relevant careers/training, machine learning engineer, business intelligence analyst, UI designer (user interface), Blockchain, relevant career/training, Blockchain engineer, Legal counselor, UX designer (user expression), Sales and Marketing, relevant careers/training, Salesperson, Social media manager,  affiliate marketing manager. What would determine employability for new recruits? Ability to effectively communicate through the use of Zoom, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet and the likes  ability to multitask, ability to work remotely. Do you see more people staying on their jobs or getting thrown into the job market? I see some categories of workers losing their jobs, though mainly in the private sector with MSME’s with less than 10 workers, the worst-hit. With the federal government’s survival fund targeted at MSME for payroll support, it will go a long way in cushioning the harsh effect of the pandemic. Those in the public sector are not left out with the Nigerian economy dependent on oil and crude oil prices fluctuating perilously, the future is uncertain for a mono-product economy like Nigeria. What is your advice to prospective employees? My advice for prospective employees is to develop skill sets that are not dependent on a physical working space for optimal productivity and financial rewards. Skills like digital marketing, digital storytelling, content creation, management and distribution, data management, copywriting, cinematography, photography, creative writing and excellent use of new age communication mediums like Zoom, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, Skype etc.