The Board of Directors, First City Monument Bank (FCMB) is investigating the allegations of unethical conduct against its Managing Director, Adam Nuru. The bank chief has been at the centre of a marriage scandal involving Moyo Thomas, a former employee of the bank, and his late husband, Tunde Thomas. A petition initiated by friends of the deceased had alleged that Tunde died of depression after discovering that his supposed two children with Moyo belong to the FCMB MD. As at 7.26pm on January 4, 2021, over 2,700 people have a signed the petition to get the bank chief sanctioned. The petitioners are targeting 5,000 signatures, after exceeding 2,500 signatures it set at the beginning. Thomas was said to have died of depression on December 16, 2020.  The unidentified petitioners, also called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to sack Nuru, while demanding a comprehensive investigation into the matter. The petitioners are also asking the CBN and the FCMB board to dismiss Nuru on ethical grounds. “This is a case of gross misconduct based on ethical grounds and an unjustifiable economic oppression by the elite (Adam Nuru) against the underprivileged in the society,” the petition, which has already garnered over 2,700 signatures, reads. “The MD has been doing everything possible to sweep this case under the carpet. We implore the Central Bank of Nigeria, as the apex regulator, and the board of FCMB to investigate this for the integrity of the bank and Nigerian banking industry.” But in a statement sent to The Nation, FCMB Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Diran Olojo, said the bank was aware of the allegations making the rounds against its managing director. The statement reads: “We are aware of several stories circulating across several media platforms about our bank’s Managing Director Adam Nuru, a former employee Ms Moyo Thomas and her deceased husband, Mr Tunde Thomas”. “While this is a personal matter the tragedy of the death of Mr Tunde Thomas and the allegations of unethical conduct, require the banks board to conduct a review of what transpired, any violations of our code of ethics and the adequacy of these code of conduct ethics. This will be done immediately.” “We enjoin all our stakeholders to bear with us as we conduct this review and to please respect the various families involved”.