Lakefield Schools, an integrated educational brand that offers a harmonized blend of British and Nigerian Curricula, has thrown its doors open in the sprawling upscale Badore-Ajah Axis of Lagos. The educational institution says the kickoff of its inaugural academic session marks the realization of its vision to create an academic hub where young learners can access both local and international opportunities at comparatively affordable rates. It is poised to groom pupils through all-round learning experience with a wide array of both world class academic programmes and  extracurricular activities such as competitive sports, special music class, quiz/debate/spelling bee, swimming, etiquette teaching, costume day, class party, color day, among others. Though in its early days, Lakesfield schools is envisioned as a top citadel of academic centre. Boasting of top notch facilities such as a swimming pool, interactive whiteboards, standard multipurpose hall, sport complex, well stocked library, a well-functioning school bus service, A-levels standard laboratory, botanical garden, sick bay and an ever expanding day school learning campus, Lakefield comes well prepared to achieve its vision in record time. On its staff list are core education experts well experienced to prepare pupils and students for local and international examinations such as Cambridge O and A-levels, IGSCE and WASSSCE etc. In its bid to give the best form of learning available to its pupils and students at pocket friendly rates, Lakesfield schools offers an introductory siblings’ discount. A discount of 10% and 30% on the tuition of the second and third child respectively. Mrs. Eyitope Temilade Olarinoye, the Proprietress of the School, in an interview with reporters, shed more light on the vision of the upscale academic centre. She said: “As you can see, we are walking the talk. For a greater and assured future, this is the destination for our children. Let’s get them here today. Pre-adult learning has never been made this seamless. “Welcome to our world where we guarantee an all rounded learning experience.”