Mixed reactions have trailed government’s decision to borrow billions of Naira from unclaimed dividends and utilised funds in dormant bank accounts. Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project (SERAP) has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to shelve government’s plan “to borrow ₦895billion of unclaimed dividends and funds in dormant accounts using the Finance Act.” SERAP is asking the government to jettison the planned borrowing “to ensure respect for citizens’ rights”. According to SERAP, “borrowing unclaimed dividends and funds in dormant accounts amounts to an illegal expropriation, and would hurt vulnerable Nigerians who suffer under reduced public services, and ultimately lead to unsustainable levels of public debt.” SERAP is insisting that “the right to property extends to all forms of property, including unclaimed dividends and funds in dormant accounts. Borrowing these dividends and funds without due process of law, and the explicit consent of the owners is arbitrary, and as such, legally and morally unjustifiable.” The group noted that “the borrowing is neither proportionate nor necessary, especially given the unwillingness or inability of the government to stop systemic corruption in MDAs, cut waste, and stop all leakages in public spending”. SERAP also argued that the planned borrowing is “clearly not in pursuit of a public or social interest”. Another reason for kicking against government borrowing of unclaimed dividends and untilised funds in dormant accounts SERAP said because “the borrowing also seems to be discriminatory, as it excludes government’s owned official bank accounts, and may exclude the bank accounts of high-ranking government officials and politicians, thereby violating prohibition of discrimination against vulnerable groups.” However, Nigeria’s first Professor of capital market, Professor Uche Uwaleke of Nasarawa State University does not see anything wrong with the government borrowing from unclaimed dividends and dormant deposits sitting in bank accounts. According to him, “the transfer of unclaimed assets (unclaimed dividends and dormant account balances) to an unclaimed funds Trust Fund is in line with what obtains in many parts of the world.” “The practice of escheating the funds to the government after a dormancy period is also consistent with what is done in countries like the USA where State governments exercise such powers.” He added that “the composition of the Governing Council of the Fund which accommodates the key stakeholders such as the CBN, SEC, NDIC, DMO Company Registrars and Shareholders will address many of the concerns of listed companies, their shareholders and the banks. That way, any negative fallout will be mitigated.” Professor Uwaleke noted that “the fact that the money will be transferred with interest to the real owners as soon as they are established should boost investors confidence.” Uwaleke urged government to ensure that “the DMO, after taking over the funds, is supportive of efforts made to trace the real owners”. How this impacts the overall economy he said “depends on what the government does with the money that is borrowed after six years of dormancy. Because, these unclaimed assets run into billions of naira, it is expected to impact positively on the economy if used for the common good, that is for development projects”. The Finance Act 2020 was signed into law in December 2020. It allows the government to borrow unclaimed dividends and dormant account balances owned by Nigerians in any bank in the country.