 THE people who run the domestic league think that corporate sponsorship is like buying a lottery ticket from any hawker on the streets before the draws are made. These league organisers feel that they can knock on sponsors’ door anytime they are ready, forgetting that cash from the corporate world are investors’ contributions to such companies’ fiscal outlays. No investor throws its money on any project without critical analysis on what is in such investments for them. The investor also needs to know how viable the new interests are in the open market. Budgets are done based on companies’ fiscal year, making it imperative on those who want to showcase their wares on such platforms should come with strong credentials aside from being credible business concerns. In the business world, things are planned. No firm would do business with any venture without a market plan for them to evaluate such a venture’s true financial strength. Every kobo spent is discussed before putting it in the annual budgets. Nigeria’s elite class in football started in 1990, with no record of how much it has realised from inter and intra-club transfers. Nobody can tell any investor how much the league realises from merchandising, television rights, etc things are done by the hunch with each group choosing what appeals to its fancy. The resultant effect is that 30 years on, we cannot appropriately lay our hands to an authentic audited account of the league that would stand the tests of time. How can the league’s accounts be audited without telling the stakeholders what the body generated from intra and inter-club transfers. The interesting thing about these two components is that one is done in foreign currencies. So, governors, please ask your club chairmen where the cash over the years has been kept? With this setting, the organisers had no product to sell to investors beyond trying to use their friends in high places to broker a deal. Simply put, no arm of the league is functional, culminating in the easy exit of most of our continental representative, beaten by clubs from less prominent football nations as Nigeria. Since the league was always in abeyance, the home-based players couldn’t compete with their foreign-based counterparts whenever they are invited to fight for shirts in our national teams. They are used as training materials. Ironically, the few lucky ones that get to Europe return as kings to get shirts – just because of their change of residence. A few clubs in the past have sold to the European markets over 30 players each, yet such clubs aren’t solvent. For anyone including governors who are owners of these clubs to resolve this knotty issue, club chairmen should be axed and agents told to submit all transactions for proper audit by each club or state government. Some club chairmen, agents, scouts, some secretariat staff, and some board members are neck-deep in this inter-club menace which has pauperised the domestic clubs to date. The new CEO of the league should make these two elements more viable to the clubs by raising the alarm where he smells foul play. How can an academy say they own a professional player? The rules spell it out clearly that once a player has attained professional status, he cannot during such a period assume an amateur status. In the law book, it is stated that no academy can loan a player to a premier league team. If that is the case, why do academies turn up for claims for such a player whenever he gets a European club’s contract? This misnomer causes a huge capital flight from the domestic league. The first disadvantage of such illicit transfers is that these players can’t return to the country, since they would be stranded in the countries they were taken to by the shylock agent, who is usually on AWOL when such transfers go awry. It’s shameful that Governors only see the Nigerian league as a tool for popularity test and strengthening their political stronghold on soccer-loving citizens of the state. Do they need to be told to hands-off the clubs and encourage private corporations to invest in the league? How do governors fund clubs without returns like we have in Europe?  The governors must insist on seeing what they earned from inter and intra club transfers before committing fresh cash to the clubs. The clubs were told to ensure they have at least N400 million in their respective accounts before the commencement of this season. Yet, Heartland FC of Owerri players and officials are complaining about being owed wages running into years and the owners of the club paying deaf ears to these people’s plight. What these owners of clubs forget is that these players, coaches, and backroom staff earn a living for what they do with Heartland, for instance. Not paying them their wages monthly and other entitlements as at when due, not to talk about owing them running into years ruin their lives, especially with the prevalent economic recession and the imminent threat from the Coronavirus pandemic. These people have families to take care of. Have the state governors of these debtor clubs pondered how such people can educate their kids or how they meet with their families’ responsibilities? Do these governors expect these workers to steal for those who don’t have relations to loan them monies to at least feed their kids? Today, nobody can say how much our clubs are worth. Nobody dares ask how much players earn since many cannot remember when they were last paid. Nigeria’s poor showing at the cadet competitions with the U-17 level, Golden Eaglets, the U-20 cadre, Flying Eagles, etc in recent times speaks to the decadence in the domestic league which has failed to play its role – being the nursery for all our national teams. In saner climes, professional clubs have nurseries to discover, train, and expose new talents. Interestingly, these European clubs, for instance, have competitions in which their age-grade teams participate like their senior counterparts. In fact, these juniors play their matches on Fridays. Trophies are won and prize monies given to winners, whereas our winners at the senior level haven’t been paid their prize monies in the last few seasons. Winning the Premier League brings with it all sorts of concomitant financial rewards, but the immediate prize for the champions Liverpool was in the region of £150 million ($182m) about N77.8 billion. The total money from domestic (£5.136 billion) and oversees (£3.2 billion) three-year deal was around £8.36 billion, the total TV money is then spread equally into three seasons which is around £2.6 billion and that makes the yearly prize money fund for the Premier League teams. In LaLiga, they distributed around €0.85 billion (£0.62 billion) a season among clubs (10 % went to La Liga 2 clubs). So the prize money pool for 2019-20 season was around €1 billion (£0.7 billion). The total money from both domestic and overseas three TV deals combined is around €2.65 billion (£1.8 billion). Which they divide into three parts making prize money pool for each of the three seasons under the TV deal period 2016-2019. Football is big business and we must act accordingly. Footballers have families and the pitch is their office – in local parlance, it’s called ‘work-chop’. Na from where man dey work, him go chop. So, we should’ve moved past clubs owing players and some teams playing at substandard stadiums. In Germany, all 64 teams who participated in their version of the FA Cup collected €140,000 for qualification from DFB pokal prize money. The German Bundesliga announced a massive TV rights deal for a 4-year period from 2017-18 season to 2020-21 season where Bundesliga will earn as much as €4.64 billion (£3.6bn) in domestic TV rights deal. We know Rome wasn’t built in a day but these countries and league highlighted have invested quality time with hard work to help them arrive at this stage. The English Premier League kicked off in 1992 and it is arguably the highest revenue-generating competition in the world. Ours starts in 1990 but still in diapers, 31 years after. Let’s not even start talking about our road network or how many teams have the capacity to travel consistently by air to league venues. Reducing the risk of accidents and robbers attack. It is from such games that the European countries pick their players across all age-grades unlike our where we throw open the camps for cadet players, yet we find ourselves struggling to get a first 11 since those we pick fail the MRI tests. If we had the professional teams here playing matches and having their junior teams in the competition, picking players for the Golden Eaglets, Flying Eagles, etc would have been a piece of cake. Soccer crazy nations measure the game’s growth by the number of home-grown players in their national teams. The authorities of the game, FIFA, recognise the importance of this point and have instituted several incentives to drive the game’s development globally. FIFA, in its wisdom, provided funds for less-developed nations to embrace the game and bridge the gap between them and others. The cash is to improve on the facilities for the game to thrive in the 211 affiliate countries. 