Both Milan and Atalanta have been impressive at times this season and have a point to prove going into this game with the Rossoneri having won 13 of their opening 18 matches with one defeat and deservedly sit top of Serie A. Atalanta are currently in sixth place in the Serie A standings and have found their resurgence halted by consecutive draws in recent weeks. La Dea were held to a 1-1 stalemate by Udinese during the week and will need to take it up a notch on Saturday. AC Milan, on the other, have recovered from their defeat against Juventus earlier this month with two comprehensive victories in the Serie A. The Rossoneri have a three-point lead over arch-rivals Inter Milan at the moment and will want to win this game. AC Milan have been exceptional under Stefano Pioli over the past year and could make a massive statement in the title race with a victory in this game.  Pioli’s side lost 3-1 at home against Juventus but bounced back by defeating Torino 2-0 with Rafael Leao and Franck Kessié on target. AC Milan met Torino again in the Coppa Italia three days later, advancing 5-4 on penalties after a scoreless draw. Milan’s last match was a 2-0 win in Cagliari. Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored both goals in a 90-minute performance. Atalanta have a strong squad and are likely to test AC Milan’s depleted defence this weekend.  Atalanta had the opportunity to leap into third place on Wednesday, but back-to-back stalemates with Genoa and Udinese (the latter a rescheduled Week 10 fixture) have seen their progress stall. But Atalanta’s manager Gian Piero Gasperini hopes to keep up with the top teams in Serie A. “It’s important to remain in the group at the top, clearly Inter and Milan are apart,” Gasperini said at a press conference. “Every result is fundamental, but the positive streak is also important. “All of them struggle to respect the pace. “In general, we are in good shape, we are in good company. We must stay there; everything passes from the single matches. “We are close to the end of the first round, it’s always a good point to evaluate because you have played all the teams.” Head-to-Head AC Milan have a good Head-to-Head record against Atalanta and have won 14 matches out of a total of 36 games played between the two sides. Atalanta have managed 10 victories against the Rossoneri and can potentially trouble their opponents this weekend as they lost only one of their last 10 Serie A meetings with Milan, winning three and drawing six. .