 FORMER President John Dramani Mahama has joined other Ghanaians in condemning the military invasion of the Chamber of Parliament on Thursday, following the continued failure of lawmakers-elect to elect the Speaker for the Eighth Parliament. The soldiers, numbering about 20, emerged in the Chamber together with armed policemen ostensibly to restore calm in the Chamber. The well-armed security detail, with some having facemasks, came to the floor of Parliament at about 3.30 a.m. reportedly on the orders of the former Minister of Defence, Mr. Dominic Nitiwul. The appearance of the military rocked the nerves of the legislators, especially members of the National Democratic Congress (NDC). Singing the national anthem and other patriotic songs, the NDC MPs-elect resisted the presence of the military men in the Chamber, asking them to leave. Standing on their ground, the NDC MPs were heard saying that until the military left the Chamber, no vote for the next Speaker would take place. Soon after the military had vacated the chamber, calm was restored as MPs-elect resumed their seats. Later, the Marshal of Parliament told the House that it was his duty to protect the Members of Parliament. He invited the leadership of both the NDC and the New patriotic Party to a closed-door meeting to deliberate on ways to ensure the smooth conduct of the Speaker elections. About 30 minutes later, the leadership came back to the House to advise their members to endeavour to abide by the rules governing the voting processing. However, Mahama condemned the Member of Parliament (MP) for Tema West Carlos Ahenkorah for snatching ballot papers during the counting process to decide the Speaker of the House. In a congratulatory message to Alban Bagbin on his election as the Speaker of the 8th Parliament of the 4th Republic, the flagbearer of the NDC in the 2020 elections called on Parliament to investigate the military invasion of the House. “Congratulations Rt. Hon. Alban Sumani Kingsford Bagbin on your election as the Speaker of the 8th Parliament of the 4th Republic,” he wrote on his Facebook page. “The attempt to snatch ballot papers by the MP-elect for Tema West and the invasion of the Chamber by armed military personnel are images one had never expected to see in our 4th Republican Parliament. “The recent use of the military in civil democratic processes has become a major worry and gives the impression that this administration is continually seeking to resurrect the exorcised ghosts of our military past. Parliament must conduct an investigation into the two incidents and exact appropriate sanctions”, he stated. A security analyst Col. Festus Aboagy (retd) blame that the invasion on the part of service commanders. For him, it is dangerous for Ghana’s democracy to involve the military in matters that ought to be handled by the police. Speaking in an interview with Accra-based Joynews yesterday morning, Col. Aboagy said service commanders have the professional responsibility to advise politicians as to what they can do and what they cannot do. He stressed that “because we have been failing to over many years in telling politicians where the lines must be drawn, that is why the politicians are emboldened all the time to exert pressure in issues that the military must not be involved, and is a danger.” The National Democratic Congress’ (NDC) Member of Parliament for Tamale Central constituency, Ibrahim Mohammed Murtala, also called on the parliamentary leadership to properly investigate the military invasion of Ghana’s parliament during the election of a Speaker for the house in the early hours of Thursday, January 7, 2021. He said it was unnecessary that armed military personnel invaded the parliamentary chamber since parliament has its own security to handle matters in that respect. The Tamale Central MP was speaking to Accra-based Joynews in an interview at the Parliament house in Accra on Thursday, January 7, 2021. He alleged that it was the Defence Minister Dominic Nitiwul who called the military to the Parliamentary chamber, pointing out that he (Murtala) confronted him when he was making the call. But, President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo was sworn into office for a second four-year term yesterday as President. The Chief Justice Kwasi Anin Yeboah conducted the swearing-in, taking him through the required oaths. President Akufo-Addo was given the mandate to govern Ghana for the next four years from January 7, 2021, to January 6, 2025, following the declaration by the Electoral Commission (EC) that he was the winner of the presidential election held yesterday, December 7, 2020. Nana Akufo-Addo who contested the election on the ticket of the New Patriotic Party (NPP won with 6,730,413 votes which represents 51.295 per cent of the total valid votes cast. His closest competitor, Mahama got 6,214,889 votes representing 47.366 per cent. The total valid votes cast was 13, 434,574 representing 79 per cent of the total registered voters.