 HOW did you emerge as the queen? Let me say that among all the 50 delegates from Nigeria, I was picked to represent Nigeria in Turkey. You had different people submitting their details to apply for the pageant. That was the COVID year, was it easy preparing for a pageant during the period? I was prepared for it a year before that year. It was actually supposed to hold much earlier in April and then July. They kept shifting it. How were you feeling with the postponement? I was sad. I didn’t know if it will still hold because I have never had any opportunity to go for an international pageant before. Then I had my second experience and it was a very huge and I was super glad to be picked for it. When they started postponing it was as if this would let me down. Just before this I had another international pageant which was in February in India. I was also Miss Talent there. It was when I got back that the whole lockdown started. I tried my best to reach out to people out there. People who didn’t have resources for things like hand sanitizers, face masks and food. I was able to reach out to People and assist them which was quite fulfilling. The two pageants that you participated in were international pageants; COVID was out there, were you scared at all? I recall that before I went to India the whole thing had not started at all. So, there was no fear at all. When I came back there was a lockdown and I had never experienced a lockdown in my life. I was nervous, don’t tell me that the world is about to end. You heard people dying here and there. It was happening more outside the country and I was really pretty scared. Even some of the stories were scary, that it came China, Asia and all that. I was scared but I told myself, Amanda you are not going to get this virus. My belief also was that one day we will actually find the cure. What do you think gave you the edge over the others? My first pageant was an African pageant, Miss African Golden and I emerged winner in 2019. I was really determined to go for that. Instead of going for Nigerian pageant, I wanted something bigger and better. I also wanted to mingle with other African countries. It was a very great experience and when I went into that. Then I took another step and went for Miss Super Model Glow. It was quite challenging because it was my first international pageant but I was able to achieve what I set out for. I was able to represent Nigeria, not just that. I was able to make Nigeria proud. One thing that comes to mind is that anytime you travel out, you feel down because of the stories you hear about us. So, every time I keep telling them about the good part of Nigeria and they usually want to hear more. I also like to inspire other girls out there and give them advice on how to discover their skills and talents. I also tell them from experience that whatever happens in a competition, never give up. Even if you do not win, stay focused. That is what I always tell the girls. Interestingly, I came late to my second pageant because of flight delay. At that point, our border had not been opened and I was just praying. I almost lost it. You know, we had to do the COVID test before you travel and I didn’t even know where to do the test at first. So, I had to travel to Abuja and I did the first COVID test. They said it was late and I had to do it the day before I travel, then I had to do it again. All I wanted at that point was to travel and a very great experience and when I went into that. Then I took another step and went for Miss Super Model Glow. It was quite challenging because it was my first international pageant but I was able to achieve what I set out for. I was able to represent Nigeria, not just that. I was able to make Nigeria proud. That is what I always tell the girls. Interestingly, I came late to my second pageant because of flight delay. At that point, our border had not been opened and I was just praying. I almost lost it. You know, we had to do the COVID test before you travel and I didn’t even know where to do the test at first. So, I had to travel to Abuja and I did the first COVID test. They said it was late and I had to do it the day before I travel, then I had to do it again. All I wanted at that point was to travel and compete. So, I was able to travel to Turkey. This time around I traveled alone because my mum couldn’t make it there. What does it mean having your mum as your manager? When your mum is your backbone, you will actually succeed. It’s quite a pleasure for me.She has been so supportive from day one.  I started participating in pageants from school.  I went to Chelsea Primary school and then went onto Navy Secondary school. Is your father in the Navy? No! But my mum wanted me to join the Navy because when you are in the military, there is some respect. One thing I like is the neatness and the white uniform. Its really attractive and I kept admiring them as a young girl. The cadet is so amazing,  it was fun and my mum felt it will be powerful if a woman is in the military. Apart from that we are all girls in the family, four girls. What are your memories of school days? I had to cut my hair which was the rule and it actually took me days and weeks thinking about it. It was the first time I will ever cut my hair, right from childhood. When we go for competitions, the other girls did their hair. Everyone was always looking gorgeous with different hairstyles but we had no hair. What made you stand out? We were African queens.  In addition, people always loved our uniforms. We were actually always winning our competitions, either first or second position. The Navy School is filled with intelligent people and I am proud that I am from that school. Where did you go after Navy school? I went to Afe Babalola University and studied International Relations.  It was the first time I was going far away from home. My mum was worried,  she couldn’t even come to my matriculation.  I was sad initially but I just had to do my own thing. What are some of the things that you share in common with your mum? My Secrets! It’s with mum and never goes out. Also my relationships and people always say that we look alike. What plans for the future? Are you thinking of being a female president someday? Yes. You read my mind. I always see myself as a leader. And sometimes, I see myself as someone who   wants to help the Nation.  I want us to be on top. I want us to be great and powerful.  I also realise that anytime I am out there people always look up to mme.I mentor mostly young girls, they usually ask a number of questions that inspires me. Tell us about some of the memorable moments? After the pageant, I got a contract on Fashion TV, Turkey and I was modelling for them. They also have a pageant called Miss Fashion TV and they are inviting me to another pageant soon. Hopefully, I will make Nigeria Proud again. While I was working with them, we had a house where I stayed with other models to learn more and associate with other girls. There were so many lessons to learn and it was a real learning curve for me. Along the line, I had a group of younger girls who were being bullied by the older ones. I told them to be strong, outspoken and never allow anyone to look down on them. It worked and everyone was happy.