 The Christmas break usually offer this writer opportunity to feel the heartbeat of the Coal City. Considering the primary interest of the column – law and public power, I use it to gauge the exercise of public power in the state. Informally, I listen to complaints and praises and assess whether the custodians of public power are exercising same in tandem with the laws of the land or abusing it for personal aggrandizement. As we have seen in faraway United States of America, under President Donald Trump, public power can easily be abused, and yet passed off as public good, by a demagogue in office. Because of the kind of president Donald Trump is, the world is apprehensive of the transfer of power to the elected President Joe Biden tomorrow. What has been observed with pomp and pageantry within our living memory, has become a fearful ceremony because we have a demagogue in power. Many of the converts to Trump’s demagoguery are still hoping that by some strange means, Trump would still remain president, after he was defeated at the polls and the Electoral College. Many educated Nigerians in this league, have no respect for the sanctity of the electoral process. In their world of make-belief, where Trump is king, facts are ephemeral. In that world, you are free to choose what to belief, and you are entitled to vigorously defend it, facts be dammed. Those who said that power corrupts and absolute power corrupts absolutes are right, and it might as well be punned that power intoxicates and absolute power intoxicates absolutely. I have no doubt that in years to come, the word ‘Trump’ will come to designate promoting falsehood as truth or passing off lies as truth or something akin to that. With demagoguery not achieving the desired purpose, Trump’s supporters have since resorted to armed insurrection, in their misguided effort to retain power at all cost. As I write this piece, over 20,000 national security guards and affiliate security agencies have massed in Washington DC to forestall a repeat of the December 6, attack on the Capitol Hill. That day will go down in history as the day homemade thugs tried to torpedo American democracy. For his ignominious role as the chief promoter of the insurrection, President Trump has made history, as the first president to be impeached twice, while in office. It is projected that he will undergo trial when the Senate resumes under President Joe Biden. The speaker of the US Congress, Nancy Pelosi who was a target of the insurrectionists delivered on her promise to work for the impeachment of Trump despite the fear-mongering by Trump’s supporters. After the expiration of his tenure tomorrow, Trump will appreciate what it means to be down and out. Instead of being treated with respect for the office he held, he will be harangued and abused for a long time to come. Such is the disgrace that Trump’s presidency has brought on the most developed democracy in the world. Those who fool themselves that they have turned tin gods because of the position they occupy fail to heed the wise counsel that power is transient. If Trump is convicted and bared from ever holding federal public office, he will lose all the privileges of a former president, and as his arch rivals wish, he may end up in jail for his abuse of power. In our country, many public officials abuse their powers and privileges. The commonest of such abuses range in doing whatever they can to make life difficult for members of the opposition party. In many states, governors take pride in destroying the properties of their political opponents under the guise of maintaining physical planning. Behaving as if they will be in that privileged position for eternity, such governors delight in throwing their weight around. Some visit their opponents with physical violence using their minnows. In extreme cases, those who hold divergent political opinion are murdered, all in pursuit of transient power. In some states, prominent opposition members are afraid to visit their home states, and when they wish to do so, it is like going to the lion’s den. Of course, when the chief security officer of a state becomes the chief promoter of political violence, such state remain perpetually on edge. Interestingly, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, popularly known as Gburugburu, has towed a peaceful trajectory, in the Coal City, and I commend him for that. How he has been able to maintain peace across political divides in the state deserve a closer study. Of note, well regarded All Progressive Congress (APC) leaders in the state, like former senate president, Ken Nnamani, and a host of others, publicly acknowledge this record of peaceful disposition of Ugwuanyi. Of course, within the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), there are political disagreements, especially engineered by those planning to take over the state in the 2023 general elections. While political ambitions are legitimate, the governor has ensured that politics is not allowed to overshadow governance. It is encouraging that while the foot soldiers of the major gladiators are freely working for their masters, the political differences have not manifested in violence or palpable tension, and the governor deserves credit for that. Again, there are those who complain about land use in the state and many have approached this writer with complaints about it. Of particular interest was the land acquired for the Akanu Ibiam International Airport’s expanded runaway, with complaints that the land acquired was far bigger than what is needed. This column had encouraged the federal and state governments to collaborate to see the project through, so I had to take a trip to Emene to see for myself, and clearly the land acquired barely contained the runway. No doubt, that international airport is a legacy for President Buhari and Governor Ugwuanyi’s regimes, and a boost to the economy of the state. Enquiries also showed that many local and foreign investors now invest in the state, and the cost of virgin lands in the state has skyrocketed. So, in fairness to the state minders, the state is attracting foreign investments, as even part of my village’s farmland has transmogrified to concrete walls for a Free Trade Zone. Of course, for sustainable development, the state authority should ensure that the original owners of the land, get a piece of the cake. The other issue brought to the attention of this writer is the outstanding pension, particularly for members of the state library board. Agreed that the COVID-19 pandemic has rendered the national economy and by extension state governments’ coffers weak, this writer appeals for compassion. As we match into 2021, disagreements in Enugu State has not boiled over.