 All hell was let loose on December 6 after a 25-year-old man, Michael Chimezie Okorie, was allegedly killed by suspected revenue collectors around the popular head bridge in Onitsha, Anambra State. As the story goes, Okorie, a truck driver, was being pursued by revenue collectors when he lost control and rammed his Mercedes Benz 911 lorry marked ACA -178-XA l and loaded with timber into a concrete barricade. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was confirmed dead by doctors. In the wake of his death, hundreds of angry youths trooped out protesting against the conduct of the revenue collectors, blocking the highway with bonfires and chanting solidarity songs. Like Okorie, Isaac Kosud, a commercial tricycle operator in Tombia area of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, was allegedly killed by personnel of a special taskforce over N200 tax ticket on September 15, 2020. Kosud was said to have been brutalised by men of the taskforce attached to the Ministry of Transportation following an altercation when he could not produce his tax ticket. He was said to have been overpowered and beaten to stupor, leading to his death before he could receive medical attention at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) in the state capital. His tragic death triggered a riot as his colleagues went on the rampage, burning down the office of the taskforce on Swali Road. It will be recalled that a 38-year-old hairdresser, Toyin Ijiyemi, was allegedly killed by tax officials from Akure South Local Government Area of Ondo State in October 2017 for failure to pay tax. Ijiyemi died after she was pushed down by the council officials in a bid to confiscate some of the electronic items found in her shop, while the culprits fled the scene. Thugs employed as revenue collectors In recent times, not a few agencies of state, federal and local governments have resorted to employing political thugs as ad hoc tax collectors. Most of the time, the employees are supporters of the ruling parties and are engaged as a form of compensation for their support, especially during electioneering. Many of the incidents of brutality meted out to tax payers were carried out by these thugs in incidents recorded lately. This set of untrained revenue collectors lack the interpersonal skills and personal discipline to engage defaulting tax payers, hence they have deployed crude tactics to enforce tax payment. In the two recent cases, the ‘tax officials’ were reportedly under the influence of alcohol and hard substances. The account of a commercial tricycle operator otherwise called Keke rider in Bayelsa, identified simply as Comrade Dumo, hinted on the engagement of thugs as revenue collectors in the state. He said: “The people responsible for the death of our colleague are thugs employed by the authorities to enforce tax payment. They are always drunk, waiting on the road to enforce payment of fees and collection of tax from motorists and transporters. It was also learnt that the people arrested in respect of Ijiyemi’s death were thugs hired by the political leadership of the local government council to collect tax. “The political heads of the council are fond of bringing in outsiders to collect tax. I am sure that if they had allowed the regular staff to do their job, things like this would not happen. This is because the regular workers are well-trained about how to relate with members of the public,” a source said.  Way forward A tax management practitioner, Segun Iluyomade, called for an end to the deployment of thugs by authorities for tax collection, citing its consequences on general tax administration. Iluyomade said: “It is absurd that political thugs who are not skilled in the art of tax collection are being deployed as revenue or tax collectors. All they know how to do is the recourse to coercion which people most times are wont to resist, and this could lead to confrontation and brutality resulting in death or permanent disability on the part of erring tax payers. “This development is an image deficit for any government and underscores the need to discontinue the practice and involve adequately skilled or trained personnel in enforcing tax payment.” Williams Anaba, founder of Tax Pluggers, a Lagos-based tax management and consultancy firm, admonished authorities to initiate community-based awareness campaign on the need for residents, artisans and those in the informal sector to pay their taxes regularly. He said: “Instead of embarking on forcible enforcement with thugs, the first thing to do is to carry out awareness campaign to enlighten people on their constitutional obligation with regard to regular tax payment. “Enforcement should be the last thing rather than use it at the outset as a means of collecting revenue from people. If you harass people unnecessarily without preparing their mind for a statutory cause, it would always result in negative reactions from them. “Using thugs to carry out tax enforcement is an indictment on the capability of revenue staff, most of who are trained to carry out such function in the first place, and this should be discouraged.” He also said there was a need to generate a data base for artisans and traders for effective revenue collection. ”Genuine engagement with the leadership of traders, transporters, artisans and other players in the informal sector of the economy should be made in such a way that it could lead to development of a strong data base for seamless revenue collection. “For example, the Lagos State Government under the administration of ex-Governor Babatunde Fashola developed a data base for taxi drivers and artisans’ associations in the state, such that it was easy for the state tax authorities to interface with the leadership of the taxi drivers for revenue collection without using force. “The same template was developed for artisans and traders through a data base developed in conjunction with the leadership of traders and artisans in the state, which enables members to pay taxes and revenue through the leadership of federating associations without any hassle. “This initiative should be emulated by other state governments.”