Ibadan Lagos chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the weekend endorsed Oyo Governor Seyi Makinde as leader of the party in the Southwest. Lagos PDP leaders gave the endorsement after a meeting with Makinde at the Agodi Government House, Ibadan where they also appreciated what they described as the outstanding role the Governor has played in the party within and outside the region. The party leaders also pledged unflinching loyalty to the leadership of Makinde in the Southwest PDP, saying his leadership style is exemplary. The Deputy Chairman of the PDP in Lagos State, Alhaji Waliu Hassan and the former House of Representative member, Hon Rita Orji, who spoke to newsmen shortly after a stakeholders meeting, urged the Governor to continue his leadership roles. They said members of the PDP in Lagos have agreed to continually resolve their crisis amicably to ensure that the party takes over the baton of leadership come 2023. The duo said: “The purpose of today’s meeting, to be very precise, is to thank Governor Makinde for standing by the party and to pledge total loyalty to his leadership of the Southwest. No more, no less. “We can tell you that the governor does not want anything from us. He, as the Chief Security Officer of Oyo State, needs nothing from the party, rather we are the ones who came all the way from Lagos, to plead with him to keep leading the party. “We resolved to, irrespective of any rancor, move the party forward and we will ensure that the party takes its better seat in 2023. “We did not come here to discuss who takes anything for zonal congress. The congress will soon come up and for all we care, we have come to restate our commitment to our own governor, ‘Seyi Makinde, and we stand by him anywhere he is going on the issue of the Southwest.” They said the full structure of the Lagos PDP Executive attended the meeting, including 12 executive council members out of 19 as well as all the 17 non -working committee members. “Yes, it is the full structure of Lagos that is represented here. Out of 19, we have the representation of 12 local government chairmen. And we also have 17 complete non-wor Caretaker zonal Chairman of the party, Dayo Ogungbenro, who was also present at the meeting, said Governor Makinde remains the undisputed leader of the party in the region. Ogungbenro called on leaders like former Ekiti Governor Ayodele Fayose and others to rally round Makinde with a view to forming a formidable party for future elections.