Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Executive in Kwara state Monday rejected the purported replacement of Hon Bashir Bolarinwa as their chairman with his deputy Abdullahi Samari by the party’s NEC. The APC members also alleged that the said letter of appointment being paraded by Alhaji Samari on the social media did not emanate from the national headquarters of APC. Addressing reporters in Ilorin, the state capital, the caretaker vice chairman Theophilus Oyebiyi said that Hon Bolarinwa had consistently remained impeccable, adding that “Hon Bolarinwa who led the party to 100 percent victory in the last general elections deserves to be celebrated and greatly rewarded. He remains our state chairman. All of us had the equanimity of mind and character to work together for victory at that time… why not now? “The decision to embark on this unlawful route is said to be based on a purported suspension of Hon Bolarinwa by the state erstwhile exco. This is at best a wicked concoction and nothing can be farther from the truth. “As erstwhile exco we are not aware of any wrongdoing that would have warranted any enquiry let alone investigation and a far reaching decision of suspending Hon Bolarinwa as the state chairman. “Hon Bolarinwa presided over our last three working committee meetings of which all members attended on 16th, 30th November 2020 and December 7th, 2020. All records of those meetings are available. Where and when did the suspension take place when NEC decision was on 8th December? “It is unfortunate that the national body of our party will rely on any purported suspension as contained in Samari’s letter displayed in the social media. Neither did Hon Bolarinwa see the petition, not to talk of defending himself if there was any. “As progressives and members of a party that prides itself as respecter of the rule of law, it should be expected that we carry out due diligence at all times, respect our constitution, follow our rules and be above board in dealing with all our party’s affairs.”