 OMONIYI Temidayo Raphael aka Zlatan Ibile needs no introduction in the Nigerian music space. The Ekiti state born singer, rapper, dancer, and songwriter has grown tremendously in his art over the years. The music star has found fame and fortune with the superb use of ad-libs which he describes as the aroma and seasoning in his songs. Zlatan has succeeded in playing a part by making numerous hits on songs such as Am I a Yahoo Boy by Naira Marley, what type of dance by Dj Kaywise, Cash App by Bella Shmurda, and Killin dem with Burna Boy. Zlatan’s collaboration with Burna Boy earned them several awards including Best Collaboration at the Headies 2019 and Song of the Year at the 2020 Soundcity MVP Awards Festival among others. Although some of his ad-lib processes released videos online turn out to be very funny, his fans’ reactions to these videos are amazing. Born on December 19, 1994, Zlatan is also known for his popular slang such as kapaichumarimarichopaco, Ayi, Hasta la vista, Gbebody eh, Kurombe, and Alaye. Zlatan’s music career kicked off when he was 19 years after he contested and won the Airtel ‘One Mic Campus Tour’ music competition held in Abeokuta in the year 2014 while he studied at Moshood Abiola Polytechnic. In a recent interview Zlatan recounted his life before fame, he said “Before fame things were hard, from doing bricklayer to cutting grass in someone’s foundation, working in a cold room and going to Game Center to gamble so I can see money to eat, the school I didn’t attend on time finally helped me. “When I finally gained admission, in like two months before my first-semester exam one competition came up back then that if you have any talent you should buy a sim card of N50 and you would win a car I didn’t believe it so I didn’t go, my friend, then but the sim card for me and brought it to me in the class and I filled and participated in the competition and won the car and I said to myself this thing I have not been taking seriously I have won a car with it so I said to myself I have to be serious with this hustle. I used the car to do cab business for three years and did not blow ” said Zlatan. He made his introduction into the Nigerian music space in 2017 with the release of his single titled My Body featuring Olamide Badoo. Zlatan further gained full recognition after he featured alongside Lil Kesh in the song Able God by Chinko Ekun. He released the hit song Osanle featuring Davido, he then assisted Burna Boy on his hit single Killin Dem and then his popularity increased when he was featured on Naira Marley’s hit single Am I Yahoo Boy before his own hit song Zanku which was accompanied by a dance routine of the same name, also known as ‘Leg work’. He released a 17 track album titled Zanku in 2019 and an Extended Play (EP) titled RoadToCDK in 2020 comprising of five tracks. In 2021 he has however dropped Lagos anthem and my life, both songs have also proved to be hit by the self-acclaimed ‘World President’ Zlatan showed off his son on Instagram for the first time on Children’s Day last year, the singer shared a picture of the toddler Toluwalase Shiloh Ainoghena Omoniyi who was given birth on the 29th of March 2020 which he had with his Baby Mama Davita Lamai from their love relationship which was discovered after he posted pictures on his Instagram. Davita is a graduate of the University of Kent and she resides in the United Kingdom.