FMDQ Securities Exchange has approved the quotation of the N15 billion commercial paper issuance by Total Nigeria Plc and N2 billion by Mixta Real Estate Plc. The Exchange also approved the registration of a N20 billion commercial paper programme by Valency Agro Nigeria Limited. The N2.25 billion Series 1 and N12.75 billion Series 2 Commercial Papers (CP) were issued by Total Nigeria under its N30 billion CP issuance programme. Mixta Real Estate issued its N2 billion Series 32 Commercial Paper under its N20 billion CP issuance programme. The new admission renewed hopes for the continued development of the financial markets as corporates have already commenced with planning towards the achievement of their strategic goals and objectives. The CP market, even during the ‘high-points’ of the COVID-19 pandemic last year, has continued to provide succour to both private and public institutions as we begin the new year. FMDQ stated that it has, through innovative evolution, continued to avail its credible and efficient platform as well as tailor its listings and quotations services to suit the needs of issuers and its registration members. According to FMDQ, the debut issuance of Total Nigeria’s CP, following a volatile period for the oil and gas industry as disrupted by the pandemic, demonstrated confidence in the  debt capital market to support the vibrance of this sector and, in turn, reactivate  the economy. FMDQ noted that the issuance by Total Nigeria attracted significant demand from many investors. Managing Director, Total Nigeria Plc, Mr. Imrane Barry, explained that the CP programme was set up to enable the company further broaden its sources of capital by accessing funding from the debt capital markets. while also reducing its overall funding costs. He thanked investors for supporting the company’s debut issue and commended the financial advisers for ensuring the success of the Issue despite the challenging environment. Head, Debt Capital Markets, Stanbic IBTC Capital, Tokunbo Aturamu, expressed delight that Total Nigeria has joined the growing list of blue-chip corporates who have embraced CP issuances in the Nigerian debt capital markets as a means of funding their working capital requirements. Managing Director, Valency International Pte Ltd, Mr. Sunil Dhanuka, said the successful registration of Valency Agro’s N20 billion CP issuance programme was in line with the vision to grow within the agricultural value chain in Nigeria. He said Valency Agro is committed to ensure the growth of the agriculture sector through deep involvement in Cashew, Sesame, Cocoa and other produce. He outlined that net proceeds from the CP programme would be used towards meeting the midterm working capital requirements of the various agricultural produce and on value addition prior to export. With double-digit inflation rates and soaring food prices compounded by the growing Nigerian population, it has become more imperative to catalyse the country’s agricultural value chain transformation in a bid to drive increased and sustainable production of agricultural products as well as foreign earnings through exports. Valency Agro Nigeria Limited (Valency Agro), is incorporated in Nigeria as a private limited liability company under Valency International Pte Limited (Valency International) – an International commodity trading house with its presence in over 15 countries – deals in the sourcing, production, and trading of Agro and consumer food products.   