  Air accidents are becoming a sore point in global aviation, prompting relevant regulatory and enforcement agencies to tighten the noose on airlines, airport authorities, air navigation service providers, aviation fuel suppliers and others who interface with  airplanes. From pilots and other crew members to flight dispatchers, aircraft engineers and others preparing the airplane for take off and landing, susceptibility to human error in the travel value chain is becoming a problem. Last week, Accident Investigation Bureau -Nigeria  (AIB-N) organised a conference in Lagos to examine ways of preventing human factors in air disasters. AIB Commissioner and Chief Executive Officer, Akin Olateru, said there was the need for players and stakeholders in the air transport value chain to understand why air accidents are dominated by human failures. Olateru said though other factors besides human failure could lead to  air accidents, it was important to look at meteorology, poor adherence to regulatory procedures and how technological advancement was exposing the weakness of human capacity. On his part, Director-General of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Captain Nuhu Musa said air accidents were not only giving Nigeria concern, but also that the global aviation network was getting agitated over increasing accident rates and the knotty issues  on human-machine interface. He said a review of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Safety Report of 2020 indicated that globally, there were 114 aviation accidents, six of which were fatal in 2019. This 2019 global accident rate of 2.9 accidents per million departures, he said,  was  the highest in the past five years and represented an increase of 12 per cent from the 2018 figure. According to the NCAA chief, the same report showed that the African Indian Ocean (AFI) Region, to which Nigeria belongs, recorded an accident rate of 2.8 accidents per million departures, though with one of the least estimated departures. The 1,440,70 figure  represented only 3.8 per cent share of total global traffic. This was one of the highest accidents rates per region globally. “It is common knowledge, widely propagated within the industry, that at least 70 per cent of aviation accidents are attributed  to human factors. However, a review of the Commercial Aviation Safety Team (CAST)/ICAO Common Taxonomy Team (CICTT) for occurrence categories has shown that there is no category of these occurrences ascribed to ‘Human Factors,” Musa said. He stated that a review of the various CICTT categories had  shown that human beings are   involved in or interface with the occurrence categories. ”This is the reason the Safety Management Systems (SMS) classifies the  statement as a misconception as humans (especially frontline personnel) interface in almost, if not all probable causes of aviation accidents at the different stages of either design, production/manufacture, organisational, operational and maintenance processes and procedures. “Human Factors can fundamentally and best be described as the Matching the Man (Person) to the Job and Matching the Job to the Man under the prescribed conditions. “This implies compatibility of the person to the job in preparing, adapting, enabling, equipping and conforming the person to perform the assigned task to achieve the design and expected objectives. Any mismatch will contribute to human error and is a precursor to an accident. “One of the best ways to explain the ‘Human Factors’ contributory role in aviation accidents is a review of the SHELL Model made popular by Hawkins in 1987, which is a conceptual tool used to analyse the interaction of multiple system components, including interactions with other Liveware. In the SHELL Model, Musa said,  the component   classified as Software  includes  current, effective and applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders, policies, instructions, directives, Standard Operating Procedures as the  norms and best practices that establish and ensures the implementation of the functions, responsibilities and accountabilities of an organisation. Other ways to explain the human factors’ contributory role in aviation accidents, according to the NCAA DG, falls under hardware, comprising the human-machine systems interface. This, he said, also  includes the operating equipment -aircraft, simulator displays, matching the sensory and information processing characteristics of the operator and controls with proper movement. Environment, Musa explained,  represents E in the model, which refers to those interactions which may or may not be out of the control of persons, namely the physical  temperature, weather, physiological and psychological environments but within which aircraft operations must continue to take place. “Among these different components of the SHELL Model, the Liveware,’’ Musa said,  ‘’is the critical focus and represents the human component of the aviation ecosystem.‘’ He continued: ”These are the frontline personnel – flight crews, engineers and maintenance personnel  and the management and administration staff, who are  usually removed far away from the frontline, but whose decisions impact massively on the outcomes of the operations. “Human factors in aviation occurrences are, therefore, most times seen as the negative consequence of the liveware dimension in this interactive ecosystem.” He, therefore, called on participants at the conference to critically review the relationship between the liveware components and the other components of the aviation ecosystems and devise means towards achieving an effective and seamless safe aircraft operation and, therefore, preventing accidents due to human errors. According to him, areas to be exploited include: “Individual and organisational compliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements and conformance to approved policies and procedures, which must be implementable; design and production of the operating equipment to achieve its intended design objectives with optimal reliability and their adaptability for compatibility and fitness to the operator; implementation of Safety Management Systems (SMS) for identification of operational hazards, associated safety risks and implementation of appropriate risk management strategies to mitigate safety risks to acceptable and tolerable levels; and where  application of appropriate enforcement actions where motivational intent to violate statutory and regulatory requirements are established to serve as deterrent, among others. “If you get it right, birds will fly, but if you get it wrong, people may die. “We do not want to get it wrong and we do not want to have blood on our hands.The primary responsibility of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority is public safety and this is what we must assure through our safety oversight and shared responsibilities with the certified entities and licensed personnel. “We must jettison the tag of being a reactive people to that of being proactive and predictive, where we must not allow existing latent conditions including those associated with human errors to precipitate into incidents and accidents.” Former NCAA DG, Dr Harold Demuren said while training and retraining of aviation personnel remain critical in reducing human factor to air accidents. He, however, cautioned that operators should remember that the industry has one regulator. Demuren said as much as AIB releases safety recommendations to airlines, regulators and other aeronautical agencies, such prescriptions, were merely advisory and not mandatory. A representative of the Airline Operators of Nigeria (AON), Captain Akin George said the human  factor could be reduced if operators ramp up their safety culture by reducing risks to tolerable levels. On his part, President Nigerian Air Traffic Controllers Association  (NATCA), Aboyomi Agoro harped on improved training of air traffic management personnel as well as better working environment to prevent air accidents. President,  National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) Abednego Galadima said though statistics confirm human factor as constituting 75 per cent to air accidents; improvement in organisational communication,  pressure and fatigue management as well as organisational safety norms could mitigate air accidents. He urged airlines and other organisations to take proactive steps in monitoring trends and its analysis in addition to eliminating distractions in the work environment to reduce human factor role in air accidents. President,  Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative  (ASRTI), Dr Gbenga Olowo wondered why the AIB  did not draw up a case study  to enable participants dissect how the human factor could be reduced. Chief Executive Officer, Centurion Securities, Group Captain John Ojikutu (rtd) urged the authorities to examine the role contaminated aviation fuel play in air accidents. He said questions had been raised in many air accidents on the quality of aviation fuel used by aircraft that crashed. Such disturbing development, Ojikutu said, needs further probe by the authorities.  