A widow Mrs Mfon Udoidiong on Thursday told the Panel of Investigating Police Brutality in Akwa Ibom that a policeman, Mr. Idongesit Ekanem killed her son after demanding hundred naira from him on September 9th, 2017. She made the revelation at the resumption of two weeks break of the Panel at the High court complex in Uyo. Udoidiong, a petty trader said her son, Mr Imo Udoidiong came home from Uyo city Polytechnic where he schooled and decided to visit a viewing center. Continuing with her ordeal, she said after some hours his friend came to announce that her son was shot dead by a police officer who demanded money from him but did not oblige. Udoidiong said the family of the police officer involved only supported her with two hundred thousand naira to buy a coffin and bury the son, adding that since then she was neglected and the police had not shown concern. “Family of the police officer promised to give me 1, 000, 0000 naira for me to move on with my life. But till today nobody has given me anything. “They (family of the suspect) only gave me 200,000 naira to buy a coffin to bury my son. A mechanic engineer, Mr. Ubong Monday who was an eyewitness told the panel that the deceased was his classmate in secondary whom he met on his way to buy spare parts. Monday narrated that late Udoidiong asked for an assistant to reach where he was going since he was using a motorcycle. He said “close to Ukanafun stadium, some policemen stopped us and demanded hundred naira before we could pass. “We told them that we do not have money to give, and my friend went down from the motorcycle to meet the leader of the patrol in their vehicle for an explanation. “Then the Senior officer told them to allow us to pass. When Udoidiong tried to climb back the bike, Ekanem (the suspect) came with his friend and attack him with sticks for reporting him. “Not satisfied, Ekanem went and brought a gun, corked it, and shot Udoidiong who died instantly. “When queried on why he shot the victim at the police station in Ukanafun, Ekanem said it was an accidental discharge,” he said. Meanwhile, the Counsel to the petitioner, Mr Augustine Udoh has prayed the court to drag the suspected police who was said to have been dismissed from service to appear for questioning on the matter. However, the Panel headed by Justice Ifiok Ukana adjourned the case to January 21, 2021, for further hearing.