  The financial value of appeals pending at the Tax Appeal Tribunal (TAT) Southwest Zone, sitting in Ibadan, Oyo State, exceeded N11billion at the end of year 2020, The Nation has learnt. TAT’s Zonal Administrator, Mr Hilary Onwe, said appeals from Ogun State were the highest in number in the year under review. The tribunal sits in eight zones across the country, with the Southwest Zone covering five states: Oyo, Ogun, Osun, Ondo and Ekiti. In a chat with The Nation, Onwe reviewed the zone’s activities for the year. He said the zone resolved disputes valued at billions of naira in the outgone year, adding that the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) also patronised the tribunal. Onwe noted that the zone’s panel chaired by Mr Akinmade Ajibola, comprised of experts in tax law, tax administrators and professionals “who are poised to deliver on the tribunal’s mandate”. He added: “The Chairman of the Southwest zone of the tribunal, Hon. Akinmade Ajibola, had during an event put together to wrap up activities of the tribunal in the outgone year, called on tax payers and tax authorities alike, to take advantage of the tribunal to resolve whatever tax disputes or tax related questions that confront them. “As the new year begins and tax activities gear up, especially in the new awakening of governments at all levels that tax revenue is the most sustainable source of revenue open to governments to fund public expenses, many tax issues and questions are bound to arise. “It is only apposite that such tax issues and questions are turned over to the Tax Appeal Tribunal, a specialised tax dispute resolution agency, quick, balanced in approach, knowledgeable and conversant with tax laws and taxation, to timeously and professionally lead the light in the resolution of such disputes, so as not to tie down tax revenues through unending litigation and processes that drag.” TAT was established pursuant to section 59(1) of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) Act of 2007, with the mandate to resolve tax disputes between tax payers and all levels of tax authorities, whether federal or state. Although a deemed civil court, with attendant powers, TAT is inclined to substantial tax justice devoid of the penchant for technicalities as obtainable in the regular courts. Processes at the Tax Appeal Tribunal are time-saving, business-like, convenient, pocket-friendly and at the same time professional.