Nobody knows what it takes to be Garba Shehu. Or what efforts go into the task. Perhaps being Shehu surpasses donning face powder, a poker face, and disdain for everything and everyone perceived to be anti-herdsmen and anti-Buhari. If that is the case, Shehu’s misery is understandable. Torn between extreme loyalty to herdsmen and his principal, President Muhammadu Buhari, Shehu seems confused about his responsibilities as the Special Assistant, Media, and Publicity to the President. Should his loyalty to Buhari and his beloved herdsmen tower above human lives, justice, peace, and stability of the country? It wasn’t surprising to see him condemn Governor Rotimi Akeredolu over his seven-day ultimatum to killer herdsmen cum illegal occupants of Ondo State’s forest reserve. Few months ago, he incurred flak for stating that the 78 rice farmers murdered by Boko Haram in Zabarmari, Borno State, didn’t receive security clearance before venturing into their farms. In a frantic reaction to widespread criticism, he said, “I’m human with tons of compassion and empathy, and could not have said that the victims deserved their fate for ignoring security clearance.” Being human requires Shehu to understand that it is easier to sermonise and issue contemptuous rationalisations when you aren’t the one on the receiving end of the carnage. It is easier to ask victims of violence to maintain a stiff upper lip when its not your wives and daughters being raped and abducted; when its not your parents and siblings being butchered in their beds and while working on their farms; when it’s not your home being burnt to rubble; and when you aren’t the one who has to sleep with one eye closed in dread of bandits and killer-herdsmen perpetually prowling your neighbourhood to invade your home. If only he understands, that, his job as a media aide renders him vulnerable to crucifixion and ideological dismemberment. Yes, money could be made alongside diplomatic perks but the media aide soon loses honour, humaneness, and identity to political high jinks. He suffers the conversion of passion to immoderate zest. Shehu and cohorts must understand that where the collective good is sacrificed to a whirl of expediences and officialese, misrepresentation and errant loyalty, government cartwheels in repute and stymies in the gross continuum of inhumaneness. It’s understandable that Shehu would do everything to protect President Buhari’s interests – which sadly, does not include “humble service” to every human and geographic segment of the country. On their watch, armed bandits and killer-herdsmen are allowed to terrorise the country without fear of repercussion. Yet he feels Buhari is being misunderstood and unfairly criticised. In Shehu’s contrived Eldorado, Buhari is a great worker perhaps, a humane leader, who is just, compassionate, brilliant. A quintessential statesman. You could be forgiven for Laughing Out Loud (LOL) – as the digital natives would say. It’s about time Shehu startled awake from his alternate universe; in Nigeria and on his principal’s watch, innocent folk are being hacked to death by armed bandits, and murderous herdsmen. Some of them are impostors. And some have been identified as Fulani. While Governor Akeredolu was tame in his description of herdsmen’s insolence and deadly exploits in Ondo, Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho wasn’t so mild; he ordered all Fulani out of Yoruba land over the killings perpetrated by suspected herdsmen in Igangan, Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State. Recently, Dr. Fatai Aborode, a prominent farmer and politician was murdered by suspected herdsmen near his farm in the area. Igboho’s ultimatum and subsequent storming of Igangan to the applause of a large, irate mob should be instructive to Shehu and his boss. But lest we tar an entire tribe for the sins of a few criminals among them, it is noteworthy that even the Fulani suffer wanton attacks from bandits and killer-herdsmen. The chairman of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association in Ibarapa, Muhammed Bello, told Premium Times that it was wrong for Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho, to associate all Fulani herdsmen with criminality. He said they are also desirous peaceful environment, narrating how one Alhaji Anji was kidnapped twice. The kidnappers reportedly asked for N3 million but he was able to raise half of it with the promise that if released, he would work hard to get their balance. After he was freed, his abductors kept calling him to ask for their balance, prompting Anji to report to the police. But to everybody’s surprise, he was kidnapped again and beaten mercilessly by the same set of people until he paid the balance, said Bello. Shame that the incumbent government is bereft of ideas at ridding Nigeria of armed banditry and the killer-herdsmen. Sometimes, the culprits emerge straddling classifications as armed bandits cum killer-herdsmen. Former finance minister, Olu Falae, who was kidnapped and released after paying N5 million ransom, said he was kidnapped by six herdsmen, Abubakar Auta, Bello Jannu, Umaru Ibrahim, Masahudu Muhammed, and Idris Lawal, at his Ilado farm in Akure, Ondo State. He said, “Only two of them could speak some English. They were between the ages of 25 and 35. They were Fulani, they spoke Hausa.” Falae said his ordeal was closely connected to his conflict with herdsmen who consistently invaded his farm over three years. He said, “Because I have a dam on the farm, they like to bring their cattle there to drink water, then they eat other people’s crops…They ate up my maize farm, two hectares. We took pictures, and it was videoed, the police went there. They were asked to pay compensation, they begged and paid half of what we claimed and we accepted it,” he said. Eventually, the culprits were arrested and sentenced to life imprisonment by an Akure High Court. But while Falae was able to secure justice, lots of impoverished families have been left bereaved and traumatised after suffering worse ordeal without justice. Over the last decade, more than 8,000 people have been killed – mainly in Zamfara state – with over 200,000 internally displaced and about 60,000 fleeing into Niger Republic. The violence is aggravating other security challenges: it has forced more herders southward into the country’s Middle Belt, thus increasing herder-farmer tension in the region and beyond. Overwhelmed by the attacks, Zamfara Governor, Bello Matawalle offers two cows for every AK-47 rifle surrendered by ‘repentant’ bandits. It is instructive that he chose to give them cows and not farmlands – apparently because of their history and reality as rogue herdsmen. Of course, there are herdsmen doing legitimate business but they are carelessly blamed for the sins of criminal elements among them. Yet President Buhari, speaking through Shehu, expects victims of herdsmen attacks, like the natives of Ibarapa in Oyo State, to bear their ordeal in good faith. Perhaps he wants them to desert their farms and homes like the poor, helpless natives of the northeast and northwest, who were forced to flee their once peaceful abodes to live as Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). Those who dare protest are beaten and brutalised by soldiers escorting herdsmen to graze and destroy farms as it happened in Yewa North Local Government Area, Ogun State on December 19, 2020.