A 60-year- old Mogaji in Ibadan (name withheld) has been arrested for allegedly abusing two female minors, who are siblings. The suspect, who was rescued by men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence (NSCDC) from irate youths who wanted to burn down his house at Fanawole area of Apete on Monday, is being grilled by the NSCDC. The suspect, who was identified as Mogaji of Ori Aare compound, was rescued by NSCDC men at about 9:00 am on Monday. He was accused of tricking the two girls – 17 and 13 – into his house while he made them shave their pubic hair. Afterwards, he allegedly packed the hair in a piece of paper each, added alligator pepper and asked them to go and bury it around their house. He also allegedly warned the children against telling their parents or anybody about their encounter. It was learnt that bubble burst when the children could no longer keep the secret the following day. They were said to be troubled, believing that the man might have set them up for the ritual. As a smart solution, they engaged their grandmother and requested her to take them to her spiritualist for cleansing. Bewildered by the request, the old woman was said to have probed further why they needed the help of a spiritualist. In the interaction, they confessed that they had an encounter with the suspect the previous day and narrated all that transpired. The grandmother was said to have led the children to the suspect’s house and confronted him about their claim. Interaction between the two adults was said to have degenerated to a noisy argument, which attracted the attention of neighbours. On learning about the incident, youths in the area were said to have mobbed the house, preparing to set it on fire with the suspect inside when a neighbour alerted men of the NSCDC, who immediately raced there and rescued him. He was taken to the headquarters of the command at Agodi for investigations. Confirming the incident, the Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the corps in the state, Mr Oluwole Olusegun, said the suspect claimed the children came to him for spiritual assistance which he rendered. Olusegun added the victims also alleged that the suspect inserted his finger into their private parts. Having grilled him and the two victims, Olusegun said the corps had ordered a medical examination of the two girls to ascertain their claim. He said the case would go for prosecution if the evidence is established against the suspect.