The Imo State deputy governor, Prof. Placid Njoku has called for the encouragement of Nigerian herbalists, scientists and researchers to explore the use of local traditional herbs in the effective treatment of the dreaded COVID-19 for the use of Nigerians. Prof. Njoku made the call when the members of the Imo State chapter of the National Association of Nigeria Traditional Medicine Practitioners (NANTMP) paid him a courtesy visit in his official residence in Owerri. While commending traditional medicine practitioners on “the great and serious impact they are making in the state”, the deputy governor tasked them to be more organized, engage in proper training and research and act with a great notion of providing healthcare to the people. Prof. Njoku noted that there is great power in the herbs that God gave to Nigerians, noting that if those herbs could be utilized judiciously, there would be the cure for many illnesses and diseases ravaging the world including the dreaded Coronavirus. He added that before the advent of orthodox medicine, Nigerian people used traditional herbs to treat different ailments and diseases successfully. The deputy governor assured that the state government would support any move to research and put to good use leaves and herbs confirmed to cure certain illnesses. He urged them to use their God-given talents to grow and develop the healthcare system for the benefit of all. Chairman of NANTMP, Amarachukwu Nwike, said they came to assure the deputy governor of their readiness to operate within the confines and policies of the government and its agencies. Nwike stated that the association has the necessary and required potentials capable of uplifting the standard of alternative medicine in the state, disclosing that they have also made arrangements to partner with NAFDAC and the Consumer Protection Council for production of scientifically synthesized herbal medicines that would stand the test of time and also have a far-reaching advantage on the health of the people.