President Muhammadu Buhari has nominated Mr Aghughu Adolphus for the office of the Auditor-General of the Federation (AGF). Adolphus, who has served as Acting Auditor-General since October 2020, following the retirement of the former AGF, Mr. Anthony Mkpe Ayine, hails from Edo State. According to a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters, Senator Babajide Omoworare, Buhari had already forwarded his letter of nomination to the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Lawan. “President Muhammadu Buhari has nominated Mr. Aghughu Arhotomhenla Adolphus for appointment as the Auditor-General of the Federation pursuant to Section 86(1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). “Mr. Aghughu has been acting as the Auditor-General since the voluntary retirement of Mr. Anthony Mkpe Ayine from service upon attainment of the mandatory retirement age of 60 (sixty) years on 25th October 2020. “The Auditor-General designate hails from Edo State and, holds a master’s degree in Economics; he is a Fellow of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Member of the Nigerian Institute of Management and Associate member of Chartered Institute of Taxation. “He became an Auditor in the Office of the Auditor-General in 1992 and was promoted to the rank of Director of Audit in January 2016,” statement said. The President also nominated Barrister Victor Muruako for appointment as Chairman of the Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC). This was also contained in the same statement issued by Senator Omoworare and made available to State House Correspondents on Wednesday. “In a related development, the President has also nominated Barr. Victor Chinemerem Muruako for appointment as Chairman for the Fiscal Responsibility Commission in accordance with provision of section 5(3) of the Fiscal Responsibility Act 2007. “Barr. Muruako, a legal practitioner had served as the Secretary to the Fiscal Responsibility Commission and currently acts as the Chairman of the Commission. He is from Imo State. “Both letters of nomination have been forwarded to the Senate President, Senator Ahmad Ibrahim Lawan for confirmation by the Senate,” the statement said.