As the crisis over the appointment of Mr. Effiong Akwa as Sole Administrator of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) deepens, his kinsman have risen in defence of the embattled appointee. The struggle over the control of the NDDC has assumed a troubling dimension in the last one year as the Federal Government continued to experiment with different leadership options for the agency. Recall that President Muhammadu Buhari, had in 2020, disbanded the constituted Governing Board of the NDDC without allowing it to function, after the members were dully confirmed by the Senate. The Interim Management Committee (IMC) that was constituted to run the affairs of the agency following the disbandment of the Board also ran into crisis as the IMC also ran into humongous financial scandals. The IMC was subsequently disbanded with the government appointing Akwa as sole administrator, a development that has sparked disagreements among the nine states with stakes in the NDDC. Stakeholders in eight of the nine states have kicked against Akwa’s appointment on grounds that he hailed from Akwa Ibom where the Minister of the Niger Delta Ministry, Senator Godswill Akpabio also comes from. However, Akwa’s kinsmen in Oron community, Akwa Ibom have risen to defend the appointment, saying that he was appointed by President Muhammadu Buhari strictly on merit, and that Akpabio did not impose him on the NDDC. At a news conference in Abuja on Tuesday, the Oron Union (Abuja chapter) declared that Akwa was “a leader with capacity and capability to effectively confront the developmental challenges bedeviling the Niger Delta region”. In an address read by its President, Mr Remigius Edebianga, the Oron Union accused some unnamed leaders in the region of peddling falsehood that Akwa is not from any of the oil producing communities of the Niger Delta. The Union expressed the readiness to resist any attempt to tarnish Akwa’s image, “by those bent on putting the oil-rich region perpetually on the map for the wrong reasons”. Edebianga said: “The allegation that Barr. Effiong Akwa was unilaterally imposed as the sole administrator of NDDC by the Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio is false. “Akwa was first appointed by Mr. President in October 2020 to fill the position of Executive Director, Finance and Administration, which was vacant following the death of Ibanga Etang in the recently dissolved Interim Management Committee, IMC. “The President’s appointment of Akwa as the Sole Administrator of NDDC followed a High Court judgment, which declared the Professor Keme Pondei-led IMC illegal. “Since Barr. Akwa was not joined in the suit; it therefore became expedient for Mr. President to elevate him to that position to engender continuity and stability in the management of the NDDC. “It is a figment of imagination and insults to the person of Mr. President for anybody to think that Senator Akpabio is now dictating and tele-guiding him. “The allegation that Barr. Akwa is not from oil producing community in the Niger Delta as provided in the NDDC Act is puerile and farther from the truth. The true position is that Barr. Akwa is from Oron, a major oil producing community in Akwa Ibom state in the Niger Delta region.” Edebianga described the opposition to Akwa’s appointment and attacks on his person as calculated attempts to portray the appointee in bad light, stressing that the appointment would gas track the ongoing forensic audit of the NDDC. He called on stakeholders in the Niger Delta to support the forensic probe being championed by Akpabio, describing those against the probe as enemies of the region.