Two persons were feared killed during clashes between suspected cultists at Coker-Aguda Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos. But the police said one person died in the fracas. The Nation learnt that one of the deceased was lured out on Saturday night from his Aguda residence before he was killed by rival cult members. Shortly after he was murdered, his members came out to torment residents of the area. The whole of Enitan, Willy Omiyi, Akinyele and Adetola streets in the area had sleepless night till yesterday morning. The suspected cultists were said to have gone on a shooting spree leaving the community members scampered for safety. Sunday morning, they Aguda faction were reported to have gone to Ijesha for a reprisal attack, killing one person. An eyewitness told The Nation that the Ijesha faction came to Aguda around 10am to confront their rivals. Residents of the communities yesterday appealed to the state Government to beam search light on growing rival cult clashes in the area. They urged Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu to launch a manhunt for members of the rival cult groups. They also urged the Coker-Aguda Local LCDA to ensure that the street lights in the area are always powered to expose people perpetrating evil under the guise of darkness. Coker-Aguda Local LCDA Chairman Mrs Omobolanle Akinyemi-Obe told The Nation that the perpetrators of the violence act have been arrested by the police. “The security operatives have restored normalcy to the area. A lot of those boys causing mayhem have been arrested. I have repeated it that the council will not tolerate acts of violence and deviant behaviour. We will go after the perpetrators and prosecute them,” she said. A resident confirmed to The Nation that normalcy has returned. According to him, Police officers have stationed at Pako, a hotbed between Ijesha and Aguda where the feud occurred. Police spokesman Muyiwa Adejobi said 12 persons have been arrested. The incident, he said, left one Munero, dead. Adejobi said: “Munero, who was alleged to be a serial killer in the area, was lynched by irate youths. We have restored normalcy to the area as CP Odumosu, has deployed additional men to the area under the supervision of the Area Commander Area ‘C’ Surulere, Fatai Tijani, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP). Arms and ammunition were recovered from the suspects who are helping the police in their investigation. We will still arrest more as we continue our investigation into the matter.”