 Even under a new manager, Juan Jose Rojo Martin (Pacheta), result might stays the same for Kelechi Nwakali’s SD Huesca who are still rooted to the bottom of the SPANISH LA LIGA following their  1-0  defeat to Getafe midweek. Nwakali may still have his chance as Huesca host Villarreal  today sans  injured Samuel Chukwueze. Ramon Azeez , meanwhile, is seeking an exit from Granada in search of playing opportunities and was omitted from the MatchDay squad in their 2-2 draw at Villarreal on Wednesday. It remains to be seen if he can  force his way into the team as Granada travel to Osasuna. In the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA, Taiwo Awoniyi’s Union Berlin lost their six games unbeaten streak on Wednesday after a 1-0 defeat at RB Leipzig but they have another chance to start  another winning run when they visit Augsburg today. Hoffenheim are still unable to call on Kevin Akpoguma who is currently out injured as they  tackle FC Cologne tomorrow complete with  Nigerian duo of  Kingsley Ehizibue and Tolu Arokodare. In the ITALIAN SERIE A, Simy Nwankwo will hope to add to his six league goals tally when Crotone travel away to  Fiorentina. The Nigerian was at the double last weekend when Rossoblu thrashed Benevento 4-1. While  Victor Osimhen is still not available for  Napoli  due to injury his former U-17 teammate Kingsley Michael is still watching proceeding from the Bologna bench. In ENGLAND, FA Cup Fourth Round matches take centre stage this weekend while EPL games return next midweek. At the Brentford Community Stadium, Leicester City will hope to progress to the quarter-final stage of the oldest club competition in England with an away tie against Brentford. Wilfred Ndidi played his 10th  league game of the season and scored his maiden goal of the campaign against Chelsea on Tuesday but his compatriot, Kelechi Iheanacho played the final two minutes as a replacement for red-hot Jamie Vardy against the Blues. At the Craven Cottage, Ola Aina along  with  the likes of  Joshua Onomah, Tosin Adarabioyo, and Ademola Lookman, will try to put behind them their erratic form in the EPL as they chase a last eight ticket in the FA Cup against the fellow top-flight side, Burnley tomorrow. The Cottagers lost 2-1 narrowly to Manchester United on Wednesday with Lookman on the scorer’s sheet while Aina and Adarabioyo featured for 83rd and 90th minute respectively. Alex Iwobi’s Everton h face Sheffield Wednesday tomorrow in the FA Cup and should still be fresh having had their last weekend EPL tie with Aston Villa postponed due to Coronavirus concerns. In the meantime, Odion Ighalo is expected to leave Manchester United at the end of the month but can his manager allow him to bid Old Trafford Stadium bye with a swansong tie against Liverpool in the Fourth Round of the FA Cup? Both teams played a dull goalless draw at Anfield last weekend in the league with the Red Devils on the defensive for the most part of the tie.