Bitcoin surpassed its all-time high in 2020 and anyone who invested in it or simply observed must have noticed the exponential growth. The Bitcoin impact in 2020 was so huge that Coindesk concluded that “for many reasons, 2020 will loom large in future textbooks on financial history”. A study published in July 2020 on SpringerLink also shows the relationship between cryptocurrencies and the COVID-19 pandemic. While this impact might have made a huge difference in the crypto world in 2020, it doesn’t just stop there. There is much more to expect in 2021 and coming years and this article highlights some of the things to expect. The tremendous growth of bitcoin in 2020 was evident to all, whether you were an investor or an observer. As a result, more people are gradually beginning to embrace crypto. There is more than enough information about cryptocurrency on the internet today but most people needed to hear about it from a close investor, to establish trust. This was made possible in 2020 with more users talking about it and companies like PayPal allowing its users to buy and sell bitcoin and Square investing $50 million in bitcoin. 2021 will see the rise of more bitcoin investors. This is even more realistic with upgraded bitcoin platforms such as the bitcoin code official website that makes it easier for beginners to invest and trade cryptos with no hassle. The advanced technology we have today also promises improved security to help ensure your funds are safe and your trust is heightened. Predicting that bitcoin will add more zeros in 2021 is a slippery slope considering its high volatility. However, with its recent growth and all factors in place, experts have predicted that bitcoin could quadruple in 2021. While everything right now points toward this direction, it is important to remember that bitcoin is a high-risk asset and you should tread with caution as no one can truly tell which way it would go, Bitcoin already threatens the traditional currency as it provides a seamless way of payment while allowing users to enjoy low transaction costs and also invest for the long haul. Now more than ever, central banks around the world would want to take action to ensure that their unique currency is preserved. Some countries have started the process of incorporating a digital currency into their finance sector already. A good example is China that is currently working towards the nationwide adaptation of the digital yuan. While it is true that bitcoin is a decentralized currency and not regulated by any third-party authority or governing body, governments and central banks will not overlook the recent bitcoin hype and the spike in price. There will be a sharp focus on bitcoin and this may influence some state rules and regulations in certain regions. These rules might affect how you trade bitcoins. Bitcoin cannot always be correctly predicted due to the many factors that drive the price. However, these predictions are based on what has happened before, what is happening now, and what could eventually happen this year and in coming years.