Bayer Leverkusen take on Werder Bremen in the Bundesliga today  with the hosts looking to bounce back from two successive defeats. Bremen, meanwhile, have lost five of their last six games themselves to slip to 14th position in the table. Having had the chance to end 2020 top of the Bundesliga, Robert Lewandowski’s last-minute winner for Bayern Munich against Leverkusen saw Peter Bosz’s side slip to second in the table prior to the winter break. Travelling to Eintracht Frankfurt without several first-team defenders was never going to be an easy task, either, with the hosts running out 2-1 winners last  Saturday to leave Leverkusen five points behind league leaders Bayern. Bosz will have been especially disappointed with the defeat given that his side took an early lead through superb combination play between teenage sensation Florian Wirtz and Nadiem Amiri, with Wirtz’s deliciously-scooped through-ball finding Amiri in the opposition penalty area. The Germany international skilfully swivelled with the ball before back-heeling it past a helpless Kevin Trapp. However, Leverkusen’s defensive deficiencies showed, with Daichi Kamada causing no end of problems with his trademark third-man runs. Amin Younes displayed excellent composure to score his first goal for the club since joining on loan, but the midfielder should have had two after Kamada superbly found him on the edge of the area. Another accurate Kamada cutback led to Edmond Tapsoba turning the ball into his own net, with Martin Hinteregger’s sliced clearance hitting his own post the closest that Leverkusen came to salvaging a point. With four successive games against top-half opposition following the home game against Bremen on Saturday, Bosz will be imploring his side to earn themselves a routine win in order to keep the pressure on Bayern and RB Leipzig at the top of the table. Florian Kohfeldt will be counting his lucky stars that teenage debutant Eren Dinkci struck late on to earn a narrow victory against relegation rivals Mainz 05 prior to the winter break; otherwise his side would be deeply embroiled in another relegation battle this season. Bremen are a long way from being out of trouble, though, as evidenced by their toothless 2-0 defeat at home to Union Berlin last Saturday. Despite trailing from the 12th  minute, Kohfeldt’s side mustered only two shots on target throughout the game, with Dinkci surprisingly not even among the substitutes. Meanwhile, two of the Bundesliga’s over-achievers this season go head-to-head today when Union Berlin entertain Wolfsburg.