The new Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Ngozi Onadeko has assured the people of the state of maximum protection of lives and property, while soliciting constant dissemination of credible information to enable the Police to serve them better. Onadeko gave the assurance in a message signed by the Command’s spokesperson, Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) to announce her assumption of office in the state. The new CP assumed duty following the redeployment of CP. Joe Nwachukwu Enwonwu. She is the first female CP to serve in the state. Fadeyi while reeling out the profile of the new Commissioner said Onadeko is bringing on board a wealth of experience gathered from working in various capacities of the Police Force. The statement reads in part; “The CP is an alumnus of the prestigious Imo State University, Imo State where she bagged BSc. (Hons) degree in Sociology in 1985. She later proceeded to University of Lagos, Akoka, Lagos State where she also bagged Master degree (MSc.) in Criminology. “CP Ngozi Onadeko was appointed into the Nigeria Police Force as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police (POLAC/ Cadet ASP Course 15) on 15/03/1988 and was trained at the Nigeria Police Academy Annex, Kaduna State between 1988- 1989. “On passing out, she has served in various administrative and operational capacities such as Crime and Staff Officer SOI, SOJ between 1989- 1993 in Imo State Police Command. “From 1993- 2001, she served as a directing staff at Police College Ikeja, Lagos State. She equally served as Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Divisional Crime Officer (DCO), Area Crime Officer (ACO), Staff Officer and Chief Superintendent of Police (Admin) all in Lagos State Command. She was later redeployed to Police Academy Kano in 2008 as a directing Staff. “Between 2009- 2016, as an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), she was AC Intelligence, (FIIB), FHQ Annex, AC X-Squad FCIID Alagbon, Area Commander, Eastern Port Authority Police Command, Port Harcourt. “She was 2I/C Command/Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of ‘Administration’ Delta State Command, between 2016- 2019 from where she proceeded on course to the National Defence College on 1st September 2019. “Sequel to her promotion to the enviable rank of Commissioner of Police on 21st December 2019, she was posted to the Department of Training and Development, Force Headquarters, Abuja as CP Training. “The Commissioner of Police has attended various on-the-job courses during her career, which includes; Advanced Detective Course (ADC) 1999, Operational Leadership Command Course (OLCC) 2005, Tactical Leadership Command Course (TLCC) 2009, Strategic Leadership Command Course (SLCC) 2015, all at the reputed Police Staff College Jos, Plateau State and National Defence College (NDC) Abuja, “The CP has Professional Qualifications to her credit amongst which are; Pass Staff College, psc, Member Nigerian Institute of Management, (mnin) and Fellow of the Defence College, (fdc). She is equally a member of professional institutions, which include; International Association of Women Police (IAWP) and International Association of Chief of Police (IACP), United States of America (USA). CP. Ngozi Onadeko is married with children. “She is a thorough-bred professional who distinguished herself in all the places she has served. Consequently, all the experiences she has gathered over the years shall be brought to Oyo State to consolidate the existing security apparatus. “The CP assures the good people of Oyo State maximum protection to lives and property, while she solicits constant dissemination of credible information to enable the Police to serve them better.”