 ARMED bandits invaded Kawaran Rafi village in Igabi local government area of Kaduna state and killed one Danleeman Isah, the Chief Imam of the village. The Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Mr Yohanna Abu, was also killed by gunmen. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the development, in a statement, explained that the bandits moved straight to Isah’s residence, and in what appeared to be a pre-meditated murder, shot him dead and left the location without taking any item or hostages. According to him, “The murder of the Imam has been linked to his vocal stance against the killing and kidnapping of citizenry by bandits. It is of a similar ilk to the killing of Ardo Musa Layi of Kajuru local government, who was kidnapped and killed by armed bandits in October 2020 for his advocacy against killing, kidnapping and cattle rustling. Also was the shooting of Ardo Ahmadu Suleiman by bandits at Kasuwan Magani, Kajuru local government, leaving him with bullet wounds. “In another development, security agencies have reported the murder of the Sarkin Yaki of Godogodo, Yohanna Abu, by a gang of kidnappers. According to the report, the gunmen attacked Nisama village in Jema’a local government area late on Friday night, and abducted Abu along with another resident, Charles Audu. A struggle ensued between the duo and the kidnappers, and while Mr Audu was able to escape, the kidnappers shot Abu dead. Five persons have been arrested in connection with the killing, as security agencies continued to investigate the incident. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai have expressed sadness over the development, praying for the repose of the souls of the slain cleric and community leader, as he conveyed his heartfelt condolences to their families,” he said Adewumi, who noted that the country had not been as hard-hit by the coronavirus pandemic as other countries, said that mass vaccination may not be the best strategy for Nigeria. “However, the question is how did we arrive at such decision? Was it guided by scientific findings? Can we afford it?” he queried. 