 WELCOME to another exciting week! I hope you were blessed by last week teaching. This week, we shall focus on: Boldness: A Requirement for Securing Answers on the Prayer Altar! We discovered from Scriptures that to receive answers to our prayers, we must pray according to the set rules. The Bible says, Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts (James 4:3). To receive, we must ask and for what is received to be delivered, we must ask aright. So, it is not enough to ask, it is very important to ask aright (John 10:35; Acts 10:34). Asking entitles us to receiving and asking aright delivers the goods. Every prayer that must be answered must be accompanied with thanksgiving. As it is written, Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God (Philippians 4:6). For instance, we have eleven digits on our telephone lines, if we dial only ten digits for the next one year, it would never go through. Thus, there is the prayer and supplication, which must be accompanied with thanksgiving for our calls to go through to God. Furthermore, we must approach the throne of grace boldly and confidently, not beggarly or uncertainly. It is written, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need (Hebrews 4:16). This is one of the fundamentals of any prayer that must be answered. How do we Cultivate the Boldness Required on the Prayer Altar? In summary, Hezekiah boldly confronted the verdict of death and prevailed (Isaiah 38:10). He used the power of confidence and righteousness consciousness (Isaiah 38:3). Also, Elijah prayed confidently and the heavens gave rain (1 Kings 18:44). Therefore, we must travail in order to prevail in prayers. Jacob was left alone; he would not let go until he returned with a change of name (Genesis 32:24-28). However, you must be born again. If you are not, this is an opportunity to do so. Simply say the following prayer: Lord Jesus, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me of my sins. Cleanse me with Your precious Blood. Today, I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Thank You Jesus for saving me! Now, I know I am born again! For further reading, get my books: Winning Prayer, Satan Get Lost and Born to Win.  I invite you to fellowship with us at the Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, the covenant home of Winners. We have four services on Sundays, holding at 6:00 a.m., 7:55 a.m., 9:50 a.m. and 11:45 a.m. respectively. Also, you can join our live services via Facebook: David Oyedepo Ministries International, Twitter: @Davidoyedepomin, Instagram: davidoyedepomin, YouTube: Living Faith Church Worldwide, Hebron 95.9 FM, Winners World App, Impact Africa TV (on Startimes and NigComSat), Domi Radio and via the Church Satellite. I know this teaching has blessed you. Write and share your testimony with me through: Faith Tabernacle, Canaanland, Ota, P.M.B. 21688, Ikeja, Lagos, Nigeria, call 01-4548070, 01-4548280, or E-mail: dphprints@gmail.com.