A Lagos based organisation, the Gregory Azemobor Foundation and a firm, Lifecard Investment Limited have called on privileged members of the society to upscale their assistance to the needy in the society. Speaking at the event where no fewer than 30 families cutting across ethnic nationalities and religious affiliations were given foodstuff items, the Founder of Gregory Azemobor and Executive Director of Lifecard Investment Limited, Christopher Ibhakhomu urged Nigerians to support the needy. On why his Foundation opted to help the affected families, Azemobor stated that the goal is to ensure that all Nigerians who are less privileged should feel the essence of the season through interventions of rich and well-meaning individuals and corporate organisations in the society. Azemobor who stated that the gesture was a token from the two organisations to the affected families also added that other Nigerians should imbibe the act of giving as a matter of priority as a means of lifting over 90million indigent people out of extreme poverty and misery. He stated that the foundation has been in existence for the past 15 years and has not only given palliatives to widows but has further empowered the widows to be able to stand on their own by becoming self-reliant in the day-to-day economic activities. According to him, no fewer than 2000 widows have become self-reliant through the various training and loan empowerment initiatives of the foundation just as children of many indigent families have been placed on scholarships. Addressing the beneficiaries, Ibhakhomu who stated that his company has been following the activities of the Foundation said and decided to collaborate in order to achieve greater impacts. “We are here to show our love in kind not just in words but also in kind by joining forces with the Gregory Azemobor Foundation to expand the frontiers of opportunities opened to the less privileged in the society.” A beneficiary, Mrs. Ejike Ugokwe praised the foundation, saying the objective has become very noble in a society where the rich finds it difficult to reach out to the less privileged, saying with the hands of fellowship that has been extended to her, she feels very inspired to do same when and if blessed. 