Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has asked the Federal Government to extend duration of the 774,000 Special Public Works programme of the federal government beyond the three months specified. This, the governor, said will help to tackle poverty to the barest level and provide palliative to unemployed persons battling with acute joblessness in the country. Fayemi who stated this in Ado Ekiti on Thursday during the official flag off of the Special Public Works initiative in Ekiti State, said 16,000 employments will be generated in Ekiti alone with a sum of N960 million injected into the state’s economy. Fayemi, represented by his Deputy, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, said provision of 16,000 jobs at a time COVID -19 was ravaging the country would create economic leverage for the state, saying the initiative was designed by the federal government to cushion the effect of unemployment in the system . He described the initiative as the most potent intervention programme in the country’s history, which will attract 16,000 jobs with each collecting N20, 000 monthly. The governor said the selection process was devoid of political and ethnic affinity, warning that any beneficiary that won’t abide by the rules should recuse himself or herself. “The state was indeed lucky to be enlisted as one of the eight pilot states for the commencement of the programme, with the beneficiaries receiving a sum of N20,000 for three months that the programme would last. “We are pleading that the programme be extended beyond three months, so that more people, which can be as many as 20,000 and more can benefit from Ekiti alone”, he said Fayemi added further: “We are grateful to the federal government for making Ekiti one of the eight states where the programme commenced. We are starting with Ekiti East, Gbonyin, and Moba local governments. “The beneficiaries will engage in public works like drainage digging and clearing, feeder road maintenance, Irrigation /carnal clearing, cleaning of public infrastructure, among others. “I am particularly excited, because a programme like this will reduce employment and mitigate poverty and the sufferings of the people. “I beseech the beneficiaries to be focused. And be rest assured that Ekiti can provide them permanent jobs in private and public sectors in future, if they are found worthy and diligent in this scheme.” Earlier, the Minister of Trade, Investment and Industry, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, said the programme was a landmark policy targeted at mitigating poverty, and tackle the effects of Coronavirus pandemic on the economy. He said that President Muhammadu Buhari won’t rest in his resolve to tackle unemployment in the country, adding that the federal government has initiated various intervention programmes to pull out people from poverty. “They include, Micro- national Youth investment fund, which was to empower 500,000 youth, the MSME survival fund to cushion the effect of Covid-19 and positioning the youth for future leadership in business and Artisan Empowerment Grant, targeting 333,000 beneficiaries with N30, 000 monthly for six months. “I appeal to the state government to promote this programme. The 16,000 beneficiaries must be resolute and believe in the policy of the President Buhari -led government”. Also speaking, the Acting Director General, National Directorate of Employments (NDE), Mallam Abubakar Fikpo, urged the beneficiaries to be diligent for the scheme to be a success. “The 16,000 beneficiaries will be positively touched in the next three months. They will work in their localities and we appeal to the state government and the monitoring teams to partner our royal fathers to ensure the success of the programme,” he added.