The Plateau State governor, Mr Simon Lalong, has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to speed up the implementation process for the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP). The governor, who is also the Chairman of the Northern Governors’ Forum (NGF), made the appeal on Friday while speaking to State House Correspondents, after a meeting with President Buhari in his office in the Aso Rock Presidential Villa, Abuja. He was speaking on the negative effects of the farmer/herders frequent conflicts on the security and economy of the country, noting that the implementation of the plan had been designed to relieve the nation of the frequent crisis. “Plateau State Government, has appealed to the Federal government to assist in its effort of rebuilding the Jos Main Market, burnt down since 2002,” the governor said. According to him, the state government would need about N15 billion to rebuild the market, which was one of the main sources of revenue for the state. Emphasising the need for the NLTP to be fast-tracked, the governor said “I am a member of the livestock committee under the Vice President and I represent the North Central. That was the purpose of setting up that committee and that committee made far-reaching recommendations and then funds were to be made available to pilot states, Plateau and about nine states are pilot states, to address some of these issues. “The issue was to move away from the old ways of raring cows and to find modern ways of doing it. In some places, they will do it that way, but then in a confined environment, which was agreed to by all and that is part of the point I was raising, to remind Mr President to hasten the implementation of the National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP). “We are still left with the herdsmen/farmers problem, the implementation of the NLTP will go a long way to address these issues. “Whether we like it or not, we need cows and it’s also some people’s occupation, but where it leads to conflicts and raises hazards like insecurity, we have to address. While we tolerate it, we must still address it because it is some people’s means of economic livelihood, but it shouldn’t be posing hazards of insecurity to anybody”, he said. Asked why the northern states had not evolved a security network for the three regions in the north, just like some regions in the south had done, he said the states in the north favoured the community policing approach to securing the area, adding that Plateau State had commenced with it.