  In line with its ideals of making the state Nigeria’s sports hub, The Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC) is poised to breathe a new life into its activities with special focus on school and community sports. According to LSSC Chairman, Sola Aiyepeku, the state would continue to lead sports renaissance in the country with special focus on education and sports. “Our focus is education and sports and we want to use this platform to unearth talents and provide platforms for these talents to be appreciated and supported by the private sector. We will work with the ministry of Education in achieving this and this we will pursue with vigour in line with the state’s agenda of becoming the sports hub in the country. Through school sports, the talents can express themselves and we can also create a clear career progress for them,” he said. Aiyepeku spoke through the virtual during a media interactive session ,adding the commission would organize regular competitions among schools in the state that would give the talents the chance to showcase their talents while they would also be nurtured to stardom through an established structure already in place. Apart from school sports, Aiyepeku said efforts would also be geared toward community sports which he said the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu is passionate about as plans are in place to kick-start community sports across the state this year. “Community sports is a passionate area for the state government and we are going to focus on this this year as part of the grassroots development drive as we intend to take sports to the communities. Through this we can trigger the economy of sports. We have also realized that for the private sector to be part of what we are doing, we must first of all project what we have to them and that is why we are going to be providing the platforms for the talents to express themselves through various competitions. We believe through this, they can come in and support the projected talents,” Aiyepeku added. In his remarks, LSSC Director General, Oluwatoyin Gafar said the state has been doing enough to support its athletes in fulfilling their potentials with the recent support of Anita Taviore who recently moved to the United States after securing a sports scholarship to study in the US. Taviore, national 200m and 400m champion is a product of Lagos schools sports having represented Ipakodo Grammar School, Ikorodu to work her way into the national team and Gafar believes more athletes like Taviore would be supported by the state government to fulfil their dream in sports.