 DURING his fifth meeting with the Presidential Economic Advisory Council (PEAC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, President Muhammadu Buhari reiterated the need for Nigerians to go back to agriculture, a sector which had been badly neglected and abandoned with the discovery of oil. The return to agriculture, he said, had become more imperative given the drastic decline in the fortunes of the oil sector, which for decades has been the country’s dominant revenue earner. Stressing his administration’s commitment to its stated objective of diversifying the economy away from oil dependency and enhancing the role of agriculture, the President directed the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) not to give forex for food imports any longer. He noted that due to the initiatives of his administration, about seven states are now producing rice to meet the country’s needs and that the new emphasis on agriculture helped to mitigate the devastating impact of the coronavirus pandemic on the economy. There is no doubt that the Buhari administration has introduced commendable initiatives to boost domestic agricultural productivity and reduce food dependency. These include the Anchor Borrowers Programme aimed at providing farm inputs in kind and cash to farmers producing rice, maize, wheat, tomatoes, legumes and livestock, among others; the private sector-led Non-interest Agriculture Development Scheme (P-AADS) to boost private staple sector food production and industrial materials as well as the Agri-Business Small and Medium Enterprise Investment Scheme (AGSMEIS) to provide loans to stipulated agricultural enterprises. Despite these efforts, however, agriculture continues to perform far below its potential even though it remains a key sector of the Nigerian economy and contributed about 24 per cent to the country’s GDP between 2013 and 2019, while also employing more than 36 per cent of the country’s labour force. Even then, in 2019, agriculture was responsible for less than two per cent of total exports compared to crude oil which accounted for 76.5 per cent, which shows that the sector continues to contribute only marginally to export earnings. A September 2020 report by Price Water House Coopers (PwC) titled ‘Current state of agriculture in Nigeria’, painted a graphic picture of the still parlous state of Nigerian agriculture. The report found that between 2016 and 2019, Nigeria’s cumulative agricultural imports were valued at N3.35 trillion, which was four times higher than the agricultural export of N803 billion within the same period. While agricultural exports declined by about 11 per cent from N302.2 billion in 2018 to N269.8 billion in 2019, agricultural imports increased by 12.7 per cent from N851.6bn in 2018 to N959.5 bn in 2019. Thus, Nigeria remains essentially a net food importer. The marked increase in domestic production of rice enthused upon by the President is not reflected in affordability of the product. Indeed, it would appear that insufficiency of domestic production encouraged smuggling in of rice even despite the prolonged border closure. As regards food security in Nigeria, a group of development experts recently reported that “About nine out of 10 Nigerians cannot afford a healthy diet. Nigeria has the second highest burden of stunted children across the globe and millions of children suffer from acute malnutrition. The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened the hunger situation, particularly impacting food supply and prices”. Beyond sermonising to Nigerians to go back to agriculture, the onus is on government to effectively tackle the challenges that make the sector unattractive. First, is the pervasive insecurity, particularly the unceasing violent onslaught of nomadic herdsmen, that have forced thousands of farmers to abandon their farms and communities in the largest food producing states in the country. Again, rural infrastructure, especially roads, remain poor, compounding transportation costs while the lack of modern storage facilities result in high rate of post-harvest losses and avoidable waste. Despite the several government funding initiatives, small and medium scale farmers continue to complain of lack of access to finance and shortages of critical inputs such as seedlings and fertiliser, as well as outmoded irrigation, archaic implements and harvesting methods, all resulting in low yields per hectare. All of these must be addressed before the impact of investments and other efforts in agriculture can yield the desired result.