 IS it possible for a police officer to still have control over an official lodge that he vacated 20 years ago? This is curious, but if the report by The Punch that a particular retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), James Opara, is still holding the keys to an apartment he stayed in as Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in 1999 is true, then that must be an award-winning impunity that even the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) cannot but be culpable. According to the report, Opara stayed in the lodge, the official residence of the DPO of Ilupeju Police Station, in the Ilupeju area of Lagos, for only three months when he acted in that capacity in 1999. Upon his transfer, the appropriate thing was for him to hand over the keys to the police authorities. Apparently, he didn’t. And apparently, he was not even asked to do so when he failed to drop the keys. The import is that subsequent DPOs transferred to the division have been denied the use of the facility. This is why members of the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) are worried, and naturally so. When the DPO that is supposed to see to their security has to travel far distance to office daily, or sleep in hotel rooms, he cannot be in the best frame of mind to perform his functions, thus putting the lives of people in the area in jeopardy. DIG Opara had definitely served in various other capacities since the time he was acting DPO at Ilupeju before retiring as DIG. In which case he would have been given official accommodation in some of those positions. What this means is that in those periods, he had the Ilupeju lodge as ‘bonus’ that he allegedly handed over to a woman who only comes there once in a while. This looks incredible, especially given the acute shortage of accommodation that the NPF faces. Perhaps what is most shocking is the fact that solution is still not in sight to the problem despite the fact that the community had informed the necessary police authorities about this impropriety on the part of retired DIG Opara.  PCRC chairman in the area, Fredrick Silva-Rotimi, said “I have been very courteous in order to avoid making this impropriety on the part of retired DIG James Opara a public affair. It’s very bad and an act of corruption. We have petitioned the Commander, Area ‘F’; the CP, Hakeem Odumosu; and the Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Ahmed Iliyasu, and Opara could not give a reason as to why he refused to vacate the lodge. He always says he’s going to vacate the place, but instead, he told a woman to occupy the place.” They even claimed to have met Iliyasu, the DIG in charge of the zone on the matter and that he sent their letter of complaint to the deputy commissioner in charge of administration (DC admin) to treat. We wonder why a matter as obvious as this should take the police authorities eternity to resolve. Unless there is something about the lodge that the police authorities know that Nigerians are not privileged to know, DIG Opara’s alleged squatter should get the marching order immediately. The place even looks so derelict obviously because of lack of care, a thing the community could have fixed given their passion for their security as evident in the manner they have handled the matter so far. Not even a serving DIG or whatever should have the license to dictate when he would finally hand over an official apartment given to him because of his present status, after being transferred out of that station. How a retired officer should be saying he would vacate the lodge at his convenience beats the imagination. The Inspector-General of Police must wade into the matter by ordering those concerned to dispose of it immediately and revert to him. Contrary to what retired DIG Opara allegedly said, that the matter was a police affair, it is not. It is a security issue which has ramifications beyond those playing games with it. Indeed, it is an embarrassment to the police force for which people involved, serving or retired deserving of punishment or reprimand must be served their due comeuppance. The story, as reported, is a terribly bad example of policeman’s inhumanity to fellow policeman. And if this has been the situation in an eyebrow part of Lagos for 20 years, with people who know their rights as victims, we can only imagine how many such or even worse cases are going on unreported in far remote parts of the country.