 River ports have one objective: Provision of income for the government, immakes possible the docking and handling, storage and transfer of cargo. Ports are designed to handle a wide variety of types of cargo: bulk or loose, breakbulk in packages (bundles, crates, barrels, and pallets.” Port planning Navigation issues have long had a place in water resources planning. Building and maintaining harbours, ports, and waterways is necessary to the economic health of communities and the nation as a whole. Findings have shown that there are river ports in Onitsha, Baro, Lokoja and Oguta. Onitsha Rivers Port in Anambra State was constructed at the cost of N4billion, while Baro Port in Niger State was put in place with N6billion. The port is equipped with mobile harbour cranes, transit sheds, administrative blocks, fire hydrant systems, water treatment plants, reach stackers, 100KVA power generating sets and forklifts of various tonnages. Built in 2013 the Onitsha River Port was handed over to the Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC) for concession by National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) to save shippers about N100 billion yearly from the costs of cargo clearance at the Lagos ports. But till date, no concessionaire has been appointed to manage it. As such, some of its facilities are rusting daily. Similarly, ever since the Baro Port was inaugurated by the Federal Government, no activities have taken place there due to the bad road leading to the river port. The river port was constructed to boost commerce in the northern part of the country but its access road from the Gegu Express way in Kogi State is not motorable because of neglect by the government. It was learnt that Baro Port contract was first awarded in 2011 for N2.56billion by the Federal Executive Council to a Chinese company, Messrs CGGC Global Project, but was inflated to N6 billion because of delay. The port was expected to create at least 2,000 direct jobs and thousands indirect jobs when its contract was awarded “When you look at the economic benefits taunted by the government, the river ports being constructed in some parts of the country, you will be wondering why many of the river ports have remained dormant despite the huge amount of money spent on them,” said a senior Customs officer who does not want his name in print. The senior official said NIWA needs to tell Nigerians the truth and why concession of Onitsha River Port is not attractive to investors. “There is nothing to show for huge amount of money claimed to have been spent on the project. “Eight years after its inauguration, it is sad that the Onitsha Port has not served its purpose,” the official said. Worried by the viability of river ports in the country, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said the construction of ports across the country’s rivers was a waste of public funds. Amaechi said if the lower River Niger was not dredged, no vessel would sail to Baro port. According to him, “I had this conversation with my friend, Senator Goje about the viability of the river ports that we have, including Onitsha, Baro, Lokoja and Oguta river ports, and I felt that it was a waste of funds. The reason is that for you to have those river ports functioning, you must have to dredge River Niger. For now, even if you dredge, it is still 2.5 to three metres draft, which determines the vessel that can go there and the minimum you can have is a six-metre vessel. There is absolutely no vessel that will come in there at 2.5 to three metres draft.” Ameachi explained that many times the barge could not move cargoes to Baro either from Warri or Port Harcourt Port because Lagos is too far? He noted: “For the man who imports through Lagos or Port Harcourt, if he puts it on a train, he arrives the same day, and there is no issue of insecurity unlike the man who has taken the cargo from Port Harcourt seaport to Baro by barge. “They wanted the port constructed, so we completed it. My responsibility is to construct a Baro port and I have constructed it. As Minister, I did engage the public that these are the problems we will face when we finish this Baro Port,” Amaechi said. Also, a maritime lawyer, My Muhammed Oluwaseyi, regretted that the multi-billion naira Baro River Port was yet to commence operation years after it was inaugurated by President Muhammadu Buhari.  Foreign trade is important to the economy Foreign trade is important to the economy and the international movement of goods and materials has highlighted the significance of harbor access and development issues. Natural harbours, typically in bays, estuaries and river mouths, occur where land and water converges in such a way as to protect ships from wind and waves as they enter and dock. Harbors can also be constructed using jetties and breakwaters to provide protection for ships. About 90 per cent of all the nation’s trade passes through its major ports and that is why operators are calling on the government to concentrate its efforts on deep seaport. “Well-maintained channels are vital to the success of any port. Navigation planning must consider many factors, including channel width and depth, shipping and navigation technologies, terminal facilities, climate, seasonal variations, currents, tides, and physical limitations of a waterway (such as bottom conditions). Planners seek to determine the best locations for channels, harbors, and canals. Recent developments in hydraulic modeling have greatly aided these planning efforts. The overall goal of these planning projects is to maximise the benefits of the port to a community.  Available land Most of the river ports were constructed in geographically favourable locations to expedite the transfer of goods. Active dockside communities emerged and thrived as waterborne trade flourished. The use of available land for landside facilities development is acceptable, meeting few obstacles because such expansion is in the name of economic prosperity.  