Chairman of Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State Clement Odah has debunked reports that Governor David Umahi abandoned the family of late Sunday Igboke. Igboke, a former coordinator of Ngbo North Development Centre in Ohaukwu council, slumped to death during a screening for his reappointment. But some of his colleagues, who were not reappointed, accused Umahi of abandoning the bereaved family. They claimed the late Igboke slumped to death at the screening ground after the governor told him he would not be re-appointed. But Odah cautioned the former coordinators to desist from conniving with the enemies of state to drag Umahi’s image in the mud. He said the governor didn’t abandon the family, as he appointed the deceased’s wife as a Technical Assistant, a position she occupies till date. The council chairman said the late Igboke did not die at the interview venue, but hours later in the hospital. According to him, the governor had addressed the candidates before Igboke slumped, adding that Igboke slumped as voting was about to begin. He said: “The late Sunday Igboke was one of the best we had, he was a honest man, very committed and dedicated to his duty. His death is most unfortunate. We miss him, and we will continue to pray for God to grant his soul peaceful rest. “We were in the interview room at the ecumenical centre, and it was the turn of Ngbo north. The basis of this interview was to ensure we had the best person for the job. There was an improvement on the selection process and procedure. “The process was still on because, naturally, all the contestants will vote for themselves. Personally, I had recommended for him to be returned like most of his colleagues, so if the process was completed, I’m sure he would have been returned but we didn’t get there. We saw him get to the ground. “The governor suspended the interview and attended to Igboke. Umahi is not a doctor but he personally attended to him, I moved and picked him up. In the hospital, we brought in all the doctors. They were attending to him and prayers were on but he died at the end. “I am sure he would have been returned because nobody could have done the work better than him, especially on security issues.”