 Union Bank and its employees have built communal water boreholes in six communities. The donations formed part of activities to mark the bank’s  Employee Volunteer Day (EVDay) introduced in 2019. The Gift of Water project was selected to provide more  underserved communities with access to potable water supply, improving their quality of life and enabling them maintain the proper handwashing routine advised by World Health Organisation (WHO) COVID-19 guidelines. According to WHO, “About 63 million Nigerians do not have access to improved drinking water sources, and only 42 per cent of households in rural areas have access to safe drinking water”. The boreholes were built in Ubulu Uku, Delta State; Gidan Dagachi Kureken Sani, Kano State; Kpebi-Sarki, Abuja; Ohubo Village, Ama Nkanu Community, Enugu State; Sari Iganmu, Orile, Lagos State and Abujan Amare, Gashua, Yobe State. The Chief Executive Officer Union Bank, Emeka Emuwa said: “Union Bank is proud to lead the charge for social impact. Initiatives such as this present the opportunity to give back to the society and support the average Nigerian. We are pleased by this clear demonstration of the Union Bank culture of community service and corporate citizenship.” Also, the bank’s Head of Corporate Communication and Marketing, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem, said: “Union Bank is pleased about this opportunity to impact over 15,000 lives through this project. ‘Community’ is one of our core values as a bank, and it is rewarding to see our efforts create true impact. Over 2,950 employees donated funds towards this initiative, with the Bank matching every N1,000 raised, to ensure that six communities have potable water supply.” Haske Foundation, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) for clean potable water accessible to rural communities in Nigeria, was engaged to ensure long-term sustenance of the community boreholes. The Foundation will monitor and provide technical assistance for the project for 12 months. In addition, committees were set up in each of the communities, to ensure good coordination and proper use of the facility by community members.