 Mental health is a crucial aspect of every human being. It includes our emotional, psychological, and social well-being. It affects how we think, feel, and act. It also helps determine how we handle stress, relate to others, and make choices. Mental health is important at every stage of life, from childhood and adolescence through adulthood. And with the daily encounter of life events and changes, one is bound to experience stress, shock or anxiety which is not always bad in short term as they can help one overcome a challenge or seemingly dangerous situation. But when it begins to become overwhelming and  constantly interfere with daily life pursuit, it is an indication of a more serious issue that should be paid attention to. When one begins to avoid situations due to irrational fears, constant worry, or severe anxiety about a traumatic experiences weeks, months or years after the event happened, it is indeed a serious cause for alarm.  As it may further lead to unstable moods, social withdrawal, repeated episodes of intense anxiety that may lead to more deadly psychotic illnesses. Globally, a significant amount of people suffer from different degrees of mental health disorders. IHE’s (Integrated Health Enterprise) global burden of disease report showed that 13 percent of the world’s population,  some 971 million people suffer from different mental health disorders globally. Producing an incredible amount of people with suicidal thoughts, attempts and suicide. As deadly as this sounds, it is highly unfortunate how the topic is neglected, especially in developing countries like Nigeria where poverty, unemployment, malnutrition and the poor socio-economic structure are perceived as heavier burdens to deal with first before considering any emotional issue. The society is filled with people who are in a continuous struggle to survive and make ends meet at all costs that there is almost a gradual loss of emotional value of the human person. In such a harsh environment, emotions are almost not considered. In fact, many believe that depression and worry are normal experiences that come with daily life pursuits. Very little attention is paid to mental health. And that’s why very little is known about it. In a typical home,  parents teach their children good morals,  physical health education, social values and so on. They leave out mental health education unconsciously. Because, they too were not taught by their parents.Such a child is further placed to study under the educational system whose curriculum unfortunately also ignores  mental health education as well. Children are taught social studies, civic education, home economics and so on,while psycho education is left out. Mental health should be regarded as important as every other physical illness in medical centres. Bills that would protect and provide adequate facilities for proper treatment and enlightenment on mental health related issues should be passed. The world at large will be a better place if everyone can work optimally to produce results that can boost the growth of every sphere. This measures, will save the country from the pangs of prolonged mental illnesses. Ignorance and negligence of mental illnesses have increased the prevalence of mental health disorders. Mental health illnesses can be prevented, curbed and treated. It’s time to break the  chain of ignorance and change the narrative.