Police in Anambra state have arrested a 26-year old man, Ifeanyichukwu Okoye for allegedly stabbing a middle-aged man in Owelleaja community of the state. The spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, who confirmed the incident, said the suspect also robbed the victim of his mobile phone in company of his gang presently at large. He also confirmed the arrest of three other robbery suspects at different locations in the state. He said one of them, Chime Ugwu, 27, was beaten to stupor by the mob in connection with a robbery incident at Majuo Awka, the state capital and was taken to police hospital for treatment. He said: “On 19/1/2021 at about 9:30pm, police operatives attached to Awada division responded to a distress call of suspected armed robbers and arrested one Ifeanyichukwu Okoye ‘m’ aged 26years of Owelleaja community. “Suspect and his accomplices presently at large allegedly stabbed a middle aged man and snatched his infinix Hot 5 mobile phone at Owelleaja. “Exhibit recovered from the suspect include one fabricated rifle. “On 18/1/2021 police operatives attached to B’ Division Awka responded to a distress call of robbery incident at Maja Awka and arrested one Chime Raymond Ugwu ‘m’ aged 27years native of Amachala village, Enugu Ezike Nsuka in Enugu State. “Exhibits recovered from the suspect include a cut to size locally made pistol and one cartridge. “Also on 19/1/2021 at about 10:pm, police patrol team attached to Isiowulu Division responded to a distress call at Nkpor junction and arrested one Friday Igwe ‘m’ of Obosi. “Exhibits recovered from the suspect include one live ammunition of 7.65 mm, four(4) different shoulder bags,two handsets and one tricycle with REG NO.WER 304 WC used by the syndicates to perpetrate the crime. “Furthermore, on 15/1/2021 at about 5:45pm, following intelligence report police operatives attached to Ukpor Division arrested one Ogbogor Martins ‘m’ aged 29years of Ketogwa Obodo Cross Rivers State but resides at Amadin village Ukpor. “Exhibits recovered from the suspect includes one Double barrel pump action and three empty magazines of AK 47 rifles.”     