Being a paper delivered by Wahab Shittu, lecturer,  Faculty of Law, University of Lagos (UNILAG), at J.B. Daudu (SAN) Foundation Rule of Law Development Foundation (ROLDF) 3rd Annual Criminal Law Review Conference in Abuja.  Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2000  There are a number of corruption offences created by the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act (ICPC) 2000. The Act also makes provisions subjecting the proceeds of such offences to forfeiture whether or not conviction or prosecution is contemplated. These provisions may be invoked even in the absence of a conviction or prosecution. There are specific provisions granting interim powers of forfeiture under the Act pursuant to sections 37-38. Such interim seizure is within the discretion of the ICPC and not subject to an order of the court. It is hoped that our courts would be guided by these extensive powers given to ICPC because a failure of a property owner to comply with requirements by the ICPC to surrender property, for example, is a criminal offence. We now examine each of these provisions to determine its scope and applicability. Under section 37 of the ICPC Act, ICPC is empowered to seize property while Section 38 deals with seized property returned upon payment of a security. It can be said with sufficient authority that sections 37- 38 are useful at the point of investigation into assets as opposed to the stage of prosecution, the attraction being that the provision is useful without recourse to the courts. The assistance of the court may however be required if sections 38(3) – (5) of the ICPC Act are to be invoked. Section 38(3)(a) deals with temporary return of property, subject to a security. Section 38(3)(a) allows an officer of the ICPC to return property that was seized under the Act temporarily, subject to the owner agreeing to terms and conditions being imposed and subject to the provision of a security, to ensure that the property is surrendered on the demand of the officer. If the owner fails to surrender that property on demand, or fails to comply with any term or condition, section 38(4) provides that: (i)         The security shall be forfeited; (ii)        That person shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine of not less than two times the amount of the security furnished by him, and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years. Section 38(3)(b) deals with temporary return of property, subject to a security. Section 38(3)(b allows an officer of the ICPC to return property that was seized under the Act to: (i)         The owner; or (ii)        To the person from whose possession, custody or control it was seized; or (iii)       To such person as may be entitled there to with liberty for the to dispose of the property, subject to provision of a security in an amount not less than an amount which represents the open market value of such property on the date on which it is returned. Section 38(5) provides that where an order of forfeiture is made by the court in respect of property returned under sub-section (3)(b) such forfeiture shall be effected by forfeiting the security furnished by the person to whom the property was returned in lieu of the property. Significantly, Section 47 deals with forfeiture of property upon prosecution for an offence.  Section 47 allows for forfeiture of assets following conviction under the Act.  It also permits the court to make an order for forfeiture of property where a defendant has been acquitted of the criminal offence under the Act to which that property relates. In invoking this provision, there are certain underlying assumptions. The defendant must have undergone prosecution for an offence under the Act resulting in acquittal.However, where the defendant has not been prosecuted, section 48 of the ICPC Act may be invoked against the defendant. It is important that our courts remain satisfied that a crime under the Act must have taken place; it is immaterial whether the defendant is involved in the said crime.  Secondly, it is important that a particular identified property is the subject matter of the offence or has been used in the commission of the offence. Where a particular property is identified, the court must be satisfied about the ownership of the property by the defendant including satisfaction that there is no other person who is entitled to the property as a purchaser in good faith for valuable consideration and provided such property has not been disposed of or can be traced, it is liable to forfeiture.14 Where the property was returned to a person  pursuant to section 38(3)(b), the court shall order that the security provided in exchange for the return of the property be forfeited in lieu of the property. On the other hand, “if the property being disposed of or is to property which cannot be traced, the court is required to impose a penalty upon the accused in lieu of forfeiture.  The penalty is in a sum ‘equivalent to the amount of the gratification’ received by the accused.  For example, if accused sold or exchanged the property in exchange for cash, the ‘gratification’ would be that valuable consideration.  Alternatively, if it was in exchange for non-enforcement of a debt, the ‘gratification’ would be the value of any pecuniary advantage obtained.  If the actual value of the gratification is unclear, the court must reach a reasoned opinion about the value of that gratification.  That penalty is then enforced as if it was a fine”. Section 48 of the ICPC Act deals with forfeiture of seized property in the absence of prosecution or conviction. The section allows for forfeiture of property that was seized by the ICPC during an investigation into offending under the Act where there is no prosecution or conviction. The procedural requirements that must be satisfied conditions precedent include: Section 48 is far-reaching with powers of seizure under the Act including the power of seizure by the ICPC of the evidence relating to the commission of the offence or of the subject-matter of an offence, under the Act. The court must also be satisfied that there is no other person who is entitled to the property as a purchaser in good faith for valuable consideration. If the property was returned to a person, pursuant to section 38(3)(b), the court shall order that the security provided in exchange for the return of the property be forfeit in lieu of the property. In respect of civil forfeiture, there are Constitutional safeguards under the Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Act (COPROA) 2004 Section 47 of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act 2004 provides that: “(1)      In any prosecution for an offence under this Act, the court shall make an order for the forfeiture of any property which is proved to be the subject matter of the offence or to have been used in the commission of the offence where: (a)        The offence is proved against the accused: or (b)        The offence is not proved against the accused but the court is satisfied; (i)         That the accused is not the true and lawful owner of such property; and (ii)        That no other person is entitled to the property as a purchaser in good faith for valuable consideration.” Clearly from the above provisions, the court is entitled to invoke civil forfeiture where the property is proved to be the subject matter of the offence or ascertained to have been used in the commission of the offence whether or not the offence is proved against the defendant. The only obligation on the part of the court is to be convinced that the property, the subject matter being considered does not belong to the defendant and that no other person is entitled to the said property as a purchaser in good faith for valuable consideration. It can be said that civil forfeiture of property in this sense is not prejudicial to the defendant since he/she is unable to establish ownership to the property and no other third party is able to demonstrate ownership of the property in good faith for valuable consideration.  The justification being that the state is entitled to forfeit assets whose acquisitions are of questionable or doubtful origin. In such instances of doubtful origin, the court is entitled to presume that the property was acquired with illicit funds or laundered funds – an illegality which the court on behalf of the state is entitled to forestall for the stability and cohesiveness of the society. Section 34(1) of the EFCC Act provides as follows: “Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment or law, the Chairman of the Commission or any officer authorised by him may, if satisfied that the money in the account of a person is made through the commission of an offence under this Act and or any of the enactments specified under section 7(2) (a)-(f) of this Act, apply to the Court ex-parte for power to issue an order as specified in Form B of the Schedule to this Act, addressed to the manager of the bank or any person in control of the financial institution or designated non-financial institution where the account is or believed by him to be or the head office of the bank, other financial institution or designated non-financial institution to freeze the account. Section 29 of the EFCC Act provides as follows: Where: (a)        the assets or properties of any person arrested for an offence under this Act has been seized; or (b)        any assets or property has been seized by the Commission under this Act, the Commission shall cause an ex-parte application to be made to the Court for an interim order forfeiting the property concerned to the Federal Government and the Court shall, if satisfied that there is prima facie evidence that the property concerned is liable to forfeiture, make an interim order forfeiting the property to the Federal Government.” In respect of civil forfeiture, there are Constitutional Safeguards under Sections 7(1)(b); 28,29 and 30  of the EFCC Act 2004. Sections 7(1)(b); 28, 29 and 30 of the EFCC Act provides: “The Commission has power to- Cause investigations to be conducted into the properties of any person if it appears to the commission that the person’s lifestyle and extent of the properties are not justified by his source of income… 28)       Where a person is arrested for an offence under this Act, the Commission shall immediately trace and attach all the assets and properties of the person acquired as a result of such economic and financial crime and shall thereafter cause to be obtained an interim attachment order from the Court. 29)       Where: (a)        the assets or properties of any person arrested for an offence under this Act has been seized; or (b)        any assets or property as seized by the Commission under this Act, the Commission shall cause an application to be made to the Court for an interim order forfeiting the property concerned to the Federal Government and the Court shall, if satisfied that there is prima facie evidence that the property concerned is liable to forfeiture, make an interim order forfeiting the property to the Federal Government. 30)       Where a person is convicted of an offence under this Act, the Commission or any authorised officer shall apply to the Court for the order of confiscation and forfeiture of the convicted person’s assets and properties acquired or obtained as a result of the crime already subject to an interim under this Act.” Constitutional issues arising from the above provisions of Section 7(1)(b) is the extent to which right to acquire and own immovable property anywhere in Nigeria as prescribed under Section 43 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) is preserved by this provision.  It is noteworthy that Section 7 (1)(b) allows the commission to proceed against anyone whose assets are in excess of his/her income or whose lifestyle is not consistent or commensurate with his/her known source of income. Where the commission ascertains that assets of an individual far exceeds his/her known source of income, civil forfeiture of such assets can be invoked in the circumstances. It would seem that the right of the defendant to acquire property is not thereby infringed in such circumstances as the action can be justified by the proviso to Section 44(2)(k) of the Constitution permitting compulsory acquisition of property ‘relating to the temporary taking of possession of property for the purpose of any examination, investigation or enquiry..’ Section 28 of the EFCC Act 2004 relates to investigation of assets and properties of a person arrested of an offence under this act, meaning that the commission is entitled to proceed against any defendant arrested in connection with the commission of any offence.  The power of Interim Civil Forfeiture of Assets under this section is predicated mainly on arrest not on the basis of conviction.  The question may be asked, whether such exercise of civil forfeiture derogates for the presumption of innocence of the defendant guaranteed under Section 36(5) of the 1999 Constitution.  The Section provides: “Every person who is charged with a criminal offence shall be presumed to be innocent until he is proved guilty.” It is submitted that Section 28 of the EFCC Act 2004 does not conflict with the presumption of innocence guaranteed under Section 36(5) of the Constitution given that Section 36(5) of the Constitution is qualified by a proviso which reads: “Provided that nothing in this section shall invalidate any law by reason only that the law imposes upon any such person the burden of proving particular facts.” 