 ALL Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain in Lagos State Folashade Oluranti Akinpelu believes that the grassroots deserve dividends of democracy from the grassroots. Through her intervention and empowerment programmes, she had earned applause from stakeholders, who have described her as a star councillor representing Ward A in Ikosi-Isheti Local Council Development Area (LCDA). “If Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu can touch 377 wards of the state by carrying out many road projects in which our ward is a part of the beneficiaries, as a councillor, I should be able to attract infrastructural development to the the streets constituting my own ward,” she said at a stewardship forum. At the meeting were APC leaders, who attested to her diligence and love for the communities in her ward. A minute of silence was observed in honour of departed leaders, council chairman Abdulfatai Oyesanya, Hiyse of Assembly member Tunde Braimoh and Senator Bayo Osinowo. Exuding confidence, Akinpelu listed the projects she had attracted to her ward under the former council chairman, Oyesanya and his successor,  Princess Samiat Abolanle Bada, through the outlet of Lagos State Public Works. These include the rehabilitation of  Isheri / Magodo Road,  Ayodele Fanoiki Road, Bankole Street, Isheri, Agbedina link Bankole street, Jimoh Sobowale Street, Magodo, on – going road project at Ago- Ijaye Street, Isheri, grading of some roads in Isheri North Estate, Farouk Aboaba road, Vera Dureke road,  Somide Odujinrin Street Omole PH.II, Olowoira Road and Old Olowora Road She said:”Beyond facilitating all these road projects in my ward through the Lagos State Public works, we also thank the LCDA for following road projects executed in my ward:  Salami Olonade Street, Isheri,  Ajibode Street Isheri,  Kareem Street, Olowoira,  Moses Ogungbeye Street, Olowoira, Fasogbon Street, Magodo Isheri, six blocks of classrooms with six toilets at United African Church Pry. Schl. Isheri, borehole for Orisa Community, and istribution of learning materials to public schools and teachers. Akinpelu said although she is not empowered to construct roads, she had tried to use his goodwill to facilitate the projects to her constituency. She thanked the people of the ward for taking necessary pre-cautionary measures and observing the Covid 19 preventive regulations to prevent the spread of the strange disease. Akinpelu also hailed the youths of the area for preventing any form of wanton destruction of lives and property in the community during the #EndSARS protests. Describing the people as her source of motivation  she promised to always protect their interests. Akinpelu said:”I have decided to flag off a free vocation training for some of our unemployed youth wherein I would also be providing them monthly stipend for a year. “Aside that, I have also made provision for cash and food disbursement to the widows, aged and the less privilege amongst us. This is to serve as a cushion effect on the economy challenges caused by the Covid 19 Pandemic. “I have also made provisions for medical facilities for interested participants, which would include giving free medical check-up, free eye glasses, dental care and free drugs all at my expense with my partner Med. Test Libro Foundation.” She added:”As your councilor, though I may not have satisfied every zone but one way or the other, every zone have benefi7ted. I am still willing to do more before the end of my tenure in office because the well-being of my community is my top priority. I would like to crave the indulgence of the youth in our community to please  be more involved in the system. The government is opened to discussing with the youth and rather than resort to violence, do not hesitate to approach the government for any form of dialogue.” 