Niger Delta students at the weekend faulted the protest staged on the East-West Road by the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide calling for the removal of the Sole Administrator, Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Effiong Akwa. The Niger Delta Students Union Government (NIDSUG) in a statement signed by its National President, Nepba Goodness said the protest was borne out of ethnic sentiment, saying the region was not only about the IYC. Goodness said the students from the region were in support of President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to appoint a sole administrator for the NDDC to temporarily manage the affairs of the commission pending conclusion of the ongoing forensic audit. “Our position is based on critical evaluations of the circumstances surrounding the NDDC, ranging from series of litigations to the need to comprehensively conclude the ongoing forensic audit currently at the commission,” he said. He said the region lacked employment, educational empowerment and requisite infrastructures because the NDDC over the years squandered huge revenue allocated to it. “This is saddening and we all wait for the result of the forensic audit and its implementation. While we appreciate the need for a substantive NDDC board, where the activities of the commission will move swiftly for the benefits of the region, we are not oblivious of the need to conclude the ongoing forensic audit before the appointment of a substantive board. “The appointment of the Acting Executive Administrator is therefore a product of necessity, and should not receive negative implications and unnecessary protest. Any attempt to undermine these facts, amount to insensitivity. “We also frown at throwing the entire Niger Delta region into tribalistic and ethnic divides, capable of bringing disharmony amongst us. The Niger Delta struggle is one that is borne out of the strong will of men from different ethnic groups, who identified their similarities and decided to align their ideas for the interest of the region. “A region made up of the Ijaws, Ogonis, Ifik, Anang, Ibibio, Urhobo, Igbos and many other numerous nations cannot be held to ransom by few persons. The resources that we own are collectively produced from the soil of these groups, and they share same and equal stake in the activities of the region, therefore shouldn’t be taken for granted. “As the Future of the region, we won’t sit back and watch our region being maligned by ethnic and tribal sentiments. We will protect it, assist in designing it towards greatness. We have no where to run to, so we shall ensure we join hands in building our future by ourselves through constructive, participatory, and active engagements.” Goodness called on political, religious and opinion leaders from the Niger Delta to work together for the protection of the NDDC adding that the students appreciated the efforts of the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio towards transforming the region. He called on aggrieved stakeholders to stop distracting Akpabio insisting that the region could not afford further bickering in the new year.