A formidable political party will soon be launched, former Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, said on Monday. He said the new party will provide a credible alternative to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The Senator, a founding APC member, said he and other progressive-minded politicians are mulling the new political order. He said it was because of silent agitations and complaints against the state of the nation. According to him, there is an urgent need for the regrouping of the ‘good politicians’ to restore public confidence in governance. Okorocha, who represents Imo West, said the country needed political re-engineering, warning that Nigerians cannot be fooled again by mischievous politicians in 2023. He said: “The movement for a new Nigeria has begun and we must come together, I mean progressive Nigerians, to make the country work.” Okorocha said the APC was hurriedly formed to take power from the PDP without much emphasis on the character of those championing the course. The Senator said: “APC was a hurried arrangement formed to take power when the then government was drifting. “APC would have been better until people who were not members of the party, people who came for a congratulatory message, hijacked the party and became Lords.” Okorocha, who nurses a Presidential ambition having contested on three previous occasions, added: “The issue is not about APC or PDP. It is beyond political parties. We are talking about the character of the politicians. “Political parties in Nigeria don’t have any ideology; it is just a vehicle to come to power. “So, what we have is not the ideal thing. We have so many people who are not interested in working for the nation. “For instance, if President Muhamamadu Buhari had surrounded himself with good people, the story will not be the same today. “We have bad people in APC, just as we have them in PDP and that was why I made the call in Rivers State that the good ones should come together to lead the people.” On the fears for his 2023 ambition, the former governor said his greatest fear is the sacrifice he will have to make as a President. “Remember I contested for President in 2003, 2007 and 2015 and I don’t know what else you think I will contest for,” he said. On APC’s zoning arrangement, he said: “I am not aware of any zoning arrangement in APC but there may be a kind of unwritten agreement. “Though I don’t believe in zoning, for the sake of equity, justice and fairness, all the zones should be allowed to produce the President, so that at the end, we will know the zone that produced the best President when we consider their achievements.”