 WHAT inspired your passion to go into the traditional wedding compere industry? First, I would say my mom, because that’s what she also does. I was always going with to events and I saw the several needs in the industry. By the time, I joined the industry it was dominated by older women and a few men. I noticed that the younger people didn’t have a representation in the traditional wedding compere industry and  when I saw that need, I said to myself if this is what I love doing I can create a need for the younger generation . That was how I got myself into the industry. I got trained by my mom, in the art of public speaking, the art and business of engagement compering . In addition,  I got myself mentors who put me through  because at that point my mom was just doing it  as a hobby. She was working as a school teacher and compering traditional weddings as a side business.  I came into the industry to do it full time and create a space and opportunity for younger people in the industry, and over the years I can say it’s been worthwhile. How long have you been in the business? I have been in the business since my mom’s womb, lol. Like I said earlier on, my mom has been in the industry for a long time. I got trained for a while. At some point in 2001 my mom started giving me jobs to do. My mum then gave me the opportunity of getting my own business cards because when I go for events a lot of people were always asking for my number. I remember the first event I went for at that time I was working for an NGO and it was my company’s card that was given to them.  I will say that I started in 2003. What are the challenges you have faced since venturing into the business? Back in the days people prefer the engagements but now one of the challenges we face is that people are trying to phase out our tradition and culture. Our culture is fading out fast and if we don’t do something about it, we would  discover that in some years to come, some children would not even know anything about their culture and that’s a major challenge. It is sad that people do not regard our culture. The challenges we face includes timing. Sometimes people will tell you engagement starts for 7am, you get to the venue by 7am and family members are not even there until 10am. When people go to the registry and they delay them they wont complain but when its traditional engagement scheduled for minutes they are already hurrying.  Sometimes clients expect the whole engagement ceremony to be conducted under 15 minutes. When Muslim clerics are conducting the Nikai, they use 3 hours and sometimes 4 hours and nobody complains or goes after them. Some church weddings also last for up to 4 hours and nobody complains about it because they know the pastor is doing his job and knows what to do. However, most people believe as an Alaga you don’t know what you’re doing so they start complaining that you are wasting their time. People see our culture and traditional values as a waste of time. It’s unfortunate that some people outside the country value our culture more than we do. Another challenge is issues in family, things like sibling rivalry, abuse from a relative get in the way of the work of Alaga because the children may not know how to go about it at the engagement ceremony so they hold the Alaga responsible for a problem that was not created by the Alaga. Sometimes we see emotions flying around, some brides will tell you I don’t want to have anything to do with my father, I don’t want to take pictures with my father and as the Alaga you’re saddled with the responsibility of handling that chaotic situation. The question is how are you going to take pictures on your wedding day and not take pictures with your father. Sometimes, some people will tell you, ” I don’t want to have anything to do with my mother” , and you are the one that will cover up all those things. Unfortunately, some people that don’t know about what is happening in the families will tell you that you are not doing your job, you are not doing this, you are not doing that. It’s usually a major challenge especially now that our job requires emotional intelligence. If you are not intelligent enough to know that things are happening you won’t even know emotions are flying around and you would just be wondering why is this person behaving in a hostile way. One of the major challenges we face in the industry is managing family conflicts. Have you fulfilled your dream of raising women to become leaders in the industry? To the glory of God I have raised over a 100 women in the engagement industry. I started with training few women at a time in groups of doing 5, 10 and in some cases 20 in a year. I have been able to raise successful women in the engagement compere industry by the grace of God and I am still raising, in fact I have a major training coming up in January 2021 for traditional wedding comperes for people who want to brush up, because there are some people who have been in industry for a while and just need to learn how to upgrade themselves in one or two areas.  I have been able to raise leader labels in the traditional compere industry. The Strictly Weddings Academy trainings have been able to raise women who are leading in the engagement compere industry, and we have a training coming up the in January 2021 in Lagos.