In 2013, the Nigerian entertainment scene was agog for many months following the pre and post-wedding ceremony of one of the country’s most decorated and most loved music acts, 2face Idibia. He exchanged vows with actress and momager, Annie Macaulay. Four years later, the entertainment scene came alive when melodious singer and record label exec, Banky W exchanged marital vows with sterling actress, Adesua Etomi in November 2017. It’s four years after the last biggest wedding on the entertainment scene and tongues are already wagging about who will walk down the aisle among Burna Boy, Wizkid, and Davido. The year 2020 ended with three of Nigeria’s biggest music exports, Wizkid, Burna Boy, and Davido, enjoying a sizzling and stable romance with their partners. The trio took time out in 2020 to enjoy private moments with their partners. And in December 2020, in far away Accra, Ghana, fans and industry heads caught a glimpse of Burna Boy mesmerising his bi-racial partner, Stefflon Don, as well as Wizkid being enchanted by his Brit partner, Jada P. Here’s all you need to know about the juicy details of the trio’s romance in the last two years as they leave us waiting for at least one glamorous wedding in 2021. DAVIDO and Chioma’s love story became public in 2018 after the 28-year-old singer and record label executive revealed his newfound love. Davido made the relationship public when he decided to spoil Chioma with a Porsche car valued at N23 Million on her 23rd birthday. The pair have since become an item on the entertainment scene with Davido putting her on a track in his sophomore album, ‘A Good Time’ and Chioma appearing in two of Davido’s music videos – Assurance and 1 milli. In 2019, Davido took the relationship a notch higher when his family visited Chioma’s parents in Lagos for an introduction. 10 days after the introduction, Davido proposed to Chioma in a London restaurant, in the United Kingdom on September 12, 2019. A few weeks later, the pair welcomed their first child together and Davido’s first son. The singer gave the impression that he would walk down the aisle with Chioma in 2020 and to this end, he moved out of his Lekki home to a newly built home on Banana Island for his family but that was not meant to be as the world was hit by a global pandemic, coronavirus. As their love waxed stronger, Chioma tested positive for coronavirus in 2020 but was healed a month after. Rather than walk down the aisle, Davido released his third album in 2020. The pair have remained strong and inseparable and fans are looking at the two settling down to start raising a family.  IN 2019, at the height of his career, Burna Boy announced his relationship with Jamaican-British born singer, Stefflon Don. Burna Boy had shared a video of Stefflon Don and himself all cuddled up to announce that he’s in a serious relationship. The pair have granted interviews to speak about their love – although Burna Boy insists that details of their relationship will not be let out to the public. The two have continued to wax stronger and have attended top music awards together as a pair. All through 2019, Burna Boy and Stefflon Don, in separate interviews, expressed their desire to start having kids and raise a family together. Stefflon Don has repeatedly said that she’s not just one of the ladies with the Nigerian music star but his wife to be because he specifically told her that. As 2020 nears its end, Burna Boy was accused of cheating on Stefflon Don by a 23-year-old lady who claims to have dated the African giant for two years. In two videos on her Instagram page, the 23-year-old lady narrated how she met and fell in love with Burna Boy before and after he started dating Stefflon Don. Despite the outburst, Burna Boy and Stefflon Don remained silent about the lady and refused to speak about it to the public and fans who were yearning to know what truly happened. In December 2020, Burna Boy and Stefflon Don reaffirmed their commitment to being with each other when they were both spotted enjoying intimate moments in Ghana. Burna Boy couldn’t stop but gush about his woman as they holiday in Ghana. Fans are hoping the pair will surprise them by tying the nuptial knot in 2021.  AFTER many years of being rumoured to be enjoying a sizzling romance with Tiwa Savage and Naomi Campbell, Wizkid has laid the rumours to rest with his dedication to Jada Pollock. The two had met on the job – Jada runs an image consulting and styling firm in London and has top clients that include popular sportsmen and entertainers. Like Davido and Chioma, Wizkid and Jada have a son together, Zion. The pair have become inseparable in the last two years and currently live together in London with their son. While none of the two have hinted at marriage or a wedding, the pair have consistently proven that they are in for a long haul. Despite rumours that there was a crack in their relationship in 2019, the two debunked the allegations with moves and videos that show they are smitten with each other in 2020. As 2020 ended, the pair decided to spend some intimate time with each other and their son and they chose Accra, Ghana for their family getaway. The pair and their son were spotted kicking off the New Year together at a private party. Wizkid shared some of the pictures from the private gathering with his fans on January 3, 2021, on his official Instagram page. Fans are hoping Wizkid will make that decision to engage and walk down the aisle with Jada. 