Ebonyi State Governor and Southeast Governors Forum Chairman, David Umahi, on Tuesday backed Prof George Obiozor for the position of President-General of Ohanaeze Ndígbo. The former ambassador to the United States got the endorsement when he visited Umahi in his country home. The election will hold on January 10. Umahi said: “I will stand with Ambassador Obiozor. We want a man of his character for the Igbo people. I love anyone that loves an Igbo man.” He urged Prof Obiozor to regenerate Igbo unity if elected. The governor also lauded elder statesman Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu for his unrelenting effort to unite the Igbo. Chief Iwuanyanwu, who led the delegation, said Obiozor was endorsed by Imo State elders for his antecedents. He said: “After rigorous evaluation, we have discovered that Prof Obiozor’s qualifications and pedigree are quite appealing. “We are convinced that he is the right person we can give to the Southeast Governors’ Forum and Ndigbo and we will not be disappointed. “He is a very sound person. He has served Nigeria in so many capacities and he is the choice of Imo people.” Obiozor thanked Umahi and the Imo State Chapter of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo for choosing him as their consensus candidate and pledged to live up to expectations. “I thank Imo Ohanaeze for choosing me as their consensus candidate. Igbos today are in a difficult situation and we need maturity to solve those problems. “I aim to assemble the Igbos. All we need is to create a common course. By coming to Ebonyi State today, we know that our future is bright. By the grace of God, I will never disappoint you.” Also on Tuesday, Ambassador Thomas Aguiyi-Ironsi, son of Nigeria’s first military head of state, General J.T. U Aguiyi-Ironsi, backed Ambassador Okey Emuchay as the next Secretary-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide. Speaking in Umuahia, the Abia State capital when Emuchay met with the executives of Ohanaeze in the state, Aguiyi-Ironsi said the former envoy served the nation meritoriously. He said: “The greatest problem of Igboman today is survival, but we cannot fight. We have to negotiate and Emuchay is a man with knowledge who will defend Igbo interest, a man of compassion.” He urged Abia delegates to the Ohaneze Ndigbo election to vote for Emuchay whom he said was qualified for the post of Secretary-General. A chieftain of the organisation in Abia, Chief Collins Umezuruike, said the state would adopt Emuchay as its candidate for Secretary-General that was zoned to Abia.