 In three days, Prof. Olanrewaju Adigun Fagbohun will bow out as the eighth substantive Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University (LASU). The university has been in celebration mood since last month with so many programmes lined up to celebrate the exit of a vice-chancellor who moved the institution from a troubled position to a place of recognition. Considering that the tenures of the two vice-chancellors to occupy the seat before him (Prof. John Obafunwa, 2011-2015; Abdul Lateef A. Hussain, 2005-2011) ended unceremoniously in crisis, Fagbohun completing his tenure is a big deal to the university community. At a valedictory lecture delivered by Fagbohun in the run up to the end of year festivities, many of his predecessors described him as the best Vice-Chancellor the 38-year old institution had ever had. Fifth Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof. Abisogun Leigh, said LASU enjoyed the best of times under Fagbohun. “You are the best so far. When I say you are the best, I want to reference all the men and women who stood by you as well. He added: “This young man has actually raised LASU to a height that the founding fathers will be proud of.” Distinguished Professor Peter Okebukola, who acted as Vice Chancellor at the university years ago, said himself and Prof. Leigh also compared notes and agreed that Fagbohun surpassed his predecessors combined. “When we take the measure of all the vice-chancellors of LASU have done together, none of us can match what Fagbohun has done. From all our measures Fagbohun stood out,” said Okebukola, a former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC). The institution’s pioneer Librarian, Alhaji Tajudeen Seriki, also praised Fagbohun, who he said worked like no other. “When I was discussing with a former Vice-chancellor, he said it seems we did not work the way this boy is working,” he said. However, it was not like the past five years was a tea party. Fagbohun had to face the turbulence in the university that seeming drowned those before him. The professor of Environmental Law shared some of what he went through and how he overcame. The LASU Fagbohun met When he assumed office on January 10, 2016, Fagbohun met a university that had not issued certificates to 70,500 graduates almost one decade after graduating from the university.  The backlog was mostly the product of an external campus system that was massive and disorganised.  When it had to be shut following a directive by the National Universities Commission (NUC), the university experienced huge problems sorting out students’ data.  Both Hussain and Obafunwa had complained about signing hundreds of certificates daily without coming close to solving the problem. The notoriety of the university as a crisis-ridden institution was at an all-time high.  It was common for the institution to shut over workers’ protests or unrest by students.  Just the year before, the workers had driven his predecessor out of the campus – pelting him with stones; students had destroyed university property and nearly attacked the Vice-Chancellor’s office over fee hike.  It was also common for clashes between workers and management to descend to the level that charms were used.  In 2009, workers placed charms at the entrance of Prof. Hussain’s office during one of such crisis. Regarding academic activities, the institution lacked recognition in international circles and requisite infrastructure.  Fagbohun gives his scorecard In his valedictory lecture, Fagbohun said he was aware of the huge task ahead trying to reform the institution where he had taught for almost two decades.  However, with the collaboration of workers of the university, students and the support of the Governing Council and Lagos State government, he was able to change the university’s story for good. Compared to what he met on ground, Fagbohun who said he sought the counsel of over 20 former Vice Chancellors for the job, said he was leaving behind an institution ranked second best in Nigeria and recognised for its academic profile and industrious students. He said: “Today, our University is certified by the World Bank, Association of African Universities, and the National Universities Commission, as an Africa Centre of Excellence for Innovative and Transformative STEM Education (ACEITSE) capable of creating new knowledge and original ideas. We have had not only a commendable performance in the Times Higher Education (THE) World University Rankings 2021 (501 – 600 band out of 1527 institutions from 93 countries) which we intend to aggressively improve upon; we have also been ranked as second best University in Nigeria. Within the private sector, we have received extensive supportive partnerships with employers, corporate training organizations, professional mentors and sponsors.  While our graduates no longer suffer the humiliation of rejection by both private and public organizations, our students have consistently excelled in both national and international competitions – sports, academics and other social engagements. In addition, we continue to benchmark our activities by excellence measured by both national and international standards.” Fagbohun said LASU’s infrastructure received a great boost by the combination of support from both the state government, funding from the Tertiary Education Trust Fund, and private endowment, while the institution’s Internally-Generated Revenue (IGR) increased from about N809 million to over N2 billion under his watch. He said: “I took up the reins of the University at a time of great financial uncertainty. Thus, I had no doubt in my mind that we must secure the University’s financial position. When we started out in 2016, the subvention of the University was grossly inadequate to meet the personnel cost.  At the same time, the tuition revenue and income from the LASU External Programme (same which was already winding down) were insufficient to meet the funding gap. Working together with the Governing Council and the entire University community, we were able to leverage on the unique setting of Lagos and also take advantage of our multi-campus setting to quickly ramp-up new programmes. The result was that from the total IGR of N809,959,115.00 (Eight Hundred and Nine Million Nine Hundred and Fifty Nine Thousand One Hundred and Fifteen Naira Only) for year 2015, we were able to push our IGR to N2,090,672,566.00 (Two Billion Ninety Million Six Hundred and Seventy Two Thousand Five Hundred and Sixty-Six Naira Only) by 2019.” Fagbohun said he was able to achieve success by applying five strategic imperatives. “After identifying the historical, institutional and routine strains and stresses that were confronting the University,  I noted the five strategic imperatives which I believed would result in the desired transformation as follows:  Restoring peace to the University; Foster high-level scholarship and create new knowledge; Consolidate on previous gains;            Develop clear road-map for attracting funds; and Make LASU a valued partner to the Lagos State Government and the nation.”  The ‘enemies’ within  However, it was not a smooth ride all through for the 55-year old professor who said he faced attacks from some members of the workers’ union who wanted him to kowtow to their demands. He said the group which he referred to as toxic minority opposed him and tried to heat up the university but were sanctioned and fired for disobeying university laws. “As Vice-Chancellor, I experienced leadership of a staff union who saw nothing wrong in misconduct bordering on sexual harassment, financial impropriety, cash-for-grade, racketeering, complicity in cultism, outright theft of confidential document, and other malfeasance touching on integrity and ideals of the university as a learned commune. Some of the union officials were neck-deep in these activities, yet, these rogue individuals easily found consortium instead of reprehension within the union,” he said. However, the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) accused Fagbohun of high-handedness. In a statement by ASUU- Lagos Zone released on Tuesday, the union alleged that Fagbohun was instrumental to the malicious sack of some ASUU leaders of the university. “Five out of nine current executive members (i.e. the Chairman, Vice Chairman, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, and the Treasurer) of ASUU-LASU were maliciously tried on various trumped up charges, and were purportedly dismissed between 2017 and 2019. The Union strongly believes that these actions by the Fagbohun-led Administration and the 10th Governing Council of LASU are cases of victimisation due to the principled stance of the Branch leadership against disrespect for the rule of law, serial breaches of due process, and outright maladministration,” stated the statement signed by Prof. Olusiji Sowande, Coordinator, ASUU Lagos Zone. The union noted it had gone to court to seek redress on the ‘injustice’ meted out to its members by the LASU management and Council. “The injustices done to the Union leaders in LASU are being challenged in the courts of competent jurisdiction. In line with the constitution of ASUU and its code of practice, until these cases are disposed off in the court of law, or the National Executive Council (NEC) of ASUU reviews the situation, the Isaac Oyewumi-led executive SHALL continue to be recognised as the leadership of the Union at the LASU Branch. The Isaac Oyewumi-led executive of ASUU-LASU enjoys the unwavering support of the union at both Zonal and National levels, and this position has been communicated several times to the university authorities and the government,” it said. Apart from the unions that gave him trouble, Fagbohun said there were others.  During the lecture, he threatened to call names but was persuaded not to.  Nevertheless, he mentioned a professor who served as his deputy vice-chancellor without giving his name.  He claimed the professor in question accused him (Fagbohun) of foiling his bid to become the next vice-chancellor. Having made so much progress, Fagbohun warned the university not to allow the toxic minority affect the peace of the university after his exit. “Notwithstanding these lofty heights we have attained, it is not yet totally uhuru. It is disheartening that dislodged entrenched interests who hitherto were benefitting from the instability and crisis that was LASU continued to aggressively seek ways to cripple the peace. This toxic minority are still very much alive, and it is therefore of extreme importance that I sound this alarm so that we all can remain vigilant,” he said.  Race for Fagbohun’s successor  The race is already on for Fagbohun’s successor. Nine candidates applied out of whom four were screened out.  They were: former vice-chancellor of Crescent University, Abeokuta, Sherifdeen Tella; former deputy vice-chancellor (Academics), who served under Fagbohun, Olumuyiwa Noah; Aderemi Oki from Prairie View A&M University, Texas, United States, and Hakeem Tijani from National Open University. The remaining five, namely: former Acting Vice-Chancellor, LASU, Prof. Ibiyemi Olatunji-Bello; Director LASU Research and Innovation Unit Prof. Olumuyiwa Odusanya;  former chairman, ASUU-LASU, Prof. Kabir Akinyemi; a former deputy vice chancellor, Prof. Sena Bakre; and Prof. Omotayo Awofolu from the Namibia University of Science and Technology faced the selection interview panel on December 22. Three of them, Odusanya, Bakre and Akinyemi have been nominated for the positions and their names presented to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to select who would become Fagbohun’s successor. With Fagbohun having achieved so much within five years, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo said his successor would have to work hard to fit into the huge shoes that he was leaving behind. 