The fate of the course mates to the newly appointed Chief of Defence State, Major General Leo Irabor (Regular Course 34), is still hanging on the balance as the Defence Headquarters braces for resumption of the new Service Chiefs. Military sources at the Defence Headquarters described Irabor as a core professional who may not want to bend the rules. Irabor, as standard practice, may decide to retain some of his course mates or recommend them for compulsory retirement. Meanwhile Lieutenant General Lamidi Adeosun, the Chief of Policy and Plans, who is at same rank with the former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, will compulsorily retire alongside other members of the Regular Course 33. Although The Nation gathered that members of the Course 34 are already jittery, the sources ruled out possibility of massive retirement or redeployment, citing the ongoing military operations. It was also gathered that the New Service Chiefs may not be in a hurry to be in a hurry to change the principal officers as anticipated. According to one of the sources: “We don’t see the new Chief of Defence Staff or the other Service Chiefs dismantling the structures put in place by their predecessors. “You should know that the ongoing military operations require consistency and experience. They will definitely bring their men on board but it will be a gradual process”. Meanwhile at the mood at the Defence Headquarters, could be best described as apprehensive. Though activities were going on smoothly when our correspondent visited the Defence Headquarters in Abuja brisk movements in most of the offices suggest that serious lobbying and alignments have started. Even though the Service Chiefs were yet to resume office, the atmosphere suggested that preparations are on top gear ahead their resumption. Though no timeline was given for their formal resumptions, The Nation reliably gathered the Service Chiefs, who have been scheduled to meet with President Muhammadu Buhari, will resume officially on Friday.