 AS a shareholder group what is your position on this vexatious matter? They don’t have the right to take what does not belong to them. They don’t. It’s a private sector money and it’s from private investors. They never discussed anything either in private with the shareholders or in the open with the shareholders. What they are using is that they just feel that they have the power to do anything, not knowing that we are in a democracy. You cannot just use power on what does not belong to you.  It’s a daylight robbery. I said it to the senators and I said very clearly that if we are attacked by armed robbers we run to the government police and army to protect us.  But when those that are supposed to protect us turn to armed robbers what do we do? I said that at the senate and the Minister said it was an insult. I said no, it wasn’t an insult. The fact is that we haven’t seen the end. There have been situations in a democracy where acts are nullified. At least there is room for arbitration on all these. You cannot just come overnight and say you want to borrow forcefully. Can you just go to the banks and tell the banks you must borrow forcefully?  It’s not possible. So you cannot borrow forcefully. All you need to do if you want loan from the public, you raise a debenture or raise stock and people will voluntarily buy into it, which they (government) has been doing. But they are overwhelmed with loans. Now, they have borrowed from Pension funds and those that own the pension will not get their pension; people will retire and at old age they will not even get their pension or even anything.  Now you’re saying that unclaimed balances in the banks you want to borrow it. And I asked them at the Senate, I said, are we at war where certain unusual things happen? They couldn’t answer me. The Minister, the Minister of State, the Permanent Secretary, was all there, they couldn’t answer me. What we are seeing is just an attack by ‘armed-robbers’ without gun on investors. Even though you call it unclaimed dividends, but all these diminish on daily basis, people claim their dividends ion daily basis. There are people that have travelled; they are not ion the country as such they couldn’t demutualise their investments in order for the dividends to go straight into their accounts. But it’s there and you’re calling it unclaimed dividends. That’s fine. What is the situation in other countries, are their best practice to learn from? If you talk of unclaimed dividends we have best practice to draw from abroad. During my visit to the senate, I gave them references. In the UK for instance, they have about £4billion. If you translate that into naira, you know what that means? Yet they have not been tempted to touch it. The UK government did not say because they are having a pandemic that rampaging everywhere that they want to convert peoples’ money. In Austria, you’re having 1billion Austria pounds and they have not converted it.  In Nigeria, you say you have N150billion, and if you work it out today, it’s not even up to N150billion again because every day they pay out dividends. And I told them, I said, the central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) also has a hand in it because if you do not have forex cover to multinationals that invested in this country, their dividends would be hanging. You also call that unclaimed dividends and you want to borrow it with force. What is the position of the law? The existing law says unclaimed dividends remain unclaimed if up to 12 yeas whereby whatever is left there will revert to the company that place it, now the government went to reduce the statutory years to six so that you can take the money. So, I insist, it’s a daylight robbery, it’s an unfortunate thing; it’s like using gun on investors. In your own view, do you think this would erode investor confidence in the country given the way and manner the government is going about this whole exercise? Yes, it’ll not augur well for the investing climate of the country because people will now be afraid to invest in the country.  It’s definitely sending g the wrong signal to investors. Other countries are looking for investors, and you’re destroying your own investment climate. And like I told them at the Senate, most of the people who are attacking unclaimed dividends today, do not believe in investment. They will tell you how can they leave their money with anybody to manage for them? As a shareholder holder group, are you planning any class action against the government over this issue? I told you earlier, that there is a three tier government and especially in a democracy there is room for arbitration. So that can tell you our mindset. We have not heard the last of this case yet.