By Gbade Ogunwale, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has challenged leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to tell the Nigerian people its position on restructuring and devolution of power. The PDP said it has become imperative for the APC to be categorical and unambiguous on the matter, given what the opposition party described as President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to go back on his campaign promise of implementing an administrative restructuring for the better governance of the country. In a statement on Saturday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party also tasked the leadership of the APC to clarify a statement by one of its members in the Senate, Ajibola Basiru, describing restructuring as “only a slogan.” A recent media report had further quoted Senator Basiru as saying that neither the APC nor its leaders ever submitted any memoranda for restructuring and devolution of power to the ongoing constitution review process. Recall that promises of restructuring and devolution of power had dominated the APC’s campaign in the 2015 and 2019 general elections. Also, the Presidency, through one of its spokes persons, Mallam Garba Shehu, had, in a recent press interview, directed proponents of restructuring to take their agitation to the National Assembly. The statement said: “The PDP calls out APC leaders including its Caretaker Chairman, Governor Mai Mala Buni, its National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Governor Nasir el-Rufai, Governor Kayode Fayemi Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed among others, to speak out on Mr. President’s recent declaration on restructuring as well as the position of the Senate. “Our party holds that the inaction of the APC in the face of the dismissive declaration by the Buhari Presidency that Nigerians, who they had promised restructuring, should now channel their demands to the National Assembly, only goes to further validate the assertions among Nigerians that the APC is a deceptive power-grabbing platform, which is not interested in governance or fulfilling its promises to Nigerians.” The PDP further said that it’s very disappointing that almost six years after riding to power on the promise of restructuring, the Buhari Presidency has made no concrete effort towards forwarding an executive bill to the National Assembly on the matter, only to now ask Nigerians to carry their burden to the legislative houses. “Our party asserts that beside President Buhari, other bigger culprits of the failure on restructuring are the silent leaders of the APC who, despite promising restructuring, are clandestinely supportive of its huge betrayal. “The APC must therefore take responsibility for on-going challenges to our national unity, having failed to fulfill the promises they made on restructuring such as devolution of power and true federalism. “We are already aware of plots by certain APC leaders to recourse to condemning President Buhari as being singularly responsible for the failures of his administration and use such a narrative to beguile Nigerians again with another round of fake promises on restructuring. “The PDP challenges the APC to counter our position by speaking out and urging President Buhari to immediately formulate an executive bill as well as taking steps, as a party, for a private member bill on the promised restructuring, as contained in its manifesto. “In any case, the APC cannot beguile Nigerians again with their planned disowning of President Buhari in 2023 as the people are already aware of its plots. “President Buhari, the APC and its leaders must collectively take responsibility for the failures of their administration and allow our nation her desired new lease of life by exiting our political firmament come 2023.”