The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) has rewarded Ogun State Institute of Technology (OGITECH) Igbesa with N75million for being the most compliant institution  during 2019 admission process. The examination body presented a cheque to top officers of the institution in  Abuja recently at  the second edition of the National Tertiary Admissions Performance Merit Award for 2019. JAMB gave N75 million to each of the five best performing tertiary institutions. They included University of Ilorin, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, and Federal University, Wukari, Taraba among others. Minister of Education, Mallam Adamu Adamu, praised JAMB for ensuring excellence in tertiary institutions. He said the Federal Government would continue to play the critical role in teaching, learning and research.He noted  that the exercise was one of government’s reward system and intervention in tertiary institutions. “In the first edition of the awards in 2019, JAMB supported tertiary institutions with N125 million and this year, the board is supporting the sector with N375 million. “This is no doubt an excellent gesture worthy of emulation. I am aware that the board’s support for the education sector cuts across the basic, secondary and tertiary education levels and it is a good Corporate Social Responsibility agenda. “I am equally aware that many other agencies, the organised private sector, individuals, NGOs, international agencies and many others are supporting the education sector in various forms and quantum. “Contributions to the education sector should not be limited to budgetary allocation of government to the sector. “This does not negate the reality that education is not receiving equitable share of the national budget,’’ he said. JAMB Registrar, Prof. Ishaq Oloyede said the institutions were expected to use the money judiciously. Oloyede said the awards were meant to improve the education sector as well as encourage institutions to maintain global standards. OGITECH Rector, Dr Olufunke  Akinkurolere  thanked members of staff  for their commitment to  quality service and excellence.