The police in Akwa Ibom have arraigned the suspended principal of the Deeper Life High School Uyo, Mrs Ndidi Solomon and six others for their roles in the alleged sexual abuse and maltreatment of Don-Davis Archibong, an 11-year-old-student of the school. Arraigned along with Mrs. Solomon at the Magistrate Court Uyo were Mrs. Ndidi SoJoseph Nseabasi, Akpan Johnson, Egor Wilson, Joseph Ikenna, and two minors, Shalom Ibukun and Ola Feyisetan. They were taken to court on a Four-count charge bordering on conspiracy to Felony to wit: indecent treatment of boys under fourteen and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 556 of the criminal code, cap.38, Vol.2. Laws of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria, 2000. The two minors, Shalom Ibukun and Ola Feyisetan were charged for committing act of gross indecency by inserting their fingers into the anus of Don-Davies. The minors’ offence is punishable under section 218(1) of the Criminal code, cap.38, vol.2 Laws of Akwa Ibom State of Nigeria, 2000. Both were also charged for unlawfully and indecently assaulting Don-Davies Archibong, which is an offence punishable under section 362(1) of the Laws of Akwa Ibom State. Also, Joseph Nseabasi, Akpan Johnson, Egor Wilson, and Joseph Ikenna were charged for failure to prevent Shallom Ibukun and Ola Feyisetan from committing felony, thereby committed an offence punishable under section 551 of the criminal code, cap.38 vol.11. Laws of Akwa Ibom State, Nigeria, 2000. When the case was read, all the accused persons pleaded not guilty to the Four-count charge. The Court granted all the accused persons bail in the sum of N500, 000 (five hundred thousand naira) each, while the two minors among them were released to their parents. Their bail followed application filed by their Counsel Fidelis Igwe, on the ground that it is bailable offence. The case was adjourned to January 20, ,2021 for accelerated hearing. Addressing newsmen at the premises, Counsel to the petitioner, David Okokon (Esq) says he is committed to ensuring that justice is served in the matter. However, Counsel to the accused persons declined to comment on the case.