Leading identity verification and Know-Your-Customer (KYC) technology company, VerifyMe, has won the award for Technology Solutions Company of the Year at the 2020 BusinessDay Nigeria Business Leadership Awards. VerifyMe joined a list of 33 companies and eight CEOs recognised for their remarkable leadership and sustained commitment to excellence in enterprise. According to BusinessDay Media Ltd., organisers of the Awards: “the criteria for vetting was based on a balanced scorecard that assigns weighted averages to leadership, innovation, market share, process improvement, financial performance, employee job satisfaction, social and environmental focus and compliance with extant regulatory requirements.” Founder/chairman Verifyme Nigeria, Olutunji Oluwole, said: “We are humbled to be recognized as the Technology Solutions Company. “This award is a fitting cap to what has been a very unique year for us at VerifyMe. “Amid the highs and lows, it has also be a year of remarkable growth both in terms of transaction volumes and other indices of our business.” “VerifyMe is driven by the vision to enable industry growth through trust. This award re-inforces our commitment to this vision and we thank BusinessDay for this recognition even as we set our eyes to transforming the verifications landscape across Africa in the coming year,” he added. VerifyMe provides digital trust infrastructure to the financial services sector and other industries using the most authoritative Nigerian ID data sources such as namely, National Identity Number (NIN), Bank Verification Number (BVN) and Driver’s License. All verifications are compliant with Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Tier III and Anti-Money Laundering (AML) directives, giving decision-makers the right tools to assess suitability for financial services and employment. Despite a challenging year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, VerifyMe has seen significant growth with verification transactions increasing 50% and total transaction volume by 100% since January. Over 30% of commercial banks also use their products, in addition to over 60 lenders and micro-lenders supported by the company’s APIs. Looking to transform the verifications landscape across Africa, VerifyMe plans to control 50% of the market by revenue and conduct over two million verifications monthly by the end of 2021. The company was recently appointed as one of the private sector technical partners to carry out National Identity Number (NIN) enrollments by the Nigerian Identity Management Commission (NIMC).