 Residents of Aderogba, Bayerunka, Ogboriefon area of Ibadan have lamented security challenges in the area after hoodlums attacked them, looted many houses, shops in the area, and thereafter set the shops and houses on fire. The incident was said to have claimed no fewer than five lives. The incident was said to be a clash among gangs from Ogboriefon, Beyerunka and Iyana Aderogba and Obasanjo Street, Ibadan. A resident in the area, Michael Adekunle, while speaking with The Nation yesterday noted that unemployment was part of the causes of the incident. He said that most of the youths within the area are jobless which turned them to smokers and touts fomenting troubles in this area. He said: “Hoodlums from Ogboriefon, Ita-bale area came here on Thursday in an attempt to loot houses and shops within this area, we foiled their attempt, landlords in our area later ordered us to go inside for the safety of our lives, telling us that they had already contacted Amotekun personnel, but we were surprised that the hoodlums came back around 12am on Friday and executed their plan by looting houses and shops, and thereafter razed them with fire. Adekunle however called for quick intervention of the Oyo State government to restore peace back to the area, adding that security personnel should deploy harmour tank to Iyana Aderogba and Beyerunka junction. The Oyo State Police Command  however has  disputed the number of houses burnt, saying only one house and two shops were burnt during the incident. In a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, the command faulted claims by some reports that about 200 houses were razed. Fadeyi said in the statement: “No such incident happened and magnitude of houses or cars were burnt at Odo-Osun/Ita bale/Aderogba areas. Hoodlums from these areas came out at the early hours of 29/01/2021 in their usual manner with dangerous weapons to loot shops and set up bon fire. A house and about two shops were looted. The swift response of Police patrol teams doused tension and the hoodlums were dislodged. Routine patrols were intensified to forestall further attacks and lootings. Sequel to this, at about 2015 hours, the hoodlums from Aderogba area came out again, attempted to vandalize and loot shops at Beyeruka/Ogbori Efon areas. Police patrol teams and that of Amotekun were drafted to the area. During hot chase by the teams, a cut-to-size dane gun was recovered from one of the hoodlums while bonfires set up were put out. The hoodlums thereafter fled the scene. Constant routine patrols have been intensified in those areas and normality restored. The police are on the trail of these hoodlums to get them arrested and carry out prosecution accordingly.” 