Anambra Police Command has arrested and paraded Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to Governor Willie Obiano, Philip Chinwuba, over allegedly false and malicious publication against his principal. The suspect reportedly alleged Obiano and his wife Ebelechukwu contracted coronavirus through wife of Chief of Staff (CoS) Chief Primus Odili, who returned from overseas. He further alleged over 30 other government officials in Anambra contracted COVID -19 from Odili’s wife. In the publication, the suspect maintained that the situation made Obiano to go into isolation with his aides Parading him on Tuesday at the State Police headquarters in Amawbia, near Awka, the police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, said the suspect’s action caused hatred and panic, which could lead to breach of peace and order in the state. He said: “The suspect claimed that coronavirus has hit Government House Awka with more than 30 senior government officials, including Governor Obiano on isolation and that late Igwe Kelly of Igbariam contracted the virus after visiting the Governor to thank him for lifting his suspension and died three days to the last Ofala celebration. “That the virus was brought into Government House by Mrs. Maureen Odili from USA who is the wife of Chief of Staff to the Governor. “That Mr. Primus Odili was having sexual affairs with light skin woman and as such Maureen bleached herself and came to show off her new look…etc. “Also circulated on the same premise were series of falsehood and inciting messages which were made for the purposes of causing annoyance,criminal-intimidation,enemity,hatred,ill will,or needless anxiety contrary to Section 24(1)(b) of the Cybercrime(Prohibition Prevention Etc)Act, 2015. “Preliminary investigation conducted by the police revealed that same publication which was traceable to his own platform is what was sent to a blogger who the Command subsequently invited for briefing. “The blogger corroborated that the item was sent to him by the suspect to disseminate. “We have them as witnesses and will stand before the court to give his own evidence in line with the allegation leveled against the suspect.” While revealing that there were other malicious publications found in the same blog from the same suspect, the police said he would be charged after investigations were concluded. But the suspect denied the allegations, claiming his platform might have been breached. Chinwuba said: “I’m the SSA to the executive governor of Anambra state on Anambra State Investment Promotion and Protection Agency ANSIPPA. “Before 2017 governorship election, I set up a virtual platform for the election and we used it very well for the election. “Four days ago, I was arrested for these alleged publications emanating from the same platform. I’m not aware of myself publishing any malicious item against the Governor and the people of Anambra state. “Around 27th November last year, my laptop and some of my devices were stolen from my vehicle at ACCESS bank but I reported and the incident is still being investigated by the Central Police Station CPS, Awka. “My phone may have been breached the same thing with the information in it. Unfortunately, I read the said information like everyone else. The suspect who claimed to have a good relationship with the Governor and the Chief of Staff said he was sorry for his actions. “All I have to say to the Governor of Anambra state is that I am sorry because my platform was used against Odili and his wife but I did not publish anything against the Governor.”