 Senator Rochas Okorocha, a former governor of Imo State and founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC), recently told journalists that he and some other politicians in other parties were planning to launch a new political party. It was a further indication that the ruling party may be falling apart. Significantly, the information also introduced a new scenario regarding the battle to succeed President Muhammadu Buhari in 2023.  Another major party may well be involved in the succession drama, apart from the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It is unclear how far Okorocha and his partners have gone concerning their plan, and how soon the new party would be launched.  He said: “The movement for a new Nigeria has begun and we must come together, I mean progressive Nigerians, to make the country work.” It is ironic that Okorocha spoke of starting a new progressive party when his current party is supposed to be progressive. “APC was a hurried arrangement formed to take power when the then government was drifting,” he explained, suggesting that the party is either not progressive enough or not progressive at all. “APC would have been better,” he remarked, “until people who were not members of the party, people who came for a congratulatory message, hijacked the party and became lords.” He did not name the alleged hijackers, but it is noteworthy that he blamed them for the ruling party’s performance, which he implied had been unimpressive. “We are talking about the character of the politicians,” Okorocha said, adding, “For instance, if President Muhamamadu Buhari had surrounded himself with good people, the story will not be the same today.”  So Okorocha wants a party of good politicians, which is a good idea. However, it is unclear how such politicians would be identified. It is interesting that the senator presents himself as one of the good politicians who can “make the country work.”  Is he? About a week before the Abuja announcement, Okorocha had tried to sell the idea of a new party to Rivers State governor Nyesom Wike of PDP. He was in Wike’s state to open the Rumuche/ Rumuakunde/Ohna Awuse Link Road in Emohua local government area. Wike was reported saying bringing Okorocha to the event should not be misconstrued as associating with a rival party, explaining that they were friends.  His explanation contradicted the thinking that members of APC and PDP are mutual enemies. “In this dispensation, there are many bad people in APC, many bad people in PDP. I think the good people of APC and good people of PDP must come together for the purpose of making Nigeria great. I could imagine where I would join forces with Wike,” Okorocha had said. Picturing collaboration with Wike makes Okorocha look anti-APC.  It is noteworthy that his party once suspended him for “anti-party activities” in March 2019.  In a display of crude godfatherism, Okorocha, then governor of Imo State, and Ibikunle Amosun, then governor of Ogun State, had shamelessly supported the governorship candidates of political parties different from theirs in the March 9, 2019 governorship election. Okorocha and Amosun had clearly carried godfatherism too far, and their party decided to punish them.  APC’s National Working Committee (NWC) suspended the governors “for anti-party activities.”  The NWC also took “a decision to recommend the expulsion of the suspended individuals to the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party.” The party said “the NWC had earlier written to the suspended governors on their anti-party activities, and several other steps were taken to ensure they desist from taking actions that are inimical to the interests of our party and candidates. Notably, these individuals have not shown any remorse and actually stepped up their actions.” The party accused the suspended governors of “serial anti-party activities,” and “noted how the suspended members have continued to campaign openly for other parties and candidates that are unknown to our great party. They have in fact constituted themselves as opposition to APC candidates in their respective states.” Two months later, the Progressive Governors Forum (PGF), made up of APC governors, under the chairmanship of Okorocha, organised an event to honour some of the party’s leaders for their leadership qualities and services to the APC since its formation in 2013. Ironically, Okorocha and Amosun were among those honoured for their services to the APC. Okorocha’s announcement that he is involved in moves to form a new party obviously reflects opposition to his current party.  APC has not responded to the news. But the party should be conscious of his record on anti-party activities. It is bad news for APC. By publicising his participation in the formation of a new party, Okorocha dissociated himself not only from the ruling party but also its performance. It is bad for APC’s image that a prominent founder member is so opposed to its operation that he is planning to leave the party and also planning to form a rival party. It is unclear if he wants to run for president, and thinks he may not get the necessary support in his current party.  Considering the campaign for power shift to the South in 2023, and the argument that the Southeast should benefit from such an arrangement because the Southwest and South-south have enjoyed presidential power, Okorocha may just be acting out of self-interest. He is the senator representing Imo West, and by extension represents the Southeast.  He has unsuccessfully tried to be president thrice, and may still be interested in the position. “Though I don’t believe in zoning, for the sake of equity, justice and fairness, all the zones should be allowed to produce the president, so that at the end, we will know the zone that produced the best president when we consider their achievements,” he was reported saying. This sounds like an endorsement of the campaign for a Southeast presidency in 2023.  But there is no guarantee that will happen, just as it is uncertain he would be presidential candidate if a new party is formed. It is possible that the plan to form a new party will collapse. Okorocha may have spoken too soon about the plan; and he may also have talked too much.