What is your take on the controversies surrounding the passage of the PIB? With the numerous challenges that we have, it is very clear that we have to do something about the petroleum sector. The PIB is the major instrument that could be used to address most of the numerous challenges we have in the petroleum sector. It is very important that the government and the National Assembly work together to ensure that the bill is signed into law as quickly as possible, so that we can revamp the sector. What steps do you think could be taken to finally get the document ratified? There is a difference between this one and the previous bill. This one is an Executive bill, because the Executive have made some inputs, but the previous one which was passed and not signed, which the Executive has some issues with and had to make a lot of input. Now that the Executive has put up some items into the bill, I expect that both the Executive and the two arms of the National Assembly and the members of the public come together, cooperate and facilitate the approval and signing into law. It must have to be passed this year so that we can reposition the oil sector for growth. We are at the point where the world is talking about the post-oil economy. The world is transiting away from oil and we are yet to get the sector right. Every economy is now talking about fossil fuel, and gradually drifting away from oil. If you look at the price of oil at the moment, it is generally lower than what it used to be in the past. So we need to encourage more investments in the oil sector, to explore more oil so that they can get more revenue for the government. This is also to allow the government to take care of the host communities. So, the only way to accelerate investment in the petroleum sector is passing the bill into law. What is your take on the insinuation that the PIB did not see the light of the day because of the interference of the IOC’s? There are all kinds of insinuations about the PIB, but it is not a surprise, whether the IOC’s are influencing the passage of the bill, and as an interested party, they have to push to ensure that it favours them. But the National Assembly is the representative of the people, so it is mandatory for the National Assembly to ensure that what comes out is to the benefit of the Nigerian people whom they are representing. No matter how much influence the IOC’S have, it is expedient on the NASS to protect the interest of the people. Is the PIB the only solution to the challenges bedeviling the country’s oil and gas sector? It is not, but it will go a long way in addressing most of the challenges experienced in the sector. For instance, it will ensure that both foreign and domestic direct investment is attracted into the sector to boost production. Nobody is going to invest if you are not sure of the fiscal regime they are going to face, or the laws that will govern investment. We cannot be able to attract adequate investment into the oil sector until the bill is passed. This will continue to affect the country’s economy both in the short and the long run. We need the bill to ensure that the sector can be able to function effectively. For instance, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) is not delivering as expected due to the lapses in the law governing the sector. The bill will go a long way in addressing the issues of wastages in the NNPC and the environmental degradation as well as problems with the host communities. So, the PIB is very important. Can PIB ever see the light of the day? If the PIB is not passed and signed into law this year, it will be a big shame on Nigeria. It was passed initially, but the Executive complained and now that the Executive presented this, it will be suicidal and very disastrous for the economy.  