Senator Biodun Olujimi (Ekiti South) has said her immediate priority was to forge unity among members of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) in the state, not the 2022 governorship race. Olujimi said the opposition party must be united to relaunch itself back to political relevance and dislodge the All Progressive Congress(APC) from the government in the state. She was reacting to a call by the Ekiti South PDP stakeholders on her to contest the forthcoming governorship election in the state had paid her dues and sacrificed enormously for the advancement of the party. The PDP chieftain, in a statement in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday by her media aide, Chief Sanya Atofarati, appreciated the gesture of the stakeholders, stressing the needs to build and solidify the party remains her major pre-occupation. Olujimi urged party faithfuls across the 16 local government areas of the state to put their political ambition on hold and focus on how to keep the party united and rebuild to achieve victory in future elections. The statement reads: “The attention of the Media Department of Senator Biodun Olujimi, representing Ekiti South Senatorial District, has been drawn to certain publication made available in some national dailies, wherein some PDP Stakeholders expressed their agitations, in obvious support for the turn of the South Senatorial District, compelled Senator Biodun Olujimi to contest the 2022 PDP Governorship Primaries. “That we appreciate all the agitation, who have acted in line with their fundamental human rights to self-agitation and determination, for their objective concern and sincere support for our performing Senator whom they have considered worthy, as the most viable alternative for the revered Governorship position of Ekiti State. She stated there was nothing precluding from participating in the PDP shadow election in 2022, adding that she would unveil her next political ambition at the appropriate time. “That it is however imperative to know that members of the Senator Biodun Olujimi team, share the same ideology that for the sake of equity and fair play, the South Senatorial District be given the privilege to represent the state in the next Governorship race, having been marginalized since the creation of Ekiti State since 1996, 25years ago. “That, however, we should be cautious of being driven by emotions or sentiments, capable of distracting us from our collective pursuit as one indivisible and formidable entity which is the repositioning of our great party PDP, in which every member would be proud of.”