Children are a source of worry for every parent. Ensuring that children grow up well-mannered and focused in their studies is not easy for every parent, especially in this internet age when knowledge is fast. It is also frightening to imagine that your teenage child might be using drugs or drinking alcohol. However, drug abuse in teenagers is a very real problem. Whatever culture and religious background, it’s vital for parents to understand the signs of drug abuse and how to address it. Here’s what you need to know: Physical changes will vary depending on what substance the individual is using, and they may be harder to spot. Look out for: -Bloodshot eyes -Unexplained bruises, wounds, or track marks on arms -Long sleeves in hot weather when they usually wear short sleeves -Flushed cheeks -Careless personal hygiene or disheveled appearance -Soot on fingers or lips -Shaking or tremours -Unusual smell on clothing or breath (they might chew gum or eat mints to mask it) -Nosebleeds or a runny nose without a cold -Constantly licking lips Take note of Drug Paraphernalia. Some things stand out as a blatant sign that something is wrong, such as finding a hidden stash of drugs or alcohol. But sometimes, the signs are more subtle. Keep an eye out for unusual changes to your home environment, such as: -Containers or wrappers you don’t recognize. -Drug paraphernalia like smoking devices, eye drops, butane lighters, and syringes. -Dents in the car that can’t be explained. -Over-the-counter drugs or alcohol. * Watch out for these key signs of drug abuse in teenagers: New cravings and an increased appetite Alternatively, a sudden lack of appetite A change in a friend group, especially if they’re not spending time with people they used to be close to Complaints from teachers about misbehaviour in class Sudden change in school marks Some people are more withdrawn and introverted by nature, and this may be normal for your child. But when an extrovert starts getting quiet, or an introvert withdraws even further, it’s time to take a closer look. Here are some behaviours you may recognize: · Going out at night or disappearing for long periods of time · Locking doors · Avoiding eye contact · Items or money missing in the house · Missing class, extracurricular activities, or work