Edo State chapters of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) are engaging in a war of words over Governor Godwin Obaseki’s secret N18 billion loan bid. A chieftain of APC, Prince John Mayaki, Wednesday first disclosed in an online statement that Obaseki of the PDP had finalised another secret N18 billion loan arrangements from an undisclosed bank, after the initial N25 billion loan last December, while accusing him of using debts to recover funds paid to PDP’s tax collectors. Edo Caretaker Chairman of APC, Col. David Imuse (rtd.), Wednesday evening in an online statement by the party’s Assistant Publicity Secretary, Ofure Osehobo, accused Edo PDP members of chasing shadows, rather than focusing on the critical issue at stake. Imuse said: “Is Obaseki and his administration taking another N18 billion loan to mortgage the future of Edo state, so soon after taking N25 billion loan from the capital market or not? “Edo people want to know what the loans are being collected for and is a due process being sidelined in the process of seeking and collecting the loans or not? Why are Edo people being kept in the dark about loans that their unborn children will spend decades repaying? “It is not a surprise that Edo State PDP is in the dark about Obaseki and his style of administration, and as such is seriously handicapped with the facts, to respond to matters of this nature. Its plight is pitiable. “Is the PDP not aware that there is nothing going on in terms of governance in Edo State since Obaseki took the last N25 billion loan or the party wants to pretend that it is not aware of the high level of insecurity in Edo State, with the daily reports of kidnappings and daylight robberies?” Edo APC chairman also stated that the peace-loving people of the state were waiting to hear from Obaseki and the PDP, the true position of things, especially on the loans, while asking them to speak up and adding that Edo must move forward. Edo chapter of PDP, while reacting through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, however, asked APC leaders in the state to accept the serial defeat suffered in the hands of Obaseki, thereby stopping their “infantile and unwarranted” attacks on Edo governor and his administration. It noted that the APC’s allegations demonstrated an acute obsession with the propagation of falsehood, lies and alternative facts to curry public sympathy, after a most humiliating defeat during the September 19 last year’s governorship election.