 SECURITY operatives have killed bandits in 17 locations in Birnin  Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local governments of Kaduna State. Internal Security and Home Affairs Commissioner Mr. Samuel Aruwan said in a statement yesterday that the operation was carried out on Monday at Albasu, Rahama, Sabon Birni, Rikau, Fadama Kanauta, Galadimawa, Kaya, Kidandan, Yadi, Dogon Dawa, Ngede Allah, Damari, Saulawa, Takama, Kuduru, Ungwan Yako and Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road area. He added: “Troops under the auspices of Operation Thunder Strike have briefed Kaduna State Government on joint land and air operations conducted at identified bandit locations across Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Igabi and Chikun local governments. “According to the operational feedback, Nigeria Air Force platforms conducted armed reconnaissance on Monday over Albasu, Rahama, Sabon Birni, Rikau, Fadama Kanauta, Galadimawa, Kaya, Kidandan, Yadi, Dogon Dawa, Ngede Allah, Damari, Saulawa, Takama, Kuduru, Ungwan Yako and Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road area. “Bandits were sighted by the fighter jet crew at Yadi, and the location was engaged, with several bandits neutralised. “Also, along the track connecting Kuduru and Ungwan Yako, bandits were sighted with rustled cattle, and were neutralised. “Other locations covered appeared calm with normal activities, as ground troops conducted clearance operations in Sabon Birni and Dogon Dawa. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai expressed satisfaction at the success of the ongoing operations and commended the armed forces for sustaining the offensives on identified bandit enclaves obtained via credible intelligence. “The governor encouraged citizens to cooperate with the security forces by volunteering information on suspicious activities and hideouts, for decisive action towards vanquishing the criminals. “Kaduna State Government condoles with the families that lost their loved ones on the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari Road, and prays for the repose of their souls, while wishing a speedy recovery to those receiving medical attention.” 