  The chairman, Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Lagos State chapter,  Bishop Stephen  Adegbite has said that amid  the Coronavirus pandemic and the economic recession in the country, 2021 is a new dawn and a new begining of great things for the church and by extension Nigeria. Adegbite gave this assurance of hope in his New Year’s message to Christians while meeting with the leadership of the Christian Press Association of Nigeria (CPAN) at the CAN secretariat in Lagos. He said for what has happen to humanity, Christian leaders must identify. We are going to extend love to everybody and bring them under the umbrella, so that we can move forward,” said Adegbite stating that there is presently a breath of fresh air in the Christian community in Lagos. According to the CAN chairman, the leadership of the Church will continue to stand; to protect and defend the interest of every Christian, church leaders and churches in Lagos, while sustaining the existing relationship between CAN and the state government. Adegbite stated further that with effective state administrative structure, Lagos CAN will work for the benefit of all Christians and there will be no miscarriage of justice among Christians and churches in the state. He added that to honour and appreciate the labour of CAN past leaders, elders and fathers of faith in Lagos State, the new executive will embark on courtesy visits to past leaders and other Christian leaders who had contributed to CAN and Christianity in Lagos, irrespective of their denomination. Adegbite assured that, sanity had already been restored into Lagos CAN and it will be sustained. “Never again will there be wrong influence or leadership crisis in CAN Lagos State again”. According to him, healthy rotation arrangement among the major blocs in Lagos had been properly made and mutually agreed. The CAN chair states further that CAN as the umbrella organisation of Christians must collaborate with CPAN to promote Christianity and the image of Christ; and to promote the body of Christ. “We will work together and the name of the lord will be glorified. If we don’t do that, we have failed in our duties as ministers; officers of the body of Christ,” he said. Speaking on the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic and the planned lockdown by government, Adegbite said, “People are yet to recover from the first one, what then could warrant the second when adequate health facilities are not put in place to guarantee people’s safety”. According to him, government has failed the people with no adequate security of lives and other basic amenities of life. “Nigerians are fed up and should not be pushed to the wall to avoid angry reaction,” he stated. On the New Year, Adegbite assured Nigerians that there is hope for the country. “There is hope for Nigeria; despite the pandemic, despite the #endSARS protest and its attendant issues that we have seen, Nigeria will survive. “Nigeria is God’s own country, its God’s project; Nigeria will never become an abandoned project. God is with us in this land; the name of the lord that we have celebrated is Emmanuel: God is with us. 2021 will be a glorious year, a year of peace and joy,” he concludes. Gracious Akintayo, the president of CPAN, in response to Adegbite gave  assurances that members of the association will collaborate with CAN to project the Church positively. According to Akintayo, CPAN is ready to partner and work with maximum cooperation with CAN to achieve the mandate of the Church in Lagos.