President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed new service chiefs to replace the retiring ones, who had held the various military top offices since 2015. The President had, in a New Year televised message to Nigerians, hinted that he would be making critical security changes in 2021 with the aim of salvaging the nation’s escalating security situation. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, Buhari was said to have accepted the resignation of the former service chiefs and immediately named their replacements. According to the statement, Major General Leo Irabor has replaced General Abayomi Olonisakin as Chief of Defense Staff; Major-General Ibrahim Attahiru replaced Lieutenant-General Tukur Buratai as Chief of Army Staff; Rear-Admiral A.Z Gambo replaced Vice-Admiral Ibok Ekwe Obad as Chief of Naval Staff; while Air-Vice Marshal I.O Amao replaced Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar as Chief of Air Staff. “President Muhammadu Buhari has accepted the immediate resignation of the Service Chiefs, and their retirement from service. “Those involved are the Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin; Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ekwe Ibas and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. “President Buhari thanks the outgoing Service Chiefs for what he calls their ‘overwhelming achievements in our efforts at bringing enduring peace to our dear country’, wishing them well in their future endeavours. “The new Service Chiefs are: Major-General Leo Irabor, Chief of Defence Staff; Major-General Ibrahim. Attahiru, Chief of Army Staff; Rear Admiral A.Z Gambo, Chief of Naval Staff; and Air-Vice Marshal I.O Amao, Chief of Air Staff. “The President congratulates the new Service Chiefs, and urges them to be loyal and dedicated in the discharge of their responsibilities,” the statement said. The replacement of service chiefs came on the heels of several months of national outcry over performance of the immediate past occupiers of the nation’s security apparatus with most people calling for their sack.