The love story of Simi and Adekunle Gold began seven years back but it only became public knowledge when the two decided to tie the nuptial knot in a very private ceremony. Both Simi and Adekunle Gold excelled and made indelible marks on the Nigerian music scene as young and burgeoning music acts under X3m Music and YBNL respectively until their exits in 2019. The coming together of the music stars as a couple in the same industry packed a double punch. Not only have they been able to juggle a successful career and marriage despite challenges but have also added parenting to their loads of responsibilities. AG Baby, as Adekunle Gold loves to be addressed now, and Simi have emerged as one of Nigerian entertainment power couples giving success and relationship goals to many youngsters, who make up the larger number of their audience. The couple has devoted time to their marriage yet focusing on excelling and having a blossoming career on the entertainment front with two individual albums to show for this in the last two years. In the beginning The duo’s path first crossed in an office and seven years down the memory lane, they have become one of Nigeria’s power couples on the entertainment scene. They were both budding music acts with fresh tunes that sets them both apart from their peers. Before his musical fame, AG Baby first became famous for photoshopping himself with Hollywood stars like Beyonce and Rihanna between 2012 and 2014. The 34-year-old music went from being the ‘King of Photoshop’ to a singing sensation after releasing his 2015 single, Sade, under Olamide’s YBNL records. On the other side was a 33-year-old Simi, who was finding her voice on the scene under X3m music. Their relationship, which was well kept away from prying eyes, remains one of the most cherished by music heads and fans in the Nigerian entertainment scene. The music growth Since the last five years and two years after their wedding, Simi and Adekunle Gold have grown incredibly musically. Sticking to their winning streak of daring to be unique and different, Simi and AG Baby have kept climbing the ladder of success in gradual yet steady phases. The release of Afro Pop Vol 1 signaled the beginning of a bright future for the father of one musically. Not less than four of the tunes from the music project became instant hits after their releases. Music heads have continued to say his album remains one of the best of 2020. On December 31, leading music writer and connoisseur, Ayomide O. Tayo, tipped AG Baby’s 2020 release as his consideration for album of the year. “The album that I enjoyed the most this year from top to bottom is #AfroPopVol1 by Adekunle Gold. My consideration for album of the year,” he tweeted. If AG Baby had enjoyed a fantastic music growth despite his responsibility as a parent, father, and music star, Simi had moved miles away from her contemporaries with her writing and composition. From the release of Omo Charlie Champagne in 2019 to Restless II, Simi reenacts an exciting, rebirth of her sound. In two years, Simi continues to wow her audience by mixing sophisticated and sultry, future-R&B with vibrant Afrobeats influences. Her distinctive and mesmerizingly soulful vocals continue to surge through the hardest of hearts and walls. Parenting Like every first-time parent, AG Baby and Simi have done well with the pregnancy, delivery – which occurred in the United States of America, and raising a child. “I’m obsessed with all her expressions; you need to see her stank face – it’s hilarious. I have never seen any baby this beautiful. I mean it. My baby came out with a head full of hair like mine and the most beautiful face I’ve ever seen like Simi. Wow,” AG Baby gushed about Adejare, the couple’s first child. Continuing, he said, “I feel so protective over her, and everything happening right now has made me even more conscious of how I want to raise her. I want her to always know she is loved. She is powerful. She is pure black girl magic and I will always believe in her.” For Simi, the little tot deserves some of the proceeds from her 2020 hit single, Duduke, which was dedicated to her. Simi made this known on her Instagram page while thanking her fans and daughter over the acceptance of the hit single which garnered over 10 million views on Youtube in less than two months of release. Marking two years together Simi and Adekunle Gold marked the second year since they became man and wife. Celebrating their anniversary, both creatives took to their Instagram page to share their thoughts and journey so far. On his side, AG Baby recalled how he met Simi for the first time many years back and made up his mind to marry her. He wrote: “I look back to the first day I met you. I had just left the office, so excited that you had finally given me the audience to see you”. “This local boy put on a white byc vest and a pair of new lilac pants bought specially for the occasion; I even made sure I was there earlier so I had front row seats. I watched you talk, sing, laugh, and dance, and Omo I knew that very day that I wanted to be in your life. I knew that day that I wanted my forever to be you. Here we are, all three of us, talking, dancing, singing, laughing, and doing this thing called life together. With you, I have been blessed with so much, so much, it’s too much to count. I love you Simi. Forever your steward.” Responding, Simi wrote: “Well, 2 years on government paper and 7 years since I gree for you, you lucky man. Through a pregnancy. With a baby, we’re both unashamedly obsessed with. Through a pandemic. And it’s still you. I’ve never had to wonder if you’re in my corner. You’re still the best man I know. You should have been your own best man (don’t leave me). “One of my favorite things about you is that you’re a good person. I like you a lot. I’m so proud to know you and be your wife. I pray that God continues to be the foundation of our marriage and home. “I love you Kunle Kosoko. Now, forever and one extra day, and then another, and then another, and then another, ati bębę lo. Happy Anniversary Baby.”