The membership registration, update and revalidation of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) begins on Monday with the constitution of the State Registration Committees (SRCs). The National Membership Registration Schedule/timetable the party released for the exercise showed that the seven-man committee per state will be inaugurated on Wednesday (January 27) while the train-the-trainers workshop is billed for same date at the national secretariat of the party in Abuja. Distribution of registration materials, electronic gadgets and consumables to all designated registration centres nationwide will be carried out between Thursday, January 28 and Monday, February 1. The timetable shows that the registration proper is billed for Tuesday, February 2 to February 16, 2021, while sorted registered details at ward registration centres will be forwarded to local government areas and the state secretariat on February 17, 2021. The Phase II of the nationwide membership registration, update and revalidation is slated for February 21 to 26 for Consideration of all appeals/complaints. Display of membership register at all party wards/local government offices and forwarding of all completed forms to the National Secretariat will be carried out between 27th February and March 1, 2021. The National Registration Committee, led by Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello will be submitting final reports for the consideration of the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) between March 2 and 8, 2021. Also, the party’s chairmen from the 19 Northern states are billed to storm Jos, the Plateau State capital, to brainstorm on how to further strengthen the party in the years ahead. Chairman of the Forum of 19 Northern States APC Chairmen, who is also Chairman of the APC in Plateau State, Letep Dabang, announced this while addressing reporters in Jos. The forum’s chairman said the meeting, which is periodical and has been holding since inception, is coming as the party is welcoming new members into its fold as well as revalidating its existing members. He said the clamour among Nigerians to join the ruling party necessitated the exercise. According to him, the APC chairmen from the 19 Northern states will work out the modalities for the success of the exercise, even as he said they would discuss other issues for the growth of APC. Dabang noted that Nigeria is grappling with the adverse effects of the COVID-19 as well as some economic challenges. The meeting, the chairman said, became imperative in order to galvanise more effective ways of working with APC governors to further deliver good governance to the people. He said: “Our party is set to welcome new members into our growing fold and this exercise will be done at the various polling units across the country. Our meeting will touch on that and other ways of synergy among us – our governors and the national secretariat – so that the people will enjoy the benefits of democracy. “We hope we will have fruitful and frank deliberations.” Also, APC stakeholders in Qua’an Pan Local Government Area of Plateau State have agreed to mobilise and educate their members on the importance of party registration. They stressed that the exercise is the foundation of the rights of individuals within the party. During a meeting at the weekend at Baap, the headquarters of the local government area, the stakeholders also adopted measures to ensure massive turnout and participations of its members within the locality. They cautioned against discrimination, even as they encouraged members to mobilise and woo non-members to join the party, while holding firm to the existing ones. The stakeholders also harped on the dangers of COVID-19 and encouraged people to always wear face masks to avoid persecution and a possible fine of N20,000, as well as observe all safety protocols. Senator Dame Nora Ladi Daduut thanked the people for their mandate to her. She promised to revisit all her campaign routes in the six local government areas of her senatorial district to appreciate them.