Nollywood actresses, Nkechi Blessing and Iyabo Ojo have taken a swipe at fans who are upset about their lifestyle on social media. Nkechi Blessing, a 32-year-old curvy actress, took to her official Instagram page to slam those who called her prostitutes. “When I do not remember telling you or anyone else I was a virgin that hasn’t had sex before? You all must be moving mad,” the movie actress and producer began. “Some low life frustrated idiots on the gram are always quick to open their gutter mouth and call a woman bitch, prostitute, you F**k this,f**k that!!! And I am supposed to cry my eyes out? Or feel bad? “It’s high time all this frustrated internet troll get a better line…Pathetic set of losers! What a 32-year-old woman chooses to do with her body shouldn’t be your generational problem. Mind the business that pays you!” she fumed. In a viral video, Iyabo Ojo expressed her anger at fans that accused her of being stingy. The mother of two was seen, in the video, lamenting as she reminisced on her grass to grace story. “Do you know what I’ve been through? You don’t know half of it and you can never know” she begins. Continuing the actress said, “Some of you are giving excuses for being a student to beg for money. What are you doing as a full-time student when you know you don’t have a support system? When I went to school I opted for part-time because I was working, so I could pay for my school fees. “Why do you have so much self-entitlement… So what if you are my fans for many years. Do you know how many people I feed? You are my fans, does not give you the right to tell me that I have to give you money. Probably, you should not be my fan again. Don’t allow people to come and mislead you on social media because all that glitters is not gold. Time waits for no one so try to make the best use of your life,” she concluded. The 43-year-old actress had recently opened up saying life has molded her from being a married woman in a bad relationship at a young age to being a successful entertainer. 