The announcement of Frank Lampard’s sack and replacement with German coach, Thomas Tuchel, has been treated in some sections of the English press as an unspeakable tragedy, betrayal and perhaps the clearest indication of the sport’s virulent and unforgiving nature. John Terry, a former teammate of Lampard at Chelsea and assistant Head Coach at Aston Villa where he is learning the ropes under Dean Smith, published multiple social media posts to express his sadness and disappointment over the development. One of the updates on his verified Instagram page (@johnterry.26) featured an animation of Frank Lampard shepherding Chelsea’s youngsters Reece James, Fikayo Tomori, Tammy Abraham, and Mason Mount, indicating an ostensible seal of approval for the work Lampard did to spur youth development at the club and promote hitherto overlooked talents from the academy. Terry was joined by Didier Drogba and other ex-teammates, alongside a long list of pundits who paid tributes and left little doubts on their objection to the sack because they felt Frank Lampard deserved more time and a long rope. Their fairy tale dream of a club legend returning to lead it to sporting and managerial conquest has been effectively shattered. The argument they have put forward in defense of Lampard’s continued stay isn’t completely without merit. Indeed, the English national took the reins at a difficult time in Chelsea’s recent history. The club’s squad was weakened by a transfer ban and the departure of its biggest star, Eden Hazard. Yet Lampard managed to keep the club competitive with an FA Cup final (that he lost) and qualification for the Champions League. While this may not exactly elicit any feeling of excitement, it is nonetheless passable considering the prevailing circumstances. However, in spite of this, there is a suspicion that John Terry and his cohorts may have let bias for their personal relationship with Frank Lampard and emotional investment in his success blind them to the grim details of his records and the threat that poses to the club’s ambition to maintain relevance in the exalted realm of the likes of Manchester City and Liverpool, and avoid a slip into mediocrity like Arsenal. Chelsea’s present mid-table position following a disappointing run of games that included defeats to Everton, Leicester City, Wolves, and Arsenal isn’t what the club had in mind when it spent over £200m last summer to improve squad quality. The hapless performance staged by Lampard in the 3 – 1 home defeat to Manchester City, after finishing behind them with 15 points last season (and 33 points behind leaders Liverpool), showed that the gulf in managerial quality between the rookie and experienced hands like Pep Guardiola wasn’t closing, leaving Chelsea with no realistic chance of mounting a serious challenge, let alone winning, the league title. Another indicting fact is Lampard’s failure to win any of the six games he played against the teams above them on the League table – precisely the kind of games that define the season of clubs with the ambition and relative stature of Chelsea, not easy wins against Luton Town (due respect to the club). All told, the story of Lampard’s stay at Chelsea is an easy one to paint: he did well to keep the club in the fray during difficult circumstances and avoided (due) criticism for his often disorganized defense and capitulation to the club’s rivals as a result. However, when the excuses lost weight, and the manager had to return the club’s faith and investments with result and serious title challenge, he couldn’t find the quality to do so. His faith in youth and promotion of academy products who are now staking a claim in the first team will serve as a good footnote to his Chelsea tenure, and possibly inform his consideration elsewhere, but clubs like Chelsea are not incubators for young players and as was the case with previous managers, Frank Lampard will not be judged on that score. Decisions at the top level are validated by victories and to his detriment, Frank Lampard failed to deliver on that consistently and in games that matter. Roman Abrahamovic took huge risks trusting a manager with no top-level management experience with the leadership of his ambitious club, a hefty sum of £200m and another season to fix gaping problems after an underwhelming one, going by the club’s standards. Lampard failed to reward the trust. The experiment had to end.