People of Abacha community in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State have urged their new traditional ruler, Chief Godwin Odiegwu to seek for peace and other virtues capable of uniting the town to enable him render quality service to them. Traditional Prime Minister (Onowu) of the town, Chief Paul Omofia gave the advice during the presentation of the monarch at Ukwuora Iro Olisa Square, the ancestral selection place for all monarchs of the town. Odiegwu, an Onitsha based business mogul replaced the former monarch, GBC Mbakwe who was among the three royal fathers their certificates of recognition were recently withdrawn by the state government following their trip to Abuja. The community, through Abacha Development Union (ADU) had during its annual end of the year meeting, passed a resolution declaring vacant the monarch’s seat after the former monarch was rejected by majority of indigenes over non-performance, violation of custom and tradition, unpopularity, among other reasons. Omofia expressed gratitude to God and Governor Willie Obiano for restoring peace and harmony in the town and the state in general, appealing for the people’s support to ensure the monarch excelled. Also speaking, President General of the community, Mr. Ifeanyi Obata enjoined the people to cooperate with the town union executives and the state government to attract developmental dividends to the community. “The community cannot continue to witness vacuum in the traditional ruler’s institution. We solicit for your support and cooperation for the new traditional ruler,” he said. On their part, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Chief Ikemefuna Okoye, an indigene of the town, and woman activist, Amb. Uche Okeke urged the monarch not to disappoint the people by carrying everybody along, just as they called on government to give the monarch maximum support for him to succeed. The newly elected monarch, Chief Odiegwu thanked the community for the confidence reposed in him, calling for support to enable him enjoy peaceful reign which, acccording to him would translate to growth and development of the area. Meanwhile, some group of persons from the community had berated the development, appealling to the state government to reinstate the dethroned traditional ruler, Igwe Godwin Mbakwe. The group which took their grievances to the state government house, said reinstating the monarch would go a long way in sustaining the peace that had existed in the community during the twenty years of his reign. One of the spokespersons, Mr. Emeka Onwuka, explained that some people who had been skimming to remove the monarch saw the suspension as an opportunity to install someone else against the interest of the entire community. Another resident, Dr. Chukwujekwu Odiegwu, said government had the right to suspend whoever it wished, but insisted that due process must be followed in the selection of a new traditional ruler where necessary.