 NG Clearing Limited has signed an agreement with a software development firm, Mantissa Infotech Private Limited, for the development, implementation and maintenance of bespoke clearing and settlement technology for its operations. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had last September  granted approval in principle to NG Clearing Limited to clear and settle exchange traded derivatives instruments. Managing Director, NG Clearing Limited, Mr. Tapas Das, said the company was excited about the deal as the deployment of the technology platform places it in a position to commence operations as soon as it receives final approval from the SEC. According to him, the technology platform will support the clearing and settlement of derivative instruments across various asset classes including futures and options contracts on indices, equity shares, commodities, currency and rates among others. “Mantissa’s vast experience and end-to-end capability in providing a suite of bespoke technology solutions to leading exchanges and clearing houses in India comes in very handy, having provided both the trading and the clearing and settlement software for 14 years to the National Multi-Commodity Exchange of India Limited (NMCEIL), which was the first national level commodity exchange in India, until NMCEIL was merged with Indian Commodity Exchange Limited (ICEX) in 2018,” Das said. He noted that Mantissa’s broad experience from providing its technology service to various market infrastructure, including NMCEIL, Metropolitan Stock Exchange of India Limited (MSE), Metropolitan Clearing Corporation of India Limited (MCCIL) and ICEX, has been beneficial in the development of the state of the art technology. He said stakeholders would find the technology very versatile and useful. According to him, NG Clearing has resources in place to ensure that it can continue to operate at all times necessary to support the functioning of the markets that it supports and the settlement of the contracts effected on those markets. “We will optimise the deployment of our resources to achieve long-term value creation for our stakeholders using a state-of-the-art risk management framework, which complies with global best practices for mitigating settlement risk. We have sufficient financial resources, including a settlement guarantee fund, to cover participants’ risk exposures, and our risk-based additional collateral requirement will ensure that capital deployed by clearing members is always optimal,” Das said. NG Clearing Limited was promoted by the Nigerian Stock Exchange and Central Securities Clearing System Plc along with key stakeholders like the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Access Bank Plc, Consonance Kuramo Special Opportunities, Coronation Merchant Bank Limited, Greenwich Merchant Bank Limited, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc, United Bank for Africa Plc and Association of Securities Dealing Houses in Nigeria. NG Clearing was established to support the growth and development of the capital market, as the gateway to African markets. It provides post-trade services that manage counterparty credit risks and reduce systemic risks, by guaranteeing the settlement of trades. The company seeks to pave the way for a smooth introduction of exchange-traded derivatives and other financial instruments to the Nigerian and African markets, thus, facilitating the availability of alternative investment options for knowledgeable local and foreign investors who seek a diversified portfolio within the markets. It also seeks to deploy a competitive low-cost clearing fee regime for members, and provide members access to a wide range of financial reports, that equip them with extensive knowledge and enable them to make informed decisions.