 LAJU Iren is a filmmaker, who doesn’t just want to entertain through her stories, but to also inspire, teach, and instruct others. Iren who is the brain behind Laju Iren Films has produced flicks like Nigerian Son, During Ever After, Love is a Star, and others. On why she became a filmmaker, Iren said:” I have always wanted to be a filmmaker, but it was towards the end of 2019 that I decided that I was going to get it done in 2020 because I wanted to tell the kind of stories that I wanted to watch. Many times, the stories out there don’t always have the values I want to put out to the world. They don’t have the values I want to teach people, and like I always say, stories change our minds by targeting our hearts. I’m in the business of changing minds. I want people to be entertained, and educated but not in a way that corrupts. I want people to smile and laugh and learn things when watching films, but not in a way that contaminates our minds. I wanted to make those kinds of films because there is not much of that out there, of course, lots of people are doing lots of work around that. I wanted to contribute to that. You can tell good stories without people being naked; You can tell good stories without all the swear words. You can tell great good stories that teach values and the right things. That is why I wanted to go into film making”. Being a filmmaker comes with its fair share of challenges and hurdles. The Covenant University graduate noted that getting brands to sponsor faith-based movies has been a major challenge she has had to confront. In her words: ”Funny enough, every challenge I’ve had, God has turned them around to a blessing. I think I had the challenge of people saying our films are faith-based. We were applying for 6-figures for During Ever After doing pre-production. The company that would have sponsored decided not to do that because it is a faith-based film, but God turned it to testimony because we crowdfunded, made the film, and people loved it”. Sharing her plans for 2021, the visionary soft-spoken filmmaker said:” This year, we’re making bigger films with much bigger budgets, and we already have sponsors who have put in a lot to support us already, much more than we asked for when we were turned down last year. In fact, our current sponsors are going out of their way to support us because it’s faith-based. We began to have brands and some individuals say because it is faith-based, they are going to support it. It is really interesting because the reason why someone will deny you something that is not so big because it is faith-based is the same reason others are saying we are going to do bigger because it is faith-based. I am very excited about the year 2021 because we are going to start new projects that will help us tell the Lord’s story better.” At the highpoints of her career, the filmmaker who is the author of ‘Loving Amanda’, a book that would be made into a movie said: “I have many high points in my career. I don’t even know where to start, especially in the year 2020. The publishing business blew up for me in 2020. I had ten times revenue since I began, or more, and my work was featured internationally. I was featured on the Flutterwave advert on DSTV which aired during Big Brother Naija. Though I didn’t watch the show, I was featured in the Ad—thanks to the partnership with Flutterwave. My miniseries, (During Ever After) has about 100,000 combined views on my YouTube channel right now.