By Osagie Otabor, Akure An Ondo State High Chief, Idowu Ogunye, has been dethroned as the Olokoja of Okoja, Ikare-Akoko for absenteeism and disloyalty. Chief Ogunye has been on suspension since May 2018 after he allegedly refused to obey the directive of Olukare of Ikare, Oba Akadiri Saliu Momoh. Oba Momoh, in a letter announcing the dethronement of Chief Ogunye, said his directive that it was mandatory for all chiefs he installed to attend the monthly Ikare town meeting was disobeyed by Ogunye. The Ikare monarch relieved Ogunye of the appointment with effect from January 20th, 2021 and cautioned him to stop parading himself as Olokoja of Okoja. Checks showed that Ogunye had been in trouble with the Olukare over his loyalty to a rival monarch in Ikare-Akoko, the Owa Ale of Ikare. In 1989, Ogunye was queried for writing to the former chairman of Akoko North local government, Mr. M.B Oladunni, complaining about the venue of a meeting already agreed on by the Olukare. In 2016, Oba Momoh threatened to withhold the monthly stipend due to Ogunye for his continued absence from the Ikare monthly meeting. Oba Momoh, in a letter dated 2016, said it was against customs and tradition for Ogunye to be loyal to his rival when it was at his palace he was installed as a High Chief. The letter reads in parts: “I have personally observed that for the past 30 years that I have been on the throne you have not one day attended the regular town meeting despite the fact that you have been receiving your monthly stipend. “1 look at this as a sign of disrespect to our tradition. 1, therefore, advise you to attend the next town meeting.” Speaking through his lawyer, Barr Femi Emodamori, Ogunye said he remained the Olokoja of Okoja as his suspension and purported expulsion was illegal, strange to the tradition of Ikare Akoko and violates of the State Government’s directive. He said he was one of the kingmakers that participated in the selection of the new Owa-Ale of Ikare Akoko even though he has been suspended since 2018 by Oba Momoh. According to him: “The purported suspension is contrary and constitutes an affront on the government’s circular, which categorically states “All traditional rulers are, therefore, directed to suspend the appointment and removal of minor chiefs, pending the release of the Government White Paper accordingly.” He advised Oba Momoh to desist from any act that could undermine the tradition of Ikare.