Enyimba have moved to the third position on the NPFL table after a 2-1 away win against Adamawa United at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi. The People’s Elephant dominated the early exchanges and raced into the ascendancy in the eighth minute through Anayo Iwuala before Imoh Omot doubled the advantage in the 32nd minute. But they lost many gilt edge chances with Iwuala, Gabriel Orok guilty of calamitous misses even in the second half. Adamawa United halved the deficit from the penalty spot in the 61st  through their inspirational skipper, Idris Abubakar and they threatened a late fight back thereafter. Enyimba are now on third spot in the NPFL with 12 points from six games and they host Katsina United in Aba on Sunday. In  a related development, Rivers United head coach, Stanley Eguma has described  their CAF Confederation Cup playoffs round clash with Enyimba as battle between familiar  foes. Speaking  ahead of the two legs fixed for Aba and Port Harcourt on Valentine’s Day and February 21st respectively. “Our game against Enyimba is between known foes,” Eguma told Rivers United media. “Enyimba and Rivers United are Nigerian teams. We are closed door neighbours. We know each other very well. We have been playing in the league and now that we are going to the continent to play it is going to be a big cracker.” He continued: “It is a continental derby. The CAF Confederation Cup group stage ticket is at stake. If not that, I think it could have been a brotherly affair so that both teams will qualify. We are not underrating them because Enyimba have a lot experience in the continent. “They have been there for a long time and they understand the terrain more than us. We at Rivers United are more than determined to succeed. “The players, the management and the sponsors have set up a target. I think that it will be difficult for us to derail because we are all working round the clock to ensure that we succeed. It will be the obstacle that Enyimba would meet. I feel that it is a game that could go either side so we are prepared.”  