Supreme Court Justices will henceforth retire at 75 years if a bill that seeks to make the provision a part of the Constitution is passed by the National Assembly, it was learnt yesterday. This is even as state and federal high court judges seek to terminate their services at the age of 70. At present, Supreme Court and Court of Appeal Justices retire at 70 years while state high court and federal high court judges, including judges of the FCT High Courts, retire at age 65. Chairman Senate Committee on Review of the 1999 Constitution, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, made these revelations while declaring open a two-day retreat on the “Senate Constitution Review Committee: Retreat to Review and Analyse Submitted Memoranda” in Abuja. Omo-Agege, in his keynote address, said he intends to put the committee under pressure to ensure that the bills generated from the memoranda are ready for submission on the floor of the Senate in June this year. He said the Senate would like to pass as many of the constitution review bills generated from the session as possible before the upper chamber embarks on its annual recess in June. Omo-Agege said: “Let me add that I like to put you under pressure. We have decided in the leadership of the Senate that your work product must be ready for presentation on the floor of the Senate at plenary in June this year. “What that means in effect is that you have five months to do this work. By the time we go on leave or annual recess, we would have passed as much as possible as many of the Bills that we were able to generate from this session. “To put you under further pressure, we have also decided to extricate one or two issues dealing with the judiciary, most importantly, the one dealing with the retirement age for judges of the states, FCT and the Federal High Courts to bring it in parity with the 70 year retirement age of the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court. “Of course, there is also the issue of the clamour by the Supreme Court to also move from 70 to 75 years. “I am sure you are all aware that it is up to our colleagues in both chambers and, of course, the State Houses of Assembly to decide whether or not we should move ahead with both. “But I want to put you under pressure that these two bills must be ready for consideration by March (2021). “Both houses – the Senate and the House of Representatives – would be prepared to take those two isolated issues while every other matter under consideration will come up on the floor of the Senate and the House of Representatives in June of this year.” The Deputy President of the Senate later told reporters that the proposed increment in the retirement age of Supreme Court Justices and Judges of the State and Federal High Courts is meant to address the question of “equity and fairness” in the judiciary. Omo-Agege said: “As we speak today, the retirement age of Justices in the Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court is 70 years while the retirement age for Judges in the State High Courts, FCT High Courts and the Federal High Courts is 65. “There have been a lot of challenges posed by that disparity. Some of the Chief Judges are having difficulty filling vacancies created by these requirements. “So, there is this position that this leads to no disagreement. You know that this very issue is not as controversial as the other issues, especially like the issue of restructuring and devolution of power. “So we are thinking that since these issues are less contentious we may just need to extricate them. “We need to deal with it expeditiously. It does not require much to bring it before both chambers of the National Assembly and then hand them over to the states to see if they can speedily work on it. “There’s nothing exceptional, but we just believe that this is something that requires not just a consideration but expeditious consideration, especially since there’s little or no controversy with respect to this.” Earlier in his speech, the Delta Central lawmaker said that the purpose of the retreat was to review and analyse the 2014 National Conference Report, the Report of the APC Ad-hoc Committee on True Federalism and the over 250 memoranda received from the public and translate them into bills proposals for the Senate committee. He added: “These memoranda and positions express concern as well as seek solutions to the many problems that currently confront us as a country. And they come from diverse interests that make up our country. “They cover a range of areas that include, inter alia, the devolution of power to the federating units by way of moving some items from the exclusive to the concurrent list. “Of equal importance are issues of local government fiscal autonomy, the unfettered autonomy of the judiciary in line with their traditional role of the administration of justice. ”Others are issues of derivation, streamlining of criteria for qualification for participation in elective offices at all levels, such that more people are encouraged to participate. ”There is also issue of affirmative action and gender equality, plus youth inclusiveness  in the governance process. ”We are also concerned with measures that will help fight perennial poverty and help address the ever-growing concern on national security as well as the security and safety of Nigerians wherever they reside in the country. Some of these areas need to be addressed directly in the Constitution. ”By the time we began work in January last year, we were faced with a 32-header 1999 Constitutional Alteration Bills. ”In the course of our work, the issues have become clearer and a lot of things have been streamlined for your consideration. “I implore you to give these issues the passionate attention they deserve. The overall objective is that we have a workable, most representative Constitution after the exercise, that should be as straight-forward as possible. ”This way, more people will take interest in politics because the Constitution would have met their desires and aspirations. ”The fact that it is straightforward enough would mean that less and less of its provisions and sections would require judicial interpretation. “This will reduce the challenge of Constitution-interpretation-related work pressure on the Judiciary. Such reduced pressure, you will agree with me, will be salutary to the independence of the Judiciary. ”One other area I will implore you to take keen interest in is the rather hackneyed terminology of ‘marginalization.’ ”Marginalization is arguably one of the ugliest words in the Nigerian lexicon. Practically every ethnic nationality, religious, social and other groups complains of marginalization. ”To take care of this, we should continue to identify, emphasize, explore and exploit those things that unite us as one nation. ”At the same time, we should continue to isolate and avoid those things that tend to divide us. ”If you look at the checklist of your terms of reference, you should be able to work out recommendations, such that the final document we end up with, by way of a reviewed and amended Constitution will give practically no place to the offending word. “Our goal is to have a document that Nigerians, be they from the East, West, North or South, will be proud to claim ownership of.”