Former Minister of Commerce and Industry, Senator Jubril Martins-Kuye, has died. He died on Sunday at 78. The former minister’s political godson, erstwhile Senator Lekan Mustapha of Ogun East, confirmed the death. It was learnt that the former minister was buried around 4 p.m, according to Islamic rites. Also, a former Nigerian Ambassador to Ireland, Dr. Bolouere Elizabeth Ketebu, has died. She was 66. President Muhammadu Buhari mourned the two eminent Nigerians in a statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina. On Martins-Kuye, the statement said: “President Buhari commiserates with family, friends and associates of …Senator Martins-Kuye, praying that the almighty God will comfort them at moment of grief. “President Buhari condoles with Ago-Iwoye community, government and people of Ogun State over the passing of the legislator in the Third Republic, who served in the Fourth Republic as Minister of State, Finance, and Minister of Commerce and Industry, bringing with him many years of experience from the banking sector.” Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun commiserated with the family, friends and associates of the late minister. In a statement yesterday in Abeokuta, the state capital, by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, the governor said: “I have personally lost a great pillar of support, who offered useful advice to advance my political career… “He usually offered useful advice with his persuasive charm, sense of humour and prodigious intellect. We had hoped that he would be with us much longer to benefit more from his fountain of knowledge.” He prayed God to admit the late minister into into Al-Jannah Firdaous. The Ogun State chapter of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) expressed “deep sadness” over the former minister’s death. In a statement on Sunday by the Publicity Secretary of its Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, the party described the late Martins-Kuye as an “uncommon bridge builder, patriot and a very humane, courteous and humble politician whose model was politics without bitterness”. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in a statement by its spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “The contributions of Senator Martins-Kuye for the growth and development of our party remain indelible both in his home state, Ogun, and at the national level, where he played exceptional roles with other patriots in laying a solid foundation for our great party as well as the entrenchment of democracy in our nation.” On Dr. Ketebu, President Buhari, in a  statement in Abuja by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said: “…The President recalls that the deceased served her country creditably in several capacities, including President, National Council of Women Societies (NCWS); Secretary to Bayelsa State Government (SSG), member of the House of Representatives, and Ambassador, among others. “President Buhari prays that God will grant repose to the soul of the departed medical doctor-cum-diplomat, and comfort all who mourn her.” Bayelsa State Governor Douye Diri also expressed sadness over Dr. Ketebu’s death. In a statement yesterday in Yenagoa, the state capital, Diri said: “You were a thoroughbred medical professional, consummate politician, frontline activist and advocate for the rights of women; a cause to which you devoted your time, effort and resources as a former National President of NCWS.”