  THE Oyo State Police Command has confirmed the arrest of 47 armed herdsmen at Igangan. The armed men were arrested by men of the State Joint Anti-Crime Security Patrol team code-named Operation Burst. The suspected hoodlums, who were caught with guns and other weapons, were allegedly on a reprisal. They were reportedly arrested in a convoy of buses. Police spokesman Olugbenga Fadeyi, a Chief Superintendent, said the hoodlums claimed that they were trailing some kidnappers, who were about to collect ransom from relations of a kidnapped victim. He said investigation has been intensified on the arrest, adding that the suspects have been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Iyaganku, Ibadan. Fadeyi said: “Yes, the arrested herdsmen have been transfered to the SCID, Iyaganku, Ibadan for discreet investigation. “Though, it was alleged that the herdsmen claimed that they were trailing some kidnappers who were about to collect ransom from relations of a kidnapped victim.” Sources said the men were arrested on Sunday morning at Ofiki River along Tapa/Igangan Road in Ibarapa North Local Government. According to unconfirmed sources, the armed herdsmen were allegedly invited by their kinsmen to strike in the area following the raid carried out by men of the Oyo State Security Network Agency called Operation Amotekun in the axis on Saturday. But Amotekun had said it raided the hideouts of kidnappers in the area on Saturday in an operation that led to the death of three persons, while one of the officers of the vigilance group, who also participated in the operation, was injured. The security outfit said the raid was carried out in collaboration with members of the Miyetti Allah, vigilante group, hunters and others. Efforts to confirm the report from the information officer of Operation Burst  proved abortive, as calls did not go through on the line. But, the Coordinator of Odua People’s Congress in Oyo State, Rotimi Olumo, confirmed the incident.           