The counter-terrorism war is on the last lap, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) has revealed. It said that the Military is now at the domination stage of the war, implying that the war is fast coming to an end. Coordinator, Defence Media Operations, Major General John Enenche, disclosed this while fielding questions from Defence Correspondents at the weekly briefing in Abuja. He noted that direct encounters between the military and the terrorists have drastically reduced, adding that this signifies that the war is rapidly changing in favour of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. According to Enenche, “there is good news, for the past two days now, with the confidence-building patrol, I was so happy when there were no encounters. And the information that kept coming in is interesting, especially in the North West. They will tell us where they are and when you go there, you will actually see them, and then they are being decimated. “I can tell you that we are at the stage of domination now, dominating the whole area, so that is quite encouraging. “The truth of the matter ladies is that we are succeeding, some people have conceived perception or mindset on what they expect to happen and it’s not happening. “This year, we will not talk about operations, all we are going to do is action, action and action, I will give you situation report necessary as we are eliminating them, and dominating. Like in the North West domination is on and I can assure you that we will sustain and improve on it, banditry will go like a dream as it is said in the Bible”. Meanwhile, giving a breakdown of military operations across the zones, Enenche hinted that the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have continued their major operations across the country with renewed vigour. In the North-West zone, he stated that “troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI and other subsidiary operations have sustained their operations in the North-West Zone of the country progressively. The gallant troops within the period carried out several operations including rescue operations as well as clearance, ambushes and aerial patrols. “These operations led to the rescue of abducted persons, neutralization of criminal elements and recovery of arms and ammunition. Within the period in focus, troops of Operation HADARIN DAJI while on routine patrol around Gidan Dan Nunu and Dutsi villages of Zurmi Local Government Area of Zamfara State made contact with bandits. In the course of the encounter, the gallant troops rescued 7 kidnapped victims. “Relatedly, on 31 December 2020, troops acting on credible intelligence rescued 2 women and a child kidnapped at Kimbisawa village of Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. Rescued victims were immediately reunited with their families.” He added that “in a related development, troops of Operation ACCORD rescued 3 kidnapped victims on New Year day following credible intelligence that armed bandits stormed Tungar Ruwa village in Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State. Rescued victims have been reunited with their families. Equally, troops of Operation SAHEL SANITY arrested two suspected armed bandits on New Year day following a tip off at Maraban Maigora in Faskari Local Government Area. Preliminary investigation revealed that suspects had a connection with a notorious armed bandit leader in Madachi village of Sabuwa Local Government Area”. In the Northeast, he disclosed that “troops of the Armed Forces of Nigeria and other security agencies have not relented in their efforts to decimate the BHT/ISWAP elements operating in the North East Zone of the Country. Between 31 December 2020 and 6 January 2021, troops of Operation LAFIYA DOLE sustained their ground and air operations by adopting continuous vigilance and offensive postures. “Within the period in focus, the Air Task Force of Operation LAFIYA DOLE neutralized several ISWAP terrorist elements and destroyed their structures alongside some logistics items in air strikes conducted at Tumbun Gini general area of Borno State. “This was achieved after series of aerial surveillance missions indicated that the structures and logistics items, camouflaged under dense vegetation were used as a staging area for the criminals and their leaders to meet, from where they plan and launch attacks on troops and civilians. Similarly, on 1 January 2021, the Air Task Force destroyed new BHT’s settlement and neutralized some of their fighters at Mana Waji in Borno State. In another development on 2 January 2021, the Air Task Force took out some BHT criminal elements’ hideouts and eliminated some of their fighters during airstrikes at Kote Kura and Bulama Isamari within the Timbuktu Triangle in Borno State. “In the North Central zone, troops of the Armed Forces of Nigeria have continued to intensify ongoing kinetic operations to decisively stamp out armed banditry and other criminalities. Notably, on 31 December 2020, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN, in collaboration with personnel of the Department of State Services (DSS), arrested 3 suspected gun runners Yahaya Aliyu, Maiwada Idris and Ishaq Mohammed at Kafanchan in Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The suspects were handed over to the DSS for further investigation. “Similarly, on 2 January 2021, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN, in collaboration with the DSS, arrested a suspected member of a notorious kidnap gang, one Suleiman Tanko. The suspect was picked up at a clinic at Ungwan Carpenter village in Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State where he was receiving treatment for gunshot wounds sustained during a recent kidnap operation foiled by troops. Tanko’s arrest was followed by the arrest of another wanted kidnap kingpin, one Mallam Abdulmuminu Nuhu at Fobur village in Jos East Local Government Area of Plateau State on 3 January 2021. “Same day, troops of Operation SAFE HAVEN apprehended 3 suspects, Messrs David Kure, Peter Adamu, and Bulus Duniya, in connection with the alleged murder of a Fulani herder at Matyeu village of Zonzon district in Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Two other suspects, messrs Mathew Peter (the prime suspect) and Dakachi Yohanna Chawei, were arrested in connection with the murder, on 4 January 2021. All suspects are presently undergoing preliminary investigation”. He continued that in the South-South zone, “troops of Operation DELTA SAFE have continued with the aggressive fight against economic sabotage in the zone progressively. Within the period under review, acting on credible intelligence, Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA Patrol team located a wooden boat laden with about 200,000 litres of product suspected to be crude oil. Accordingly, the boats along with the product were handled appropriately. “Equally, Nigerian Navy Ship DELTA patrol team discovered and immobilized an illegal refining site with 9 storage tanks and 4 ovens containing crude oil estimated to be about 150,000 litres at Olaipase Creek in Warri South Local Government Area of Delta State. The patrol team proceeded further within the same community and located another illegal refinery site with 15 storage tanks and 8 ovens laden with substance suspected to be illegally refined AGO estimated to be about 250,000 litres. The Military High Command encourages the troops and personnel of other security agencies to remain resolute and to sustain the tempo in all the Joint Operations Areas. The High Command also reassures the general public of its untiring dedication towards securing the country. Members of the general public are enjoined to continue providing timely information on the activities of criminals in their various localities to the military and other security agencies for prompt and effective action”.