Over two million Nigerians are living out of their homes and communities as displaced persons, the Federal Government said on Thursday. It explained through the Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouk that they were displaced as a result of terrorism, banditry and communal clashes across the country, especially the Northeast. Farouk spoke after leading a delegation to President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja yesterday. She said the ministry was supporting those affected by “rebuilding their homes in areas of disasters and resettling those who fled their places of abode.” The minister said: “As of today, we have over two million displaced persons in the country. Ranging from those displaced by insurgency, armed banditry, communal clashes, and so on. “The ministry is doing its best to see that people who are displaced in this country are given the necessary support by way of supporting their livelihoods, rebuilding their homes in areas of disasters, and settling those who have fled their places seeking for refuge, provided their communities are safe for them to return.” She explained that they visited the President to thank him for the priority his administration had given to Nigerians living with disabilities. Farouk added: “You may recall that in January 2019, Mr President assented to the bill on the prohibition and discrimination against persons with disabilities in this country. “That was the first milestone. Mr President also graciously appointed the chairman, board members and the executive secretary of the National Commission for Persons with Disabilities. “So, this is a visit to demonstrate our appreciation and our commitment to the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari. “That was followed by the fulfilment of Mr President’s campaign promise to the disabilities community, where he promised to sign the disabilities Act when he comes on board. “That has been done and the commission has been created. So the next take away is for Mr President to issue an executive order for compliance with this Act, especially in the area of access, where most of our public and private buildings are not friendly to persons with disabilities. “So, this is an appeal we have made to Mr President and we are hopeful that he will direct both public and private buildings in this country to comply with this provision.”