The controversy surrounding the Kaduna sex party took another twist as the Police arraigned the Publicity Secretary of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State, Abraham Alberah, and four others for alleged attempted adultery and organising a nude party in breach of the COVID-19 protocol. Alberah is the husband of Aisha Yakubu, the owner of Asher Lounge, the venue of the botched sex party which was demolished by the Kaduna State Urban and Planning Development Authority (KASUPDA) on December 31, 2020. It would be recalled that the lounge was demolished on account that it was to be used for the botched Kaduna sex party, but KASUPDA stating that the main reason for the demolition was that the building had no approval. The police also arrested four of the organisers of the sex party who claimed responsibility. The owner of the restaurant had also accused the police of extorting money from her and caused her to lose her one month old pregnancy. Those operating the restaurant, the staff working there and the customers who organised the party where arraigned in court on Wednesday. According to the charge sheet, the sex party had already begun on December 27, 2020, when policemen arrived at the scene. The accused persons, who were brought before Gabasawa Magistrate Court, were also accused of flouting the COVID-19 protocol and acting immorally. The charge sheet reads in part, “Violation of partial lockdown order of the Kaduna State Government 2020, criminal conspiracy and attempt to commit an offence to wit public nuisance, obscene or indecent act, gross indecency and adultery. “On December 27, 2020 at about 21.30 hours, credible information was received at Sabon Tasha police station to the effect that a sex party was organised by some unknown persons to hold at a venue called Asher Guest Lounge located at Court Road, Sabon Tasha at Chikun local government area, Kaduna State to hold at about 19.00 hours. “On receipt of the information, a team of policemen from Sabon Tasha Police Station rushed down to the scene mentioned above and found the said lounge filled up with over 50 youths both male and female dancing almost naked with no face mask on any of them. “On sighting the policemen, the whole of the arena became chaotic as the said youths jumped from one corner to the other and escaped over the fence. Three suspects were arrested- Mr. Abraham Alberah, Umar Rufai and Suleiman Lemona while two others: Chimezie Kenneth, who organised the party and Marvellous Akpan, who disseminated the information (sic).” While the accused persons pleaded not guilty, the Magistrate, Benjamin Nok, granted them bail to the tune of N100, 000 each with a surety who must own property in Kaduna.