A former member of the Labour Party(LP) Igbalaye Wasiu Ayodele popularly known as IWA has built a modern toilet for his alma mater, Imo Methodist Nursery and Primary school Oke Yeke in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun. The LP House of Assembly candidate for Abeokuta South constituency II in the 2019 general elections, commissioned the facility on Friday. He was represented by his father, Chief Waheed Igbalaye, according to a statement his media adviser, Adeyemi Obadimu. Igbalaye appreciated God for his wisdom and grace he gave his son to give back to his alma mater. He said the project underscored the high premium placed on education by the Registrar at ESTG University in Cotonou. Igbalaye urged the teachers and staff to give their all to raising future leases that the country can be proud of. ‘We have doctors, lawyers, governors among the students. So taking proper care of them is very important and God will give them more wisdom to direct them in a right path “The toilet that was built for them is just a tip of an iceberg as we are still planning to do more things for the school.” He urged them to take proper care of the facility to encourage others to do more. Headteacher, Mr Sanusi D.A, appreciated IWA for his generosity. ‘it is a privilege to witness the new development in our school because good facilities and infrastructure, a clean and hygienic environment are important “I give kudos to Igbalaye Wasiu Ayodele for building a new block of toilet for the school. “It will also encourage better school attendance which is obviously good for the pupils and the community at large.” Abeokuta South Education Secretary, Mr Soga, who was represented by Mr Makinde, said there is a need for people like IWA to lift the sector. ‘ We need people like IWA in the education sector that will also contribute to our schools, we appreciate IWA for his humanitarian gesture as the toilet will serve our pupils,” he stressed. A primary six student, Adedokun Adewunmi, thanked IWA for the project and prayed for him on behalf of other pupils.