A group, the Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum, has urged Nigerians to be vigilant and watchful this year. Spokesman Akin Malaolu said in a statement in Lagos: “Following upsurge in reported cases of COVID-19 pandemic and insecurity, we urge Nigerians in general and the Yoruba in particular to exercise caution in their daily activities. “COVID-19 is real. Many lives have been lost because of insufficient attention by the governments. We have allowed the problem to fester like an open sore in the same way that we have normalised insecurity as a fact of Nigerian life. “We urge our people to respect the protocols and measures outlined to contain the spread of COVID-19, as no permanent cure has been found. We must halt the imperiling of the future through our unbridled love for freedom. We must stop being stubborn in not heeding good advice. We must stop leading people to avoidable calamity in the name of festivities and religiosity. “To the traders and buyers, we urge all to exercise the needed care of wearing face masks, improve on personal hygiene and maintain social distancing to limit people’s exposure. After all, it is the living who can enjoy the fruits of their labour. “We pray that in God’s fullness of time, this pandemic will go away as advances in scientific research emerge. “On the issue of insecurity, which predates the viral menace, we must confess that the Federal Government must admit that it is not winning the war against insecurity.  The time has come to change tactics and admit bandits that other stakeholders have legitimate and complementary roles to play. “State police must become an urgent reality, as the size and diversity of Nigeria dictate that one central police cannot police the country. It is either we want a strong, safe and knowledge-driven, united country that enjoys the support of the people, or a weak, ineffective, distrusted apparatus that is useless to itself and will continue to unravel in the face of superior firepower.”    Where the government is unable to protect the welfare and security of the people, the people will resort to self-help or yield their allegiance to any arrangement that can keep insecurity at bay. “For Nigeria not to become a failed state, we urge every community to be vigilant. We hold that all Nigerians are security officials and it is in our own interest to open our senses wide to know the activities of our neighbours, and be vigilant about the arrival of strangers before we can truly enjoy the role of official security personnel. “While we must continue to welcome good people pursuing legitimate interests, we need to be wary of strangers whose antecedents are unknown.”  