 Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has called for unity and harmony among the people of Ilorin community and the state as a whole. He said development premised on togetherness and pursuit of a common agenda. AbdulRazaq spoke in Ilorin, the state capital, at the 55th annual conference of the Ilorin Emirate Descendants Progressive Union (IEDPU) and N2bn fundraising for the construction of IEDPU ICT/Skill Acquisition hub/launching of 2021 calendar. “As the guest speaker has said, the people of Ilorin need to come together under the leadership of the Emir of Ilorin to make Ilorin the envy of all. Let all of us bury our hatchet and come together to make Ilorin a better place for all of us. Let’s work together for peace and progress of Ilorin and our state,” he said. The Governor, who commended the Emir for his fatherly support to every Ilorin son and daughter, also commended the IEDPU for the proposed ICT hub which he said aligns with the ongoing programme (innovation hub) of the administration to give new skills to young people in the state. He made a personal donation of N25m and announced another N25m on behalf of his friends from the business community, including Alhaji Aliko Dangote of the Aliko Dangote Group and Abdulsamad Rabiu of the BUA Group, in support of the ICT project. Emir of Ilorin Dr. Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari sued for peace, unity and understanding among sons and daughters of Ilorin to ensure the development and progress of the emirate. He commended the strides of the Governor who he described as humble, pro-development, and discipline, including his signature timely arrival at public events. Chairman of the occasion and Zanna of Ilorin, Lanre Shagaya, who was represented by Alhaji Ibrahim Salman, called on indigenes of Ilorin to unite, help one another, and invest at home. “As for the union’s leadership, the challenge is to continuously appeal and always prevail on the government on the creation of enabling environment to attract investors to the Emirate and also encourage indigenes of the Emirate to invest at home,” he said. Guest Speaker and National Missioner of the Ansarudeen Society of Nigeria Sheikh Ahmad AbdulRahman called for restoration of sound moral and religious values for which Ilorin is known. He said the violence and looting that followed the recent EndSARS’ protest, the rising menace of drug abuse, and glaring lack of respect for legal authorities signalled a breakdown of such values. National President Ilorin Emirate Descendants Progressives Union Othman Otta rallied the people of the emirate around the agenda of peace, harmony, and development. He specifically commended the Governor for the impacts his administration is having on the poor and the vulnerable, and called for more developmental projects and deeper government-IEDPU relationships. The annual conference was attended by crème de la crème of the Ilorin emirate from all walks of life. 