 The Eze Ukwu of Ngwa land in Isialangwa North Local Government Area of Abia State, Dr. Bernard Enweremadu, has died. It was learnt that the first-class monarch died at an undisclosed hospital in Abuja after an illness. His eldest son, Prince Christopher Enweremadu, who announced his father’s passage, said Eze Enweremadu died on January 17, 2021, at the age of 77 years. The prince said his late father became a traditional ruler at the age of 33, and ran a good race as well as left legacies. He thanked Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for supporting the family and promised the commitment of the family in sustaining the good legacies his father left, especially the embodiments of culture and tradition of Ngwa land. Eminent Nigerians have condoled with the people of Ngwa on the demise of their monarch. President Muhammadu Buhari led the mourners in a statement yesterday in Abuja by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu. The statement reads: “President Buhari commiserates with the government and people of Abia State, as well as the Royal Family on the passing of Eze Bernard Enweremadu, Eze Ukwu of Ngwa Ukwu, the traditional head of Ngwa land. “President Buhari recognises and pays tribute to the immense contributions of the revered royal father to the development of his community during his reign of 44 years. “As a leader who cared so much for his people, the unity and prosperity of his country, President Buhari avers that Eze Enweremadu will be remembered for his vibrant leadership, wisdom and courage. “In this time of grief, the President’s prayers and thoughts are with the Eze Ukwu royal family and the people of Ngwa land, praying that the soul of the royal father rest in peace.” Senate Chief Whip Orji Kalu described the monarch’s death as a huge loss to Abia State and the country. In a condolence message yesterday, the Abia North senator conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the people and government of the over the demise of Eze Enweremadu. He said: “I received with pain the news of the passing of Dr. Benard Enweramadu… “The late monarch contributed to nation-building in various capacities. He lived a purposeful life dedicated to the service of humanity. “The late traditional ruler will be remembered for his outstanding leadership attributes and good legacies. “No doubt, the late monarch will be sorely missed.” Other traditional rulers have been visiting the palace of the late Eze. During the condolence visit of members of the State Council of Traditional Rulers to the family of Eze, the Chairman of the council, Eze Joseph Nwabekee, described the late monarch as a great iroko who left an indelible footprint in the traditional institution. He described his death as a great loss to Ukwa Ngwa nation, Abia State and Nigeria. Also, Chairman of Ukwa La Ngwa Traditional Rulers Council, Dr. Nwabiarije Eneogwe, said Eze Enweremadu’s death was a shock and a colossal loss to Ukwa Ngwa people. He described the late monarch as a good man who fought for the development of the Ukwa Ngwa nation.   