Traditional ruler of Ode Erinje community in Okitipupa local government, HRH Adekoye Ipinsanmi Emmanuel, has send a save our soul message to the Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, over activities of criminals and hoodlums in his domain. HRH Adekoye, in a letter also signed by elders of the community, said Ode Erinje has become a den for criminals where stealing, rape and cultists occured on a daily basis. According to the letter, “We write as concerned indigenes of Erinje Community to vehemently register our displeasure over the rampaging criminal activities which have overtaken our erstwhile peaceful community. “Before now, Erinje Community has been known for her relative peace which most of the neighbouring communities have been emulating, not until recently when some hoodlums have highjacked our community, thereby turning our town to a den of criminals even to the dislike of average peaceful indigenes and outsiders. “It has become an order of the day at Ode Erinje that an innocent lady or even a married woman can just be accosted along the road, stripped naked and raped by hoodlums. Not only that, stealing is no longer a crime at Ode Erinje, it has become the order of the day. “Apart from the vandalism and cultism, all sorts of social vices cannot be overemphasised. Hence our coming together as representatives and stakeholders of the town to seek the assistance of the Law Enforcement agencies to help restore the perennial peace the town is known for. “Your timely intervention is needed in putting the community back to its normal and usual peaceful status. “We are ready to work with your team to fish out these hoodlums and this we shall do without fear or favour.” Other persons that signed the letter were High Chief Adewole Obamomoye, the Odofin of Erinje Kingdom, High Chief Ayodele Seja, the Holo Akoko of Ode Erinje and High Chief Taiwo Balogun, the Lema of Erinje Kingdom, High Chief Akinbolade Kayode, the Ayadi of Erinje Kingdom, High Chief Anthony Aderehinwo, the Ojan of Erinje Kingdom, High Chief Martins Olajorin, the Oshogbon of Erinje Kingdom and High Chief Daniken Adeyemi, the Basorun of Erinje Kingdom amongst others.