 In the SPANISH LA LIGA, Villarreal ended the year with a 2-0 loss to Sevilla with Samuel Chukwueze playing the final 27 minutes. He is expected to start from the bench again when the Yellow Submarines face Levante today in another league tie. Ramon Azeez still continues to be eased into action gradually at Granada after his recent return from injury. He has been on the bench in his team’s recent games. The game at Eibar tomorrow could present the Super Eagles’ midfielder an opportunity to taste league action again for the first time since October as they seek a second straight win after the 2-1 triumph over Valencia midweek. Former Junior International, Kelechi Nwakali, continues to be linked with a move away from SD Huesca but the 22-year-old has not played for Huesca in the league since November against Osasuna. In the ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE, after the joy of scoring and earning a draw at Anfield against Liverpool, Semi Ajayi and West Brom were given reality check by Leeds United who ran them ragged 5-0 at the Hawthorns midweek. It was an almost similar result versus Aston Villa (3-0) a few days after they picked a valuable draw against Man City at the Etihad Stadium. Can new coach, Sam Allardyce rally them to a home win against resurgence Arsenal today?  Wilfred Ndidi was rested in the midweek away draw at Crystal Palace in a game his compatriot and teammate, Kelechi Iheanacho missed a penalty kick for Leicester City. The Foxes will hope to halt their recent winless streak against Newcastle United at the St. James’ Park tonight. It is unclear if the Burney versus Fulham tie will go ahead on Monday at Turf Moor with the Cottagers away trip to Tottenham postponed indefinitely due to COVID-19 cased in camp of the former. After Coronavirus concerns forced Alex Iwobi’s Everton versus Manchester City tie to be shifted, the Toffees played West Ham yesterday at the Goodison Park while Manchester United without Ighalo predictably slugged it out with Aston Villa also in a New Year tie at the Old Trafford. Matches return to the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA from the yuletide break today with Toluwase Arokodare and Kingsley Ehizibue’s FC Cologne scheduled to face Augsburg. Though without the Nigerian duo, the Goats ended 2020 with a morale boosting goalless draw at RB Leipzig, they will be eyeing a win to steer them further away from the relegation zone in the opening fixture of the year. Kevin Akpoguma played the final 11 minutes of Hoffenheim’s impressive 2-1 away win at Borussia Monchengladbach in the last round of fixtures before the break. He is expected to play a more active role when his club host Freiburg today. Hoffenheim have been erratic this campaign and their 12th spot on the table with 15 points from 13 games showed how inconsistent they have been. Taiwo Awoniyi ended the year on a good note with a goal and 86 minutes appearance against Borussia Dortmund. He netted his fourth goal of the season as Union Berlin hovered over Dortmund 2-1.