MTN Nigeria on Monday said technology has become a tool that is bridging the gap between the kids and the future, positioning them to lead the charge to a bold new world. Chief Transformation Officer (CTO), Bayo Adekanbi, who spoke at the grand finale of mPulse Hackathon, said the telco will continue to take bold steps to guide and provide the platform for the kids to excel. The CTO said: “Technology has bridged the gap between our children and the future, positioning them to lead the charge to a bold new world. At MTN, we believe in that future and are taking deliberate steps to guide young people in developing solutions for all. The MTN mPulse Hackathon is part of our wider contribution towards this aspiration, consistent with our commitment to champion innovation.” During the event, a 12-year-old JSS 2 pupil of Bellina College, Akoka, Lagos, Joshua Agboola, emerged winner of the MTN mPulse Hackathon, which had ‘Beyond COVID’ as its theme. He won the contest by creating ‘Kagukar Study Buddie,’ a home-schooling, remote education and learning solution. Using Artificial Intelligence, it works as an interactive voice-activated robot that assists students to study, practice tests, learn from stories while providing entertainment with games, riddles and jokes. Agboola received N1million in funding support, N100,000 cash voucher, portable electronic devices worth over N120,000 and mPulse back-to-school items. “I feel excited. Thanks to MTN, I have been able to show my potential towards changing the world and impact lives positively with my solution,” he said. The first runner up, Abeedah Alabi of Jakande Estate Comprehensive Senior College, also in Lagos and second runner up, Amarahi Ogbu of Government Day Secondary School, Abuja, also received N500,000 in funding support, N100,000 vouchers, portable electronic devices worth over N120,000, and mPulse back-to-school items. The top 10 finalists will participate at a six-week virtual MTN GAP Boot camp, an incubation programme to further refine and accelerate their winning solutions to market in collaboration with TechQuest STEM Academy. In 2018, the company unveiled mPulse, a proposition for teens and tweens designed for kids between nine  and 15. The mPulse package comes with a voice plan and a fun, educative website which hosts various courses and study aids to help children from primary one to SS3 excel. The portal also provides a bouquet of single and multiplayer games as well as life skill videos.