 Plateau State Governor, Simon Bako Lalong has asked members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Plateau State University (PLASU) chapter to rescind its decision to embark on an indefinite strike as the government is working to address their grievances. Lalong, who is the Visitor to the University, said this on Monday when he visited to inspect projects being implemented at the school. Lalong said the university, which has been closed following the COVID-19 pandemic, was ready to re-open before the threat of strike by the local chapter of ASUU. Projects inspected include the new Senate Building, Faculties of Law, Environmental Sciences, Health Sciences, Social sciences, Advancement and Linkages building, Staff offices and classrooms complex, E-Library and assorted volumes of books in the central library building, 600- capacity lecture theatre. Also the school of Postgraduate Studies building complex, University Health Centre building and medical equipment, Street light project, wire fencing of female hostel and PLASU Security System/CCTV cameras project, sports complex among others. Some of the projects have been completed and handed over while others are at various stages of completion. The governor, who expressed satisfaction with the speed and quality of the projects debunked the insinuation that the projects were all implemented by TETFund with the state government not doing anything. He said: “It is very unfortunate for people to play politics with everything including education. How can you say that the proprietor of a university has no projects in it? I was part of the founding of this institution when I was Speaker. “People will remember that when I came into office, the university was shut down. We did everything possible to reopen it and today, it has blossomed and is fast growing. “It is, therefore, very sad and untrue for this insinuation to come from people who should know better. This is nothing but pure mischief.” Lalong said apart from investing huge sums to develop infrastructure in the university, his administration remains grateful to President Buhari, who through TETFund, intervened by approving other projects that are very critical to the development of the school. The state, he said, has been greatly favoured to benefit from the number of projects being carried out because it met the criteria for drawing from the fund. 