 THE Gulf of Guinea (GoG) has attained notoriety for piracy and other criminal activities in the industry. At present, the region has been dubbed “the most dangerous sea in the world for piracy”, owing to criminalities in it by the International Maritime Bureau (IMB). Notwithstanding the pronouncements of the country’s industry safety regulators and other security agencies saddled with keeping the waters safe, which at best, has remained mere lip service. This month alone, at least two deadly attacks on vessels have been recorded in the GoG, with the latest happening last Saturday. According to reports, the MV Mozart, a Turkish cargo ship, was boarded by pirates 100 nautical miles northwest of Sao Tome, Sao Time and Principe, at 0525 on January 23, 2021. The MV Mozart, which sails under a Liberian flag, was traveling from Lagos to Cape Town, South Africa, when the attack took place. One crew member was killed and 15 others were taken hostage by the pirates after a struggle on board. Piracy in the GoG is assuming an unprecedented dimension, especially now that kidnapping seem to have become a lucrative business. According to the IMB, there is a steady increase in kidnappings over recent years in this region, after the criminals on the waters realised that companies would pay handsomely to secure the release of their kidnapped personnel. The activities of pirates in the GoG are said to be taking a toll on trading, especially in cost. For instance, vessels and shipping lines that still ply the route now charge a premium for freighting, including placing a higher premium on insurance costs due to the designation of the GoG route as “high risk”. The Gulf of Guinea, which stretches off the coasts of Nigeria, Guinea, Togo, Benin and Cameroon, borders more than 20 countries and has been a source of worry for global stakeholders in the industry. These concerns led to an initiative in 2008- the “Operation Atalanta,” a European mission to secure the region’s water for shipping. The initiative recorded good success, leading to a decline in pirates attacks on vessels. Sadly, the problem is on the rise again. For instance, according to data from the IMB yearly piracy report, in 2019, there were 228 pirates’ attacks on vessels, while figures issued earlier this month saw an increase of piracy and armed robbery incidents in 2020, with the Gulf of Guinea the hotspot as kidnappings off West Africa approach Somalia levels from a decade ago. ”The latest statistics confirm the increased capabilities of pirates in the Gulf of Guinea with more and more attacks taking place further from the coast. This is a worrying trend that can only be resolved through increased information exchange and coordination between vessels reporting and response agencies in the Gulf of Guinea region. Despite prompt action by navies in the region, there remains an urgent need to address this crime, which continues to have a direct impact on the safety and security of innocent seafarers,” said Michael Howlett, director of the IMB. In 2013, 25 countries in the region developed the “Yaounde Code”, which established coordination on piracy and other maritime crimes. Nigeria has its own “Deep Blue” initiative to develop maritime surveillance and security, and last year secured its first conviction under a new anti-piracy law. Indeed, global regulators and stakeholders are not folding their arms in ridding the GoG of criminal activities. For instance, though the Nigerian regulator takes pride in its “Deep Blue Project” equipment contracted to Israeli contractors at $195 million to tackle the GoG menace and other maritime security-related issues, the Council of EU, worried at the field day pirates and other criminals enjoy in the region, has resolved to take over the security of the GoG. In reaching the decision, the EU said its action is to protect its members’ interests aimed at tackling the menace in the region. Deliberating under the subject: “Council conclusions on launching the pilot case of the coordinated maritime presences in the Gulf of Guinea” the EU Council noted the strategic importance of the Gulf of Guinea region and reaffirmed its long-standing determination to support West and Central African states in their efforts to address the challenges to maritime security, including organised crime. The Union though commended the West and Central African states, which bear the primary responsibility for combating maritime crime in the region, recalling that the countries made political commitments in June 2013 under the “Code of Conduct concerning the repression of piracy, armed robbery against ships, and illicit maritime activity in West and Central Africa”. These commitments, the EU further noted, have been pivotal in the progressive establishment of the Yaoundé Architecture to improve coordination and cooperation on maritime security. However, the EU maintained that the Gulf of Guinea continues to face a challenging environment in which piracy, armed robbery at sea, kidnapping of seafarers, illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing, smuggling and trafficking of drugs and arms, as well as transnational organised crime pose a major threat to maritime security. These activities, it further observed, is adversely affecting freedom of navigation, thus endangering major trade routes, jeopardising the sustainable development of the entire region and the economic livelihood of the population, and leading to the deterioration of the environment and biodiversity. In this context, the EU pledged its commitment to increasing work with the coastal States of the Gulf of Guinea and the organisations of the Yaoundé Architecture, through greater European operational engagement, including ensuring continuity, restiveness, complementarity and synergy between member states’ actions in this strategic area, also having in mind cooperation with the maritime industry. “Recalling both the EU’s Maritime Security Strategy and the related Action Plan, as well as the EU’s Strategy on the Gulf of Guinea and its related Action Plan, following the Council Conclusions of 17 June 2020, the Council hereby launches the pilot case of the Coordinated Maritime Presences (CMP) concept in the Gulf of Guinea. While being distinct from the CSDP missions and operations, the pilot case of this new EU initiative, reflecting the Union’s growing role as a maritime security provider, can provide a substantial contribution to addressing the security challenges in the Gulf of Guinea,” the resolution said. With this framework, the EU Council, therefore, establishes the Gulf of Guinea as a Maritime Area of Interest (MAI) and welcomes the establishment of the Maritime Area of Interest Coordination Cell (MAICC); recognises the importance for the Member States to further improve the coordination of actions carried out by their assets deployed in the MAI under national command, on a voluntary basis. The Council will also ensure political control and provide strategic guidance on the implementation of the CMP pilot case; highlight the importance of enhancing the voluntary sharing of maritime security information among member states and partners in the CMP pilot case if and when deemed appropriate to improve maritime domain awareness in the MAI. Furthermore, it said based on lessons learned from the implementation of the CMP concept, the Council will examine the possibility of applying this concept in other maritime areas of EU interest and will revert to the implementation of the pilot case of the CMP concept in the Gulf of Guinea by January 2022.  