Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has told local government chairmen seeking reelection in the forthcoming April poll to show evidence of their projects. The governor insisted that only the council bosses adjudged to have performed in the office could be considered for reelection. Wike, however, said such yardstick would not invalidate any existing arrangements and agreements in most council areas especially where such positions were on a rotational basis. The governor spoke on Saturday at the inauguration of Bolo Town’s internal road network, performed by the former Governor of Gombe State, Dr. Ibrahim Dankwanbo. Wike said it had become important to allow competent people to ascend elective positions so that they could work for the good of the people and communities. He said: “On this local government election coming, let me say clearly, I cannot continue to see the situation where most responsibilities of local government are given to the state. It has made most of them abandon their own responsibilities. “I will not agree to that again. Anybody who wants to go back for chairmanship must show us what he has done in that Local Government. “I have told our leaders not to come and tell me these are their boys. We must bring people who are willing and are committed to working for the people. This is the time to work for the people. “Now, even if that chairman wants to go back, you must also consider your local peculiarity”. The governor acknowledged the cooperation Bolo people gave to the local contractor that handled the road project that traversed all the communities within the town and said it was proof that they loved development. Wike also announced the award of contract for the reconstruction of the bridge linking Bolo Town to their neighbours. He said Ausphepz Nigeria Limited, the local contractor that handled the Bolo Town internal roads would be engaged to do the bridge. He said: “When we came for the campaign, I asked the people and they said roads are important for them. We thank God today that the roads are reconstructed to link all the communities in Bolo Town. “Now, nobody will say they are left out of the 7km of concrete road in all the communities that make up Bolo and this is part of Ogu/Bolo Local Government Area. “About the damaged bridge linking you to Gokana and Tai Local Government areas, I will ask the Special Adviser on Special Projects to go and scoop it. “He should see whether the contractor that handled the Bolo internal road project can also do that. We have to encourage and empower our own local contractors because they have done a good job here. “Bolo people have supported us. Continue to work together, it will bring you a lot of projects. Communities that support contractors to complete projects and not demand money from them will benefit more. We will continue to fulfil, by the special grace of God, all promises we have made to you,” he added. Inaugurating the network of internal roads, Dankwanbo noted that the road infrastructure put in place by the governor would open up Bolo Town and allow its people to enjoy the benefits of development. He considered himself privileged to be in Bolo Town to see how such hinterland had been touched by the administration of Wike. He said: “Development comes in several ways. From what I have seen, coming to this part of the State was very easy. Seeing the internal roads that have been constructed, totally about 7kmwirh drainages, is a rare achievement and very commendable. “Roads open development. I want to, therefore, urge the people of this community to use this facility that has been provided to ensure that they grow the economy of this place. More youths should be employed and ensure that all the farmland are cultivated, and the product easily evacuated to the market,” he said. In his remarks, Dax George-Kelly, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Special Projects said the job was awarded and completed within the contract period of 12 months. “This road crisscrossed all nooks and crannies of Bolo Town. There is expansion, development, and new buildings coming up. The people are very happy about it,” he said.