 From the tone of the online advertisement flier, there was no mistaking the fact that the event was designed for a sex orgy. “No clothing season 1; outdoor and indoor sex; public nude dares; 50 ladies ready to get down; come with condoms; it’s all fun till you tap out,” the online flier had stated. Participants were required to pay a sum of N2,000 (popular side) and N3,000 or N5,000 (VIP) to enjoy the event tagged Kaduna sex party. The police, however, stepped in on account of public outcry to stop potential attendees from converging for the queer party scheduled for December 27, 2020, at a discreet location in the northern city. However, the idea of sex party conceived in Kaduna has since spread to other parts of the northern region. On January 11, 2021, a sex party that was being organised by 19 youths was aborted by security operatives in Dass Local Government Area of Bauchi State. A few days later, a sex party which usually held at a primary school building was foiled by Hisbah operatives in Dolam village, Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area. On January 21, the police smashed the brains behind a nude party in Kwara State. Like the Kaduna event, prospective attendees were required to part with N20,000 each for the party billed to hold in lounges, club houses and service apartments.  Police arrest organisers Worried by the public outcry that greeted the event, the Kaduna State Police Command, at the instance of the state government, trailed the venue of the event to a downtown restaurant and arrested some suspects. The suspects were paraded on December 31, 2020, at the state police headquarters in Kaduna. Speaking to reporters, one of the promoters of the event said the party had started as a joke during a conversation with some friends. “Kaduna sex party started as a joke between me and my friends. It was not meant to go public. It was not meant to cause any nuisance among the public in Kaduna State. It was just someone that felt that she was too brilliant that posted it on Twitter. “I never posted the party invite on Twitter. Yes, I initiated it. Yes, it started as a joke. But I keep saying it, it was not meant to disturb the peace and security of Kaduna. The whole thing was a joke. A friend made the flier that was posted on Twitter and put my number on it and we all laughed over it, but somebody sent it to someone and then to another person until it got to Twitter.” Parading the 19 youths accused of being behind the botched sex party in Bauchi, the Commissioner of Police, Lawan Tanko Jimeta, said the suspects were members of a 19-man crime syndicate popularly known as Sara-Suka. The suspects are Ishaya Adamu (19); Mohammed Abdullahi Lawwali (22); Ayuba Adamu (19); Aminu Tago (19); Mubarak Baba (22); Anas Sulaiman alias Danarna (16); Yusuf Ahmed (20) and Abba Abdullahi (20). Others are: Sulaiman Umar (20); Abdulrashid Ali (17); Aliyu Iliya (15); Idris Sulaiman (22); Nuru Sarki (17); Ibrahim Musa (20); Musa Danasabe (17); Abdulrashid Anas (18); Ibrahim (22) and Kasimu Haladu (26), all of Dass town, Bauchi State. Parading the suspects at the Command headquarters in Yandoka in the state capital, Jimeta said the suspected promoters were also notorious for thuggery and phone snatching. The CP said the suspects had scheduled a party suspected to be sex party with series of nefarious activities in Dass town on January 11. Jimeta, who was represented by the spokesman of the state police command, Ahmed Wakili, said detectives led by the Commander of Rapid Response Squad (RRS) had effectively trailed and arrested the sex party promoters. “Findings revealed that on the day of their arrest at about 2000hrs they had conspired among themselves and organised a party suspected to be a sex party with attendant series of atrocities within Dass town,” he said. Exhibits recovered from them include one Ranki, one tsitaka, one machete, one cutlass, and three knives. He said the suspects would be profiled and charged to court soon. Also, no fewer than six youths behind the sex orgies in Dolam village in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area of the state were arrested by Hisbah operatives, according to the Permanent Commissioner in charge of Hisbah and Sharia Implementation, Malam Aminu Idris. According to Idris, the suspects, Abdurrauf Kabir (25); Dabo Yusuf (26) Abdurrazak Isah (24); Habu Umar (27); Yaron Nuhu-Maikaji (30) and Abdurrashid Shehu (31) were in the habit of organising disco parties, locally called Gwaidu, during which they lured young girls into illicit sexual relationships. Idris said the attention of his department was drawn by the local Hisbah office in the area, following which the office swung into action and arrested all the people involved. After discreet investigations, the commissioner said, the state Hisbah office summoned the parents of the culprits, counselled them and made them sign an undertaking against repeating the offence. Idris said the Hisbah department would, henceforth, not hesitate to prosecute such culprits in a competent court of law. “As a lawyer, I will do everything possible to ensure that our existing laws were not flagrantly violated,” he said. One of the promoters of the Ilorin nude party, Akinsola Babatunde aka Mr. White was also apprehended by the police undercover and the sex party billed to hold in syndicated places was aborted. Kwara State Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Bagega, said that detectives paid the N20,000 entry fees organisers of the party advertised on social media to a bank account in order to arrest the culprits. Parading the suspect, Bagega said impeccable intelligence on the activities of the gang led to the arrest of the suspect at No. 16 Achimugu Street, Ilorin. The police boss said: “The immoral and illegal action of Mr. White and his accomplices clearly contradict the COVID-19 protocols and promote crime and criminality. “Operatives of the State Intelligence Bureau attached to the command carried out a sting operation involving tactical undercover and manoeuvre. “We actually played along with them by posing as interested persons. We paid the advertised sum of N20,000 to a given bank account. “With the cooperation of the other stakeholders, we nabbed the suspect while going to withdraw the money from the bank. “Efforts are ongoing to arrest the fleeing members of the gang. The one in custody will be charged as soon as investigation is completed.”  Controversy as Kaduna demolishes ‘sex party’ venue The venue of the Kaduna sex party, Asher Club and Bar, was controversially demolished by the authorities of the state government on New Year’s eve in Kaduna. The building, located on Kachia Road, Sabon Tasha, Kaduna, was brought down by bulldozers of the Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Authority (KASUPDA) following publicity on social media about the sex party. The party, according to KASUPDA, showcased “a high level immorality that negates our socio-cultural, religious and traditional values/beliefs.” “This act of immorality,” it said on Twitter, “is partly the reason why (sic) we are bedeviled with security challenges in our dear state.” According to the agency, Governor Nasiru El-Rufa’i “in his proactive leadership style ordered the immediate arrest of the organisers and KASUPDA to demolish the structure to forestall a reoccurrence, serve as a deterrent to such other clubs that may or are intending to host a similar or same event to desist and ensure they operate within the ambit of the law.” It added: “We have a serene, sane and decent environment and will not hesitate to deal decisively with any individual or group who tries to engage in any act that exposes our citizens to moral decadence.” However, Aisha Yakubu, the owner of Asher, denied the government’s claim, saying there was no plan to use her property for the said sex party. “I denied knowledge of that event as there was nothing of that sort taking place at the restaurant, and I wouldn’t stoop so low to entertain such illicit activity at my place. “But the Police refused to believe me and had my friend and two of my staff detained for one night, one day, until the customer (0ne Chimezie) that had earlier hired the place for usage on that fateful day was also arrested the next day. “They were released after paying a “bail fee” of N100,000 to Inspector Felix and one other lady officer, fair in complexion.” The customer, she said, had on December 27, 2020, “hired the VIP lounge for a 15-man reunion/clothing line promo, to appreciate his customers for their good patronage of his brands. “When we arrived at the police station, my customer, who accompanied me to the station, enquired what the matter was and the police showed us a poster on a GSM phone belonging to one of the officers by name Inspector Felix. “It was a poster of an event titled KADUNA SEX PARTY, which the Police claimed the venue for the supposed “sex party” was scheduled to hold at my restaurant, even though with no address of where it will take place on the poster. “Marvellous Akpan was arrested the next (day). He was interrogated and he obliged to owning the phone number on the poster address. Mr. Chimeze, who had hired the place, was released, summarily, after the successful arrest of Mr. Akpan. “The next day, 31st December, while at the other branch of my restaurant, at Court Road, Sabon Tasha, Kaduna, a friend of mine called me asked me to go to the main restaurant and see what was going on. “I immediately went and saw a combined team of policemen, soldiers, KASTLEA, and vigilante groups guarded a payloader to demolish my restaurant. “No prior notice was served me before the demolition. There was no form of communication between me and the Kaduna State Property Development Agency (KASUPDA) who came to demolish the building structure.” But the Supreme Council for Shariah in Nigeria hailed the state government for moving against the “satanic” sex party. The Shariah Council in a statement by the chairman of Kaduna State chapter, Abdurrahman Hassan, said the current spate of bloodletting brought about by  banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, and other vices is caused by immoral acts like the ‘satanic’ sex party. Its words: “Allah (SWT) stated categorically in Suratul Hajj verse 41, thus: ‘Those who, when We empower them in the land, observe prayer, and give regular charity, and command what is right, and forbid what is wrong. To Allah belongs the outcome of events.’ “No doubt, this kind of an illicit act is one of the ingredients that are fueling the wrath of Allah (SWT) that we are inflicted with currently. “While we commend the Kaduna State Government for this commendable act, we also call on the government to scan for such places where illicit acts are perpetrated in the state, such as ‘Ajagunle’ area, off Maiduguri Road, in Kaduna North Local Government, where nude clubs do exist.  Knocks over demolition The demolition however triggered reactions from a cross-section of Nigerians, with some Nigerians describing the action as jungle justice. A Nigerian @immakogwu said: “What happens to our justice system? Why not charge this to the courts to adjudicate and punish if found guilty of contravening an extant law. Inasmuch as I do not support a sex party, I would boldly condemn this act of jungle justice. Why then do we condemn Boko Haram?” Another critic @foseeorara said: “What specific law was contravened by announcing to hold a sex party in Kaduna? Is having sex illegal? Or the announcement of it? That an act is socially repugnant or reprehensible does not make it a crime. My goodness, what’s happening in Nigeria?!!! A psychologist, Mike Mudabai, described sex party as mere satisfaction of fantasy. “Whatever name you call it, whether sex party or nude party, the fact is that seeing or participating in a sex orgy is nothing but a common fantasy, which participants desire to explore in real life. Therefore, those who take part or organise the party have no genuine reasons other than that they are sold to imaginary voyeurism they want to experience in real life,” he wrote.