  Former Super Eagles Coach, Christian Chukwu has debunked the news of his death, saying that he is hale and hearty. Chukwu disclosed this on Sunday in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at his Trans Ekulu residence, Enugu after speculation on social media since January 8 about his purported demise. However, the former Green Eagles captain, who celebrated his 70th birthday on Jan. 4, 2021, said that he was surprised that some people would wish him death. “I am terribly embarrassed with this news that I am dead. Several people have been calling me from across the world since the news broke; I am still investigating the source of the story,” he said. Chukwu, popularly known as ‘chairman’ during his career days, said that God was in control of his life. He advised journalists and social media influencers to always investigate and get their facts right before writing. In a related development, Vice Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP)in 2019 the elections, Peter Obi,  has been praised for his continued commitment to the welfare elderly ex-footballers. This much was stated by  Obi during a  recent TV Show hosted  by  former  international Segun Odegbami . Speaking on the program, Obi said it was his personal resolve to always appreciate those who had contributed to a better society in different fields of endeavour, especially the elderly ones. Obi said Chukwu’s 70th birthday celebration for instance, was  an opportunity to tell his stories of success and patriotism in the field of sports, recalling how Chukwu, alongside other youngsters, like Dominic Ezeani, were selected into the school football academy from National Grammar School, Nike. “Chukwu’s humility and passion for football paved way for him and he was subsequently admitted into the Rangers Football Club and then into the Nigeria’s National Team, Green Eagles. Chukwu continued to excel in his football career leading his teams to victories as the captain,” Obi recounted. He later made good his promise  to appreciate Chukwu on the occasion of his birthday by visiting his residence in Enugu state.  