Minister of Environment Dr. Mohammad Abubakar has urged his counterpart in Education, Prof. Adamu Adamu,  to implement resolution of 8th National Council on Environment. The resolution was on establishment of Environmental Health Departments in tertiary institutions. Abubakar made the appeal while presenting certificate of Decontamination/Disinfection of schools to the minister of education in Abuja. He said the presentation of the certificate was to attest to the safety and fitness of the school environments for habitation and meaningful learning. He said  the establishment of the departments in the tertiary educational institutions across the country was to ensure professionalism in the discharge of environmental health and sanitation services. Abubakar also said he was in the ministry to consolidate on the gains so far recorded in inter-ministerial collaboration between  both ministries in the wake of the pandemic bedeviling the country. According to him, as members of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19, the two ministries are key in the prevention, containment and management of the coronavirus disease. “The need to be proactive cannot be over emphasised as the PTF is still considering how best to re-open schools. “In order not to be an unwary agent of the spread of COVID-19 among learners and caregivers in various schools nationwide which have remained closed since Feb. 2020,” he said. Adamu said the visit was a welcomed effort, adding that it showed effectiveness and commitment in the fight against the pandemic. He thanked the environment minister in ensuring that the school environments were decontaminated/disinfected, adding that it would help to protect the premises from various diseases. “I want to thank the minister in his efforts, thank you for what you are doing to the schools and what you are also planning to do to prevent more spread of the virus in various schools. Adamu said he would make sure that the certificate presented would be sent to schools. Also speaking, Mr. Sonney Echono, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, thanked the environment minister for  his collaborative effort in the fight against the pandemic.