  The crisis of confidence that has rocked the Buhari administration with respect to national security assumed a new dimension last week with the emergence of a warlord determined to rescue his kinsmen in Igangan and other communities in Ibarapa North Local Government Area from the grips of gun trotting herdsmen alleged to have turned the killing of hapless farmers in the area into a past time.  Sunday Adeniyi Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, has been the subject of rave reviews in the social and traditional media since he took upon himself the task of liberating the traumatised inhabitants of the area. The activist had sent shock waves into the camp of herdsmen in the area when he led his foot soldiers to Igagan to confront the Seriki Fulani, Saliu Kadri, asking him and other herdsmen in the area to quit within seven days or face his wrath. He accused the Seriki of shielding the herdsmen who allegedly killed an Oyo State businessman, Dr. Fatai Aborode, the CEO of Kunfayakun Green Treasures Limited, who was said to have returned home from his base in Scotland to establish a large farm that employed many indigenes of the area, as well as a local prince and the owner of Subawah Petroleum, Alhaja Sherifat Adisa, her two children and other victims. Igboho made it clear that he was acting on pleas by some Yoruba traditional rulers who had grown weary of the prevailing situation. Although Kadri denied that he and his Fulani kinsmen in the area had a hand in the murder and abductions recorded in the area in recent months and blamed it all on some marauders from Zamfara, Kebbi and other locations outside the Southwest, the threat to evict the Seriki was made good at the expiration of the deadline as his house and cars numbering about 11 were burnt, forcing him and family members to flee Igangan community. The incident, as would be expected, drew the ire of many Nigerians who believe that it is not in Igboho’s place to issue a quit notice to any resident of Oyo State, particularly one like Seriki Saliu Kadri who has resided in the area for decades. Prominent individuals like the Oyo State governor Seyi Makinde and human rights lawyer Femi Falana were particularly unsparing in their condemnation of the actions of Igboho and foot soldiers. While Makinde was quick in calling on the Oyo State Commissioner of Police to arrest Igboho and treat him like a common criminal, Falana made it a duty to push the Fulani community in the area to drag the activist to court. The truth, however, is that given the prevailing situation in Igangan and the surrounding communities and the failure of government at federal and state levels to respond to the cries of the inhabitants for an end to incessant killing, abduction, rape the and other crimes perpetrated by herdsmen and drawing from the ugly experiences of the inhabitants of other communities in Benue, Taraba, Enugu and Delta and other states previously tormented by herders, the emergence of a warlord figure like Igboho was inevitable. Of course, there have been various accounts portraying Igboho as a political thug and a puppet on the chessboard of some Southwest politicians including three former governors. But as far as current events are concerned, his kinsmen regard him as a hero. They have forgiven whatever sin he might have committed against democracy. Igboho is now a new creature. Old things have passed away and everything about him has become new. There is but a tenuous line between a villain and a hero where people’s lives are involved. At critical moments like this, it matters little if the saviour is Satan himself. Igboho’s past is consigned to the anthill of history, and from the ashes of it, a messiah has risen. If Nigerians could find the heart to forgive President Muhammadu Buhari and vote him twice to become their President years after he deployed the barrels of a gun to overthrow a government they democratically elected, Ibarapa and Oyo people in general will have no problem writing off Igboho’s inglorious past. If Makinde were wise, he would tread softly in his antagonism against Igboho. Whether the governor knows it or not, the momentum is with the activist not just in Oyo State but in the entire Southwest region because of the sensitive nature of the issue at hand. Here, Governor Makinde would profit massively from the Yoruba adage that says Eni ba f’oju ana wo’ku, ebora a bo l’aso (he who relates with the dead the way he does the living risks being stripped naked). I make bold to say that Makinde would stand no chance against Igboho if the two were to contest an election in Oyo today. The earlier the governor realises the popularity the matter at hand has conferred on Igboho and make up with him, the better. A word is enough for the wise. 