 IT is not clear whether President Donald Trump recognizes that he is a tyrant, or that he lacks the depth and character needed to govern a large, complex and powerful nation like the United States. But perhaps he knows his inadequacies, and only uses his brashness, vulgarity and innate racism to disguise his failings. It may not be a thing of pride to the US that the electoral triumph enjoyed by former vice president Joe Biden was rather narrow and unedifying, but it is still significant that the country had finally mustered its strength and dug deep into its soul to rid themselves of Mr Trump, a politician whom underdeveloped countries, even with their inanities, would have found monstrous, comical and fictional. The only redeeming value of Mr Trump’s presidency was his economic scorecard, which despite all criticisms, bested predictions and global competition. However, that achievement was a product of his innate and controversial business practices that fostered growth but flew in the face of all known economic theories, and was destined, had he won a second term, to implode. Together with his racist worldview, Mr Trump rode on his economic record to give his contender in last November’s presidential poll, Senator Biden, a good run for his money. The US may have thrived in isolationism for a significant part of its history; its global fame has, however, rested on its internationalism. In four dizzying years, Mr Trump virtually demolished all the values the US stood for, attempted to reshape the country’s worldview, and considerably whittled down its well earned claim to global leadership. President-elect Biden is a level-headed leader and politician. Going forward, he will do his utmost to give the US the leadership it deserves, leadership that is not destitute of ennobling virtues and values. Unlike Nigerian leaders who took months to appoint cabinet ministers, especially cabinet that is a true reflection of the country’s variegated structure and nature, Mr Biden has virtually filled all the key positions that would drive his administration and reflect the views and identity of his changing nation. Americans must be grateful that the insurrection inspired by Mr Trump on Wednesday, which culminated in the brainless storming of the US Congress, did not succeed. But whether the new administration can in four years reverse and repair the damage done by Mr Trump is a different question altogether. Because of Mr Trump’s indiscretions, does the US still possess the moral voice and character to police the world? And can the world still trust America, especially seeing how Mr Trump undermined US values so effortlessly and corrupted or neutralized otherwise powerful voices in the country?