 Lagos State Electricity Board (LSEB) is partnering with health and safety firm, Hybrid Group, for improved safety and health guidelines that will promote standard operational procedures. LSEB General Manager, Engr. Mukhtaar Tijani, stated this at a virtual meeting with the team from Hybrid Group, the consulting firm charged with the responsibility of implementing and delivering the Occupational Health & Safety Management System (OHSMS) project of the agency. Tijani explained the board is committed towards achieving a proactive health and safety management system that will reflect the 21st Century safety operational culture of the present administration. He further restated LSEB is committed to the goal of providing and maintaining a healthy and safe work environment with a view to continuous improvement. “Promoting health and safety etiquette in the workplace is a collective responsibility and as such, we expect all our stakeholders to support this effort towards providing a healthy and safe work environment on a day to day basis,” he added. Tijani submitted that all contractors will be required to go through a safety programme with LSEB before commencement of any project, stressing they would also be responsible for the management of site risks, including safety procedures necessary for the project execution. He also advised contractors/concessionaires working at LSEB sites to ensure safety compliance at all times and insist that all their staff are well-kitted with adequate PPE such as helmets, safety boots, overall insulation gloves, safety belts etc. Speaking on delivering world-class OHSMS in LSEB, the Chief Executive Officer & Lead Consultant of Hybrid Group, Dapo Omolade, commended the foresight of the board and management of LSEB in conceiving and implementing such a laudable and first of its kind project in a government agency in Lagos. He urged everyone to support the project to prevent and reduce incidents in the agency’s activities in the state. “As the consultant on this project, we will commit our resources and many years of expertise to ensure that safety standard is not just a priority but a value in LSEB,” he assured. Head, Quality Control, Lagos State Electricity Board, Engr. Oyeyinka Oluwawunmi, pointed out the strategy is to promote a safe and healthy work environment for staff and partners of the Board. He submitted that all staff of LSEB will also undergo training on occupational health and safety in workplaces to understand their duties as workers, including their rights and responsibilities, as well as what the law requires and the duty of the Board.