 THE Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has disclosed that over 60 per cent of those working on the Lagos-Ibadan rail project have been infected by COVID-19 pandemic. He said the infection rate on the project site underscores the sacrifice the workers have made and the importance they attach to the project. Following the surge in the number of infected persons across the country, the minister said the set date for the inauguration of the Lagos-Ibadan rail project was no longer feasible. Before the outbreak of the second wave of the virus, the minister had said that the project would be inaugurated in January 2021, but he explained that the project would be inaugurated two weeks after the surge in the second wave reduced or stopped. He spoke on Monday in Abuja on a television programme monitored by The Nation. Amaechi said: “First, let us admit that over 60 per cent of our workers, not the Ministry of Transportation employees, but the officials working on the rail project have been infected by COVID-19. Luckily, nobody has died and I pray nobody dies, but you see the kind of sacrifice everybody is making to get the rail to function. “People who take pictures and say we can compete favourably with the people outside the country should know that people are sacrificing their lives to get to that point. “As far as we are concerned, we need to learn how to live with COVID-19. I want to praise those that achieved that feat to get the Lagos-Ibadan rail project to where it is now. “As we are talking now, we were to inaugurate it in the first or second week in January, but we had to stop those doing minor completion work because of the rise in COVID-19 transmission and allow just the train to run.” He said the train operation may stop if the number of cases continues to rise. “If we see that we are conveying passengers who have COVID-19 from Lagos to Ibadan or Ibadan to Lagos, we will stop it, just as we are threatened to stop Abuja to Kaduna if people don’t comply with the COVID-19 protocol. “If all the routes where we are operating flout the COVID-19 protocol, we will stop operation. We convey about 4,000 passengers daily on Abuja-Kaduna route, so, imagine that about 20 per cent have COVID-19, they can transmit it to other passengers on board and the rate of transmission will be high and we cannot continue that way. “So, for us, we insist that everybody must obey the COVID-19 protocol by wearing their masks till the end of the journey.” On the timeline for inauguration, he said: “The timeline will be dependent on COVID-19. If COVID-19 stops tomorrow or reduces, we will inaugurate two weeks after. 