SIR: The former American Secretary of State, Mrs. Hillary Clinton, once summed up the follies of the Nigerian power elite: “They have squandered their oil wealth, they have allowed corruption to fester and now they are losing control of parts of their territory because they won’t make hard choices”. Despite his much-hyped incorruptibility and moral courage, President Buhari, like earlier Nigerian presidents, has failed to make hard choices. Consequently, political power continues to be wielded as an enemy of the people by self-absorbed power elite, and a shady, spooky, self-seeking cabal continues to pull its oligarchic strings from behind the façade of democracy. Power exercised as an enemy of the people ignores the legitimate aspirations of the people and subverts equity and social justice. It steals from the people and panders to the avarice of an elite few. It promotes the unjustifiable affluence of the political class and their cronies and relegates the generality of the people to hard poverty and insufferable misery. While Nigerian legislators are the highest paid in the world, Nigerian workers live on the lowest minimum wage in the world. The income per capita in America is 20 times that of Nigeria, but Nigerian senators earn nearly three times as much as American senators and more than the American president. Is this not, in essence, robbery, robbery colorfully festooned as legislative remuneration? In addition to their legitimized robbery, the legislators still splurge excessive amounts of money on other perks of office, for example, the spending of N5.6billion for the purchase of new SUV for senators. In the 2021 budget, the feeding and travel allowances for the president and vice president are N3.97billion. It rends the heart and boggles the mind when the greed and extravagance of our rulers are considered against the backdrop that Nigeria has the greatest concentration of extreme poverty in the world. The refusal to make hard choices explains the intractable problem of inadequate electric generation in Nigeria. The “spending” of significant amounts of money to increase power generation with nothing to show for it continues under the Buhari administration. Does common sense not dictate that to entrust the responsibility to revamp power generation on those that gain from lack of power is fantastic absurdity? Those that benefit from the inexplicable trillions of naira paid to oil marketers for nonexistent subsidies; importers of refined fuel that fuel private generation of power; and importers of generators cannot solve the problem of power generation. Not surprisingly, darkness holds sway over Nigeria. Making hard choices is challenging. It demands courage, principles, and the resolve to subordinate selfish, cliquish, oligarchic, nepotistic, and tribal interests to the collective good of the country. In addition, it demands genuineness, transparency, and accountability. The Buhari administration cannot meet these demands because President Buhari is laden with all the vices of previous Nigerian rulers. As such, like previous administrations, his administration cannot make the hard choices.