Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde on Monday restated that his administration would not support anyone  taking law into their hands or solving criminality with criminality. Makinde, in a veiled reference to Sunday Adeyemo (aka Sunday Igboho), said he would continue to back security agencies in the state instead of those carrying out jungle justice against perceived wrongdoers. He spoke during a meeting of Nigerian Governors’ Forum (NGF) with the national leadership of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders’ Association (MACBAN) and heads of security agencies in the Southwest in   Akure, Ondo State. Igboho had reportedly led some Ibarapa youths to attack a Fulani settlement in the area last week. While   Makinde   condemned the action, the Police Inspector-General, Mohammed Adamu, declared him (Igboho) wanted. The governor told the meeting that his administration would promote good neighbourliness by encouraging residents of the state to live together in peace and to face their common enemies, who are criminals of all shades and tribes. Makinde, in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, said his government had foreclosed the option of backing anyone taking up arms against other ethnic nationalities or residents of the state in the name of seeking justice. He also stated he would  do his  best to provide opportunities for the people, as that is another way to reduce the tension in the land. “One of the things we found out is that opportunities are very limited at the top. We will continue to do our best to strive to expand our economy and provide opportunities for a whole lot of our people. And we believe when we do that, the tension will definitely go down,” he assured. The governor added:  “We will continue to promote good neighborliness among our people and we will ensure that all of us go after the criminals together. “We will continue to support our security agencies because they are also trying to maintain law and order in an atmosphere of pandemic and economic challenges. We will continue to provide support for the security agencies for them to do their work.” The governor also said that some elements seeking political powers were misinforming the public and causing division among them. “I can tell you for a fact that when the Kisi area of Oyo State, which shares an international border with the Republic of Benin was invaded, all hands were on the deck. MACBAN, Operation Burst, local hunters and the communities all worked together to clear the bush. “During my electioneering, a major decision I was going to take was to scrap all the LCDAs in Oyo State and stick with only the LGAs that are known to the Constitution of Nigeria.”