 Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq yesterday repealed pension payment to former governors and their deputies. He signed the 2021 Appropriation Bill into Law. The governor said his administration would build on the infrastructural development and increase investments in social protection and youths’ empowerment. AbdulRazaq signed the bill repealing pension payments to former governors and ex-deputy governors, following support from the public when the proposal came up for hearing at the House of Assembly. The governor last November sought a repeal of the law — a fulfilment of his campaign promise and a response to public opposition to the pension package that many decried as unfair. Speaker Yakubu Danladi-Salihu led members to the brief budget signing ceremony. He told the governor that the public were unanimous about need to repeal the law during the hearing. Signing the N137.6 billion Appropriation Bill, the governor hailed the lawmakers for being hard working. He said: “This budget will build on the achievements of the previous years in the areas of education, health and road infrastructure. We are also focusing on youth empowerment, job creation and social investments, which are critical at this point in our national life.” AbdulRazaq said social protection is important at this time to prevent more people from falling into abject poverty. He praised the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) initiative of President Muhammadu Buhari, which is being replicated in Kwara State. “I was surprised that this initiative of Mr. President is being felt in the remotest parts of this country. When I visited communities where some women beneficiaries of the (CCT) used same to start the building of schools, I was very happy. We thank President Buhari for this. I have since refunded the money of those women and I have also approved the construction (completion) of the schools. So, we are going to continue to invest in social protection,” he said. Danladi-Salihu said the budget would have huge impact on the state’s economy, especially with regards to job creation, youth empowerment and workers’ welfare.