FCI and Afreximbank have announced the appointment of Nassourou Aminou as the new Regional Manager for Africa. Aminou is a Cameroonian and joins FCI with experience in factoring, credit insurance and Information Technology. He was a consultant specialising in the development and implementation of factoring software in African countries. Earlier, he worked with Coface as Regional Head of Factoring Projects. During this period, he launched the first factoring in West & Central Africa with 10 commercial banks, combining credit insurance and technology coupled with their financing to support the growth of the factoring activities of these banks. Aminou, who also worked as an auditor for PwC and other accounting firms in the region holds a master’s in Accounting and Finance from the Catholic University of Central Africa, Yaoundé, Cameroon. FCI Secretary-General, Peter Mulroy said: “I am delighted that Nassourou has joined the FCI team. ‘’As Africa is still in its infancy stage in terms of a developing factoring market, it requires the support of experienced professionals to promote factoring and its best practices. Nassourou will be close to factoring providers to assist them in launching the product. He possesses significant experience, skills and an abundance of enthusiasm, and we know that Nassourou will make a great addition to our team and support FCI and the Afreximbank in our mission to help spread factoring to all corners of the continent.” Managing Director, Intra-African Trade Initiative at Afreximbank and Chairperson of the FCI Africa Chapter, Mrs. Kanayo Awani,  added: “The FCI Africa Chapter will benefit a great deal from  Aminou’s experience. He will support the Bank and FCI’s efforts in promoting and creating much-needed awareness about factoring as well as its legal and regulatory advocacy work on the adoption of the Afreximbank Model Law on Factoring. “Aminou will help in capacity building and bespoke training to support emerging factors, regulators, lawmakers, and other stakeholders. The perennial challenge of the absence of payment and credit information resulting in the conspicuous lack of access to credit insurance, a key requirement for the growth of factoring, will be given prominence.”