A former Sokoto Governor Attahiru Bafarawa has declared Northern elders are unhappy with President Muhammadu Buhari over his poor handling of insecurity in the region. Bafarawa was governor of Sokoto from 1999-2007. The former Governor took a swipe at the Federal Government, accusing Buhari’s administration of neglecting the security of lives and property of Nigerians, while spending billions on COVID-19. He said less than 2,000 have so far been killed by COVID-19 but thousands of Nigerians have been killed by bandits and terrorists. Bafarawa stated leaders of the region can no longer keep mute and allow more people to be killed while the Federal Government does nothing. He said thousands in the North have been displaced and children are orphaned as a result of the growing insecurity in the region. The former governor said: “We can’t keep mute because our person from the North is in power. If we don’t speak, when a Southerner becomes President, we won’t have the right to express our feelings. “Thousands of people are displaced in the North and in other parts of the country. Instead of the Government to spend N400 billion on COVID-19 vaccines, why can’t we spend it to buy security equipment? Insecurity is our coronavirus in Nigeria. “Just few days ago, about 14 people were killed in my village in Sokoto. It is untrue that security is improving. “It is getting worse. If you go to schools in the North, you have you’ll many orphans whose parents have been killed by bandits.” He said government was prioritising COVID-19 over security. “It appears that the main focus of the federal government is completely shifted to the issue of coronavirus not minding the insecurity issue which is affecting the country for close to a decade now. “It should be noted that, I am not underplaying the effect of the pandemic across the world in general and Nigeria in particular. It may not be logical to say that corona virus’ effect is not disturbing. “But it is plausible to infer that the security of lives and properties of the people of Nigeria do not matter much in comparison to the attention that is being given to the covid-19. “It is everybody’s guess that every aspect of human lives or activities would be completely paralysed.”