No fewer than 30 persons were feared dead after a truck discharging cooking gas at a gas plant in Agbor, Ika South exploded on Friday evening. Many of the victims were residents of John Siwekwu street adjacent to the newly established Osadebe Oil and Gas Nig Ltd. Over 30 newly built houses in the area surrounding the gas plant were affected by the fire. An oil palm plantation abutting the gas plant was also razed down. It is unclear what caused the explosion. But a resident, Anthony Walker, claimed the explosion occured due to leakage from the dispensing hose. He said the conductor informed the truck driver of a leak in the hose, forcing the driver and conductor to run away. He said:” I saw a huge fire at Osadebe Oil and Gas Plant at about 5.00 pm when I rode into town from Umunede. “I met two friends at the scene who joined in filming the fire outbreak, but unfortunately they were both burnt when another explosion from the truck.” Another eyewitness, Kelly Igunbor, said the second explosion from the truck burnt two other friends while filming the incident. He said four families in different buildings who were preparing their dinner died as the fire spread to their homes. He lamented the loss of a close family friend whom he identified simply as Mama Blessing. He said she died with her four- year- old granddaughter. His words, “I am speechless. Mama Blessing and I used to be neighbours in 1990 when they were poor but her son travelled abroad and their living conditions improved. “They built their home and look at what has happened. I saw a lot of victims at Agbor Central Hospital, many victims rushed to FMC Asaba may not survive. Mama Blessing is in the hospital while her grandchild has been buried.” Another resident, Mrs. Anthonia Momoh, whose children were rescued, expressed shock at the incident. She said she had gone for prayers at her church nearby when the incident occurred. She praised God for sparing the lives of her three children aged 18, 15 and 9 years old, trapped in their provision shop while the fire raged. Her provision shop was completely gutted by fire but her house was not burnt. A source at the Agbor Central Hospital who preferred anonymity said 17 patients were brought to the hospital, adding after stabilising the victims they were referred to Federal Medical Centre, Asaba because the hospital lacked a Plastic and Burns Unit or even a consultant plastic surgeon. He said the majority of the victims had third-degree burns, adding that the situation has been hectic.