 For years, Chief Executive, Derek Tower Industries Limited and Image Talk Africa, Derek Tower Umoh, has been into projects that  changes lives. His words: “I have a capacity for combining vision, ingenuity, and strong business decision making with well-developed leadership qualities that support projects, products, and programme launches, positioning people and organisations for significant success.” He got results. “I started Image Talks Africa in 2018, an human resources and capacity building organisation that has assisted over 1,200 career professionals to access jobs through the development of tailored CVs/resumes, not just in Nigeria but also for clients in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Africa, Pakistan, Australia and India. I have conducted employability workshops and interview prep programmes for fresh graduates,” he said. Knwoing that demand for natural products has grown in Nigeria as more people become conscious on the use of chemical-free products, Umoh has delved into the natural beauty space. He has also established an organic skincare products firm, sourcing raw materials from the nation’s rich agricultural resource. He sees it as an opportunity to produce quality products as it is every Nigerian’s dream to have flawless skin. A graduate of Computer Science,University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Umoh‘s brand  specialises in luxurious organic skin care products, which are not only non-toxic and paraben-free, but also environment-friendly. As a local brand, at the initial stage, contacts with clients used to be personal. This gave him a fair idea of how each product. Being a startup, he has seen that making a brand switch is quite a challenge. However, since the products are developed using natural ingredients, essential oils and herbal extracts, it enabled the firm to stand out from the crowd. This and oral recommendations by people have helped the company differentiate itself from others. For him, organics is the only way forward with the global skin care products market size projected to reach $183.03 billion by 2025.  Umoh hopes to increase its market share globally. He believes things are changing, with young Nigerians becoming ever more ambitious, and a greater range of resources to support those pursuing entrepreneurial dreams, including more formal funding structures that are more receptive to small business owners. He said: “I’m inspired by creative innovations that provide people centered products and services that meet real needs.” What has been Umoh’s most satisfying moment in business? His response: “Each time my ideas click, I experience a rush of joy. Each time I receive happy customer feedbacks. Each time I finish developing a product or service idea. Each time I complete a project.”