No fewer than five civilians were allegedly killed at Ilesha-Baruba, Baruten Local Government Area of Kwara State during a clash between some soldiers and commercial drivers on Friday evening. The clash, according to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), was sparked by a misunderstanding over bookings between soldiers mounting road blocks on the Ilesha-Baruba/Chikanda Expressway, and commercial drivers plying the route. The driver, who was coming from Sinawu Market in the area, allegedly refused to pay N200 demanded by the soldiers. The driver was reported to have told them that he was already booked, and he paid earlier in the morning. His refusal infuriated the officers, and the driver was allegedly slapped and ordered to do frog jumps. The vehicle was also seized. The driver later left the spot and lodged a complaint with officials of the transport union in the area. Members of the union subsequently followed the driver with the aim of talking to the soldiers on his behalf. This, however, degenerated into unpleasant arguments, leading to the alleged shooting of some drivers with three allegedly dying on the spot and two dying later from gunshot wounds. One of the sources said that the corpses of the deceased were taken to a morgue in Saki, Oyo State. He added that some victims with serious wounds were receiving medical care at a hospital in Saki while some were taken to native doctors in Kenu Village for removal of bullets from their bodies. When contacted for reaction on the shooting incident, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, the Public Relations Officer of the Police Command in Kwara, confirmed the clash between the soldiers and drivers. Okasanmi however, said that the command was yet to ascertain the number of casualties, both the dead and the injured, adding that investigation would be carried out to ascertain the true situation. “The Commissioner of Police has ordered a full-scale investigation into the crisis and we will communicate our findings very soon,” he told NAN. The police spokesman stated that normalcy had been restored in the area with the deployment of men of the state command.