  COVID-19 second wave brings deaths approaching 2.5million among 105million diagnosed cases worldwide, Nigerian cases approaching 135,000 and 1,650 deaths. Why do we do nothing like with the Petroleum Industry Bill, always promised but never passed in 20 years but in contrast go overboard with draconian laws guaranteed to increase corruption? So, Nigeria’s way to get people ‘Covid Compliant’ and to obey Laws of Covid Prevention is a judicial enforced N20,000 fine and a six-month incarceration in overcrowded prison cells. Sadly, medically this prison aspect of punishment is a guaranteed Covid spreader and will give the ‘Covid Convicts’ ‘Covid on arrival’ or during the six months. Or perhaps the prisoners will carry Covid to the correctional service and its guests- the prisoners of Nigeria. And please, even the fine is a ‘government crime against the citizens’ and hugely disproportionate in Nigeria with 70% poverty with 80% of those working earning less than N500/day. N20,000 is more than the minimum wage before it was raised to N30,000 a sum still not paid by businesses and even government organs. A fine of N1,000 per offence sounds small but would be sufficiently irritating for anyone convicted to commence mask-wearing. It is unfortunate that the fiscal crime of ‘over-fine’ or ‘hyper-fine’ against the citizens is a very common weapon of governance, but often unchallenged by the entire SANship of Nigeria, PLC-Please Leave Cheque! Examples abound like malicious traffic fines, land use and ground rent charges higher than UK fines. Such fines are morally indefensible in Covid-time with joblessness and little successful business with no or minimal profits. Why must citizens always suffer? Where is our Ombudsman or O-woman?  Yes, many disbelieve Covid, swallowing misinformation made worse by poor health levels of education in media outlets and the maybe defunct National Orientation Agency, NOA. In fact, we have inadequate NOA action. Of course, Covid itself is an issue but the NOA is expected to be the leading and loudest voice in every ear and poster everywhere we turn shouting and signing the correct Covid information at federal, state and LGA levels to ensure that everyone, even those who deny, are aware even if they refuse to comply. Covid News Update: There is in the scientific and social media one preventive and curative drug commonly available which some studies have shown kills COVID-19. Of course, we have had wrong information before. However, this drug is old with 30b doses given for parasitic infestations. Medically, it is harmless except to the few with allergies or dizziness. Is it worth taking, just in case it works in your case? Discuss with your medical experts. The UK apparently has approved the drug. Unfortunately, the pharmacies are already overpricing the drug. However, the drug may, with any one of the new Covid vaccines, put a stop to the pandemic by mid-year June/July 2021. With more than 1000 citizens dying a day in some countries it is appropriate to REMIND YOU AGAIN OF ‘COVID COMPLIANCE’ AND PLEASE CUT THIS OUT AND USE IT AT HOME AND OFFICE… Government is rejecting Transparency International’s assessment of Nigeria’s fight against corruption. It is called ‘Perception Index’. Regardless of the TI rating ask yourself and 10 or 50 people around you if the consensus in your area of operation is that Nigeria has improved or remains static in a quagmire of corruption witnessed every day by everybody everywhere – even children. Does the average Nigerian feel that corruption has fallen in service delivery by MDAs, security services, health facilities, customs services etc? Look at the stories of corruption related to the permanently disgraceful failure of governance called The Apapa Wharf gridlock. Government is wasting time, energy, media space, manpower and money fighting back against the TI’s indicting report. Why not learn lessons and move on to working to improve the TIPI 2022 Report? Has Nigeria ended even the most visible and simplest and most disgraceful corruption problems?  Like police force wrongful arrests, bail demands and abuse of power and also at customs- the port entry points strangling businesses and paralysing the economy so much that many businesses died, never started, left for Ghana or diverted goods to Togo etc which then cross into Nigeria by bribery, hook or crook? A severely under-policed Nigeria awaits ‘Permission from Government’, and the new armed forces chiefs to defend itself against the onslaught of heavily AK47+ armed men, with or without cows, who have already destabilised citizens nationwide. Governance is not a joke but a 24-hour alert leadership requiring drones, phones and spies communicating in undertones. The president’s trip to Daura is of doubtful succour to the millions of traumatised IDPs in and outside camps or the millions of farmers, farmhands and families with stolen lands, livelihoods and crops and over 120million terrified citizens from further invasion of states by murderous terrorists sowing murder, kidnapping, food shortages and a famine – ingredients of WAR. We must be defended, or defend ourselves, before we are all dead.