Aviation stakeholders are seeking clarifications from both the Dubai Airport Authority and Federal Government on what the Dubai Airport Authority issued at the weekend as part of its travel protocols. The Dubai Airport operations control centre notice to travel partners issued at the weekend indicates that the airport would only welcome passengers travelling directly from Nigeria. It indicated further that passengers would not be allowed to connect Dubai from any other country or station if they have visited Nigeria or transited via Nigeria in the last 14 days to the travel date. The concern raised by stakeholders is that Nigerian carrier, Air Peace, which operates to Dubai via Sharjah (another city/airport/station), may be affected by the new protocol since its passengers would be connecting Dubai via Sharjah. But, Air Peace on Sunday said its Lagos-Sharjah flights were not affected by the new COVID-19 protocols introduced by the Dubai Airport’s Operations Control Centre. The airline, in a statement, urged intending travellers to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) not to entertain any concerns. Air Peace had announced during the week it will resume Dubai flights on February 5. According to stakeholders, with the new protocol, only Emirates Airline operates directly between the two countries, hence there will be no choice for Nigerian passengers, except to fly Emirates. In the notice titled: ‘Dubai Travel Protocol Update-Travel from Nigeria’, the partners were advised that effective from this month, passengers required to obtain a negative COVID-19 certificate and the PCR should be conducted within 72 hours of the date of departure. It added that passengers are required to conduct a rapid COVID-19 test and obtain a negative result within four hours of their departure time. It also stated that passengers must travel directly from Nigeria to Dubai. No passengers may enter Dubai from any other country/station, if they have visited or transited via Nigeria in the last 14 days. Commenting on the development, Olumide Ohunayo, a travel consultant with Zenith Travels, said the COVID -19 protocols were in place, but faulted the fact that passengers must travel directly to Dubai from Nigeria. According to him, more clarifications are needed from the authorities. Also reacting, Group Captain John Ojikutu (retd) said apart from the health protocols, the other message is clear – they do not want a private airline unless it is a flag carrier or national carrier. Ojikutu lambasted the Federal Government for not being proactive, saying it should have designated Nigerian carriers as flag carriers since it was taking many years to establish a national carrier. He said the only reason the Dubai airport authority would want to discuss with the Nigerian government before taking any decision is when the airline is a national carrier or a flag carrier. To him, a private airline would not be treated fairly on international routes. “They don’t want passengers to use Dubai airport as transit. They also do not want a private airline. Air Peace is a private airline and not a Flag carrier or national carrier and they will treat it as such. I have been advising the government to designate carriers as flag carriers if it cannot come through with National carrier. It has taken government about six years to establish a national carrier with nothing to show,” he said. Nuhu Adam, managing partner, TMSS Logistics, described it as ‘pandemic aero-politics’, saying when stakeholders were supposed to come together to achieve a common goal, the reverse seems to be the case. Aligning with Ojikutu’s suggestion on designating Nigeria carriers as flag carriers, he said: “I see this pandemic aero-politics at its best. What I also notice with EgyptAir passengers is that they got messages from the airline telling them that they can’t connect Dubai via Cairo again, except they fly direct to Dubai. They are hiding under COVID-19 pandemic to introduce protectionism in this era where all stakeholders need to work together. “This is a protectionist policy that needs reassessment by all stakeholders in the aviation industry. This will also take a toll on travel and tourism as it affects traffic on that route.”