  Opposition parties see the APC government as sleeping on duty. Why? The All Progressives Congress (APC) is doing well in every sector of the economy. Despite the fact that coronavirus pandemic (COVID -19) has affected the economy negatively, the impact of the government is being felt in infrastructure, human capital development, security and among others. We still have to keep the country moving. Our party has been on a rescue mission. There are hard times quite right, but the party is doing its best in keeping the country moving. What are the chances of the APC in the November 6 Anambra governorship election? What I can tell you is that the era of Nkea bu Nke-anyi (APGA’s slogan, meaning this is our own), which they used in deceiving people is gone. It is clear that the government in power in Anambra State has deceived the people for long. People are frustrated, roads abandoned, infrastructure collapsed, the government went into square zero. If you move around the state, you hear people’s comments. It is no longer Igbo party. The time of using the late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu’s name to get votes is gone. Our people now want to be hooked on the national grid to move our state forward. The only option is to pitch their tent with the APC in the next election. In effect, the APC is strategizing well, but we cannot divulge our plans; we are working assiduously to take over the state, through a free and fair election. What is the APC going to do to get the best candidate out of its legion of aspirants? They are all credible and it is good for the party. The more the merrier. It is only in the APC that you have the political giants in the country. It is not out of place; we have a litany of aspirants, and it shows that the APC has produced good children who are worthy in governance and in character and who are also worthy to stand in any election. It is a welcome development. We have aspirants like Senator Andy Uba, Dr Chidozie Nwankwo, Chief George Muoghalu, Johnbosco Onukwuo,  and Azuka Okwuosa. The list may not be exhaustive for now, but these are the ones with large hearts, with good vision and other good qualities. The APC is a big party and there is room for others. Recently, we’ve been harvesting human beings into our party from the PDP, the UPP, the APGA and other parties. Everyone is welcomed. Does your party have the wherewithal to challenge APGA? We have what it takes to battle both the PDP and the APGA put together. When you look at our aspirants, none of them is a pushover. Few of them have political experience. In 2015, we came second when Tony Nwoye was our candidate, despite the combined forces against the APC then. Since that time, we’ve changed our strategy. The actual crisis has been handled and more giants have joined since then, including Chief Kodilichukwu Okelekwe and his legion from the PDP and the UPP collapsed its structure into the APC. The spirit is high at the moment. For instance, Ebonyi State Governor Dave Umahi has just joined the APC from the PDP. The same goes for former Speaker of House of Reps, Yakubu Dogara. All these credible forces are putting their weight behind any candidate to emerge in Anambra. Election strategy and the campaign is going to change and the party is poised to take over Anambra State. Don’t forget that power of incumbency is no longer tenable during elections. Remember how the APC won in 2015 against incumbency. Good campaign and good planning are what will work the magic for APC in Anambra election. There are indications that Obiano may be disposed to APC winning. What is your reaction to this? Respect is reciprocal; without President Muhammadu Buhari and the APC, Governor Obiano would have failed in his re-election bid 2017. So, in 2021, he should not be a stumbling block. We see him as a free-minded person, if the APC wins, he won’t feel sad and if APGA wins, he will be happy. The only party he will object to the winning in the state is PDP. However, let’s see how it works out during the election. But, I’m not telling you that Obiano will work for the APC. I’m only putting plus and minus together. 