Families that make up the Finima Community in Bonny Island, Bonny Local Government Area of Rivers State, have warned of an impending crisis following the commencement of the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas, (NLNG), Train 7 project, in the area. The families called on President Muhammadu Buhari to wade into the brewing danger threatening the take-off of the project. The tension resulted from the reported exclusion of two out of three families hosting the NLNG Train 7 from all activities concerning the project. Gbara Tobin, the Chairman, Opu-Asawo, Tobin Chieftaincy House, Finima, said that the host community to the Train 7 project was made up of three Chieftaincy Houses, but that only one family was integrated into the project. Speaking during a demonstration at the site of the project, Gbara, said that Finima comprised Brown, Tobin and Anthony Chieftaincy Houses and wondered why NLNG preferred relating with only one family in its projects in the area. He said: “We are here to make our presence felt because Finimi community as we are aware is made up of Brown, Tobin and Anthony Chieftaincy Houses. But with regards to NLNG executing projects in our community, we see that they have been using the back door in relating with people in Finima Community. “We are now aware that Saipem, Chiyoda and Daewoo, SCD, Joint Venture Consortium, is sneaking into the community to relate with only one of the families, Brown House “We have made it clear overtime again that Finima Community consists of three Houses and since the train one to train 6, NLNG has been dealing with the Brown House and that is what is causing this issue. “Now they are about executing the train 7+ project and the Tobin house is left out. Today we are aware that SCD Consortium is here. We want them to understand that in Finima Community we have three houses and they don’t have any right to deal with Brown House alone in Finima Community.” He urged the companies to relate with all the stakeholders in the community and warned that no part of the community should be deprived of their rights. He said: “If they are to come into this community, they should relate with the various Chieftaincy Houses respectively. They should stop looking into the community and making arrangements with one family and depriving the rest of people of their God-given right. “I want to call on the local government Chairman, our representatives, the King and Chiefs in Council, the President of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, to listen to our cry before NLNG will cause more chaos in this community.”