 As Gradely Technology Innovation System, a firm focused on providing e-learning solutions, launched a new Learning Innovation System Friday last week, the Lagos State Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folashade Adefisayo said the state was interested in the integration of technology with education in such a way that teaching and learning can be digitalised. Mrs. Adefisayo, who spoke at the event virtually, said the COVID-19 pandemic contributed in helping the education sector to leapfrog to where it never thought it could get to and has shown the possibilities of integrating technology into the teaching and learning such that children can learn wherever they are. She said the virtual learning innovation system aligns with the education and technology agenda of the Lagos state Governor, Mr.Babajide Sanwo-Olu to boost learning. “In Lagos State, we are interested in Integration of technology into teaching and learning process and we have done quite a date with that,” she said. CEO of Gradely, Boye Oshinaga, said Gradely.ng personalised learning management system had many features that could aid learning both at home and in school.  They include live classes, assessment tools, proctored examination system for credible remote academic evaluations, personalised video lessons, practice quizzes and games library, known as Gradely CatchUp challenge to support in-class efforts with students at home. “It is the first Learning Management System (LMS) in Nigeria that has such a robust library,” he said. President, National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS), Chief Yomi Otubela, represented by Chief Alaka, said the association is ready to embrace Gradely. An 11-year old pupil Enoch Lawrence, who won the Gradely CatchUp challenge, an online competition concluded prior to the launch, was presented with N100,000 cash prize, a tablet and one-year subscription to the Gradely platform. First runner up, Mayowa Aderemi, got N50,000, a tablet and six-month subscription to access Gradely. Speaking about his experience with Gradely, Enoch said just in two months Gradely helped improve his studies and build his self-esteem. Other dignitaries at the event who praised the impact of Gradely included: Director, Policy, Planning Research and Statistics of the Lagos state Ministry of Education, Dr. Olufunke Oyetola; Co-Founder,9jakids,Mrs Titi Adewusi; CEO and Founder, Schoolable.co, Mr. Henry Chibuzor; Executive Director of Nurture House Limited, Mrs Ayopeju Njideaka; and CEO, Ventures Platform, Kayode Oyewole.