The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) wants  Dangote Group to  compensate families of slain students of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State, following a meeting with the organisation last week. Six students and nine others were killed on January 23, 2021, when a truck belonging to Dangote Group rammed into a shopping complex opposite the university gate. The National President of NANS,  Sunday Asefon, had vowed to seek justice for the victims, insisting that their death would not be in vain. In a statement entitled: “Our Colleagues Must Get Justice”, Asefon  said NANS had reached an agreement with Dangote Group to compensate families of the deceased students. He noted that it was imperative for the company to compensate the  families of the deceased students. The NANS President said aside financial compensation, Dangote Group was mandated to give employment to qualified members of each of the bereaved families. “We made it clear that where there are no qualified family members for employment, Dangote should award scholarships up to the university level to a member of the family. “We requested that Dangote through tax arrangements with Federal Government fix the Isua-Akungba Akoko road where the accident happened. “That as part of the company’s Corporate Social Responsibilities, a project should be executed for AAUA or Akungba metropolis and should be named after the victims of January 23, 2021, truck crash to immortalise  all, including our fallen students,” he said. He said a committee was set up to ensure that  agreements reached at the meeting were executed within the stipulated time. “NANS under my leadership will do everything possible to ensure improved welfare and adequate protection of the interest of students,” he added. At the meeting were  NANS  Senate President, Comrade Chuks Okafor; Vice President National Affairs, ComradeYasiz Tanko, Comr. Samuel Kappo, NANS Zone D Coordinator as well as the  Chairman NANS JCC in Ondo  State, Comrade Akinteye Babatunde.