The Incorporated Trustees of Women Empowerment and Legal Aid Initiative (WELA) has filed a suit at the Federal High Court, Lagos for the enforcement of the right of a dismissed pregnant police woman, Cpl Omolola Olajide. The Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF) and the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) are respondents in the matter. The plaintiff is, through its counsel Funmi Falana, seeking a declaration that Regulation 127 made pursuant to the Police Act 2004 which requires an unmarried woman police officer who becomes pregnant to be discharged from the force, and shall not be re-enlisted except with the approval of the Inspector-General is discriminatory, illegal, null and void for contravening Sections 37and 42 of the 1999 Constitution and Article 2 &3 of African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights (Ratification Enforcement) Act 2004. WELA is also seeking an order of the court directing the respondents to expunge Regulation 127 made pursuant to the Police Act  Cap. 19 Laws of the Federation of  Nigeria 2004 forthwith. In its grounds for reliefs, the plaintiff averred that the fundamental right of every person against discrimination is guaranteed under Sections 37 and 42 of the 1999 Constitution and Article 2 and 3 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights (Ratification and Enforcement) Act(Cap A9) Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. It contended that it is the duty and responsibility of the respondents to protect every citizen of Nigeria including women police officers against any form of discrimination. It expressed displeasure that discrimination at the work place is the order of the day in the Nigeria Police Force as pregnant unmarried women are readily dismissed from the force while unmarried male officers who impregnate women are not dismissed. “This application seeks to breech the gender inequality and the discrimination at the work place as it is unconstitutional and against the fundamental human rights of the Nigerian Woman@, the group submitted. In an affidavit in support of the application, Dipo Omotosho deposed that the Federal Government of Nigeria enacted the Police Act 2020 to guide the operations of the Nigeria Police Force in September 2020. Omotosho averred that Regulation 127 made pursuant to police Act, 2020 provides  that  ‘’an unmarried woman police officer who becomes pregnant shall be discharged from the force, and shall not be re-enlisted except with the approval of the Inspector-General’’ He averred that the provision of Regulation 127 applies only to unmarried female police officers who become pregnant but does not apply to male police officers who impregnate women whilst unmarried. He submitted that Regulation 127 of the Police Act has been used to dismiss many pregnant unmarried female officers He said that on January 26, 2021, a pregnant police woman, Cpl Omolola Olajide was dismissed from the Nigeria Police Force on the ground that she is unmarried contrary to Regulation 127 of the Police Act. He said the applicant wrote to the second respondent and requested that the dismissal of Cpl Omolola Olajide be withdrawn but the request was ignored.