The Police in Anambra state have refuted a trending video clip showing a fire incident at Nnewi Timber market and accusing the Nigeria Police Force of being responsible. The spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, in a statement, described the clip as false and misleading, targeted at creating tension and anarchy in the State. He said the inferno was occasioned by a clash between a cult group and drugs sellers at 100 foot road Nnewi, resulting to serious pandemonium in the area. Mohammed added 35 suspects have been arrested while an axe, dried leaves suspected to be cannabis sativa and a motorcycle were recovered from them. He said: “The attention of the Anambra State Police Command has been drawn to a trending video clip which has gone viral in the social media showing a fire incident at Nnewi Timber market in which the recorder claimed the Nigeria Police Force as responsible. “The report is not only false but absolutely misleading with the tendency of creating tension and anarchy in the State. “For the avoidance of doubt, on 17/2/2021 at about 10:am a cult group and drugs sellers had a clash at 100 foot road Nnewi, causing serious pandemonium in the area. “Following the report, police patrol teams in conjunction with local vigilante group quickly mobilised to the scene and arrested four suspects on the spot. “The remaining hoodlums blocked the road and set the fire on the saw dust in a bid to prevent the police from taking the suspects to the station. The fire overwhelmed the people who tried to put it off which extended to the timber market. “As a result, a police patrol vehicle attached to Otolo Division and three vehicles belonging to the Vigilante groups were stoned by the rampaging youth. “Meanwhile, normalcy was restored in the area and a total of 35 suspects were arrested. Exhibits recovered include Axe, dried leaves suspected to be cannabis sativa and a motorcycle. “It is obvious that the recorder share the video online with the aim of triggering anarchy in the State which the Command and other law enforcement agencies are working assiduously to prevent.”