The Federal Government in collaboration with the United Nations system in Nigeria has announced plans to organise a series of dialogues across the country towards ensuring resilient, inclusive and sustainable food systems in Nigeria by 2030. This is preparatory to the September 2021 UN Food Systems Summit (FSS) convened by the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres. National Convener of Nigeria Food Systems Summit Dialogue (FSSD), and Permanent Secretary, Budget and National Planning Mrs. Olusola Idowu stated these in Abuja on Monday 1, during a multi-sectoral, inter-Agency planning meeting for the dialogue. According to her, the food systems dialogues, the first of which holds on February 23, are based on five action tracks which align with the current developmental priorities of Nigeria, and therefore, immensely contributory to an improved food systems in the country. “The five action tracks”, Mrs. Idowu explained, “include to ensure access to safe and nutritious food for all; Shift to sustainable Consumption Pattern; Boost nation Position Production; Advance equitable live hood; and build resilience to vulnerabilities shocks and stress.” She emphasised that the Nigeria FSSD would be organised at three levels: The Inception National Dialogue, aimed at identifying food systems challenges from multiple perspectives; the Exploratory Dialogues, planned to hold in the six geo-political zones and major cities in Nigeria to harness promising approaches from diverse stakeholders that contribute to food systems in the country; and the Consolidatory Dialogues, aimed to exchange views on the pathway towards sustainable national food system, identify intentions and commitments of different food system actors. UN Resident Coordinator Mr. Edward Kallon observed that the COVID-19 pandemic had worsened the Nigeria food systems and the food systems dialogues would provide a critical opportunity to tackle the weaknesses that were exposed by the crisis. “We must mobilise human and material resources across the country, and come together to dialogue on how to build back better, the ailing food systems.” He emphasised, “We are all members of the global food system, and we all have a responsibility to act.”