It is very common in every industry to see two people who like each other become friends. Nigerians have seen a number of celebrities in the movie and music industries that have been dubbed best of friends. Sadly, some of these relationships went sour due to one reason or the other. In many cases, the reason why the ex-friends stop being close is never revealed to the public. Here are the six celebrities who used to be friends but their relationships have gone sour:  The issue between billionaire daughter DJ Cuppy and Zanku crooner got many people talking. Cuppy had revealed on her IG page that Zlatan blocked her on all social media platforms despite being friends. A few days later, Davido’s logistics manager said that Zlatan blocked Cuppy because she failed to pay for his services.  Nobody seems to know what happened between the two actresses as they have stopped relating. The actresses were so close that their children also became friends. Iyabo’s attitude to the car Mercy Aigbe received on her birthday seems to confirm that they are not on talking terms.  Wherever you saw one, it was sure that you would see the other person. The crossdresser and the fashion designer used to be best of friends until they fell out and started calling out each other. Toyin had accused Bobrisky of betraying her.  The closeness of the two musicians made headlines, especially after they featured each other in their music videos. The musicians also used to tell anyone who cared to listen that they were friends.  The actresses used to be best friends until Wumi took a swipe at Seyi for not calling her to wish her well on her birthday. The mother of one also revealed they became close through gossip and has learnt that such a relationship is bound to scatter.  When Lucy was evicted from the BBNaija house, she and Ka3na did a photoshoot. Ka3na gushed over Lucy, noting she is a loyal friend. A few months after their photoshoot, fans realised that Ka3na had unfollowed Lucy on social media. When asked why Ka3na said she values loyalty in friendship.