Ekiti State government has unveiled coding, robotics and Artificial Intelligence (AI) education in public schools to prepare youths for survival skills in the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR). Twelve schools from urban and underserved communities were selected by the government to participate in training on coding, robotics, AI and Machine Learning (ML). The programme was delivered by the team from Coderina Education and Technology Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation that leverages technology as an enabler for gender, social and economic change. The organisation also donated 12 robotics kits to the 12 schools through sponsorship from partners, including SAP, DOW, Ford, FIRST and the LEGO Foundation. Nominated teachers and students from the selected schools came together in Ado Ekiti for two days to partake in the inaugural training. A community of practice was also created for the teachers to continue the learning and sharin. The schools under the pilot phase are expected to ramp up to participate in the regional FIRST LEGO League Challenge; an experiential hands-on learning programme that inspires young learners to pursue a career in Science, Technology Engineering, Arts and Mathematics (STEAM). Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, through the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, Mr. James Owolabi, emphasised the importance of skills such as creative thinking, coding and AI as being important in the future of work as well as for entrepreneurship. He pledged support for the initiative and promised to ensure that the programme is scaled to schools across the state to ensure that no child was left behind. The state Commissioner for Education, Science, and Technology Emmanuel, Dr.  Olabimpe Aderiye, said the government is determined to position the state to ensure “our youth and society benefit from ICT advancement; the future is digital. This is the way to go”. Chairman, Coderina, Femi Niyi, lauded the state’s resolve to equip the youth with digital skills relevant for the 21st century knowledge economy. He said: “Coderina is quite happy that the Ekiti State government understands that when you foster creativity by teaching digital skills to students or young learners, it improves them not only academically, but helps also to improve their critical and creative reasoning and problem solving skills. He assured that Coderina will continue to support other states willing to equip their students for the future of work.