Senator representing Lagos East District Tokunbo Abiru has donated 150,000 facemasks to teachers and pupils of primary schools in the district. Abiru handed over the protective materials to the leadership of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB) in Maryland, Lagos. In his address, the Lagos East Senator urged Nigerians to adhere strictly to COVID-19 safety measures, stressing that the pandemic is still raging.  Abiru said: “The COVID-19 pandemic that ravaged the world for the better part of 2020 and is still raging till date created unimaginable crises for the entire mankind. “The complacency in the use of facemasks and other safety protocols among the general Nigerian public is dangerous. Infections rates are still terribly high. It is suicidal to let down our guard.” On why he has decided to provide facemasks to pupils and their teachers in the senatorial district, the senator averred that it is the duty of leaders to ensure that kids are protected against COVID-19 pandemic while in schools. He said: “Education, being paramount on our agenda, we deem it expedient to support pupils and teachers of public primary schools in Lagos East with protective materials as a non-pharmaceutical measure to curtail the rate of infections in the schools. “We cannot afford to fail young children who have chosen to learn. It is our duty as leaders to protect these minors, who are the most vulnerable segment of the society in the context of the war against COVID-19 pandemic.” Abiru also promised to provide prescribed eyeglasses to teachers in Lagos East, who need them for better vision. “So today, TACT is donating 150,000 face masks to pupils in the Lagos East Senatorial District to compliments necessary protocols against COVID-19. Aside from the protective materials that is being  handed over to LASUBEB today, we shall be intervening by providing eye-glasses to teachers in LESD, who need prescription eyeglasses to improve their vision after taking them through a formal eye examination,” the senator assured. He commended the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu for integrating Information Communication Technology (ICT) in the learning process in Lagos public schools. “At this point, I must acknowledge the bold leadership of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and the front line incident commander in the war against COVID-19, and also his determination in improving the learning outcomes of pupils in public schools through the adoption of ICT as an instructional tool.” “Amazing testimonies from critical stakeholders in the education sector in Lagos bears testament to the efficacy of EkoExcel initiative, which aims to drive excellence in learning for about 500,000 pupils across 1016 primary schools and upskilling teachers to be ICT compliant,” Abiru said.