She is one half of the most likeable couple in Britain, and she just happens to be the wife of heavyweight champion, Tyson Fury. Her unique and glam lifestyle, including a penchant for £30,000 designer handbags saw her became a panelist on Loose Women, where she’s discussed her riches and fame, as well as his mental health issues. But behind the showbiz razzmatazz is a supermum of five children, now expecting her sixth, who supported Tyson through drug abuse and held the family together. Last summer, Paris even joined Tyson in providing an alternative and hilarious Joe Wicks-style live workout during lockdown, in which their bickering endeared them to the nation further. They received a Heroes of Humanity award for diligently working out every day with their followers. CHILDHOOD SWEETHEARTS Paris met Fury when she was just 15 at a mutual friend’s wedding. However, it wasn’t until a year later, when their paths crossed again on a night out in Doncaster for her 16th birthday, that they began dating. Paris explained: “He was my first boyfriend as I was not allowed a boyfriend until the age of 16. He is the only boyfriend I have had. “Tyson would train in boxing during the week and then come and see me at the weekend. I would always be so excited at the thought of seeing him.” In 2008, they tied the knot in front of 400 guests and slept together for the first time on the night of their wedding. “Even after we got engaged, Tyson would sleep in a caravan in the yard of my parents’ home, while I slept inside the house,” she once revealed. “We didn’t sleep together until after we got married. That is the traveller’s way.” A SELF-CONFESSED TRAVELLER Like Tyson, Paris is proud of her traveller roots. The bubbly blonde was born and raised in Doncaster, spending her existence sleeping in caravans. She said: “I am a Traveller, I am a gypsy. I was brought up in caravans when I was a little girl. “It’s just the traditional lifestyle; there’s no real definition, there’s no bloodline because we never went to the doctor to say we are who we are. “There was no paperwork, there are still gypsies today who can’t read or write; we’re just that old fashioned.” PROUD MAMA Today, Paris and her hubby live in a modest £550,000 home in Morecambe, despite his reported £70m wealth. There, she cares for her brood – their five children, Venezuela, Prince John James, Prince Tyson Fury II, Valencia Amber, and Prince Adonis Amaziah.  But she had a row with Tyson that was filmed by cameras for the ITV doc about their education. Paris said she wanted her children to be raised like she was and leave school at 11, while Fury described people who don’t send their kids to school as “dream killers”. “Do you think you live a traveller’s lifestyle? Because I don’t. I think you live like a footballers’ wife,” he then barked at her. SHE WAS THE GLUE In 2016, Fury’s mental health issues, cocaine and alcohol abuse, and intolerable mood swings threatened their seemingly unbreakable marriage. On occasion, Paris would even contemplate leaving – packing her bags and getting into her car. However, she’d just stop herself – admitting she couldn’t leave Tyson to “crash and burn”. “I wanted to leave every day. Every day I used to cry and break down and think ‘I can’t deal with this’,” she revealed. “I literally packed the car and the kids a few times. When Tyson Fury suffered with mental issues and was abusing alcohol and rugs, Paris admitted she contemplated leaving him “I’d think ‘how can I leave?’. If you truly love someone you’re not going to leave them to crash and burn.” Paris stood by her man as he battled his demons, before he rose again like a phoenix from the flames. JET-SET LIFE With regular holidays in Marbella in their luxury mansion believed to worth around £6million, the Furys know how to live. Paris and the kids also frequently fly to glam destinations like Los Angeles and Las Vegas to accompany Tyson to his fights.  The whole family make the most of the trips abroad, squeezing in everything from shopping sprees on notoriously posh shopping hotspot Rodeo Drive to days out at Disney World. And Paris just loves her designer clobber. The fashionable mum has a particular soft spot for Chanel, flashing a pair of stylish gold metallic trainers, £750, on Instagram. She has previously dazzled followers with a £180 Moschino belt and Fendi Mama Baguette bag, worth £1,850. But despite loving expensive threads, Paris loves a good deal too – getting bits for the home from discount stores like Home Bargains to remain grounded. “We already have X amount in the bank. It’s a funny one, but getting any more isn’t going to change us,” she said. FITNESS QUEEN Move over, Joe Wicks. While The Body Coach might have been the nation’s male PE teacher, the al