 Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, has said his party, All Progressives Congress (APC), is set to win the November 6, 2021 Governorship Election in Anambra State. He said the party will combine both seen and unseen forces to win the election. The former governor of the state made the declaration after revalidating his membership of the APC in his Alor Ward 1, Nkwo Egwu, Idemili South Local Government Area of Anambra State. He said, “We have started. We are laying the blocks. We did the foundation. We are putting the blocks on. By November, you’ll see the house, the roofing and everything that a complete house has been built. “Yes, we are going to mobilise both seen and unseen forces the way Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State said it. He is correct, seen and unseen forces. We are the seen forces. The unseen one is God,” the minister explained. Ngige gave this explanation even as he trade words with the National Chairman of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Senator Victor Umeh, over who will win the forthcoming election in Anambra State. Ngige, after revalidating his membership of APC yesterday described Umeh as ‘a forgotten person who is seeking relevance in the state.’ Umeh had described Ngige as a boastful politician who had never won an election freely in the state. He said, “What happened in 2017 is supposed to be fresh in the mind of the current Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, whom I read in various newspapers insulting APGA, insulting the government, and writing us off. Umeh said Ngige would lose his ward in the forthcoming Anambra gubernatorial election “He had boasted repeatedly and on each occasion, we defeated him to stupor. APGA as a party has a structure in every corner in Anambra State. He is boasting that he must take power from APGA and flush us out on November 6. After all his boasts in the previous elections, he has always lost his ward. “And on November 6, 2021, he will lose his ward again because he has never won in his ward. When he says these things, I don’t know whether he thinks we are no longer alive. “He is a customer I have had since 2003. So, I don’t know why he would know that people like us are still members of APGA and stakeholders of the party and he will call a press conference and speak like somebody who has lost his senses,” Umeh said. However Ngige said, “But they have never defeated me in my own ward. So, when they talk like that, you know they are empty vessels making very loud noise. “So, I don’t know what he is talking about. He is trying to scheme himself into the political equation of the state but he has been forgotten. He is an abandoned man. He is an abandoned politician,” Ngige said. The former governor maintained that APC was going to win the November governorship election.