The Federal Government through the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development on Friday in Calabar held a one day training workshop for Independent Monitors who would be engaged in the implementation of the various National Social Investment programmes (NSIP) in Cross River State. The Minister for Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Sadiya Farouq declared the training open through her representative, Mr. Ngene Kingsley Bash, a Special Assistant in the Ministry. He emphasized the crucial nature of the training and the monitoring duties expected of the monitors and charged them to exhibit patriotism, honesty towards ensuring success of the federal government initiatives. He explained that the National Social Investment Programmes are anchored in four sub-programmes namely, Conditional Cash Transfer Program, the N-Power programme, the National Home-grown Feeding Programme as well as the Government Enterprise empowerment programme. “These programmes started in 2016. The N-Power programme for instance has so far taken two batches with plans to increase the number of beneficiaries and eventually meet the presidential target of reducing poverty by 100 million persons. “The independent monitors will be assigned to monitor programme beneficiaries within their locality in schools, households, and market clusters with the focus of ensuring that the primary objectives of these programmes are achieved,” the minister said. “The grogramme of government should not fail in your state. Monitors’ reports and data gathered will be transmitted to Abuja and analyzed to know the success level of your state.  Monitors should work in synergy with other clusters in the field. Please do not short-change your state and the people.” He reiterated that the Federal government National Social Investment programmes were initiated in honesty and goodwill for the benefit of the citizenry to combat and eradicate poverty. Also speaking at the event, Cross River Commissioner for Humanity and Social Welfare, Mrs Blessing Egbara, said since the programme stated, residents of the state have benefitted and still benefiting. “Today we have seen another direction of the NSIP which is the training of independent monitors who will ensure that what comes to people is received by the right beneficiaries. “As a ministry, we will monitor the independent monitors to ensure that they play their roles effectively,” she said. Similarly, Mr Amissine Ogban, State Director of NOA said his agency was critically involved in the NPower initiative of the Federal Government. Ogban maintained that their duty was to give necessary assistance to the monitors where they have issues especially in the field. “We are delighted to be involved in these programmes and the NOA would do their best to make sure that Cross River keyed into the Federal Government’s activities by sensitising the people on the programmes and policies of government.”