Text:”…… nothing shall be impossible unto you…. this kind goes not out but by prayer and fasting (Matthew 17:20-21 In our Lord Jesus Christ, there is no barrier that one cannot scale and there is no height that one cannot attain. If The Word of God (John 1:3; Col. 1:16,17) can lift up Joseph, who was a prisoner to become the Minister of Finance and Vice President in a strange land (Genesis 41:14,39,40), there is no geographical barrier or hinderance with Him, and there is no case that is hopeless with the Scent of water. Job 14:7-9 says that, For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease. Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground; Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant. God, in His unlimited power, can remember a beggarly person in Mephibosheth who was in his valley of life at Lodebar and catapult him to the mountain top of life in the palace (2Sam. 9). And, if God can pay the debt of the widow of one of the sons of the prophets and upscaled her to the committee of the rich people in the society with a small jar of olive oil (2 Kings 4:1-7), He can change your story before this week ends. If with a touch on His garment, the issue of blood of twelve years in the life of that woman which Doctors regarded as a terminal ailment (Mk 5:25-34) was healed, there is no HIV/AIDS, Hole in the heart, Cancer, Ebola or Coronavirus ailment that He cannot heal today. From the passage of our text, He promised that when we fast genuinely, pray very well (1Thess 5:17) and have faith like a mustard seed (Luke 17:6), He will release to us the power to move mountains. Suffice to say that whatever mountain that is commanded to leave shall heed and be removed without hesitation. What is a mountain? A mountain is that frightening ‘Goliath’ in your life; it is that problem asking, ‘where is your God?’; it is that power that is behind aimless life journey; it is that problem that is capable of turning a 40 days trip to a 40 years journey; it is that power that has introduced strange sicknesses into your life or problems into your family, education or staff of bread; it is that issue that you have prayed about but decided not to shift but residing with you; it is that drug, ruinous habit or life challenge that people have agreed will be with you as long as you are alive. A mountain can also be an animate being, a person who is blocking your path at home, in your family, at your place of assignment or lifting it’s head at your place of commission and declaring that you will never fulfil divine purpose or get to your Promised land (Zech. 4:7). Jesus Christ promised that with a command they shall all become history. When you fast in faith and with prayer, it doesn’t matter for how long the mountain had been with you, it shall relocate of it’s own accord and your life shall experience peace, in the name of Jesus. Dont forget that Jesus Christ had promised you that nothing shall by any means be impossible with you – what an awesome promise!. He promised that “…. whoever believes in me will do the works I have been doing, and they will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father. And I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Father may be glorified in the Son. You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it” (John 14:12-14) Halleluyah! Beloved in Christ, it doesn’t matter what you may be passing through at such a time as this, I have good news for you that it is not over with you, God can move the human, spiritual or structural mountain standing before the manifestation of your glory. As long as He lives, your story is going to change for His glory. Where you have been regarded as a nobody, power will change hands very soon and you shall become somebody of great influence. Take the matter of life before God in faith and your case shall be a testimony for the world to hear about. Anyone that struggles in the place of obedience with what is right will suffer before he is able to get what He likes. It therefore behoves anyone who desires to enjoy full value for God’s promises to follow very strictly His commandments. Dear brothers and sisters, the promises and blessings of Jehovah Elohim are not free. His promises and blessings are predicated on fulfilment of His terms and obligations. With the humongous benefits that are available in Nigeria, by reason of our large economic market, enviable natural resources and huge human resources, for instance, there are some people that will never be able to see or enjoy the benefits of this country. To enable you benefit from this season of Lent, you need to come to Jesus Christ with a penitent heart, ask Him to forgive your sins and be your Lord and Saviour. Then, you must forsake every acts of wickedness, commit yourself to doing good, be charitable to the hungry, attend to the poor, pay attention to the less-privileged and be a channel of blessing to your community. God has  promised that  “Then shall your light break forth as the morning, and your health shall spring forth speedily: and your righteousness shall go before you; the glory of the Lord shall be your reward. Then shall you call, and the Lord shall answer; you shall cry, and He shall say, Here I am.” (Isaiah 58:8,9a). This shall be your portion in the name of Jesus Christ. He who has ears to hear, let him/her hear what the Spirit is saying to the church.