The Federal Executive Council (FEC) on Wednesday approved N26.7 billion for projects in three ministries. The council’s meeting, which was presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari in the Executive Council Chambers of the Presidential Villa in Abuja, also approved a new National Policy on Aging. This happened as the Federal Government said the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy generated over 17.5 per cent of the nation’s Gross Domestic Products (GDP). The ministries for which the projects were approved include Water Resources, Information and Culture, Communication and Digital Economy, as well as Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. Addressing State House Correspondents after the meeting, Water Resources Minister Suleiman Adamu said the council approved N8.43 billion for the construction of a dam for the Damaturu Water Supply project in Yobe State. The minister said the approval would help to address water supply challenges in the State, caused mainly by insurgency. He said the project has a completion period of two years. His Communication and Digital Economy counterpart, Dr. Isa Pantami, announced that the council approved about N8.9 billion for a new National ICT Park in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to coordinate public and private ICT hubs in the country. He said: “The wisdom behind the ICT Park is for it to be a centre where public and private ICT hubs are going to be coordinated by the Federal Government of Nigeria, where young innovators with crazy and disruptive ideas will be m tional Policy on Aging, which would take care of the needs of the aged in the country. According to her, the objective of the policy is to ensure that older persons in the society are guaranteed security, independence, anticipation, participation, comprehensive care, self-fulfillment and dignity. “The policy covers a spectrum of issues and opportunities for older persons, older persons with disabilities, older persons who are internally displaced, older persons engaged in farming, in urban and rural areas,” she said.