The Association of Resident Doctors (ARD), Nasarawa State on Sunday said its members at Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital (DASH), Lafia will proceed on a three-day warning strike. The action is over alleged  harsh and strange policies of the hospital’s Chief Medical Director, Dr. Hassan Ikrama. Resident doctors are medical doctors, who work while undergoing training to become specialists in various medical fields, and they make up more than 85 per cent of doctors in tertiary hospitals. The ARD announced its decision in a communique issued at the end of an emergency congress meeting at the weekend at the ARD Lounge. The communique was co-signed by the ARD President Dr. Moses Joshua, General Secretary Dr. Molokwu Okechukwu and the Public Relations Officer, Dr. Stanley Nwugo. The doctors, who will begin their strike today, also accused the CMD of unduly suspending residency training programme, arbitrarily issuing queries to house officers directly without recourse to the HODs or even unit consultants of the house officers. “Casualty officers suspended for months without salaries without allowing proper investigation of such a senior civil servant of the doctors status, thereby breaching civil service protocol, all because they went out to eat in a hospital where there is no meals for doctors on call or call rooms for the doctors to relax when not quite busy. “No more sponsorship for exams and update, or at best epileptic as selected doctors were being paid less than the registration fees, others get nothing. “Supernumerary programme was also abolished, even though the CMD is a product of same venture as he was trained in UCH Ibadan on state sponsorship. Doctors with certificates and qualified to move on to the next level of their specialist training abandoned until the certificates expire to the loss of the hospital and Nasarawa State. “Only a category of doctors in surgery department known as senior registrars are allowed to undergo supernumerary training presently, partly because they have partial accreditation to train for the second to last stage of examination known as Part 1 of course under bond/contracts. All others out there were sent before the current CMD took over,” the communique claimed. The resident doctors added that since the current CMD took over, the relationship between resident doctors and consultants began to degenerate. But denying the allegations, the CMD said the leadership of resident doctors is finding it difficult to constructively and amicably engage their trainers, department or even the management on issues of common interest.  He called on the resident doctors to allow peace to reign by shelving their proposed strike. “I wish to assure the general public that the hospital remains open and will continue to render services to the people of Nasarawa State,” he said.