  This would appear to be the season of radiations. On January 7, this column invited attention to human blood radiation as a cure for COVID-19 infection. The week after, the subject was the possibility of laptop and cell phone radiation being a cause of brain tumours. This week we are revisiting the sun’s energy in a bottle of water, also called solarised water. Put another way, that is, the role which the sun’s radiation in a clear glass bottle of water can play in the healing of COVID-19 infections. Dr Doyin Okupe encouraged me to revisit the idea of solarised water, which helped me out of “look-alike symptoms” of COVID-19 infection last year with his hypothesis that poor people who spend long hours under sunlight do not fall easy preys to COVID-19. He theorises that, because sunlight helps us humans produce Vitamin D3 which, he says, knocks out the virus, sunlight is a natural medicine for coronavirus. He made the argument interesting by suggesting, though without records, that most of the people who are dying are people who move from air conditioned homes into air conditioned cars which take them to air conditioned offices. On the other side are people who spend almost all their outdoor lives under the sun. In this bracket are market women, bricklayers, labourers, farmers, bus conductors, motorcycle riders, street traders and the likes of them. Vitamin D3  is not new on the Alternative Medicine cure menu list. It has been suggested for use in cancer of the breast, colon, lungs and prostate. It is popular also in treatment of  diabetes 1 and 2, rickets, osteoporosis, osteopenia, osteomalacia, cardiovascular disease, auto immune infections, irritable bowl syndrome (IBS), psychological disorders, multiple sclerosis, obesity, rheumatoid arthritis, Lupus, dementia, parkinson’s disease, alzheimer’s disease, schitzophrenia, anxiety disorders, depression.There is hardly any disease that is not connected nowadays to Vitamin D3 deficiency. This is easy to understand. The human body is about 70 percent water. The energy for our planet, earth, comes from the sun. We are reminded that the Dinosaurs, the highest evolved animals in their Age, became extinct when a certain cloud stood between the sun’s energising rays of light and the earth, making the planet cooler than is necessary to support life. Just as the plants use the sun’s energy in photosynthesis, the human skin carries out a form of photosynthesis as well. It converts the sun’s energy into vitamin D3 which energises the body. About 40 percent of the sun’s energy is said to come from green plants and oily fish while 60 percent is believed to come directly from the sun. About one billion people on earth are said to suffer from vitamin D3 deficiency because they are under exposed to the sun or cannot make enough vitamin D3 when the sun’s energy touches their skin or because their intestine cannot efficiently absorb vitamin D3. When sunlight strikes a water source, it charges the water with energy and the water becomes more reactive to pass on this energy. This is living water or water that is alive. The water many of us drink, cook or bathe with is dead water which has been stored in plastics or piped through galvanised steel or plastic pipes. Drinkable water can be made more alive and living by solarising it. Solarising water means it is kept in a glass bottle from sunrise to sunset to absorb all seven energy frequncies of the sun or specific energy wave lengths, depending on the color of the glass bottle and the needs of the individual. Red, orange and yellow glasses provide high solar energy water. Green, indigo and violet bottles provide calming energy, especially in pain situations (Pls read about solarised water on the internet). During my encounter with COVID-19 look alike symptoms for three weeks about March or April last year, I drank solarised water everyday from clear (white glass bottles) (see www.olufemikusa.com for COVID-19: look alike symptoms join the lexicon). I found solarised water energising and healing. I was encouraged to drink it by the findings of many scientific experiments. I still clearly remember one of them. Before some pigs were slaughtered, they were given high doses of vitamin D3 in their drinking water compared to the control group, their intestines absorbed calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, iron etc better. Their muscles also filled up better with tocopherols (vitamin E), and their bones had higher calcium density. Now, I will give Dr Doyin Okupe the floor. About three weeks ago, his idea that vitamin D3 can cure COVID-19 infections featured prominently in social media. Dr Okupe has the floor…  Why COVID-19 spares the poor, by Dr Doyin Okupe  Have you been wondering why  ordinary folks seem to be less affected by COVID-19? Whenever my drivers, house helps and security come back from their leave at home, I always asked them the state of things in their villages. Up till today in the last one year, none has come back with any news of deaths or serious illnesses requiring hospitalisation in their homes or surroundings. I visited the Sabo Market in Sagamu (Ogun State) and the tomato market at toll gate in Ogere (Ogun State). I questioned many traders if any stall or store owners have been missing, or did not come to the market or have actually died. Responses were always negative. So clearly the prevalence of noticeable infection with COVID-19 is less among the lower class and fatalities appear to be higher among the upper class. However, it is necessary to make some adjustment for the fact that deaths among the elite class readily get media attention than those of regular folks. Melinder Gates prediction failed woefully because there was no way she could have foreseen this demographic prevalence factor in the spread of COVID-19. The overall infectivity and fatalities in Africa is disproportionately much lower than the rest of the World!!!  What is the magic here?  Simply put, the magic is Sunlight. People who are daily exposed to sunlight are able to convert some chemicals in their skins to Vitamin D, especially D3. Scientists have incontrovertible evidence that Vitamin D seriously boosts the human immunity and actually have capacity to prevent respiratory and lung diseases. In the case of COVID-19, Vitamin D3 can prevent infection in some people and in others who still get infected, it decreases the severity of the infection and recovery rate is far better. Recently, a petition signed by 120 physicians spread across the globe (I have a copy) has been sent to world leaders and governments to treat vitamin D deficiency common in Europe and Americas, who have effective sunlight for just a few months in a year and hence have large numbers of the populace suffering from vitamins deficiency leading to high rates of susceptibility to COVID-19 infections and deaths. Many of us elites in Africa are also Vitamin D deficient and this makes us ready targets for COVID-19 infections also. This is because we are hardly in the sun all year round. Yet a 30-minute lounge daily in the bright sunlight gives one about 20,000 iu of vitamin D in our blood. This figure is much much more higher than our daily requirement, which is about 4000 iu of vitamin D. This is why young people, students, hawkers, traders and many who toil daily under the sun have very high immunity against COVID-19. So, my dear elders, VIPs and Ogas, please walk leisurely or lounge in the sun for 20 to 30 minutes daily, and with your face masks always on in public and observing normal COVID-19 protocols, with daily supplications to the Almighty, you will place a ban on COVID-19 from affecting you and your household. God bless you all. Okupe, a Medical Doctor, was Adviser to former Presidents Olusegun Obasanjo and Goodluck Jonathan. Thanks Dr Okupe . Up IC. From Dr Doyin Okupe, we move over to COVID-19 vaccine. I salute the courage of the Zambian president who has said no Zambian will take the vaccine. He has even asked us for evidence that the vaccine given to United States President Joe Biden is the same as will be given to Zambians or other Africans. Soon after he threw this bombshell, there were reports of human volunteers abroad who took the vaccines, falling ill and dying. There are reports also of American officials saying the ultimate answer to COVID-19 is in immune boosting and that the vaccine is an emergency measure or a bridge over sub normal immunity at this time and optimal immunity in the future. To many people, this suggests there is an attempt to fish in troubled waters flowing under that bridge. Just as many doctors  are  “fishermen” in this human disaster, many others are being faithful to their calling as doctors. They are warning us, like the Zambian president, to not take the vaccine, to flee from it. The internet contact addresses of these doctors are provided below for the benefit of everyone who wishes to know why they are opposing the COVID-19 vaccine.  War on  The Vaccine Doctors who explain clearly why vaccines aren’t safe or effective. 