A veteran journalist, Alhaji Femi Abbas; the Medical Director of Shifauk Hospital, Dr. Saliu Oyelami and the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), of MTN Nigeria, Mr. Modupe Abdul Kareem Kadri, have been named the Nigerian Muslim Media, Health and Finance Persons of the Year 2020, respectively. The trio were adjudged the most qualified candidate among the shortlisted names that met the criteria for the prestigious award, tagged: #MNAwards2020, which was organised by Muslim News. The medium collaborated with three professional bodies, namely, Muslim Media Practitioners of Nigeria (MMPN), Islamic Medical Association of Nigeria (IMAN), Muslim Professional Accountants’ Association of Nigeria (MPAAN) in the emergence of the winners. Muslim News founder  Rasheed Abubakar,  in a statement, said Alhaji Abbas has consistently been in media practice for well over 40 years and had mentored and inspired a lot of young Muslim media practitioners and non-Muslims alike in his sojourn at the defunct National Concord and Monitor Newspapers, Vanguard and now The Nation. “Up till date, the veteran journalist maintains a regular weekly column in The Nation entitled ‘The Message’ where he x-rays many contemporary issues albeit some controversial in the understanding and  promotion of Islam and Muslims in Nigeria,” he said. Abubakar described Dr. Oyelami, as an ambassador of Islam with a history of selflessness and sacrifice in health delivery, especially in Ondo, Osun and Kwara. According to him, investigations carried out by the committee showed that the winner participated in countless public awareness programmes, including the campaign against the  COVID-19 pandemic, for the community. “This committed Muslim doctor established Shifauk Hospital, a leading Islamic medical facility in Ondo State, for the benefit of the community. He has carried out series of free and discounted medical services. Oyelami’s dedication to service to humanity equally made the NSCIA, Ondo State, to nominate him to lead the COVID-19 campaign in the State,” he said. On the choice of Modupe Kadri, the founder said the CFO MTN is the perfect candidate for the award of Muslim Finance Personality, adding that he has established himself both in the finance field and also among the Muslim faithful. “Although he doesn’t like that his good deeds are broadcast publicly, Kadri is a philanthropist and has demonstrated this many times with his numerous huge donations to various causes, ranging from donations to religious bodies, education support and medical aids among others. “He has mentored and still mentoring several young people in the field of accounting and finance as well as other fields. His desire to see young ones grow and achieve outstanding success is in no small measure as is evident in our interactions with him and some of his mentees who spoke with us,” he said. MNAwards is an acronym for Muslim News Nigeria Awards, celebrating Muslim achievers who have excelled and made the Muslim community proud in Nigeria and globally. The winners of the remaining three categories, namely; Nigerian Muslim Celebrity, Muslim Legal Person, and the overall Muslim Personality of the Year 2020, will be announced next week.