The Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday dismissed a suit seeking an order restraining Mohammed Adamu from parading himself as the Inspector General of Police (IGP). Justice Ahmed Mohammed gave the ruling, following a motion ex parte filed by Maxwell Opara, a legal practitioner, and argued by his lawyer, Ugochukwu Ezekiel. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Opara had sued President Muhammadu Buhari, IGP Adamu, the Attorney General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice as first to fourth defendants. Opara, in the motion dated February 10 and filed on February 11, had prayed the court for an order of interim injunction, restraining Adamu from parading himself as IGP, pending the determination of the matter and for an abridgement of time within which the defendants should respond to the application. Although the IGP was represented by Alex Izinyon (SAN), the first, third and fourth defendants were not represented in court. When the case was mentioned, the applicant’s lawyer, Ezekiel, told the court that the first, third and fourth defendants were duly served with the originating processes and the hearing notices for the day’s sitting. “They were equally aware of today’s sitting because they were served with hearing notice,” he said. Ezekiel informed the court that he had a motion ex parte dated February 10 and filed on February 11. The lawyer said the motion sought an order to restrain Adamu from further parading himself as IGP and for the court to abridge the time within which the defendants would file their processes. Izinyon said he was in court in protest because the defendants had 30 days within which to file their responses in respect to the main suit. The lawyer said he received the hearing notice two days earlier. He urged the court not to grant the request to move the motion. Ruling, Justice Mohammed held that since all the defendants had already been served with the originating processes in the suit, it would be unfair to grant the ex parte motion when the defence had 30 days to respond to the main suit. The judge said such an order would contradict the provision of the law. “Prayer one for an order of interim injunction is hereby refused,” he ruled. Justice Mohammed, who said the second prayer shall be a notice to the defendants, adjourned the matter till February 24.