 The first positive quarterly growth in the last three quarters, which pushed the economy out of recession, may be an indication that the economy is beginning to gather some momentum after the emasculating effect of the COVID-19 lockdowns and constrained economic activities. Director-General, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Segun Ajayi-Kadir, at the weekend said although he was yet to fully study the report released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) and make the necessary comparison with the figures and scenario in the manufacturing sector, the momentum should be sustained and improved upon to finally and convincingly get the economy out of recession. The NBS had in its report released on Thursday indicated that Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 0.11 per cent (year-on-year) in real terms in the fourth quarter of 2020. Reacting to the NBS report, Ajayi-Kadir described it as “a welcome departure from the negative growths witnessed in the past quarters”. He said the positive trend speaks to how hard the various economic actors and agents were working to change the negative narrative that has characterised economic life in the past few years. The MAN DG said apart from the COVID-19 pandemic and the fall in the price of oil in the international market, which were fingered to be principally responsible for the economy’s slide into recession, insecurity, deteriorating infrastructures and inadequate policy support militated against the concerted efforts of government to take the economy out of recession. Pointing out that one of the sectors that contributed to the positive growth, according to the NBS, was the manufacturing sector, specifically the food and beverage and tobacco sub-sector, the MAN boss, however, said a look at the performance of the nine other sub-sectors shows a sector that is struggling. “This is aptly demonstrated by “MAN CEOs Confidence Index (MCCI)” report, which showed a decline from 43.30 per cent in the third quarter of 2020 to 42.06 per cent in the fourth quarter,” Ajayi-Kadir said. The MCCI is a quarterly instrument created by MAN to measure changes in macroeconomic trends, operating environment and selected diffusion factors relevant to the manufacturing sector. CEOs of manufacturing concerns in Nigeria are the respondents to MCCI survey, and the index seeks to measure their pulse on the economy to ascertain their level of confidence in the prevailing economic policies, regulatory guidelines and manufacturing operating environment in Nigeria.