World Health Organisation (WHO) Regional Director for Africa Dr. Matshidiso Moeti has expressed concern over the report of four suspected Ebola deaths in Guinea. Moeti, on her personal twitter account @MoetiTshidi on Sunday, was reacting to the report by the Guinea’s Ministry of Health on the resurgence of Ebola in the country. The Guinea’s Health of Ministry had reported that four people died of Ebola in a resurgence of the disease that first emerged five years ago. “WHO is ramping up readiness and response efforts to this potential resurgence of Ebola in West Africa, a region which suffered so much from Ebola in 2014,’’ Moeti said. Similarly, on Feb. 7, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) recorded fresh case of Ebola in the North Kivu province of the country. WHO stated that DRC announced that a new case of Ebola had been detected in Butembo, a city in North Kivu Province, where a previous outbreak was declared in June 2020. Liberia has, however, put health agencies on alert in the wake of an Ebola outbreak in neighbouring Guinea, President George Weah announced yesterday. “The President’s instruction is intended to ensure Liberia acts proactively to avoid any epidemic situation, the kind the country witnessed in 2014,’’ a statement read. “The Butembo branch of the National Institute of Biomedical Research (INRB) confirmed Ebola in samples taken from a patient with Ebola-like symptoms, who had sought treatment at a local health centre. “The woman was the wife of an Ebola survivor. She has since died,’’ WHO said. Liberia has, however, put health agencies on alert in the wake of an Ebola outbreak in neighbouring Guinea, President George Weah announced yesterday. “The President’s instruction is intended to ensure Liberia acts proactively to avoid any epidemic situation, the kind the country witnessed in 2014,’’ a statement read. This came a day after Guinean Health Minister Remy Lamah said four people had died from the hemorrhagic fever in the town of Gouecke, close to Liberia’s northeastern border. The Liberian president assured the public that no case of Ebola had been found in the country and that his government was doing everything to protect the people from the virus. Ebola can spread when people come into contact with infected blood and other body fluids. Liberia saw the world’s longest and deadliest Ebola outbreak in 2014. More than 4,800 people died over the span of a year, with 300 to 400 new cases reported every week at the height of the epidemic.