Anthony Joshua appears to have sent a hostile message to Tyson Fury by insisting he will not be “civilised” as he prepares for “combat and war” in their world title fight. Joshua is expected to face Fury in an undisputed world title fight this year, with the British rivals currently finalising terms for a blockbuster battle that will decide the sport’s No 1 heavyweight. Fury ruthlessly stopped Wilder last February to claim the WBC belt, while Joshua inflicted an explosive knockout on Kubrat Pulev in December, and the WBA, IBF, and WBO champion is readying himself for a brutal showdown. We’re not civilised people, we’re warriors, and I love it. “Some people may not understand it and I realise in this life is that, 99 per cent of the population are civilised people,” said Joshua on his official YouTube channel. “The job I’ve chosen is for the uncivilised. This is a sport of combat and war. “We’re not civilised people, we’re warriors, and I love it.” Joshua avenged the only loss on his record, defeating Andy Ruiz Jr on points in a rematch, and he is not daunted by an opponent like Fury, who still holds an unbeaten record. He said: “No matter what the tactics are, no matter how much you study, no matter how much you think you can beat me, I’m just there to win. “I’m there to do a job, and that’s the fighter’s mentality.” Joshua has indicated that he wants the Fury fight to be held in the summer, telling Sky Sports: “I think maybe June, end of June. It needs a bit of time, because the pandemic is unpredictable at the minute. We don’t know what’s happening, but with a little more time, it gives us more time to prepare and plan.” Meanwhile, Mike Tyson has warned Joshua that he will be at a huge disadvantage against Fury because he ‘telegraphs his punches’. As the anticipation continues to build for one of the biggest fights in British boxing history, heavyweight icon ‘Iron Mike’ Tyson was asked for his thoughts on how the bout could play out. “It’s very interesting, Joshua is a masterful puncher. But you can see his punches coming, he telegraphs his punches,” Tyson told Hearn on his BBC No Passion, No Point podcast. “And that’s just a recipe for disaster if you’re fighting Tyson Fury and you’re telegraphing your punches – to a guy whose 6ft 7in, come on.”