The All Progressives Congress (APC), Delta State chapter has described the concession agreement of the Asaba International Airport as a “shady” deal and another “fraud” being orchestrated by the Senator Ifeanyi Okowa-led government. The party in a statement issued by its caretaker publicity secretary, Sylvester Imonina (Esq.), further demanded proof of publications for the airport concession, the companies that indicated interest and the various amount bid for the airport. It charged Deltans to kick against the concession agreement of the airport, while pointing out that an airport wich has over N40 billion was invested in it, was conceded for N4 billion. Noting that APC supports any government that will ensure transparency in the concession of public properties, the statement partly read, “Delta APC concurs with the saying that ‘government has no business in business’. “This would mean that, the business of any serious minded government is to provide enabling environment for private businesses to thrive. “It is on this above premise, Delta APC supports any government that is transparent in concession public properties. Unfortunately, the fraud called ‘concession of Asaba Airport’, will go down in history as the greatest bleak, shady business, and economic coup against Deltans! “It is an affront to common sense that an Airport (business) wherein more than N40 billion was invested, was conceded for N4 billion, and to yield N100million annually because of vested interests. “A mathematical calculation of the above figures shows that Deltans will not recoup the expended incomes for the concession in the near future, how much more make profits from it! “It is shocking to note that there was no advertisement nor publicity and/or adequate information on plans by the government to concession the Airport. This is attributable to the vested interests of the cronies of the government and evil desire to enslave Deltans. “They see it as another ‘isiagware’ of theirs! In other words, the concession was done in bad faith, and solely to enrich kleptomaniacs in government circles. “Delta APC challenges the Delta State Government to put in the public domain, wherein there were publications on the planned concesion of the Airport. “Also, the government should show to Deltans the companies and/or corporate bodies that partook in the exercise, and how much each of them bid. “We call on Deltans and all people of goodwill to kick against this obvious shenanigans, called ‘concession of Asaba Airport’. Deltans, arise and claim your future and the future of your generations yet unborn.” However, the Delta State Government, in several reactions to the outrage that followed the announcement of the 30-year concession agreement, insisted that the deal will benefit Deltans, in terms of employment and economic development.