When President Muhammadu Buhari “accepted the resignation” of his faithful service chiefs, who were long overdue for exit from office, two weeks ago the public was more than a little joyful. The vindictive and the aggrieved among them, who had scores to settle with the service chiefs, raised the cry to hang the men. They begged the International Criminal Court (ICC), the United Nations (UN) and even the United States (US) to have their way with all four of them. Some, however, knew that was all wishful thinking. They did not know why, after months of tarrying, the president sprang into action and semantically put the men out of circulation. They suspected it was only a mild anaesthetic and he would soon pull the hare out of the hat. They were not disappointed. Last week, the president forwarded five names to the senate for confirmation as non-career ambassadors. They were Abayomi Olonisakin, Tukur Buratai, Ibok-Ete Ibas, Sadique Abubakar, and Mohammed Usman. Until their recent retirements, all five of them were security chiefs. It remains unclear why the president is so loyal to the security chiefs that he has nominated them as non-career ambassadors. The air is still thick with the smoke left by 52 ambassadors whose appointments were finalised after months of gruelling delay. While career ambassadors go through trainings in diplomacy and usually carry a high level of requisite education, non-career ambassadors are usually nominated at the prerogative of the president, but they must be capable and meriting individuals. The presidency, maintaining its trademark taciturnity, did not disclose its exact reasons for nominating the recently retired security chiefs as ambassadors. Were they meriting individuals? What skills did they possess in that regard that made them more deserving than other Nigerians of the ambassadorial nominations? Most importantly, should Caesar’s wife not be above suspicion? Already there are those who have theorised that the presidency only nominated them to grant them diplomatic immunity. These are the sorts of controversies that the president should have avoided at all costs. His nomination of the former service chiefs, who were hated by many Nigerians to the extent that the effecting of their overdue retirement caused celebration, to represent the same Nigerians portrays President Buhari as being deaf and insensitive to the people’s pulse. Indeed, the only thing standing between the service chiefs and their ambassadorial deployments will be the National Assembly. Will the legislative arm of government recognise the presidency’s sleight of hand for what it really is? The same sleight of hand was executed by the government in the disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and the creation of the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) to the dismay of Nigerians. If it is not already so, it is fast become a habit of the presidency to mock the intelligence of Nigerians in that illusionary manner. After months of outcry characterised by marked federal aloofness, the presidency suddenly acts, only nominally altering the status quo but fundamentally changing nothing. It is the type of inscrutable and apathetic governance that satisfies only those in power and goes against the very grain of democracy. There is no evidence to prove that the presidency will ever repent of its unwelcome politics. It will continue to fly in the face of Nigerians whenever they air their displeasure or make demands concerning how they want the country to be run. The senate, for its part, cannot be trusted to appreciate its oversight functions on the presidency well enough to execute them. They cannot even be trusted to unite in ideology on the rightness or otherwise of grating policies. So for as long as too many chefs brew and spoil the federal broth, the presidency will only get better at its trickeries and Nigerians will continue to spectate in this macabre theatre of illusions.