Former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Timi Frank has faulted the appointment of the immediate past Service Chiefs as non-career Ambassadors, saying it amounts to rewarding incompetence by the President. The President on Thursday forwarded the names of General Abayomi Olonisakin (Rtd), Lt. General Tukur Buratai (Rtd), Vice Admiral Ibok-Ete Ibas (Rtd), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar (Rtd), and Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Usman (Rtd)to the Senate for confirmation as envoys. But Frank said the action amounts to rewarding incompetence at the nation’s expense, global image and perception and asked the Senate to disregard the nomination in the overall national interest. In a statement in Abuja, Frank said the nomination of the former Service Chief’s as envoys is meant to dress them in diplomatic immunity in order to shield them from
investigation and prosecution by the International Criminal Court (ICC). He said the ICC was already probing the varied atrocities and crimes against humanity, the ex-Service Chiefs may have individually or collectively perpetrated while in office.
He also called on members of the international community, particularly the countries where the ex-Service Chiefs may be posted to as envoys to reject them and vowed to mobilise Nigerians in the diaspora to protest in countries of their primary assignment should the ex-Service Chiefs ever be posted as diplomats by Buhari. He said: “the nomination of these ex-Service Chiefs to represent Nigeria in foreign countries is an international embarrassment and a new low for the country’s image. The world has gone past the era where incompetent and sacked military chiefs can be considered fit and proper persons to represent a democratic country in the conduct of high-wired diplomatic business. “Buhari has clearly got this wrong. He erroneously believes that his administration is a military junta. This nomination shows that it has become habitual for General Buhari to reward incompetence. Only recently, he appointed a new Chief of Army Staff who was sacked in 2017 by former ex-Chief of Army Staff, General Buratai, for incompetence. “How can men with such huge baggage of human rights abuses, administrative impropriety and history of failures be chosen to bring Nigeria political and economic laurel at home or at the international arena? “Nigerians need to stand up against this anomaly. The damage will be colossal and we are all involved. The time to speak up is now!”