 How did your journey into the fabric business began? The NIn fact, during the holiday seasons, we helped our mum deliver fabrics to clients. So, I have an idea of how the business is done. I don’t sew clothes for people but design fabric. So, we started KB Fabrics in 2014 when I lost my mother and my sister lost her husband  earlier that same year . After her death, Bisola and I felt the need to continue her legacy. So, we decided to rebrand and that gave birth to KB Fabrics. In addition,  I’ve always loved fashion. Looking good they say is good business. I love to play with colours but I try to make it sophisticated. What were the initial challenges you encountered and how were you able to surmount them? At the initial stage, we had the issue of overbuying because we were buying more than the quantity we needed. Also, getting our brand out there wasn’t so easy but we managed to surpass it. We went for one exhibition in Paris and we were told that if we have to buy a particular design, we had to buy in certain yardage. So, we bought way more. Later, we learnt our lessons and reduced the quantity we buy. When we started, we only had female fabrics but today, we deal in male fabrics as well. We design fabrics for both male and female. While starting out, we faced the challenge of convincing people to patronise us but through social media, we were able to push out business to the necessary customers. We sell everyday fabrics. Who are your clients? My clients are mostly from the age of 35 upwards. Anybody we craves for quality fabrics and love to look elegant can patronise us. Sometimes, people seek out advice on what to wear for different events and we help. What were you doing before the fabric business? I was working at a property firm while my sister worked for a finance company. What was the turning point for you? The turning point in my life was when I lost my mother and  my sister lost her husband. From those events, we thought of turning the business around and planned to raise our kids together. Also, my brother’s wedding was around the corner. So, we did  Asoebi (party uniform) thing and before we knew it, we got other jobs. We started getting referrals and the rest is history. Those events shaped my life, made me see that there is light at the end of the tunnel and made me become a better version of myself. How has the journey been so far? It’s been a wonderful experience. Though, we had our highs and low seasons but it has been an exciting journey. We had the high when there are  weddings, birthday parties, Easters, Valentines and other events. We had our lows in January when you had to pay children’s school fees. During the pandemic last year, it was really hard but my sister who was in London with her son at the time and I thought outside the box. We noticed people were not traveling much due to Covid-19 lockdown. We thought of doing a side business and started a shopping business whereby we shop for people and deliver to Nigeria. My sister buys those stuffs in London, cargo it to Nigeria, I go receive the cargo and distribute to clients we requested for them. We were making some money from the business and that helped us during that period. People were not really patronising our fabric business because people were not holding parties because of the lockdown. When the ban was lifted, people started having parties and we started making some sales. The shopping business is by the side. It has been a sweet journey but not without hurdles. Where do you get your design inspiration from? We get inspiration from our mum’s designs and add other designs to make it stand out. We also get inspiration from our manufacturers, colours, wall paper, environment and fashion shows. What wouldn’t you do in the name of fashion? I won’t follow some certain trends. I think sometimes people need to dress according to how they feel. Fashion is expressing yourself anyway you want to. Sometimes you don’t have to break the bank to look good. Knowing how to combine colours is essential and that will make you be the cynosure of eyes when you step out for events. Simple but classy does it for me. To me, less is more. What do you consider when designing for people? I consider colours and texture. Some people like soft fabric that won’t freak the body. Men like subtle and nice designs. They don’t like loud colours while women like to add sparkle to their look like adding sequins and other embellishments on their cloth. At the end of the day everything boils down to preference. Who are your role models in the fashion world? I like Lisa Folawiyo especially what she does with the Ankara fabric. Her pieces are beautiful. You see a dress or skirt and you will know it’s made by her. Her outfits are well detailed. Outside the country, I like Vera Wang and Vale ntino. They are great fashion designers that makes bespoke outfits. Can you share your memorable moments with us? I think it was  when we had a customer cum friend. She was having a party and we were supposed to do Asoebi for her.  She wanted Ankara for 100 people. We got the Ankara. The first 100 was sold out. We bought another one again. In fact, it was so funny to the point that the first colour had finished. So, they had to pick another colour. At that party, we had two different Ankara and they came out beautiful. From that particular event, we got so many referrals.  I feel happy when people call or message to inform me that the fabric I sold is nice. It pushes me to do more. Who are your mentors? It’s definitely my uncle (Mr. Sarumi). He has been a great and positive influence in my life, in the life of my sister and our family as a whole. He checks up on us, cares and offers fatherly advice. With him, I came to realise that supporting someone doesn’t have to be money but sparing your time is more valuable. Whenever we need him, he creates that time to support in whatever we need him to do. He inspires us greatly. What valuable lessons has life thought you? I’ve learnt that there’s no shortcut to success. You have to be consistent. You also have to be intentional and focused. I’ve learnt not to compare myself with anybody. I don’t compare myself to people but try to focus, master my craft and improve on myself. I love what I do and know that it will pay off at the end of the day. Putting God first is very key. I’m a woman of faith and that has helped shaped my life and made me stronger. Where do you hope to be few years from now? I want to go international. I don’t want to cater for Nigerian market alone but other countries. I hope to have a manufacturing company and taking KB Fabrics to greater heights. I also hope to go into making tailored outfits for men. What is your advice to those who would like to go into your line of business? You must have passion for it and start small. Don’t rush things but take it one step at a time. You have to study the market and get a mentor who is into this kind of business to put you through. Also, you have to stay humble. Don’t run faster than your shadow. Slow down and learn the robes. It may not be easy at first but don’t give up, keep doing it tenaciously and you will breakthrough.