Three persons have been feared killed in a bloody clash between Erin-Osun and Ilobu communities in Irepodun Local Government of Osun State, over a land dispute. Scores sustained bullet injuries in the fracas that started on Saturday. The communities have been at loggerheads for months over boundaries. Youths from the two communities clashed on Saturday evening. One person was feared killed and five sustained gunshot wounds. A viral video on Sunday morning showed youths from the communities brandishing weapons. Another video showed how they engaged one another in a gun battle. The Nation gathered that the clash occurred at Oke-Awesin. It later spread to CAC area in Ilobu. Police spokesperson Mrs. Yemisi Opalola said two youths, Adamu and Abdullah Tairu, were shot during the clash on Saturday. Our reporter learnt that youths from the communities clashed about 11:30am yesterday before soldiers were deployed. Our correspondent saw a body on the scene. The young man was said to have died as a result of gunshot injuries. There was tension in the area last night. Osun State Government has declared a 24-hour curfew in Irepodun and Orolu local governments, following the violence. It said the declaration became necessary to douse tension. The government said this will subsist until further notice. A few hours ago, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola ordered deployment of armed policemen with support from soldiers to restore law and order.  Secretary to State Government (SSG) Prince Wole Oyebamiji said in a statement in Osogbo yesterday: “As a responsible and responsive government that took the sacred oath to protect the lives and property of our citizens, we believe the declaration of curfew is the way to go in this circumstance. “By this, security operatives have been directed to arrest and prosecute any person found violating the curfew and those responsible for the violence. “Citizens and residents of the councils are enjoined to comply with this directive, as any person found contravening the order will be prosecuted. “Government enjoins citizens to be peaceful and law-abiding. Efforts shall be made to protect them and their property.”