The Rotary International District 9125 Governor, Rotn. Jumoke Bamigboye, on Tuesday said the organisation has  been able to fight polio virus in most parts of the world with small donations from members in its Foundation. She said the Foundation is one of longest standing and most significant charity scheme in the world. She asked Nigerians to cultivate the habit of assisting the needy with whatever little they have. Bamigboye, who spoke in Abuja at the celebration of Rotary 116th anniversary, said the organisation has grown over the years with billions of dollars with as low as $26 donations from members. She  added that the mission of the club is to give back to  communities and support government in every activity. She said: “Rotary is an international community that brings together leaders who step up to take on the world’s toughest challenges, locally and globally. “Through our foundation, with as low as $26, Rotary International has been to end polio in most parts of the world. We have also provided many humanitarian to the needy in all parts of the world. “Therefore, nothing is too small to help the needy, it is only a matter of commitment to a worthy course.” she said. She urged Nigerians to help the poor and contribute to community development as no amount is too small to touch lives. Noting that the emergence of the club in Nigeria from the world spread to the other parts of the country from Kano State, over one century ago, she said  the district has decided to hold the one-week programme in Kano. She said the mission to bring Rotary to Nigeria then, was borne out the resolve support to government on community developments which the club is known for. She added: “We have decided to celebrate Rotary Day, and that is why we need to take it back to where it started from, that is why we are celebrating. Today is the beginning, and it is going to be a one-week programme in Kano. ”Like I said, Rotary had started in other parts of the world but when it came into Nigeria, it came in through Kano. The early Rotarians in Nigeria were  in Kano and they were led by our past Rotary international President, Jonathan Majiyagbe. “So, we came in from there, the Emir of Kano and others joined hands to receive rotary into Kano, and from there, it went to other parts of Nigeria. It went to Lagos and other states. So, that is why we need to go back to Kano, where Rotary started from 116 years after, to say that Rotary came into Nigeria but we are still doing Rotary up till now,” she said. “Let’s all join hands with Rotary and help carry our country from where it is to where we need it to be. We don’t need to give much, the little we have goes far in putting smiles on faces”, she added. District 9125 Governor elect,  Rotn. Ayo Oyedokun, said the organisation would continue to play a strong, supporting role for government to overcome the several challenges facing the country. “Rotary will still be around in the next 116 years and we will continue serve in various communities and open more opportunities for people because we are professionals in what we do.