Suspects in the April 5, 2018 robbery in Offa, Kwara State on Wednesday told an Ilorin High Court how they killed 11 persons during the incident. The suspects Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibikunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Azeez Salawu and Niyi Ogundiran have been standing trial in the case. At resumed hearing on Wednesday, prosecution counsel Mr. Rotimi Jacob called the seventh witness one John Nwoke, a police Inspector and cinematographer attached to the force Public Relations unit, Abuja. Nwoke presented a DVD video to the open court that contained the apparent confessional statements of the defendants. All except one defendant, Ayoade Aknnibosun, said they killed 11 persons, who were throwing stones and other objects at them. Ayoade Akinnibosun narrated how a dismissed police officer Michael Adikwu (now deceased) sold the robbery idea to him, adding that he in turn coopted four other persons into operation. Akinnibosun, who claimed to be the ringleader, in the video, said he owned the two vehicles used in the robbery. He said one of the vehicles, a Lexus SUV, was a gift from then Kwara state Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed as he (Akinnibosun) was the leader of a political liberation movement in Kwara South. “I came into contact with the dismissed policeman (Adikwu) through a revenue collection stuff. After the meeting with Adikwu, I relayed to Ibikunle Ogunleye who also relayed same to Adeola Abraham otherwise known as Adex. Azeez Salawu and Niyi Ogundiran are both mechanics. “On April 5th, 2018 the five of us moved from Oro, Irepodun Local Government Area of the state to Ajase-Ipo where the SUV was parked under a tree and we  drove in the Mercedes Benz to Offa. At Offa, we parked in front of Total filling station where the late Adikwu was waiting for us in a black Audi car. “There was also a Nissan Primera car parked in front of us at the Total filling station where some other people that came with Adikwu were waiting. Shortly, thereafter Adikwu handed over a sack to me containing five AK47 rifles. “As the commander of my gang, I distributed the guns and directed every member to take his position.” “Adikwu on entering the station announced that police relieved him of his job, but ‘I have come on a revenge mission.’ Ten AK47 rifles were taken away from the police station during the robbery, it was said. Judge Haleemah Salman adjourned the case till March 15 and 16 for final trial.