The 27 students, teachers and others who were abducted by gunmen from Government Science College, Kagara, Niger State on Wednesday, appear to be getting closer to freedom following the intervention of renowned Islamic scholar, Sheikh Ahmad Abubakar Gumi. Gumi drove into the den of the gunmen in Dutsen Magaji, Mariga Local Government Area of the state on Thursday for a lengthy meeting to plead for the release of the abducted people. Highly placed sources said yesterday that the abductees could be released latest today. Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello of Niger State, who was briefed by Gumi on his return from Dutsen Magaji yesterday, said government was at the final stage of negotiation for the release of the victims. Gumi, on his part, called for what he called blanket amnesty for bandits as part of the strategy to resolve the security challenge across the country. Some bandits with links to the Niger State kidnappers said information about soft targets often comes from their informants in cities, towns and villages. They said their actions were triggered by frustration after losing their cattle to rustlers. Governor Sani-Bello, in a broadcast to the people of Niger State yesterday, said government was doing everything possible through interfacing with the federal, local government and the state authority to rescue the victims. He said: “At the moment, there is no additional information apart from the one we have at hand. Our priority is to make sure we bring back the students safe. Things are speculated or rumoured, but we cannot work with these in situations like this.” The governor noted that the state was using kinetic and non-kinetic measures to bring back the children to safety and assured parents and families of the victims to be hopeful as everything possible was being done. He said Sheikh Ahmed Gumi offered to assist the government voluntarily and both sides agreed that a comprehensive memo be sent to the government on his findings. The governor said he would meet with traditional rulers and Fulani heads next week to discuss their problems and how to assist them, adding that this is part of the step being taken by government to reduce insecurity in the state. The governor also said that since Nigeria’s independence, farmers have enjoyed the benefits of democracy while herdsmen are neglected despite what he called their significant contribution to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product. He said: “The truth of the matter is that since independence, no one has paid attention to herdsmen who are mostly Fulani, because not all herdsmen are Fulani but 90 per cent are Fulani. “Nobody has paid attention to them, no one has paid attention to their education; all we do is we see them on market days, they come and we see them and we laugh. Nobody paid attention. “So, they were moving from place to place with their cattle being attacked. But now the time has come to stop all that practice. It is no longer feasible. There are no cattle routes anymore. “As long as they move their cattle from different towns, different states down south, there will be problem because there are no more cattle routes. Population has increased. We are about 200 million now, and more people are farming. “We have paid more attention to farmers. All the programmes, all the incentives are to farmers, zero to herders. They (herders) also add to the GDP. They also will increase our economy. They also can create jobs if planned very well. “So, the time has come to look at them to capture them very well in the system, and that must be done for everlasting peace.” Gumi had earlier briefed the governor on his mission to the bandits’ den. He told reporters that his meeting with them was positive. He asked the federal government to grant ‘blanket amnesty’ to the bandits. Gumi, who had also met with the gunmen who have been terrorising Zamfara State two weeks ago, said the bandits learned kidnapping from Niger Delta militants. He said: “The outcome of the meeting was very positive because you have a warring faction saying that they have complaints and grievances which are very simple. There is hope that we can resolve this. “I appeal to the government and recommend that government should do to them exactly what they did to the Niger Delta militants and give them a blanket amnesty. Then if anybody will continue, we will deal with him.” He described the grievances of the bandits as simple: alleged persecution, arrest and lynching. The secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ahmed Matane, who was on Gumi’s entourage during the visit to the bandits’ den, asked them to give up their arms and embrace peace. Matane, according to his Information Officer, Mr Tanko Lawal, enjoined leaders of the bandits to support government to secure the release of the abducted passengers of the state transport authority and students of Government Science College, Kagara. Matane reaffirmed that government would continue to ensure the security of lives and property by strengthening the security architecture of the state and the need for people to collaborate with the government in its efforts to rid the state of criminal elements. He stressed the need for religious leaders and other stakeholders to embark on how to get the bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers to key into the peace initiatives of the government. Some bandits with links to the brains behind the Niger State abductions have opened up on the increasing wave of banditry in parts of the country. In a rare disclosure, they admitted that they get information on soft targets from their contacts in cities, towns and villages. They claimed their actions are caused by the rustling of their cattle and loss of livelihood. They said they became angry with the overbearing attitude of local vigilance group operatives who often attacked their colleagues whenever they came to town from their settlements and forests. They complained bitterly over the destruction of their settlements by security forces leading to killing and maiming of their family members and relations. The Niger State Government, which promised to look into their requests, made some offers. The offers include amnesty, integration of the bandits with local vigilantes, development of RUGA, provision of basic facilities and end to hunting down of the bandits by local vigilantes. There was no payment of ransom. Based on the understanding with the bandits, there is a ray of hope that the Kagara abductees and other hostages might be released last night or today. According to a source, who was part of the delegation of Sheikh Ahmad Abubakar Gumi to Dutsen Magaji Forest in Kotonkoro in Niger State, the bandits made some stunning revelations. The source said: “They told us that they have informants who provide accurate data on soft targets for abduction and ransom. “They said since they live in the forests, there was no way they will know who to abduct or not. They said some people in cities and towns used to give them information. “Although they did not unmask their informants, this development has added a new dimension to banditry.” Responding to a question, the source added: “The bandits looked war-weary and it was obvious that they were not benefitting from banditry. Maybe they have godfathers and partners or financiers.” On what was discussed with the bandits, the source added: “They said they have been angry because their cattle had been rustled and their means of livelihood lost. “They said they have no choice than to look for other ways of survival. They were actually looking frustrated. “They also complained about lack of access roads to their settlements and no basic amenities. They said security forces have attacked their settlements, leading to killing and maiming of their family members and relations. “They accused local vigilantes of hunting down their members whenever they came to town from their settlements and the forests.” Responding to a question, the source said: “We took time to listen to them. They have resorted to banditry because there was no justice. Their cows were rustled and nothing was done to assuage their feelings. They lost everything they had. “But they sounded as if they were ready to lay down their arms and embrace peace. “The delegation persuaded the bandits to facilitate the release of Kagara students and all those abducted. There was no ransom paid but the delegation, including the representatives of the Niger State Government, promised a better deal for the bandits to live a normal life. “The offers include amnesty for the bandits, the integration of the bandits with local vigilantes, development of RUGA, provision of basic facilities and end to hunting down of the bandits by local vigilantes. “The session was fruitful. They promised to assist. We are expecting that the Kagara abductees and other hostages will be released on Friday or Saturday.”