To some, youths are lazy, and are blaming their station in life on the recession to remain idle.  Not so others. One of such is a monarch who is seeking support for youth empowerment.There is the need to engage the youth to harness their potential, the Sooko Adimula Obalufon of Ife, Sooko Oladele Olasoji Ajilesoro, has said. Speaking during an empowerment programme organised by the Bola Oyebade Foundation (BOF) in Ikeja GRA, Lagos penultimate weekend, SookoAjilesoro said this would also boost youth creativity and pool them away from bad behaviours. He philosophised that an idle mind is the devil’s workshop. He said it was not true that the youth were not interested in business. Their problem, he noted, is lack of support by those who care to promote their ideas. To make this possible, the monarch, who praised the Federal Government for its support to Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs), urged it to support Non-Government organisations (NGO) like BOF, to grow the sector. He advised tertiary institutions to overhaul their curricular to make them practical-oriented or relevant to youth empowerment or entrepreneurship and development of intellectual property. Guest speaker Ayobami Alabi, who spoke on “How to turn ideas into profitable ventures”, listed passion, commitment, interest, goal setting, discipline, and skills, funding, among others, as some factors that budding entrepreneurs should consider. He said though passion is good, it is commitment that would drive the business and see one through when challenges arise. To him, it is good to start from somewhere, no matter how small. ‘’When you start, money would come,’’ he said. He advised against borrowing to kick-start a business and bringing on board unknown partners. He however supports the use of one’s savings, and borrowing from institutions which interest rates are low as the business grows. During expansion, Alabi, a banker, warned against putting one’s eggs in one basket. He rooted for diversification and trust, saying that the latter is a key to partnership. He warned against going into areas where one does not have the expertise. BOF Trustee John Olatubosun Ajayi called for an ideas bank. To get this, he suggested that entrepreneurs should wake up very early in the morning and record whatever ideas that floated Iinto their mind. He said these would become handy when they want to kick off. Avoid high-risk areas as they could lead to failures, he warned. BOF founder Bola Oyebade said the vision of the three-year-old NGO is “to lift individuals through economic empowerment and improve their lives’’. He noted that everyone must have the wherewithal to cater to themselves to enable them help the weak, poor and infirmed. He advised the government to extend big loans with low interests and payback period of say two years to entrepreneurs and that this would boost the cottage industry. He suggested that the public power supply should be made better. He said the NGO planned to focus on entrepreneurial mentorship, micro credit scheme, vocational training and sustainable mechanised agribusiness. At the event, BOF offered some individuals items worth over N1million. They included 15 sewing machines, 10 barbing kits, five industrial machines, five pepper grinding machines. Also, he gave cash to 50 traders in 10 communities. 