 Worried by the rising wave of insecurity and near state of anarchy occasioned by kidnapping, banditry and wanton killings across the country, renowned political economist, Prof. Pat Utomi, former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, member of the 5th Senate, Senator Henshaw Bassey and other discerning Nigerians have declared the country a failed state. Speaking separately at the 2nd Goke Omisore Annual Lecture, organised by Voice of Reason (VOR), a Yoruba intelligentsia group, in honour of its late Convener, Prince Goke Omisore, held virtually at the weekend, the trio of Utomi, Mailafia and Bassey lamented the parlous state of the economy, stressing that Nigerians have experienced the worst form of governance in ages. Firing the first salvo, Mailafia observed that, “Nigeria is a country of greatness but we are being strangled by leadership misrule. Nigerian music trends all over the Western Europe, Nigerians are talented, Nigerian leaders are the one bringing shame on our youths. A Nigerian won the second best prize in computer science in the world some months ago but armed robbers killed him last week in Lagos. Nigeria is a danger killing talents.” In his brief presentation, Utomi said “I agree with all the speakers. I just want to add that the younger ones need to be mentored to be able to challenge the status quo. The rich class is united against the common people; therefore, the younger generation should be united to wage war against the status quo.” Other panel of discussants who spoke at the lecture, tagged: ‘Creating an Inter- generational Dialogue for the Nigeria we Want’, including: Dele Farotimi, Inibehe Effiong, social crusader and Executive Director of Enough Is Enough Nigeria (EiE), Yemi Adamolekun, Nigerian Representative to the All African Students Union (AASU), icon Olawale and Niger/Delta activist, Annkio Briggs, Second Republic Presidential Assistant, Tokunbo Sholu-Ekukinam, among others, unanimously agreed that the blatant show of impunity, lawlessness, anarchy and subjugation of the younger generation, if not reined in could render  Nigeria’s future as a country in jeopardy. Speaking earlier, the Chairman of VOR, Dr. Olufemi Adegoke, said 19th February of every year has been reserved to celebrate the Convener of the group, late Goke Omisore, being his posthumous birthday. “In his lifetime, Arole, as he was fondly called, enjoyed gathering his friends together to celebrate his birthday. In his honour, we schedule one major event for this day when we invite members of the public to exchange ideas. God sparing our lives and hoping Nigeria is still in one piece; please note it in your diary to expect our invitation next year.” Other guests at the event include Chairman of the Nigerian Tribune titles, Chief Mrs. Tokunbo Awolowo-Dosunmu, former Foreign Affairs Minister, Professor Bolaji Akinyemi, widow of late Goke Omisore, Olamide, Mr. Emeka Ugwu-Oju, Dr. Akin Fapohunda, amongst others.