The Federal High Court in Abuja on Monday adjourned the trial and hearing of a bail application of the Chairman of defunct Pension Reformed Task Team (PRTT), Abdulrasheed Maina, until February 19 at the instance of his lawyer, Sani Katu (SAN). Justice Okon Abang adjourned the matter after Katu told the court that he needed more time to enable him prepare for Maina’s defence, since he was coming into the matter afresh. The lawyer, who said he was unable to meet his client at the Kuje Correctional Centre for pre-trial conference, urged the court to adjourn the matter in the interest of justice. Katu said he had discussed the development with the lawyer to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mohammed Abubakar, before the sitting started. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Maina had, on January 20, approached Justice Abang for another bail after his arrest in Niger Republic for jumping the first bail. The defendant, in a Motion on Notice, dated and filed on December 24, 2020, brought by his lawyer, Anayo Adibe, said the application became necessary over his worsening health condition. In the motion, the ex-pension boss told the court that he had reasonable and responsible sureties who were willing to act as sureties if granted bail. The judge had adjourned the hearing of the bail application until Feb. 1 and equally fixed the trial continuation on the same date. But at the resumed trial, Katu, who was appearing for Maina for the first time, sought for adjournment to enable him prepared for his client’s defence. Abubakar opposed the application for adjournment. In his ruling, Justice Abang held that though there was a subsisting order of the court to continue hearing the matter, which was yet to be set aside, the court had a discretionary power to grant or refuse a plea for an adjournment. Citing Section 396(4) of the Constitution, Justice Abang granted Maina’s prayer as argued by his counsel. He adjourned the matter till February 19 for Maina to open his defence and for all pending applications to heard.