Canadian government and businesses have expressed willingness to partner with Nigeria in achieving clean and sustainable energy solutions. Canadian High Commissioner, Nicolas Simard gave the assurance during a facility tour of Arnergy assembly line at its office in Victoria Island, Lagos. The objective of the facility tour was to enlighten the Canadian High Commissioner on how Arnergy delivers reliable energy solutions for productive use; the products and services that power business operations and improve economic outcomes for clients. Simard said people are looking for some level of predictability, transparency and productivity, which solar energy provides. “Arnergy is in the right segment towards meeting the country’s demands for energy. We need the private sector to take leadership in such conversations. What Arnergy is doing is good not just for businesses, but for families and the climate,” Simard said. During his visit, Simard was shown the modularized Arnergy solar solutions, and how they can either work completely off-grid with the sun powering load and charging the long term lithium batteries for night use or how it interoperates with the grid especially at night if the need arises. He expressed his excitement at the prospects that Arnergy’s products had, their impact on businesses and the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). He was particularly impressed by the SolarBase component of the product, which allows users to monitor and control their energy consumption from their mobile devices and leading to significant cost savings and energy reliability.  Chief Executive Officer, All On, Dr. Wiebe Boer, also addressed constraints of power supply and how financing the renewable energy sector would better lives and make power more reliable for productive use.  Chief Executive Officer, Arnergy, Femi Adeyemo explained how far the company had come from being the first African startup to receive equity investment from Breakthrough Energy Venture, funded by Bill Gates, Jack Ma, Jeff Bezos and other World business leaders, to partnering with several impact sectors to optimize their energy consumption and cut their power cost.  He also revealed that plans are in the works to power more businesses in resilient sectors including healthcare – primary health centres and telecom towers.