The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has cautioned the Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, and the Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodimma, over their comments concerning the November 6 governorship election in the State The duo recently, said that the All Progressives Congress (APC) would deploy ‘seen and unseen forces’ to ensure that their party wins the November 6 governorship poll in Anambra State. PDP Chairman in the state, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, spoke Friday at the party’s secretariat in Awka, when the party delivered 21 Sienna vehicles from one of the governorship aspirants, Dr Winston Udeh He told Ngige and Uzdinma that whatever undemocratic plot they had would not work as the people of the state would choose their next governor by themselves. According to Nwobu, “Well, we are not under a military regime. So I don’t know what they are taking over. And their seen and unseen hand, if he is expectant of his Supreme Court judgment, he should be told point blank that that is not possible here.” The donor of the 21 vehicles to the local government areas, Udeh, said that he decided to donate the vehicles to the party to reduce the mobility challenges the party officials encounter in the course of performing their duties especially now that the governorship poll is near. “Wherever you go, they will ask you for transport fare. And I kept wondering, does it mean that all these years that the PDP does not have vehicles it uses for its daily operation especially at the Local Government Areas? “I said okay. It will be good to provide cars for all the 21 Local Government Areas in the state. This is just to make sure that whatever that the PDP needs to accomplish that goal; that we will back it up”, he said. He expressed confidence that he would win the election if given the ticket of the party The Chairman, said that he would still strongly support the party and ensure it wins the poll even if he eventually didn’t get the ticket. “I am 100 percent behind you and I will support every move you make to make sure that we accomplish this. ” I thank the members of the working committee; the excos, the local government and ward chairmen and their excos, and the PDP members,” he said.