The Bakhita Initiative of the Sokoto Catholic Diocese has organised a sensitisation and training programme for Sokoto State border communities and religious leaders towards curtailing the spread of the virus just as the state confirmed 55 treated cases from the pandemic, following the COVID-19 second phase trend. Dr. Bello Ali Inname of Public Health Department of the state Ministry of Health made the confirmation of the treated cases while presenting a lecture on the state COVID-19 general overview. He noted that state had between April 2020 to date recorded 756 COVID-19 cases. He lamented that wrong perception of the pandemic by some people, who still view the virus as one for the rich. According to him, no fewer than 18 out of the 23 councils have one or more cases on the highly contagious disease. “We have intensified efforts at routine and continuous contact tracing through our RRT operational strategy as we build up on our campaigns down the grassroots.” The three-day programme embarked by the Bakhita Initiative with the support from GIZ and the African Union (AU) has the theme: “Fighting the Spread of COVID-19 is our Collective Responsibility.” Also, in his presentation from the traditional perspective, the Sarkin Yakin Gagi Community, Alhaji Sani Uamr Jabbi, described the disease as an “invisible AK47”, which knew no race, religion, ethnic or political backgrounds, stressing that it’s a big health challenge to Sokoto State, Nigeria and the world. According to Jabbi, who also was an advocate of social awareness on health and GBV matters in the state and Nigeria, said there has to be a deliberate focus to strengthen the campaigns against the spread of the virus through concerted efforts, using the traditional institutions, especially at the grassroots levels. Director, Bakhita Initiative, Rev. Fr. Emehel Lawrence said the essence of the all-important programme was to further strengthen windows and capacity of stakeholders, especially those close to the grassroots at the border communities to pilot against the spread of the pandemic, which had entered second phase. He said Sokoto State’s strategic location with borders between it and neighbouring Niger Republic needed to be put in perspective in fighting the pandemic.