The Creative Director/Chief Executive Officer of OS Creations, a premium women’s ready-to-wear clothing brand, Oluyemisi Shonubi, has taken the fashion industry by storm. Within five years of establishing the brand, the lawyer cum fashion entrepreneur has inched closer to transforming the company into a household name. With six workers under her employ and plans to engage more, Oluyemisi shares the story of how she gradually built a flourishing world-class indigenous fashion brand with Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA.  The could pass for a model. Tall, slim, and dressed in Ankara long skirt and blouse with head gear in matching yellow background colour that flattered her figure and flawless skin, her beauty naturally makes her the toast of modelling agencies. But, the Creative Director/CEO of OS Creations, a Nigerian premium women’s ready-to-wear clothing brand, Oluyemisi Shonubi, is not a model, at least, professionally. However, going by her carriage and exquisite dress sense, she is a model of sort for the array of high quality, classy and affordable outfits her company makes for the sophisticated woman. Indeed, since 2016 when Oluyemisi launched OS Creations to meet the fashion taste bud of mostly upwardly mobile women, she has never hidden her knack for sophistication. “That is what the brand represents, i.e. sophistication and being classy,” the fashion entrepreneur said. And the fact that ace television presenter and actress Mrs. Taiwo Ajai Lycett, who is sophisticated and classy, is her company’s brand ambassador, further underscored Oluyemisi’s quest to leverage sophistication in her services offering to dictate the pace in the competitive fashion industry. Expectedly, the feedback from her target customers, which include middle to high income earners, professionals, mature women like MDs of companies, actresses, has been awesome. For instance, within five years of opening its doors for business, the Ikeja, Lagos office of OS Creations has become the destination of choice for mostly mature fashion-conscious women in search of gorgeous, timeless designs that suit their individual fashion taste and sizes. . When The Nation visited the place last week, it was, as usual, a beehive, as women from diverse backgrounds thronged the place to shop for elegant outfits for various occasions such as church service, luncheons, birthdays, and office wears. The stream of customers, according to Oluyemisi, is on the strength of the company’s  impeccable customer service, attention to details and finishing, and of course, steady referrals. “What we do is create designs, source for high quality fabrics, and make our cloths so customers can come in and shop off our rack. We make the outfits in sizes, so customers come in, see something they like and go with it,” she explained, pointing out, however: “What actually informed me going into this business professionally was that I realised that in the fashion industry, a lot of people are unable to pay attention to details when it comes to finishing. I am particular about details. It just has to be perfect.” As a fashion entrepreneur, Oluyemisi’s near obsession with details is understandable. However, how she has been able to leverage this unique value proposition to carve a niche for herself in the industry and still manage to keep her legal practice as a lawyer, as well as her project management firm running is, perhaps, most amazing. It also attests to her ability to multi-task and embrace income diversification that favours multiple revenue streams. Oluyemisi earned Bachelor of Laws (BL) from the Nigerian Law School and an LLB from the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ogun State. Upon completion of her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) service in 2009, she started out in the oil and gas industry, where she headed the Legal Department of Global Ocean Engineers Nigeria Limited, an oil servicing company, for quite some time. She was also privileged to work with several other organisations, including Paradigm Law Solutions, Offshore Dimensions Limited, ProdigyLMS and companies in technology and oil and gas. Although she still consults, she has been able to bring the experiences garnered from working with these firms, as well as lessons learnt in discipline and professionalism to bear on her new-found career: fashion designing. Smart and savvy, Oluyemisi also went a notch higher to hone her entrepreneurial skill. Today, she is a proud alumna of the mini-MBA (Masters in Business Administration) programme organised by Access Bank with the support of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a World Bank Group. That was in 2019. She was one of the top 50 women shortlisted for the programme. She is also one of the top 250 women selected and being trained at the Entrepreneurial Development Centre (EDC) under the “Road to Growth Women’s Project.” The project is a collaborative venture among the EDC of the Lagos Business School (LBS), the Cherie Blaire Foundation for women and Exxon Mobil Foundation. It is a seven-week course, where Oluyemisi and other beneficiaries are trained on how to become better business women and entrepreneurs. She has also previously taken other courses with the EDC over the years. “I am continually learning, always looking for knowledge and ways of running my business better,” she declared. Interestingly, Oluyemisi’s continual quest for knowledge appears to have paid off. OS Creations, which she established to feed her childhood passion for fashion designing, has, in a remarkably short time, blossomed into one of Nigeria’s most sought-after women’s ready-to-wear clothing brand with six production staff on her payroll. Four of them are permanent staff, while two are on contract, even as plans are also afoot to scale the company’s operations this year to enable it engage more hands. But, how did the successful lawyer come into the industry and managed to become the rave of the moment? “Fashion is not new to me,” she declared. Her story: “My mum used to run a fashion house; so, I grew up in a fashion environment. She did that for a very long time. That’s when I started learning the bits and pieces of it. But as at that time, it wasn’t something I thought of making a career out of. “It was just for the fun of it; it was more like a hubby. I love to design. So, in 2016, I decided that I can actually make some money out of it. I am still a lawyer; all of us have free times. We have spare times in our hands. I can always make some things during the weekends, after work. So, I started. People were bringing in cloths to me so, I decided to get my company registered and start something on the side. That was the whole idea that time; that was how I started.” Since then, an obviously ambitious Oluyemisi has never looked back. She has managed to fine-tune what she picked up from her mum, long after she (her mum) stopped, and is now gradually building it into a flourishing business empire. “My mum was getting older and she thought she needed to take a break. It wasn’t even in Lagos; it was in Ogun State. She had about 50 people working with her. It was a lot of pressure. As time went by, age and all, she felt that she had to take a break from it,” she explained. Although her mum, now retired, still plays the role of a personal fashion consultant for  her, the fresh blood Oluyemisi infused into the business since 2016 has evidently earned OS Creations an enviable place in the fashion industry. Already, Oluyemisi, exuding so much confidence, projected that in the next five years. “We are going to have outlets outside Nigeria. By that time, we will have other outlets in other states of Nigeria. We will definitely be a household name.” Those were not empty projections. They were based on structures she has already put in place, one of which is processes to sustain the business. Her words: “From start to finish, what I did was to put processes in place. I also put quality control measures in place, not just at the end, even during the production process. I have at least two quality control stops.” The quality control extends to service delivery. Again, Oluyemisi explained: “How we approach customers is equally key. We still put quality control in place. That has really made things a lot easier for me and freed up my time. Then also, letting my staff know and understand what is expected of them. I make sure that everybody understands what is expected of him. And then, we have our operating procedures written down so, we are not just working from our heads, no, there is a process in place.” Apart from putting in place processes and  laid down work culture for her staff, the fashion entrepreneur said she is also looking at partnerships. “Partnership is very important; it is important to leverage other people’s strength,” she told The Nation. Justifying the option of partnership, she said: “We are working on partnership because it makes the journey easier, shorter and you find that you go farther than you can alone. You know like they say if you want to go fast, go alone, but if you want to go far, go with people.” The other areas of her operations that have fuelled her optimism of a promising future for OS Creations are technology and digital marketing. “We have leveraged technology. It has made our processes easier. Even satisfying our customers have been a lot easier through technology. “So, we are able to see through the eyes of our customers, what they want, what makes them happy, why they often patronise us,” she said, adding that digital marketing is also a major focus for the company this year. “We are going to be quite aggressive online this time,” she announced.  Nurturing aspiring entrepreneurs, youth, elderly people Interestingly, Oluyemisi’s rise to fame and fortune in the industry has not been without visible impact on those on the lower rung of the social and economic ladder. Noting that one of the things that inspired and kept her going in the business was the opportunity to reach people, she said, for instance, that OS Creations has an internship programme for elderly people who are above 60. The aim, according to her, was to keep the seniors citizens physically and mentally active, and also for them to keep having new experiences. The senior citizens come to her office two or three times a week (depending on what is convenient for them). Under the programme, the company keeps them engaged with new and interesting activities, and ensures they have something to look forward to. That is not all. Oluyemisi also kick-started a programme that caters to the needs of artisans, who, according to her, are a bit neglected in the workforce. Under the programme called ABY (A Better You), she regularly gathers artisans for breakfast, where she holds informal discussions with them on how they can better their lives. “I teach them basic finance, how to save, how to invest; because they just live on daily basis, they don’t have goals, they just live anyhow. So, I teach them how to set goals, for instance,” she said, noting that OS Creations has been on this for a year. “I try to have one every quarter. We should have one sometime in February; we are targeting middle of February for that,” she said. Sharing her perspective on the fashion industry, Oluyemisi said the value of Sub-Saharan Africa’s fashion market is worth $31 billion, with Nigeria accounting for only 15 per cent of that value amounting to $4.7 billion. According to her, South Africa accounts for 46 per cent, an equivalent of $14.4 billion of the Sub-Saharan market value for fashion. She lamented that this is despite that the population of Nigeria is three times more than that of South Africa. ”It (the fashion market) is really huge and it’s largely untapped. Yes, there are so many of us playing in that field, but there is room for you to come in. There is room for growth,” she said.  