Police have arrested seven suspected kidnappers and sex offenders, including child pornographers. Some of the suspects favour abducting women and girls, sexually abusing them and obtaining ransom from their families before setting them free, police said. Two of them were arrested for child pornography. Investigations revealed that the suspects are members of a trans-border child porn syndicate which disseminates the video recordings of the illicit sexual acts in a WhatsApp group chat known as “Pervertidos”, owned and managed by a Brazilian called Adriana. Force spokesman CP Frank Mba said this in a statement on Sunday. Mba quoted Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu as saying that the action plan being implemented by the Force to curb sexual and gender-based violence, is yielding positive results. The statement said, “Five suspects were arrested by operatives of the Intelligence Response Team following a massive manhunt by the Force for the perpetrators of the recent trend of abduction of women in some states in the Southsouth part of the country, especially Port Harcourt and its environs. The victims are subjected to series of sexual abuse and ransom demanded from their families before their release. “The suspects are Osinachi Ngwakwe ‘m’ 22yrs from Ubaka community in Umahia South LGA, Abia State, Sammy Junior Inordee ‘alias T-Boy ‘m’ 27yrs, from Gwarra Community in Khana LGA, Rivers State, Epo-Bari Nwolu ‘m’ 26yrs from Ogale Community in Eleme, LGA, Rivers State, Yabari Gbarale ‘m’ 29yrs from Gwara community, Khana LGA, Rivers State and Barine Yilda ‘m’ 30yrs alias Albino or Yellow from Gwara community, Khana LGA, Rivers State. “Investigations reveal that the suspects target lone female drivers of posh cars as they drive out of offices, shopping malls or any vulnerable places. They trail them to lonely roads, abduct and take them to their criminal hideouts, sexually abuse them and demand ransom from their families before their release. They also sell off their exotic cars. Four AK47 rifles, one double barrel shotgun and a set of military camouflage uniforms suspected to have been illegally acquired, which they wear to beat security checks, were recovered. “Similarly, operatives of the Nigeria Police INTERPOL National Central Bureau (NCB) Abuja have arrested two Kano-based suspects: Ibrahim Muazzam Mohammad Aminu and Mohammad Tahir Umar. “Investigations reveal that the suspects are members of a trans-border/international child porn syndicate which sexually abuse and take undue advantage of underage girls and disseminate the video recordings of the illicit sexual act on an international social media Whatsapp group chat known as “Pervertidos”, owned and managed by a Brazilian called Adriana. Their arrest followed intelligence received from the INTERPOL NCB, Brasilia. Exhibits recovered from the suspects include: three mobile phones and a Laptop computer. Forensic investigations/analysis carried out by the police team on the gadgets revealed the series of pornographic/erotic videos with underage girls which the suspects shared on the internet for a fee denominated in US Dollars. “The arrests are linked to the 2,573 cases currently being prosecuted under the Force Gender Unit in various courts across the country.”