A new political association within the All Progressives Congress (APC), the New Heights Leadership Forum, has described as propaganda and falsehood the allegation that the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was the brain behind the EndSARS protest and that he did it to discredit the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration. Speaking during the inauguration of the group in n Lagos, its Chairman, Ogunseye Adeyinka Solomon, said the allegation “is not only false but mischievous”. He said a man who championed the amalgamation of the three major political parties that formed the APC, which succeeded in winning the presidential election in 2015 and 2019 “cannot stoop so low to cause unrest in the country he loves and cherish so much”. Solomon added: “No one can play down or underestimate the enormous role Bola Ahmed Tinubu played in building the APC and deepening democracy in Nigeria. A man who sacrificed so much in doing this cannot and will not pull down the house he led millions of well-intentioned Nigerians to build. “In very clear, unambiguous and unequivocal terms, Bola Ahmed Tinubu did not sponsor the endSARS movement. No reasonable father, who is well-grounded with the position of the law, will allow his children to embrace unconstitutional ways of expressing their constitutional rights to protest and expressions of grievances. No loving father will fold his hands and allow his children to harassed, oppressed, attacked, maimed or killed.” He said Tinubu is a true progressive and a gift to Nigeria. Solomon said this is the best time for Nigerians to close ranks as one, irrespective of their geo-political zones of origin and become more involved in the day-to-day governance of the country. The chairman said the most appropriate and constitutionally accepted way to do this for individuals is to join a political party. He, therefore, called on Nigerians to take advantage of the current membership revalidation and registration of the APC, to become a member of the party. While appreciating the efforts of both federal and state governments so far to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, the group observed that a large percentage of the populace regard with levity the simplest protocols stipulated by the authorities in this regard, such as the use of facemasks, washing of hands, use of hand sanitisers and social distancing. It implored the authorities to ensure strict compliance with the protocols in public places, to curtail the rise in the number of new infections. 