 The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, has stated that the date of first arrival of vaccines in the country has continued to change due to manufacturing issues. Noting that manufacturers of vaccines already have heavy commitments, Ehanire explained that 95 percent of vaccines manufactured globally so far has gone to only 10 rich and powerful countries. He however disclosed that with the 41 million doses allocated to the country by the Africa Union’s African Vaccines Acquisition Task Team (AVATT) and 15 million doses from COVAX, Nigeria should be able to cover over 50 percent of its target for 2021. Speaking during the briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on covid-19 in Abuja, Ehanire said: “The date of first arrival of vaccines in Nigeria has kept changing because the decision lies with the manufacturer, who already has heavy commitments. According to latest information I have, we have been advised to expect the first COVID-19 vaccines from Covax, to arrive Nigeria as from February. “We shall continue to review plans to ensure smooth rollout in our country, a huge task in the hands of NPHCDA, who is better placed than any organization, with the requisite institutional memory from polio eradication and routine immunization, to deliver the vaccine to all areas of Nigeria. “As with past immunization activities, the full cooperation of State governments will be critical with regard to supporting the remuneration of vaccinators. “The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) is the approving Agency for all vaccines that will be used in Nigeria and this approval is required and must be sought before importation. “Till date, only two companies have submitted the doziers of their vaccines to NAFDAC, where the evaluation is ongoing. Vaccines without NAFDAC certification are illegal and may be dangerous, in the light of fake vaccines, said to be already in circulation in parts of Europe. “Nigeria has been allocated over 41million doses by the AU’s African Vaccines Acquisition Task Team (AVATT) and we can expect 15 of about 42 million doses from COVAX. Altogether, it will give us coverage for over 50 percent of our target for 2021, if we can access all doses promised.”