The All Progressives Congress (APC) Caretaker Chairman and Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni has revalidated his membership at his ward in Buni Geri. He said the party was acting under Article 9(4) of its Constitution. The governor said every member would be carried along. He urged the teeming supporters of the party to come out en-mass to revalidate their membership. Buni called on Nigerians to join the party by taking advantage of the exercise to get registered. “Article 9(4) of our party is very clear about what we are doing. We cannot do anything outside the constitution of the party. “What I want to assure all members of our party is that no member will be left behind,” he said. The National Registration Committee of the APC has designed a special template for Delta State. The Chairman of the Committee and the Governor of Niger State, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, disclosed this after a meeting with the leaders of the party in the state at the National Secretariat in Abuja. The exercise which started on Tuesday nationwide was disrupted and suspended in Delta following a disagreement. The meeting was on the heels of a petition by the Minister of State, Labour and Productivity, Festus Keyamo (SAN) to Buni, who is the Chairman Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) over perceived lopsidedness of the conduct of the exercise in the state. Addressing newsmen after the meeting, Bello said the party has fashioned out a workable template for the exercise in the state. “I believe APC in Delta State is intact. I also believe APC there in Delta will grow bigger. “So I will like to appreciate and thank the stakeholders from Delta State for their contributions to this meeting. “We had a very fruitful meeting and by God’s grace I think the issues have been resolved once and for all.” Keyamo said the letter led to the meeting. He said: “What we fighting for is equity for all not advantage to even me at all. “All we are fighting for is equity justice for all, not an advantage to anybody, not even me as a minister and that is why we came here in the first place. “It was my complaint that ignited this process and then we are all brothers we are all united.” Also at the meeting were APC leaders in Delta Chief Great Ogboru and Chief Otega Emethor; former House of Representatives member, Halim Agoda and the State Chairman, Prophet Jones Erue.