Kano State Executive Council has approved the constitution of a committee to design a Strategic Metropolitan Transport Master Plan to regulate the transport system in the state metropolis. Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, stated this while briefing newsmen on the outcome of the council meeting at Africa House, Kano. He said the development of a Transport Master Plan for the state is aimed at strengthening economic growth and development in line with the megacity goal of the present administration. Garba said the terms of reference of the committee include working out a comprehensive mass transit system in order to address the current transportation challenges by identifying facilities and services necessary to manage the dynamics of Kano as  an emerging megacity. The commissioner pointed out that the committee would also work on identifying routes for the proposed mass transit service buses, their model and capacity as well as bus stops for free flow of human and vehicular movement. He also disclosed that the committee would determine the source of funding for the procurement of the buses that might be through a Public-Private Partnership (PPP), acquiring loan facility or direct purchase. Garba also stated that the committee had been charged with the responsibility of working on the master plan that would have an impact on the economy of the state considering that an effective transport system is key to the productivity of any active economy. According to the commissioner, the all-inclusive committee would make proposals on floating an out-fit and laws to regulate the transport system in the metro area and also review previous interventions by the World Bank and the Department for International Development (DFID). The committee, which is under the chairmanship of a one-time Commissioner for Works Housing  and Transport, Professor Abdu Salihi, has representation from the National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Kano Emirate Council, Civil Society Organisations (CSOs), the Ulama, the Police, Department of State Service (DSS), investors, Nigeria Institute of Transport Technology. Others are the academic community, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Kano Road Traffic Agency (KAROTA), Vehicle Inspection Office (VIO), Kano State Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (KACCIMA), Kano Urban Planning and Development Authority (KNUPDA). The rest are Kano Investment Commission (KNINVEST), Kano State Transport Authority aka Kano Line, the state House of Assembly, Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union Congress (TUC), Joint Negotiation Council (JNC), Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ). A one-time Commissioner for Works Housing and Transport and Adviser to the governor on Infrastructure, Engr. Masur Ahmad is to serve as secretary of the committee.