A group under the aegis of Northern People’s Democratic Party Youth has given the PDP’s Board of Trustees (BoT), National Working Committee (NWC) and other prominent stakeholders of the party, a 24-hour ultimatum to make all possible moves to retain Chief Femi Fani-Kayode in the party. The group said failure to do so will cost the party havoc and disaffection not only in the northern region but also across the entire six geopolitical zones of the country. The Zonal Youth Leader of Northern People’s Democratic Party Youth, Hon. Ibrahim Ahmadu, who gave the ultimatum in a statement noted that after series of deliberations and wide consultations with other zones, they have resolved that Chief Femi Femi-Kayode should be persuaded to remain in the party by all means. Ibrahim Ahmadu said: “it is very unfortunate and sad that the leadership of the PDP leadership could allow such a prominent figure in the party leave.” “After a series of deliberations and wide consultations, We the Northern youth group of PDP have decided to give the BOT, NWC a 24 hours ultimatum to meet with chief Femi Fani-Kayode and persuade him to return to the party. A failure to do that will result in untoward and unimaginable outcomes for the party.” He alleged the group gathered that there are attempts by the ruling party to woo Fani-Kayode to APC. He maintained that “though he has the right to join any party, it is going to be a disaster for PDP to allow such a vibrant and dogged political figure, who has wide contacts and followers across Nigeria, including international community to leave the party.” He noted that PDP, as the main opposition, should ensure all measures should be taken to keep aggrieved members within the party if it must win the 2023 elections. “We can confidently say that the ruling APC has been very smart with the attempt to snatch Chief Fani-Kayode to their fold. “Though Fani-Kayode has the right to join whatever party but the PDP must ensure it does everything possible to ensure he returns to the party because losing such a huge figure can only spell doom for the party,” he noted. Ahmadu urged party leaders and stakeholders to meet Chief Femi Fani-Kayode with the next 24 hours before APC consolidates on it moves to poach him.