The Medicaid Cancer Foundation (MCF) has called on the Federal Government, States and other critical stakeholders to ramp up institutionalised screening, testing and treatment of cancer patients across the country, especially during the covid-19 pandemic. It noted that covid-19 has led to interruptions, delays and even a complete halt in prevention programmes, diagnostics and testing, clinical trials and research. It further stated that there have been difficulties in maintaining life-saving services, not only due to a drop in resources but also because of the measures enacted to contain the spread of the Coronavirus and infection of patients with an underlying disease like cancer. To commemorate this year’s World Cancer Day, the organization in a statement said: “Medicaid Cancer Foundation calls for urgent actions on early-stage cancer detection, institutionalized screening, and diagnosis to significantly improve cancer patients’ chances of survival. “The difficulties in engaging in community outreach with restrictions on travel and social gathering creates great obstacles in low- and middle-income countries. “This year, as we struggle to comply with Covid19 protocols, we are distributing the ‘OrangeBox’; in commemoration of World Cancer Day (WCD) to 20 cancer warriors across Nigeria. Each box contains essential warrior supplies and a grant of N200,000 ($550) funding for drugs and chemotherapy. “Despite these, our successful Patient Access to Cancer Care Evolution (PACE) program received a boost with the inclusion of more drugs and consumables from drug companies within and outside Nigeria. These include Roche, Sanofi, Pfizer, Jansen and RemedyChainInc. In particular, we are pleased to announce on this WCD 2021, the inclusion of Perjeta(Pertuzumab) by Roche and Ibrance (palbociclib) by Pfizer; both used in the treatment of metastatic breast cancer. “This encapsulates the extraordinary spirit of togetherness that exists in the global cancer community. Finally, through UNITAID support, we will be training 20 healthcare workers in Abuja and Kebbi on early treatment of cervical cancer lesions using thermal ablation. This is in line with the WHO’s global strategy to eliminate cervical cancer by 2030. “MCF is committed to the strategy whilst ensuring Nigerian cancer patients have access to finance for treatment, adequate nutrition and psychosocial support to help them navigate through the new normal. Without effective communication our programs will not be of value to those who need it most, this is why Medicaid Cancer Foundation has partnered with Media Women Forum of Nigeria, to amplify cancer as a public health issue.” Dr. Zainab Shinkafi-Bagudu, Consultant Pediatrician, Member of the UICC Board of Directors and Founder of Medicaid Cancer Foundation and member of National Cancer Control committee said: “There has been notable progress globally in cancer care recently. High-income countries have seen drops in incidence and mortality rates for certain cancers. In low- and middle-income countries such as Nigeria, we have played a significant part in advocacy and awareness creation, treatment support, palliative care and are seeing a promising increase in cancer control; as well as strategic moves by the Federal and State Governments towards the implementation of National Cancer Control Plans, expansion of the NHIS to cover some cancer surgeries and chemotherapies. “The Nigerian Government and agencies must urgently make good their promise to introduce HPV vaccines into our routine immunization packages. “With the IARC world cancer report finding that the total economic cost of cancer is $1.16 Trillion – now is not the time to lose ground but to move forward and take advantage of the innovations that are emerging as a ‘silver lining’ to COVID-19 and use the opportunity to improve health infrastructure and systems across the country, as the pandemic passes.”