A few years ago, the celebrity world appeared, for the most part, to be a clear cut phenomenon. In it existed Hollywood’s stars, the music industry’s finest, and sports leading stars – the faces that were, at least when they appeared on screen or in our magazines, somehow intangibly different to us. Recent years, however, have seen a remarkable shift, and a notable re-write to our pre-existing definition of what it means to be a celebrity. This shift first began around a decade ago, when YouTube underwent a transformation from a video archive to something far more immediate. From makeup artists to fitness gurus, celebrity status has been awarded to an incredibly wide variety of home-based content creators who offer something far more relatable, homespun and spontaneous than linear television or cinema ever could. This, coupled with the rise of social media – and, of course, the individuals who rose to stardom simply by virtue of this platform – meant that ‘celebrity’ gradually became something far more attainable, relatable, and authentic. The internet continued its evolution, however, and the past few years have seen its emphasis turn on the world of gaming. From online gameplay to live streams, the gaming world has begun to give rise to new celebrities, and to offer a novel platform for those who have, until now, made their fortune via more traditional channels. Read more below. The gaming industry enjoys a unique position within the entertainment sector. On the one hand, the complex, creative narratives and immersive experience it facilitates ensure that it poses an indomitable rival to the world of film, TV and literature; on the other hand, the high level of skill, practice, concentration and adeptness it demands from the very best players mean that it can take advantage of the buzz that surrounds professional sports. Take, for instance, the popular online poker site GGPoker, which has created a home for some of the most influential and widely recognised poker players the world has ever seen. These celebrities facilitate observation and excitement from fans of the genre, as well as inspiring them to join in. Similarly, in the world of team-based online games – most notably, perhaps, the online battle arena League of Legends – the competitive nature of the game gives rise to vertiginous leader boards and, with it, a new wave of players able to achieve a celebrity status not unlike that of the sporting world. In the same vein, even when no human to human competition is involved, players can enjoy taking a break from their own progress and merely sitting and observing the professionals as they work their magic. It is for this reason that streaming sites like Twitch have grown so popular over the years – gamers with the stage presence, charisma, and skill to present their own ‘sport’ to the world can make their millions – both in terms of fans, and money – doing so. It may, then, begin to seem as though the gaming world has created a niche – though, admittedly, large – platform through which the most skilled and compelling players can rise to a celebrity status.  However, it needn’t feel so clear cut. On the contrary, it could be perceived that the online celebrities are now, for the most part, leading the way forward, and that those who utilise traditional channels may stand to benefit from adapting their approach. Over the past few months, Twitch has seen an influx of already well-established stand-up comedians make their way onto the platform, and extend their existing celebrity status into the world of live streaming. In this way, gaming has become an extension of their act. By bonding with fans over a shared interest in a gaming title – for instance, in the case of comedian Bilal Zafar, Pro Evolution Soccer – they can utilise their skills on off-the-cuff, spontaneous soliloquising and comedy skits in a setting that has, perhaps, grown more favourable among viewers in recent years. Thus, as the world of online gaming continues to transform the ways in which we interact with – and create – celebrity culture, so too can the original breed of celebrities transform themselves, and embrace a new type of existence within online popular culture.