The Delta State Judicial Panel of Inquiry on Police Brutality and Extra-Judicial Killings has been told how the police detained an alleged kidnap suspect, Anthony Ogbalor a.k.a Dracula, without treatment resulting in his death in police cell. Wilson Ogbalor, a brother of the deceased, petitioned the panel alleging that his brother was tortured and killed by the police after he was arrested without trial. The panel also admitted in evidence, a video clip tendered by the police of late Anthony Ogbalor aka Dracula, allegedly confessing to his crime. The clip was admitted and marked exhibit DW3 in Asaba during the panel sitting which was presided over by the chairman, Justice Christiana Ogisi (rtd). Police counsel, F.N. Oduna tendered the video clip after it was played during examination of his witness, CPS Anietie Eyoh, an officer currently serving at the Nassarawa State Police Command. Under cross-examination, the witness said he was the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in Warri, Delta State, when the deceased suspect and his gang members were arrested in December, 2017. CSP Eyoh said he led the team that arrested the suspect at Otor-Iyede in Isoko area of Delta State after he and his gang members allegedly kidnapped a woman in Warri and collected a ransom of N3.2 million. He said the suspect fell down from the ceiling while attempting to evade arrest, and sustained injury. He said suspect was taken to the station and his statement was immediately obtained during which the confessional video clip was recorded. The witness stated that the suspect was subsequently treated before his case was transferred to the command headquarters in Asaba for further investigation. Eyoh said he was later told that the suspect collapsed in police cell in Asaba and was rushed to the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) where he died as a result of injuries. Eyoh said the deceased suspect failed to disclose to interrogators that he was diabetic. Petitioner’s counsel, Bar. Izobo contended that the deceased did not die at FMC, noting that his corpse was only referred to the morgue at FMC. He said the deceased suspect was taken to the Police Clinic after he collapsed in the cell, adding that it was at the police clinic that he died and his corpse referred to FMC morgue. He argued that the witness held on to the suspect for six days without treatment before transferring him to Asaba. Izobo contended that the late suspect’s statement was obtained in Asaba on December 28, 2017 even though he was arrested on December, 20. Justice Christiana Ogisi (rtd) adjourned the matter to March 1, 2021.