 It is not surprising entirely that the Federal Government has remained at odds with oil-producing communities on what should constitute equitable benefits to the latter in the revised Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) currently under consideration by the National Assembly. Speaking at the two-day public hearing by the senate last week, Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Sylva, said the 2.5 percent fund proposed in the revised bill for the host communities is “fair”. His words: “Before now, you had the provision of 10 per cent of profit and profit means that if I don’t declare it, you don’t have anything…But in this case, it is 2.5 per cent of Operating Expenses (OPEX). So, at the end of the year, you look at your operating cost and take 2.5 per cent of that cost to the budget of the next year. As far as we are concerned, we have made a fair proposal. Fair to the host communities, to the country and to the oil communities”. The oil-producing communities represented by Oil Host Communities (HOSTCOM) however sees things differently. In the words of HOSTCOM National President, Benjamin Tamaranebi, “What we want is 10 per cent equity remittance from the various oil firms to respective host communities as proposed in the PIB considered in the seventh National Assembly but not assented to”. To him, it made little sense that the paltry 2.5 per cent is currently being proposed even when the eighth National Assembly had during its earlier work on the bill settled on five per cent. He considers it “absurd” and “economically illogical” to deprive HOSTCOM the right to equity shareholding in both the establishment of the NNPC Limited, the commission, the authority and the boards. We understand the premises from which the two apparently disparate positions flow from as indeed the sentiments driving them. Whereas the Federal Government prefers to tie revenue accruals to the host communities to the operating expenses of the oil companies and which it sets at 2.5 per cent, the host communities would rather a guaranteed equity holding in the emerging entities, hence its push for 10 per cent. But then, those essentially are as far as their differences go. Both recognise the needs of the host communities and the need to create special funds to address them. In other words, they both recognise that the current fiscal arrangements are not only inadequate but fall short on fairness and equity, given what the oil-producing communities are forced to put up with in terms of environmental devastation and general underdevelopment. Either of the two positions of course has its merits, which means that the issue comes basically to which of the two positions offers a more practicable pathway to the desired end. On the one hand, HOSTCOM’s insistence on equity shareholding would seem more than mere push for economic benefits but also for ownership and participation. The government, on the other hand, believes that the communities would be better served under an arrangement in which accruals to them would be tied to oil industry operations. In staking its position, the government appears to have put into consideration, the interests of other stakeholders. Unfortunately, as in every case involving the government and the host communities, what seems apparent here is the failure on the part of the government to properly articulate and communicate that preferred position to the communities. Even at that, it needs to be said that nothing in the two divergent positions could be deemed as irreconcilable. All that is required is willingness to engage. The bottom-line is a Petroleum Industry Bill that works not just for a few powerful interests but for the country, and no less the host communities.