Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, has commissioned an ICT centre at a secondary school in Numan, Adamawa with a charge on the students to make the best of the centre to gain digital knowledge and beat the world. Commissioning the ICT Centre built by the Federal Government through the Nigeria Content Development & Monitoring Board (NCDMB) at the Villanova Government College Numan, Boss Mustapha said: “We are taking Villanova to the rest of the world and bringing the rest of the world to Villanova.” The SGF who on Saturday also commissioned similar centre at the Government Day Secondary School in Garaha, Hong local government area, told the Villanova students at the Sunday commissioning in Numan to view ICT as the source of answers to emerging problems. “This is introducing you to the digital world. COVID-19 has brought the world a new normal. People are being asked to work from home. You can’t work from home without ICT. “Other challenges will come to which ICT will provide the answer. The world moves on and won’t wait for you. Use ICT to live,” he told the students. The Villanova Government College built in 1960 and named after one of the missionary officials who influenced its establishment, remains one of Adamawa’s foremost secondary schools with the new ICT Centre, one of only two of its kind in the state, as a welcome enhancer. Executive Secretary of the NCDMB, Engr Simbi Wabote, explained the centre, built in selected secondary schools across the country, is meant to raise the human capital at the secondary level of education development. He said: “We want Nigerians to be major players in the oil industry in terms of high tech staffing. Our people have to be well grounded in ICT and the best way is to catch them young. “This is why we are building ICT Centres complete with solar-powered electricity so that activities can take place as much as required. “The ICT centres necessarily provide internet connectivity services so that our students can keep abreast with the world in all their subjects. “Whether it is Physics or whatever subjects, our students can see what their mates are doing anywhere around the world.”