 Last year, we had stringently condemned the attempt, by the government of Cross River State, to block Hon. Justice Akon Ikpeme’s elevation as substantive Chief Judge of Cross River, on the mundane argument that she was not an indigene. Justice Ikpeme, who hails from Akwa Ibom, is married to a Cross River indigene. Even then, her nativity and marriage became contentious because Akwa Ibom was, in 1987,  carved out of the original Cross River State.  Had that not happened, claims that she was non-indigene, though married to a son of the soil, would not have arisen.   That further fuelled the initial anger that though the National Judicial Council (NJC) recommended her for the job, the state legislature considered her a security risk; and refused to approve her nomination. Justice Ikpeme, who had worked through the ranks in the Cross River State Judiciary and had successfully acted as the state Chief Judge, petitioned the NJC over the discriminatory practice. Like other well-meaning Nigerians, we considered the Cross River legislature’s argument a travesty; and canvased her elevation to  her rightful position. Olumide Akpata, the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) president, would also lead a lobby to put pressure on the governor, and the state House of Assembly, to give the learned Justice her due. Thankfully, Justice Ikpeme has now been confirmed by the legislature. We commend Governor Ben Ayade for yielding and expect him to immediately swear her in, to close that chapter in the annals of the Cross River judiciary. The governor is too seasoned  a scholar and professor to follow such reactionary antics of the state House of Assembly. Under his watch, the state wanted to forgo merit, just because Akwa Ibom was few decades ago carved out of Cross River. We, however, acknowledge that the governor is not alone in this anachronistic practice — sexism and backward nativism — which appears endemic in all parts of the country. We recall the Court of Appeal saga of Justice Ijeoma Jombo-Ofo, during the tenure of Abia Governor, Theodore Orji. Though Justice Jumbo-Ofo was Anambra-born, she married in Abia State and, in Governor Orji’s own words she, all the 21 years since Abia was created, had served the state’s Judiciary “meritoriously”.  The governor therefore, nominated her for a Court of Appeal slot. But counter-lobbies from Abia fired petitions to block the move, claiming that since the jurist was Anambra-born, she couldn’t possibly occupy an Abia slot!  That caused a delay since, based on the petitions, CJN, Justice Mariam Aloma Muktar (incidentally, Nigeria’s first and only female CJN thus far), dithered to swear in the jurist.  But Governor Orji put his foot down; and Justice Jumbo-Ofo eventually got the job. This tragic flaw, of the Nigerian federation, deserves to be rooted out.  Perhaps the clamour for indigeneship by residence, if actualized, would stop the discriminatory practice?  Imagine the great injustice to the jurist, had Governor Orji not stood his ground? It is an aberration that governments of a modern state would argue that a woman married to an indigene of a state, is technically not from that state. Yet, the citizenship of a country, with all the privileges appertaining thereto, is conferred through marriage. We also observe that not just state officials, but citizens are beholden to this base and backward argument. Of course, if a ballot is taken, there is the probability that majority of the people of the Cross River may side their governor. So, that challenge is deep-rooted.  Therefore, it requires a radical reorientation of the mind-set of the majority of Nigerians to stop that culture. In some parts of the country, the prevailing belief is that women are not good enough to hold the exalted position of Chief Judge. In some others, the worry is the religion a candidate practices. In places where a religion is dominant, candidates of the minority religion are segregated against. Still in some others, the governors try to impose their preferences on the judiciary. Finally, we urge that the Constitution be amended to stop the overbearing influence of the executive in the appointment of judges, including the Chief Judges. Another major area of conflict, that requires scrutiny, is the conflict between the NJC, a federal organ, and the state executive, especially when the state prefers a candidate different from the person recommended by the NJC. as a federal system, state should take precedence, but it should always wield a fair hand. Going forward, the legislature and executive should eschew overbearing negative interference in judicial appointments, as such chicanery can erode confidence in that important arm, in any modern society.