 The Nigerian economy is expected to expand this year, assuming the COVID-19 vaccine rollout is successful and becomes widespread throughout the country. The pandemic has caused a heavy toll of deaths and illness, plunged millions into poverty, and depressed economic activities and incomes for a prolonged period. The pandemic has greatly exacerbated debt risks and weakens growth. The World Bank projected that COVID-19 will cause the first increase in global poverty since 1998. Since last year, the economy entered a subdued recovery and governments at all levels faced formidable challenges in debt management and budget policies as they try to ensure that the fragile recovery recorded across the economy gains traction and sets a foundation for robust growth. For analysts, the government needs to act rapidly and forcefully make sure the impact of COVID 19 is reduced. Hence, Federal and States government policy priorities are controlling the spread of COVID-19 and ensuring that there is a future for vaccine deployment. But global organisations, private sector partners, philanthropists, are calling on world leaders not to forget the fight against neglected tropical diseases (NTDs) and their impact on economies while the campaign is on to tackle the spread of COVID 19. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), over 1.7 billion people are affected by NTDs, which cause immeasurable suffering around the world. The hardest hit are India, Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo, countries already highly endemic for NTDs. Speaking in Lagos during rabies vaccines distribution campaign in Ikorodu, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Olusanya said since COVID-19 has amplified economic challenges worldwide, the state road map now envisages important shifts and one of them is the integration of critical health issues to ensure they don’t hamper the growth of the agricultural sector. According to her, failure to collaborate and pool-in resources to take such emergencies will jeopardise the progress made by the government in strengthening food production, as there were emerging diseases that must be integrated to save vulnerable communities. One area attracting the government’s attention is rabies. The scourge costs the global economy an estimated $124 billion annually. According to WHO, an estimated 59,000 people die from rabies worldwide each year, almost all infected by dogs. The horrible symptoms of rabies are that of patients suffering convulsions and becoming aggressive, just like rabid dogs. Analysts said most deaths associated with rabies were unreported and most people do not go to the hospital to treat the disease. This is due to the limited availability and expense of the anti-rabies treatments, the distances involved, and lack of education about rabies prevention and treatment. According to them, investing in rabies elimination globally will eventually free up an estimated $8.6 billion in economic resources each year. Ms Olusanya was very optimistic about the state‘s approach to ending rabies and the commitment of its people. Lagos is reaching 1.5 million dogs to tackle the impact of rabies. She said that the state government as a responsive government has made the exercise free for the citizenry. “With an estimated 1.5 million dogs in the state, I hereby enjoin all individuals, corporate organisations and communities to collaborate to a more responsible dog ownership to curb the strain of rabid animals in the environment.’’  The Lagos began a two-week free mass anti-rabies vaccination campaign programme to curb the menace of rabies in the State. She said the state has a strategic plan to effectively use vaccines, medicines, tools, and technologies that will stop dog rabies transmission and reduce the risk of human rabies deaths. Ms Olusanya explained that the vaccination campaign is aimed at promoting awareness of rabies among dogs and cats since rabies is a deadly disease mostly transmitted to humans through infected dogs’ bites which can result in fatalities if not treated early. The Commissioner disclosed that the need for the campaign arose as a result of the increase in reported cases of canine rabies across the State making it a persistent endemic problem. According to her, 6,250 vaccines are to be administered to dogs and cats that are made available at any of the State Government Veterinary Clinics in the five divisions of the State. The commissioner said that the exercise would take place at centres in the five divisions of the state. The venues include the Veterinary Clinic, Odogunyan, Ikorodu; Veterinary Centre, Epe Local Government Compound, Orita Marun Epe; Veterinary Clinic, Ajah and the Veterinary Clinic, Benson Street, Surulere. Others include the Veterinary Clinic at Aiyedoto Farms Settlement, Agric Road, Ojo; Veterinary Clinic on Beach Road, Badagry and the Animal Hospital, Oko Oba, Agege. “We have seven state veterinary clinics and so many other private clinics out there, so it is critical that we take our pets to some of these centres to get them vaccinated as quickly as possible. “I urge you to ensure the registration and yearly vaccination of pets and other animals at the nearest government veterinary hospitals, clinics as well as government’s registered private animal health care centres at the clinic of their choice.” Across the state, she noted that vaccination clinics will vaccinate as many dogs as possible, and ultimately, protect whole communities from disease. Earlier, the Chief Veterinary Officer of Nigeria, Dr. Olaniyan Alabi noted that an estimated 70,000 people globally die of rabies annually adding that less than five per cent of dogs were vaccinated in Nigeria due to the high cost of the vaccine. Alabi, who was represented by Dr Mairo Kachalla, added that the disease was transmitted through the bite of an infected animal or man with 99 per cent fatality if efficient post-exposure prophylaxis treatment is not instituted early. He said that rabies was a highly fatal viral disease affecting all warm-blooded animals adding that despite the high fatality, the disease is 100 per cent preventable through mass dog vaccination and enlightenment campaigns as dogs account for 99 per cent of human deaths resulting from rabies. He said that the World Organisation for Animal (OIE) recommends that at least 70 per cent of dogs should be vaccinated annually for three consecutive years to break the transmission cycle of rabies and consequently eliminate the disease. According to him, rabies is one of the priorities Transboundary Animal Disease and has remained endemic in Nigeria since it was first reported in 1912. “This disease thrives in low to medium income countries of Africa and Asia affecting mostly children of school age due to ignorance. It is estimated globally that 70,000 people die of rabies annually. “Some of the constraints in the control of this disease in Nigeria is that majority of dogs are unlicensed, unvaccinated and allowed to roam freely in the communities. “Also, the dog to human population ratio is high as dogs are increasingly being bred and used for hunting, security and companionship purposes among others. In Nigeria, it has been reported that less than 5% of dogs are vaccinated due to the high cost of the vaccine. “As a result of the increase in the number of cases globally and the impact on public health, the tripartite collaboration of WHO, OIE and FAO set an agenda for the eradication of dog-mediated human rabies by the year 2030. “In our effort to achieve this global target, the department of veterinary and pest control services sought for additional international support and OIE responded by donating 200,000 doses of Anti-Rabies Vaccine (ARV) to the country. This is to assist us in the control of rabies.” An expert, Dr Kareem Lukman said education and public awareness on rabies and responsible pet ownership were ways to control the spread of the disease. He said that full-blown rabies is 100 per cent fatal. Lukman, who spoke on the “Effect of Rabies in Humans”, said the vaccination campaign was a great step to eradicating rabies in the country. He said that rabies is caused when an infect dog bites or scratch a human, thereby, the virus infect the central nervous system, causing disease in the brain and also death. “Rabies is mostly carried by bats, infected dogs, raccoons and wide animal. “All patients that present full-blown rabies are going to die. “However, this disease is preventable and this is the purpose of this gathering,’’ he said. Lukman urged dog owners and the general public to vaccinate their pets regularly and report to the hospital in case of any eventualities. Experts said eliminating dog-mediated rabies will not only save an estimated 300 000 lives within five years and improve living conditions for millions of people but will contribute to improving global health security.