The House of Representatives said on Wednesday that it will consider and pass the Electoral Act 2020 when its members who are currently in their constituencies for membership drive would have returned to plenary. The House also appealed to Nigerians, especially members of the organized Labour to be patient with the House over the issue of the bill seeking to remove minimum wage from the exclusive list and transferring same to the concurrent list, adding that even though the bill scaled second reading, they still have opportunity to make their voice known during the public hearing. Spokesman of the House, Hon. Benjamin Kalu told newsmen at the end of Wednesday’s sitting of the House that the House was determined to pass the bill before the end of April 2021, adding that presently, technical work on the bill has been concluded and the report ready for consideration. The report which was initially scheduled to be presented the House on Tuesday was later stepped down on the prompting of the Leadership, but Kalu said it was to allow more members to be present for consideration. According to him, most members want the report considered immediately it is presented to plenary, adding that since many members are currently not present as a result of the ongoing APC membership registration/revalidation exercise, it will not be ideal to go ahead with the consideration. Kalu said “we have promised Nigerians that the bill will be out before the middle of this year which is June, we are certain that it will not go beyond the middle of this year. “The determination of the house is to get it discharged even before the end of April. As you all know, the report is ready, it was table for presentation yesterday. But due to the fact the most members wanted the report to come in and be considered the same day and the house needed to be full to do that, it was stepped down. “The Electoral Act is very important to what we do and you cannot consider it when we have a lot of constituencies not represented on the floor. “As you are aware, most members are at their various constituencies now particularly members of APC, doing the membership drive and if you consider the report and you cut out some members who are supposed to be there to see whether the clauses, paragraphs, the provision of the particular bill covers their interest or not, you are doing a disservice to the people that they represent. “So in the wisdom of the leadership of the house, it decided to suspend it until we are able to have a fuller house to be able to do the consideration because it is one of those laws that affects the whole nation. “It is time sensitive. In law, we say time is of the essence in the formalization of this Electoral Act and having that in mind, we are going to prioritise the Electoral Act because of the time element in it. “Be assured that in no distant time, it is going to come up for laying because they have finished the technical work on it. So let’s have a fuller house that will be able to ensure that all the clauses carry the intention of the house.” Asked whether party issues should take precedent over national issues like the Electoral Act, Kalu said “No, reasonability takes place. We need to apply our reason. For example, if a member goes out to pray and you raised a very important motion when you know most of them are praying. You are not being reasonable. “It is just like asking whether religious interest should go against national interest. You are not killing the initiative, but suspending it to carry members along. The parliament of the people should carry everybody along. “It has nothing to do with political party. But APC is a major political party in the House and you know that the House works with number. It is important to give everybody the opportunity to participate in either voice vote or saying no. “The House was under pressure to get it done the same day and we know it is important to do it so that the timetable of elections will start counting very well, we must consider the fact that it must be done in a better way that is all inclusive. That was what influenced it and not political party influencing it. It was reasonability that took the order of the day.” On why the House wants the Minimum wage moved to the concurrent list and not salaries of elected officers at the state level, he said “if the governors are allowed to fix salaries for the State House of Assembly, they might force them to be subservient to them and that will not help the system. “The same applies to the governors. If you ask the state Assembly to fix their salaries, there might be a problem. But now that the salaries are fixed by a different agency, things are ok. I think the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission has been doing well so far. “On the issue of minimum wage, let me say that the bill will still go for public hearing where the issues will be debated by Nigerians. We expect organized labour and other Nigerians to submit memos. At the end of the day, the Sponsor of the bill might see better reasons to withdraw the bill.”