There is palpable anxiety in the six major markets in Nnewi, Anambra State following the government’s increasing restrictions and strictness to the observance of COVID-19 safety protocols in the area. The government had last week shut one of the markets in the area over violation of the protocols. Traders and customers at the markets vowed to adhere strictly to the protocols to avert any penalties, saying they were ready to go the extra mile to ensure they did not fall victim of their counterparts’ experience who were kept out of business for some days before the market was reopened. Reacting to the strict instructions to the protocols observance, Chairman of Fairly Used Motor Spare Parts Dealers Association, Nkwo Nnewi, Mr Chinedu Enyeribe said they only attend to customers with facemasks. He said his association had placed buckets of water with soaps and sanitizers at strategic points in the market, adding that a rule to sanction defaulters had been put in place. He said, “We have started strict observance to the extent that my members no longer attend to customers who are not wearing facemasks in addition to other protocols. “We suffered hunger during the lockdown of the first wave of the virus. So we will not like to do anything that will return us to that condition again.” Similarly, Chairman of Fairly Used and New Motorcycle Dealers Association, Nwagbara, Mr Chukwueloka Ubajekwe said he constituted a COVID-19 protocols taskforce which he headed to ensure strict compliance. He noted that his association had an increased level of strictness to the protocols that defaulters were fined to avoid the closure of their market. “In my own market, we observe the protocols to the letter. As the head of the Covid-19 protocols taskforce, I do the work by myself and before you enter the market you must wear your facemask, without which you will be penalized or not allowed entrance. “We can exempt those with a complaint of one respiratory challenge or the other. We are ready to help the government in any way we can to fight the spread of the disease. We are obedient to government guidelines. That even helps us to cultivate a hygienic living, “he said.