A lawyer to former Accountant-General of the Federation (AGoF), Jonah Otunla, Bebia Victor Okangbe has insisted the Federal Government entered into a non-prosecution agreement with his former client for the ex-AGoF to return some alleged diverted public funds to the government. Okangbe spoke while testifying before a Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday as Otunla’s witness at the hearing of a suit filed by the former AGoF to enforce the said agreement. Led in evidence by Otunla’s new lawyer, Ahmed Raji (SAN), Okangbe adopted his two written statements, detailing his role in the transaction. Raji equally tendered, through the witness, a bundle of documents, which the court admitted in evidence when lawyer to the defendant, Sylvanus Tahir did not object. Under cross-examination by Tahir (who represented the sole defendant, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission), Okangbe said he represented Otunla all through the process leading to the agreement. He said the agreement was oral, and that he was not a party in the agreement, but represented his client all through. “I acted as his counsel during the investigation by the EFCC and the office of the National Security Adviser. I was not investigated. I only acted as his counsel,” the witness said. He added that the oral agreement was extracted from the then Chairman of the tribunal of inquiry set up by the government, Air Vice Marshal Odei (retired). The witness added that, out of the four companies that also made refund to the government along with the plaintiff, Otunla has interest in only two. On whether he ever met the then Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Okangbe said he never met Ibrahim Magu in person but he met about four or five of his officers after having been directed from the office of the National Security Adviser. “I never met Magu in person. I met his staff. I didn’t need to meet Magu,” the witness added. On why he did not mention the agreement in the letters he wrote to the EFCC, as Otunla’s lawyer and which formed part of the documents he tendered in court, Okangbe said the agreement was not in issue then, which informed why it was not referred to in the letters. When Tahir indicated that he was done with his cross-examination, Raji applied to close the plaintiff’s case, following which the defendant’s lawyer sought a date to open his case. Justice Inyang Ekwo then adjourned till March 3, 2021. Otunla claimed, in the suit marked:FHC/ABJ/CS/122/20  that Magu promised him that he would not be prosecuted should he return funds traced to him, companies linked to him and his associates. He stated that sometime in 2015, he was invited by a team of EFCC’s investigators, probing alleged diversion of funds from the office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) and the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) pension funds. Otunla said he later met with Magu, in the course of the investigation, when the then acting EFCC Chair told him in person to “refund the monies linked to your companies and nobody will prosecute you.” He said based on Magu’s promise he had a reconciliatory meeting with the team of investigators, where he immediately undertook to make available some funds as refunds. In line with the agreement, Otunla said one of the companies linked to him – Stellar Vera Development Ltd – refunded N750m; another company – Damaris Mode Coolture Ltd – refunded N550m, while the two firms later made additional joint refund of N2,150,000,000.00. He added that, at a point, he raised several managers cheques for N10m in favour of the EFCC, which he handed to its Economic Governance Section. Otunla said, in all, he made a refund of N6,392,000,000.00 to the Federation Account through the EFCC. He is praying the court to, among others, hold that, in view of the assurance given to him by Magu, which informed his refund of the money, he could no longer be prosecuted for his actions while in office between 2011 and 2015.