Super Eagles skipper Ahmed Musa has described as fantastic his relationship with family-both immediate and extended. “Family comes first to me and I cherish every moment that I have to be with my wife and children. We’ve been enjoying that very well since I stopped playing for Al Nassr,” Musa noted while talking about how he spends his time without weekend matches.   Musa, 28, cherishes family connection hence he often take to his twitter handle to celebrate members of his family, especially his wife and likes to post pictures of his children during a family outing. “I love family. Family means the world to me. I leant that from my father and mother and the fact that I assumed head of my family, as the only male in the family, also built in me that commitment to family life.” Celebrating his wife Juliet during his birthday, Musa wrote on his twitter handle: “That I’m blessed to have you in my life is an understatement. You have been the source of my strength and the one who keeps me going especially when I have no clue sometimes. You are a dream come true and I won’t change you for anything in the world. Happy Anniversary Wifey” He recalled a moment late last year when he had to come out in the open when fake news hit the airwaves about members of his family contacting Coronavirus. Musa wrote: “It has come to my notice that certain individuals have decided to post false news about me testing positive to Covid 19. We are perfectly okay and have not tested positive to the virus. Please don’t fall for the malicious messages circulating about me or my family.” Musa also treasures his children, a girl and three boys informing that he comes from a family that loves children and likes them around.  His philanthropic gesture has endeared him to the people of Jos, where he grew up and Kano, where he horn his skill professionally, and the entire Northern region, a gesture he attributed to strong family ties. In 2017, he commissioned a multi million Naira sports facility in Kano. According to Musa:  “People like football in Kano and they pay money to train in different places, so I thought that it would be good to have a standard place where all these people could have a good place to train, play football and relax.” On the same day his sports centre was unveiled, Ahmed Musa was turbaned as the ‘Jagaban Matasan Arewa’ by the northern youths and the association of the northern Nigerian students. The title which translates as champion of women in Northern Nigeria was conferred on the 24 year old (at the time) in recognition and appreciation of his support for youths and contribution to communal development. The ceremony was attended by dignitaries including the chairman of Kano state sports commission, Ibrahim Galadima. In addition to promoting sports and ensuring youth support, Ahmed Musa is extremely involved in charity. It is customary for him to distribute money to widows and poor people in his community during the Ramadan festival. He has also helped secure freedom for no fewer than 40 children including young adults that were remanded in at the Taurey, Goron Dutse Prison Yard, and Remands Home for Children and Kurmawa Prison all in Kano state. Not to mention distributing bag of rice to the needy. Musa’s latest addition to his superlative acquisition was unveiled on Tuesday, February 1, 2021; a multimillion Naira sport facility located in Kaduna. Similar to the Kano multi-purpose sport multifaceted, the complex has a gym, standard swimming pool, a five-a-side synthetic astro-turf pitch, and an event and seminal hall. In 2020, Forbes put Musa’s net worth at an estimated $20 million which he made largely from being a professional footballer, endorsement and advertisement deals. Musa also announced his plan to build a school in Jos, his hometown. Shedding more light on his sudden disconnection with Al-Nassr in spite of his good record, Musa explained that he desires to return to top-flight competition in Europe. Musa asked to leave the Riyadh club with two years remaining of the four-year contract he signed. He told ESPN that the decision to leave was entirely his own but both parties had come to an amicable, mutual understanding. “I met with the club and requested that they should terminate my contract, and they were kind enough to agree to let me go,” Musa told ESPN. Al-Nassr announced Musa’s departure with a farewell message on the Riyadh club’s social media pages celebrated some of the goals scored by the Nigerian in his time in Saudi. “Thank you Nigerian falcon, wishing you all the best in the future,” Al-Nassr posted on Twitter. Musa, one of the highest-paid players in Saudi Arabia, said that he had always expressed a desire to return to Europe. I have enjoyed my time in the two years that I have been here, and the club have been great to me,” Musa told ESPN. “But I have always wanted to return to Europe, and I feel that this is the best time for me to make that move. “I want to get back to playing at the top level again against the best players in the world. “I would like to thank everyone at Al-Nassr and all the fans for understanding and respecting my wishes, but especially for making me feel such a big part of the club and I will never forget them.” The Nigerian is now a free agent, which means he can join a new club immediately, and he told ESPN that his agent was “talking with some clubs in Europe”. “He knows what I want, so when there is something, I am sure he will let me know,” Musa said. Musa’s wait may however be nearing a good end as he was reported to be on his way to put pen to pare for West Bromwich Albion, a Premiership side in England. West Brom wants to offer the flying winger a short-term contract. Musa has previous experience in the Premier League with Leicester City and he could be set for one with Albion if all goes well. Musa is due to be given a full fitness check by the club’s sports scientists and then, should all go according to plan, concrete discussions will take place over a contract. It’s expected that any deal will be until the end of the season, though of course an arrangement there isn’t restricted to the window, with Musa being a free agent. It is reported that Boss Sam Allardyce is keen on pricing Musa to West Brom. “I have the hardest job between now and 11 because we have spent a considerable amount of our budget. “If we can’t get a player in of the right quality, there won’t be much point in me bringing anyone else in. We’ll try and achieve it,” said Allardyce.