The Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria MACBAN, in the Southeast, says it will support any policy by the government that seeks to stop the clashes between host communities and the herdsmen. It listed conditions to be followed by the government to stop incessant clashes between its members and farmers in the country He said the association in the southeast zone was in support of any government policy that would put to an end, the continued clashes between Fulani herders and farmers in the country. So long the policy would be of benefit to both parties. According to Siddiki, “the governor’s position is a welcome development, but for the policy to work as expected, the following provisions must be in place for peace and equity. “They are training and re-training of Fulani herdsmen on Mechanized Grazing, provision of land for Ranching in the 36 states of the federation and the FCT and a continue Town Hall Meetings between Government, Farmers and the Herders in the affected areas. “I believe with all these, it will bring to an end, the lingering crisis between the farmers and herder in the country, Siddiki added. The group maintains that the majority of its members have no idea of mechanized grazing while calling on the government to organize training on that for the cattle breeders. Speaking with reporters Saturday in Awka, Anambra State, the Chairman of the Association in the Southeast, Alhaji Gidado Sidikki, said about 89 percent of herders had no such knowledge. “The government should train us so that we can plan with the modern system of animal husbandry because the majority of us have no knowledge of Mechanized Farming” Miyetti Allah leader was reacting to the decision of the Nigeria Governors Forum (NGF), on the need for the country to transit into modern systems of animal husbandry that would replace open, night and underage grazing across the country. He disclosed that the association in the southeast zone was in support of any government policy that would put to an end, the continued clashes between Fulani herders and farmers in the country. So long the policy would be of benefit to both parties. He noted that the National leadership of MACBAN, had banned night grazing, four years ago. He, however, commended the southeast Governors for their continued support to the association in the zone. Sidikki, therefore urged farmers and host communities where his people were residing to always report any disagreement to the security or other relevant authorities for prompt action to avoid the destruction of lives and property.