 Her campaign resonates with the global push to turn to entrepreneurship to produce work-ready graduates and next-generation innovators capable of tackling the multi-faceted problems facing the world, particularly since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. So, by the time the President, Institute of Entrepreneurial Excellence Innovation and Sustainability (IEEIS), Dr. Ngozi Ogoke, is done with her ongoing campaign to integrate entrepreneurial mindset in early career life of children and youths, she would have left her indelible mark on the sands of time. With the tagline, “Redefining entrepreneurship,” the IEEIS is an organisation with the objective to “Inspire, enable and empower all age groups and businesses to develop entrepreneurial mindset and skills which will lead to creativity, innovation, humane, social entrepreneurship and sustainability resulting to a purpose-driven life, change and generate extraordinary future for all.” The IEEIS, under Mrs Ogoke’s charge, has launched an aggressive campaign to encourage the integration of entrepreneurship mindset into the school curriculum, which is necessary to equip the young generation with the skills to become change agents. In embarking on the campaign, Mrs Ogoke’s approach is mainly through collaborations and partnerships. One of such collaborations was between IEEIS and the Entrepreneurial Learning Initiative (ELI), a global thought leader dedicated to expanding human potential through entrepreneurial mindset education. ELI serves academic institutions, government agencies, profit, and non-profit organisations around the world to empower their constituents with an entrepreneurial mindset through professional development, certification training and courseware. ELI believes that entrepreneurship is more than an academic discipline and reaches far beyond the concept of traditional business creation and small business management. To it, entrepreneurship is a mindset; a framework for thinking and acting that can empower anyone to succeed. And, in today’s rapidly-changing, highly complex world, the need for entrepreneurial thinkers at all levels of society has never been greater. From preparing students to become workforce-ready graduates or next-generation innovators to elevating the entrepreneurial thinking of the existing workforce, an entrepreneurial mindset exposes opportunity, ignites ambition, and fosters innovation. It also shifts everyday thinking into a new framework, empowering people to identify problems, deploy solutions, and make connections by using creative and critical thinking, communication, and collaboration. Under Mrs Ogoke’s leadership, IEEIS and ELI have closed ranks to provide professional development training for educators and impactful entrepreneurial mindset programs for their students. By training educators and students with this mindset, the goal was to create an environment where young people see opportunity to create positive change in the society. As part of the collaboration, IEEIS and ELI organised a webinar recently, entitled: “The entrepreneurial mindset: Transforming Nigerian economic ecosystem,” where development experts discussed the power of an entrepreneurial mindset and why it is something everybody needs to embrace. The virtual event also explored how this shift in mindset can transform economic ecosystems in Nigeria. It was also a platform for various presenters to highlight how an entrepreneurial mindset could empower ordinary people to accomplish extraordinary things. During the webinar, Mrs Ogoke said young people from the education sector needed to develop the entrepreneurial mindset that will enable them thrive in the midst of adversity and learn how to identify opportunities, set goals and pursue them vigorously as a way to contribute to the society by solving problems for themselves and others. “If all young Nigerian students left school with this type of mindset, there would have been hundreds of thousands of graduates each year actively looking to solve the myriad problems that Nigerians and Africans as a whole face every day. Consequently, I encourage the entrepreneurship mindset in the education sector across all levels,” she said. ,Mrs Ogoke also told The Nation that in collaboration with the Entrepreneurial Mindset Development Programme (ELI, Inc. USA), IEEIS offers Icehouse Entrepreneurial Mindset Development Program. The institute, she added, was also in collaboration with 100 Steps 2 Startup, Canada, created by Dr. Sean Wise, a Canadian award-winning entrepreneur and entrepreneurship professor. The 100 Steps 2 Startup guides the user or student from idea creation to revenue generation using videos and worksheets, leading the student step-by-step to success. It also helps entrepreneurs launch dreams and educators teach essential skills. To empower entrepreneurs and startups, Mrs Ogoke also said IEEIS was partnering investors, grants giving organisations and other financial institutions to provide start-up funds to the determined prospective entrepreneurs who developed a viable venture idea. The IEEIS will make the seed money available to passionate entrepreneurs who have acquired the entrepreneurial education, skills, and knowledge to pursue a viable venture or a viable opportunity discovery that is sustainable for his community, state, nation and the continent. The institute’s training are structured in a way to provide the skills to succeed as an entrepreneur. Why Ogoke’s campaign is compelling It is easy to see why Mrs Ogoke, who is a life coach and an entrepreneur, is preoccupied with unleashing the potential of children and youths through entrepreneurial education and training. For one, entrepreneurship, according to Geneva-based international organisation, World Economic Forum (WEF), is an essential life skill that every student will need to survive and thrive in the 21st Century. The WEF, which is committed to improving the state of the world by engaging business, political, academic, and other leaders of society to shape global, regional and industry agenda, however, stated in its report that the gap between the skills people learn and the skills they need was becoming more obvious, as traditional learning falls short of equipping students with the knowledge they need to thrive in the 21st Century. Ogoke and indeed, other development experts, could not agree less.The IEEIS boss noted, for instance, that entrepreneurship education will empower students to remain adaptable when facing obstacles, persist through failure, communicate better, and become problem solvers and opportunity finders. She also noted that entrepreneurship is linked to higher academic achievement hence, colleges are turning to entrepreneurship to produce work-ready graduates and next-generation innovators by engaging students in the highly experiential, entrepreneurial process. “By cultivating an entrepreneurial mindset in students, we can empower and engage them to achieve their goals. The process of integrating entrepreneurial mindset in early career life of our children has countless advantages towards economic development of any nation. “We also believe that all stakeholders in Nigeria will lean towards the implementation in the educational curriculum so that our children and youth will be competitive with other nations. Also, they will be sustainable when they graduate from school,” she told The Nation. However, in pushing for a shift in mindset in favour of entrepreneurship, Mrs Ogoke pointed out that Nigeria and Africa as a whole already have the talents, the resources, and the right climate to make significant impact to the world economy. She, however, lamented that the challenge on the African continent is to make the youth change makers by developing them to see problems as opportunity and create responses to solve them. “We are in an extraordinary situation in history in the sense that nobody knows the fundamentals about how the world will look like in 10, 20 or 30 years,” Mrs Ogoke said. Interestingly, it is the extraordinary situation in history that now drives her passion to redefine entrepreneurship and hopefully, create change makers. She raised many posers to underscore her drive namely, “How can we make ordinary people to be extraordinary? How can we create prosperity by taking into account everyday people? “How can we remove barriers holding people back, especially our youths? How can we put them in the right direction to be competitive and sustainable? What problems do you as an individual/your institution wants to solve for humanity?” Asked if she has, through the institute, reached out to the authorities in the education sector to rework the curriculum to accommodate entrepreneurial training and skills, Mrs Ogoke said: “Yes,” adding: “The authorities’ response was indeed, positive.” She emphasised that entrepreneurship involves solving a problem that will benefit humanity. “In the process of identifying a passionate problem a person wants to solve, there lies the opportunity which if developed result to entrepreneurship. “For instance, Facebook, Google, electricity, vehicles, electric cars, mobile phones, frozen vegetables, portable drinking water, cassava flour for bread and the list is endless. These are problems solved that lead to opportunity identification that results to entrepreneurship. There are many problems that need to be solved which are opportunities in Nigeria and Africa,” she added. More importantly perhaps, Mrs. Ogoke pointed out that the institute’s objectives are aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Our objectives are aligned with UN SDG 4 (quality of education), 8 (decent work & economic growth), and 9 (industry, innovation & infrastructure),” she said. According to her, the skills acquired in achieving goals 4, 8, and 9 will lead to capturing all the 14 sustainable development goals.