Prior to the coronavirus pandemic in late 2019, the world had enough food to go around. The pandemic caused a food crisis, which we will have to live with for a while. Lots of food intake has effects generally on our daily activities and if this is to be taken care of for a moment, we could become active and not on physically prepared but also mentally do Here are few tips that can help one to start off an active day: Exercise holds lots of advantages to the body. Researchers, experts, successful people and world leaders around the globe in every field of endeavors have credited part of their physical and mental alertness to exercise. Exercise can help prevent excess weight gain or help maintain weight loss. When you engage in physical activity, you burn calories. The more intense the activity, the more calories you burn. Exercise combats health conditions and diseases, improves mood, boosts self-confidence or energy helps you to sleep better Eating has its etiquettes and manners and this extremely separates us from the lower animals that eat with no control over their desire. As a human being, eating natural foods including fruit, vegetables, legumes, nuts and whole grains, have proven to be healthier and prevent attacks from diseases. Eating little, slowly and masticating helps improve speedy digestion. Reduce your intake of salt and sugar per day to high risks of disease like stroke, diabetes, pile etc… WHO recommends consuming less than 5% of total energy intake for additional health benefits. You can reduce your sugar intake by limiting the consumption of sugary snacks, candies and sugar-sweetened beverages. You can improve your intake of fruits and vegetables by always including veggies in your meal, eating fresh fruit and vegetables as snacks. By eating healthy, you will reduce your risk of malnutrition and non-communicable diseases (NCDs) such as diabetes, heart disease, stroke and cancer etc. Our daily routines are governed by laws. Likewise, practicing good personal hygiene is important to keep the body healthy and clean. It is important for maintaining both physical and mental health. Depression is a common illness in this era and according to reports, it has affected over 260 million people worldwide. Depression can manifest in different ways, but it might make you feel hopeless or worthless, or you might think about negative and disturbing thoughts a lot or have an overwhelming sense of pain. If you’re going through this, remember that you are not alone. Talk to someone you trust such as a family member, friend, colleague or mental health professional about how you feel. The internet has hugely relieved numerous people from the trauma bondage by sharing their experience and readers can learn from it. On social media, different groups were created for people to share their emotions instead of harming themselves. Sexual activities are important for our overall health and well-being. Sometimes, the energy needs to be released to allow blood to flow through the heart and other limbs of the body. Practicing safe sex helps to prevent unwanted pregnancies, HIV and other sexually transmitted infections like gonorrhea and syphilis. The use of latex condoms has been a proven method to combat STI’s or other related issues. Regular check-ups can help find health problems before they start. According to Health professionals, check-ups can help find and diagnose health issues early, when your chances for treatment and cure are better. Go to your nearest health facility to check out the health services, screenings and treatments that are accessible to you.