Some gunmen have attacked four communities in Shiroro council area of Niger State, killing 21 persons and abducting about 40, it was learnt on Tuesday. Sources said that over 100 bandits attacked Kurebe, Sabon Gida, Sararai and Rafin Kanya at different times on Monday evening. Many were injured in the attack, The Nation learnt. The gunmen reportedly came on motorcycles, shooting in the air, and causing panic in the communities. An eyewitness said, “The gunmen seem to know who they were looking for. It was very terrible. I sustained an injury in my legs.” Police spokesman Wasiu Abiodun did not return calls to his cell phone, nor did he reply text messages seeking clarification on the attacks. But Secretary to the State Government, Ahmed Ibrahim Matane confirmed the incident, though he said the number of the dead and the abducted was uncertain. He said the government had a strategy to end the incessant bandit attacks. Co-convener of Concerned Shiroro Youths, Sani Abubakar Yusuf Kokki also confirmed the attack, saying it was a bad day in Shiroro local government area. The Kaduna State Government said on Tuesday that three persons were killed in separate attacks by suspected bandits in Lere and Birnin Gwari Local Government Areas of the state.Mr Samuel Aruwan, the state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, who made the disclosure in a statement in Kaduna, said the incident happened on Monday. Aruwan said the military, under the auspices of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), had reported an attack by armed bandits at Warsa Piti, in Mariri District of Lere local government area. “Quoting an eyewitness, the military stated that the attackers numbering about six, who masked themselves and dressed in black, invaded the community on Monday night and began shooting sporadically. He lamented that terrorists have continued to have a field day in the council sacking the communities with gusto and crass impunity. Kokki said the ceaseless attacks have sent many from their homes.