 When companies or organisations sack some of their staff these days, there is a tendency for them to be accused of not being considerate about how the affected persons will survive. However, as much as the companies would have loved to maintain their staff strength, there are new realities that require that they not retain only those they can afford to pay, but restructure their operations and have staff with skill sets that can guarantee the future of the organisations. According to the companies, it’s not enough to have been a staff of their company for long, what is important now is that every staff have to be evaluated and retained on the basis of his or her skills in line with new demands. “The media” for example, according to a management of a publishing company that recently reduced its staff strength “is gripped by a digital-first imperative and as a responsible media business, we have to be well prepared for the challenges that digitalisation imposes.” Part of what digitalisation imposes is that traditional process has to be streamlined and only staff who have the skills to cope would be retained. Even as some staff are sent off, new ones would be hired for new lines of operations as part of survival strategies by companies. To guarantee a place in the future of especially traditional companies that are facing stiff completion from new start-ups, employees have to take the following steps: *Pay attention to new developments in the industry and be aware of your organisation’s plans for restructuring its operations. *Review your skill set and be sure that you have what it takes to be retained in the new direction your company may be considering. Those who don’t have needed skills should request to be trained or get trained at their own expense before they are assessed. *Be ready to be assigned new tasks and don’t resist being redeployed if the company is still willing to retain you. *Be ready to take up additional assignments as the company may not be able to hire enough staff for some key tasks. *Come up with suggestions on how your company can compete favourably against its competitors. Get helpful industry insights that should inform decisions to be taken by your company. *Show concern about the fortunes of the company and don’t appear not to be bothered if the company is making enough returns or not. *If for any reason, you are not able to cope with new developments in your organisation, plan your exit before you are asked to leave. Sooner or later, the management will not hesitate to add your name to the list of those to be asked to leave. For those seeking employment, it’s also important that they are employable and not assume that they will get jobs just because they have one certificate or the other. While sitting at some job interview panels, I am amazed about how unprepared some job seekers are for the positions they apply for. How can graduates apply for jobs in companies they don’t know enough about when all they need to do is to get relevant information online. Why should anyone apply for a writing job and he or she has not past publications to show? There are not enough jobs for graduates in the country, but only the best and those that have required skills will get the few ones. 