Worried by the rising spate of insecurity in the country, business leaders and security stakeholders have joined forces to mount a workshop to address its crippling effect on the business environment. The high level security workshop, tagged: ‘Security Dynamics of the Business Environment for Sustainable Development,’ holds on Tuesday (February 23) at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, and was designed to help businesses operate profitably in the face of mounting security challenges across the country. The workshop, organised jointly by Covenant University’s Centre for Economic Policy and Development Research (CEPDeR) and Ota-Agbara Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (OTAGCCIMA) will feature AIG Ahmed Illyasu as the Keynote Speaker while Chief (Dr) Jackie A. Kassim, Executive Vice Chairperson, MISSAK Group and Iyalode Alaba Lawson will headline the event as special guests. Other confirmed facilitators include Professor Daniel Gberevbie, Professor of Public Administration, Covenant University and former Military Personnel, Nigerian Air Force, Security Experts and Representatives of Community-based Organisations, Amotekun and Social Orientation and Safety Corps Agency (So-Safe Corps). The Chairman of CEPDeR Dr. O. Gershon said the workshop was important and timely because businesses incurred enormous losses to the prevalent insecurity and, especially, the recent ENDSARS protests, which saw widespread lootings in major cities in the country. He explained that such insecurity and the subsequent climate of uncertainties were frustrating the government’s policy on Ease of Doing Business. The President of OTAGCCIMA Dr. Kayode Bowale said:  “In addition to the military action, there is a need for intellectual might, which includes pragmatic intelligence report and sincerity of purpose to solve the problem of insecurity, hence this collaborative security workshop, which is a veritable forum for objective discussion that could lead to practical actions.” 