Emirates Airline has explained that the United Arab Emirates (UAE) policy that bars transit travellers from Nigeria to Dubai and stipulated testing requirements for passengers are in no way intended to single out Nigerian passengers. The UAE, in a travel advisory tagged, “Dubai Travel Protocol Update-Travel from Nigeria”, stated that those departing Nigeria to Dubai are required to obtain a negative COVID-19 certificate, adding that the PCR should be conducted within 72 hours of the date of departure. It stated that passengers are required to conduct a rapid COVID-19 test and obtain a negative result within four hours of their departure time. “Passengers must travel directly from Nigeria to Dubai. No passengers may enter Dubai from any other country/station if they have visited or transited via Nigeria in the last 14 days,” the advisory said. This is coming against the reports of purported plans by the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to sanction the airline for the action it took against the spread of the deadly COVID-19 pandemic. The NCAA, as at press time, was yet to react to the policy which many other nations are deploying to stem the rapid spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The airline, in a statement, said it is also not discriminating against Nigerians transiting via other African countries, stressing that passengers in transit are unable to meet the RAPID COVID-19 test requirements, which are currently available in Abuja and Lagos. According to the carrier, “Emirates hopes to continue our dialogue with the Nigerian authorities to ensure that we can carry on with our services and provide much needed connectivity and make air travel more accessible for our customers. “As part of the UAE Government’s ongoing efforts to ensure a safe and healthy environment in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, a range of health requirements and testing protocols have been put in place. “Similarly to the measures taken by governments around the world, including the Nigerian Government, protocols like testing frameworks undergo reviews and updates based on the prevailing situation at the time.”