 Manchester  City sit top of the table and have been in imperious form in recent months, winning 10-straight games in the Premier League to surge up the table. In fact, the last time they dropped points was in their defeat at Tottenham in November and these teams have had plenty of tight battles in recent seasons. That recent win for Spurs proves that Harry Kane and Heung-min Son can cause Man City problems on the counter and Mourinho will surely be setting up another defensive master-class against a Guardiola side. That said, given the form Man City are in (even without Kevin de Bruyne and Sergio Aguero), it will be a tall order for eighth-place Spurs to get anything this time around as they keep pushing for a top four spot. Breaking records is bread and butter for Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City since the Spaniard took the hot seat back in 2016, and plenty may argue that it is now their title to lose amid an unparalleled winning run. A routine 3-1 triumph at Swansea City in the FA Cup, with the goals coming from Kyle Walker, Raheem Sterling and Gabriel Jesus, marked City’s 15th  win in a row across all competitions – a new record by a top-flight club in English football after Preston North End and Arsenal previously won 14 on the trot. Ten of City’s 15 victories in this astonishing run have come in the Premier League, and with their title rivals faltering while they continue to go from strength to strength in the top flight, the Etihad faithful could be forgiven for planning ahead for a socially-distanced trophy parade. However, titles are not won in February, and Guardiola will know that better than any other manager in the game. Even though City are five points clear of closest rivals Manchester United with a game in hand, it only takes a couple of underwhelming results for the season to be turned on its head, and Leicester City could temporarily reduce that gap to four points if they overcome Liverpool in another crunch match a few hours before. Nevertheless, Guardiola will have every confidence in his ruthless charges to put Tottenham to the sword and extend their seemingly never-ending winning streak, as well as registering their 23rd  match unbeaten across all competitions. Whisper it quietly, but an unprecedented quadruple is certainly not beyond the realm of possibility, with City set to take on Borussia Monchengladbach in the Champions League last 16 on February 24.  Even with Sergio Aguero and Kevin De Bruyne – arguably their two most influential players – currently battling to overcome coronavirus and a hamstring problem respectively, City’s remarkable squad depth has come to the fore this term. While their tally of 43 goals scored can be bettered by Man United (49) and Liverpool (44), 14 shipped at the other end is by far the fewest in the division. The runaway leaders were given a helping hand by Alisson’s uncharacteristic mistakes in last weekend’s 4-1 triumph at Anfield, but Guardiola is out for blood this season and his side made a true statement of intent against Jurgen Klopp’s faltering team. Mohamed Salah’s penalty prevented City from keeping seven top-flight clean sheets in a row, but that was only the third league goal that Saturday’s hosts have conceded since the start of December.  September’s 5-2 thrashing at the hands of Leicester remains City’s only home defeat in the league this term; since then they have won eight and drawn two in the league on home soil – keeping clean sheets in their last five – and no team in the top flight has managed to prevent Guardiola’s men from finding the back of the net at the Etihad so far in the 2020-21 campaign. On paper, Tottenham would be blown out of the water by Guardiola’s merciless team, but the Man City treatment room welcomed a couple more crucial players in midweek, and Mourinho is one of a select few managers who knows how to get the better of his adversary. This evening’s battle represents the 163rd  meeting between the two sides in all competitions, and incredibly, Man City and Tottenham are both locked on 63 wins each, with the other 36 matches ending all square. As mentioned, Mourinho earned the bragging rights earlier in the season with a 2-0 triumph in the capital, with Son Heung-min and Giovani Lo Celso finding the back of the net in that meeting on November 21. However, the visitors have only come out on top in one of their last 11 trips to the Etihad Stadium in all competitions, and their most recent clean sheet on Man City’s turf was back in the 2009-10 campaign. Having now lost four of their last five matches across all competitions – the outlier being last weekend’s comfortable win over West Brom – Tottenham have slipped from the summit down to eighth in the table, and a chasm of 14 points separates Saturday’s visitors from their hosts this weekend. However, Mourinho was determined to focus on the positives of Wednesday’s cup exit, claiming that his team played “amazingly well” with the ball, but seeing his defence breached five times when Tottenham did not have the ball is a real cause for concern before a daunting trip to the Etihad. Eighth-placed Tottenham must now turn their attention to the top-four battle rather than an audacious bid for title glory, and even though they have kept just one clean sheet in their last  seven Premier League outings, only 22 goals conceded is the second best in the league behind City. Following their historic 6-1 thrashing of Man United earlier in the campaign, Tottenham will be out to become the first team since Liverpool in 2008-09 to win away at both Manchester clubs in a top-flight season, and Mourinho has taken six points from a possible six against Man City since taking the reins at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. Furthermore, the ever-controversial Portuguese could set yet another individual record if his side manage to defy the odds and end Man City’s winning run, as a victory this weekend would see Mourinho become the first manager ever to win three away matches against Guardiola in all competitions – and with three different teams too, having previously managed away wins against him with Real Madrid and Man United in 2012 and 2018 respectively. A home victory at the Etihad Stadium would further cement City’s position at the top of the pile, and while a Tottenham triumph could throw the cat among the pigeons, the visitors would need to produce a Man City-esque winning run in the coming weeks to propel themselves back into the title conversation. These two powerhouses have gone in completely opposite directions since Tottenham’s triumph earlier in the campaign, and we expect that to be reflected in the score line this weekend.