Senator Tokunbo Abiru yesterday gave financial support to 1,200 vulnerable residents of Lagos East District to cushion the effects of Covid-19 pandemic. The gesture trailed the financial assistance he gave to 1,000 residents four weeks ago. Abiru, who is representing Lagos East in the National Assembly had during the electioneering promised to provide succour to indigent resident affected by the pandemic. Abiru credited the bank accounts of 1,000 widows, physically- challenged people, aged, women, and unemployed youth drawn from 98 wards across the 16 local government areas in the district. The N5, 000 support scheme, is implemented in two batches, will run throughout the year. Beneficiaries will be getting the assistance bi-monthly (i.e once in two months), and all through the year by way of direct credit to the beneficiaries’ bank accounts. “ Like I assured during the pilot disbursements to about 1,000 beneficiaries on Monday 8th February 2021, TACT(Tokunbo Abiru Constituency Team) will never abandon the vulnerable in our district. “We shall continuously lookout and champion policies and legislative agenda that will be of benefit to the greatest number of our people”, the Senator assured. Abiru who was inaugurated on 15th, December 2020  has been very active on the floor of the Senate and his constituency. In this month of February, Abiru made informed contributions to the Cryptocurrency debate during the plenary. Abiru, a former bank Managing Director and astute financial expert explained the global dynamics of digital currency. The senator is also active at home. Last Friday, members of Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, LASUBEB paid a courtesy visit to him at his Constituency office in Ikorodu to seek his support and interventions for public schools in the district. Less than 72 hours after the visit, Abiru moved a truck-load of 150,000 facemasks to the agency’s headquarters in Maryland, Lagos for onward distribution to pupils and teachers in the Lagos East Senatorial District.