The Federal Government, in the first week of December 2020, directed the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) to embark on another audit of the Subscriber Registration Database, a process requiring that, all mobile telecommunication subscribers to link their National Identity Number (NIN) with their mobile lines. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Dr. Isa Ali Ibrahim (Pantami) said the objective of the audit exercise was to verify and ensure compliance by Mobile Network Operators with the set quality standards and requirements of SIM Card Registration. Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) were thereby directed to immediately suspend the sale, registration and activation of new SIM Cards until the audit exercise is concluded, and Government has conveyed the new direction. Coming out clearer on the objective of the SIM and NIN linkage, as well as the suspension of new SIM registration, was the Senior Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari, on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, who said that, the exercise was being done for security purposes. He said: “The government believes that harmonising all phone numbers through the NIN will help curb rising cases of terrorism and banditry because most of the bad guys would have no option but to link their phone lines to the NIN or lose their numbers. This will definitely help to curtail and checkmate the lingering security challenges in some parts of the country.” However, as good as the motive of the exercise sounds, stakeholders in the telecommunication sector, have raised alarm of a looming security challenges, as they said, the suspension of the new SIM registration for over two months, has rendered about two million telecoms traders jobless. While the traders in Northern Nigeria, under the auspices Arewa Telecom Operators Agents and SIM card Dealers Association (ATOASDA), addressed a press conference in Kaduna to register their displeasure, their counterparts in the south took to the streets of Asaba, the Delta State capital to ask for reversal of the directive. Speaking in Kaduna on behalf Arewa Telecom Operators, its President, Hassan Yakubu, said the directive by the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy to suspend sale, registration and activation of SIM Cards has rendered over 2million youths jobless across the country. He also claimed that more than 10 billion in revenues have been lost by the telecoms partners in last two months, while over 1 billion in VAT and withholding tax has also been lost by the Federal Government due to the policy. The telecom dealers said though, they welcome the Government’s intention to address security challenges through linkage of National Identity Number NIN with mobile numbers and suspension of new SIM cards registration, they fear that, rendering two million youths jobless might worsen the security challenges. Yakubu said as a registered association under Corporate Affairs Commission with registration number CAC/IT/NO131761 and with NCC volume number as NCC/CAB/2019/VOL.1/011, they feel the Government’s objective can still be achieved by allowing registration of new SIM cards to continue, provided that they are only allowed to synchronize with the provision of and linkage with NIN. The fear of the association, according to Yakubu, is that majority of the telecoms business partners, staff and the agents are within the age bracket 20 to 40 years, while income in the value chain is determined by the number of activations /SIM registration carried out within every month, hence leaving them jobless for too long may be tantamount to breeding an army ready for recruitment into crime. “So, we advise that, the federal government must trade carefully, because all available research works on the causes of insecurity across the country have been linked primarily to youth unemployment. “On 7th December, 2020, there was directive by the Federal Government to NCC to carry out an audit of the subscriber registration database to ensure compliance to set quality standards and requirement. Consequently, Mobile Network Operators were directed to suspend the sale, registration and activation of new SIM Cards until the audit exercise is concluded which the telcom companies adhered to and yet to conclude “In all of this, the telecom SIM registration partners, staff and their agents remain jobless for over two months. The sub-sector is severely affected by the directive and attendant postponement. Our fear is that, the suspension may trigger a worse form of insecurity, especially in zones most affected by the insecurity. Mind you, the growth in the sector is determined by the very sub-sector under suspension. And the much celebrated 17% contribution by Telecom sector on the GDP was as a result of the activities of same sub-sector. “As we speak, more than 40% of the partners are on different kind of loans with different kind of repayment patterns and periods. We therefore appeal that, a support fund be specifically created by the Federal Government for the partners, while tax waivers be granted to the sub-sector under suspension, to enable then pay back their loans,” Yakubu said. Unlike their Northern counterparts, the SIM Card dealers in the South, stormed the streets of Asaba with placards and banners and joined by members of the civil society organisations in their demand for immediate reversal of SIM cards registration suspension. The protesters led by a member of the State Executive Council of the Human Rights Update Conference, Prince Ukuanovwe Godstime Oj, and a leader of SIM Registration Agents. Ikpesu Andrew carried placards with inscriptions like, ‘Restore SIM registration now’, ‘FG/NCC save our work,’ Hunger is not my friend’,  ‘I’m now Jobless restore SIM registration’ and Suspending SIM registration is anti-people.’ among others. While demanding that, the Federal Government prevail on NCC to immediately restore SIM registration and sales, they threatened that, the Warri protest was a litmus test, as they will occupy the regional offices of the NCC nationwide and clutter the streets of Abuja if their demands are not met. In their protest letter addressed to the Commissioner of Police, Delta State Command, the protesters said, “Nigerian citizens have been subjected to hardship due to miscalculated policies of the NCC. The letter reads: “The suspension of New SIM sales and registration has increased the level of unemployment in Nigeria and has impoverished the people. Over 3million Nigerians who depend on SIM sales as a means of livelihood have lost their jobs.  Whereas, The NIN-SIM linkage is a spontaneous process that can be executed alongside sales and activation of new SIMS, but the NCC decided otherwise,” the protesters said. As a way of addressing massive unemployment and revenue loss obviously created by the SIM Card registration suspension, it is advisable as suggested by the aggrieved and protesting telecoms dealers, for the government to lift the suspension and allow sales and registration of new SIM cards, but with a provision for spontaneous linkage of the new SIMs with the subscribers NIN. Also, to fast track the process of NIN registration, an average of 10 new NIN machines should be deployed in every of the 774 local areas of the Federation for a better reach and avoidance of the crowd witnessed at the National Identity Management Commission’s centres across the country.