A Federal High Court in Abuja has set aside the order it made on November 4, 2020, freezing the accounts linked with some promoters of the #EndSARS protest that rocked the country last October. In a ruling on Wednesday, Justice Ahmed Mohammed ordered all affected banks to immediately defreeze the affected accounts. Justice Mohammed struck out the suit filed by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) governor for which the ex parte order freezing the accounts for 180 days was made on November 4, 2020. The judge said: “The order made by the court, ex parte, on November 4, 2020, freezing the accounts of the respondents in this suit, pending investigation by the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria is hereby set aside and discharged. “It is also ordered that all the accounts of the respondents should be de-frozen immediately. This suit is accordingly struck out.” Justice Mohammed hailed the lawyers in the case for ensuring justice. The court’s decision followed the withdrawal of all processes filed on the suit by lawyers to the parties. Those affected by the freezing order, who were listed as respondents in the case, include: Bolatito Oduala, Chima Ibebunjoh, Mary Kpengwa, Gatefield Nigeria Limited, Saadat Bibi, Bassey Israel, Wisdom Obi, Nicholas Osazele, Ebere Idibie, Akintomide Yusuf, Uhuo Promise, Mosopefoluwa Odeseye and Adegoke Emmanuel. Others are: Umoh Ekanem, Babatunde Segun, Mulu Teghenan, Mary Oshifowora, Winifred Jacob, Victor Solomon and Idunu Williams. At the mention of the case yesterday, lawyer to the CBN governor, Michael Aondoakaa (SAN), told the court that although he had filed an application on February 9 for the extension of the freezing order, which expired on February 4, he thought realised the need to discontinue with the case. Aondoakaa, a former Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, said he noted that the case involved young people and that he had spoken with the defence lawyer on the need to withdraw all the documents filed by the parties and close the case. He promised to serve the affected banks with the court’s latest order. Lawyer to the respondents, Femi Falana (SAN), confirmed that he had discussed with Aondoakaa before the court’s proceedings on the matter. Falana averred that the court’s ex parte order on November 4, last year, expired on February 4, this year.