But for the intervention of some ‘wise men’, the communal clash between two Osun communities, Erin-Osun and Ilobu, last week would have lasted longer than it did. The crisis, which began on the night of Saturday February 6 and continued till Sunday February 7, reportedly claimed seven lives. Houses, shops, cars and other valuable property were also burnt. The bloody clash was said to have been precipitated by the dispute resulting from the land demarcation exercise embarked upon by the National Population Commission (NPC) as the youths in Erin Osun were said to have been dissatisfied with alleged ceding of a part of their land to Ilobu during enumeration. It was not the first time the two communities would clash over land matters. A similar incident had occurred in 2006, resulting in the loss of many lives. The situation in the communities had forced the Osun State Government to impose a 24-hour curfew before it was eventually relaxed. It was gathered that the youths were attacking themselves even while the curfew was in force. More than a week after the crisis, the affected communities are still counting their  losses. The traditional ruler of Ilobu, Oba Ashiru Olatoye Olaniyan, declined comments on the matter when our correspondent put a call through to him during the week, referring him to the Osun State governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola and the Osun State Commissioner of Police (CP) if he needed any clarification. The monarch said: “There is no problem between the two communities. If you want to hear anything you can go and see the CP or Mr. Governor. I can’t say a word on it. “ I’m not the kind of person that would be looking for something that is not lost. “The CP is the one that knows about investigations. There is no point talking about it.” Speaking to The Nation, however, the  Elerin of Erin-Osun, Oba Yusuf Omoloye Oyagbodun, said there was indeed an attempt to cede part of Erin-Osun’s land to Ilobu and that it was the cause of the crisis. According to him, the same issue had arisen during the immediate past Aregbesola administration in the state but was resolved. He said: “The portion of land that is causing the crisis is still there. It belongs to three communities. The Olufon has a portion, the Olobu has a portion and the Elerin has a portion. The part of the land that belongs to Erin was sold to Ilobu by Ifon. “Then, I was battling with a health challenge. We challenged it in court and the matter is still in court.” Probed further by the reporter, the Elerin said he was indisposed, pleading with the reporter to come another day for further explanation. Nipping the crisis in the bud Speaking to The Nation, the Director General, Osun Amotekun Corps, Comrade Amitolu Shittu, said the disposition of the Osun State governor Alhaji Gboyeka Oyetola and the Osun State Commissioner of Police Mr. Olawale Olokode, who he described as a fine gentleman, halted the bloody clash. Shittu recalled that security agents were not deterred by the harassment and intimidation received from the warring communities. He also commended the Nigerian Army for its cooperation with other security agencies in the matter. Shittu said: “Mr. Governor, in his wisdom, gave us the marching order, saying that he didn’t want anybody to die. “He said we should all join hands to save the lives of the people in the two communities.” Shittu told The Nation that the presence of the Amotekun Corps could not deter the enraged youths, adding that while the Amotekun Corps was trying to restore sanity in the two communities, the enraged youths were doing everything possible to discourage and demoralise them. “On getting to the warring communities, they started firing guns at us at close range. They smashed the windscreen and macheted the body of our vehicles. But we did not allow that to provoke us; we had to suppress our anger,” he said. The destruction that took place in the communities would probably have been minimised if the Amotekun Corps and other security agencies were allowed access into the communities early. “They turned us back and we retreated to a police station close to the community to re-strategise. The two communities have a police station after the bridge. “After two to three hours, we moved in again and they repelled us, insisting that they did not want us. “Before we could gain entry into the communities without firing any shot, they had engaged each other in killings and destruction of property.” Contrary to the claims in some quarters that Governor Oyetola was away while the communal war was going on, Shittu told The Nation that Mr. Governor was present and was highly disturbed by the incident. He said: “On that Sunday, the governor was on his table, asking for what was going on every minute. “We could not tell him that we had not been able to gain entry into one of the communities. We had only succeeded in gaining entry into one while the other one resisted us and we could not fire any shot at them.” He also said the presence of security agents brought sanity into the communities. “The moment we gained entry without killing anybody, we took over the boundaries and prevented confrontation between them, and that helped us a lot,” he said. He also said the curfew declared by the state government made a lot of difference, noting that it gave the Amotekun Corps the opportunity to strengthen their activities, morale and courage. “In the night when we saw that our lives were in danger, we warned them that they should not use darkness to attack each other, because if anybody should do that we could not guarantee their safety. He said that one of the communities mobilised themselves and attempted to cross to the other community to destroy their property, “we repelled them. They repeated the attempt, thinking that the ammunition that they had would help them, but we warned them not to dare the military, the police and the Amotekun corps on guard. We warned that none of them should attempt to cross our barricades. They complied.” How the peace deal was struck Unknown to many, the diplomacy and the subtle threat from the CP made the leaders of the warring communities to have a rethink. While appealing to the monarchs of the warring communities to talk to their youths, the CP threatened that if the crises continued, the monarchs would be transferred to Abuja. “The CP, Olokode, encouraged them to eschew bitterness and embrace peace and unity among themselves, adding that we should not encourage loss of lives at this critical period. “We all need each other for the development of Nigeria. “He warned the monarchs that Abuja was waiting for him and that if the communities failed to stop the crisis under 24 hours, the three monarchs would be transferred to Abuja to make statements to the Nigerian government, explaining why they didn’t want peace but wanted innocent people to die for an offence they did not commit. “The CP stressed the need for them to talk to their leaders to stop the youths who were carrying illegal ammunition, shooting, killing themselves and burning properties. The monarchs complied and called their youths to order.” Source of ammunition The Nation gathered that some of the youths were buoyed by the amount of the ammunition in their possession. “Until politicians started arming these youths, this state was relatively peaceful. But problems arose when politicians started arming them for elections. Most of the ammunition used in prosecuting the elections was never recovered. That could be the reason why some of the youths in the two communities had access to arms,” a security source told The Nation. Shittu explained that hoodlums take advantage of a peaceful environment to create unnecessary problems for people. He said: “I want to assure you that it is a spillover from Lagos. When marauders are chased away from Lagos, they look for another place to ply their trade. “Believe me sincerely, the Osun State governor, Isiaka Oyetola, has given us the marching order that under one week, we must eradicate them, and we have launched that today (February 12). “As I’m speaking with you, we are in all the boundaries of the state now. The peace that the people know the state for shall return in a few weeks. “I want to tell you that criminal activities are alien to our culture in Osun, and whoever is encouraging criminals will face the wrath of the law.” Shittu also attributed the surge in the rate of crime to lack of planning for the youth on the part of the Nigerian government. According to him, the youth were not planned for and education was truncated because universities were shut down for many years. “The aftermath of what they were doing is what we are witnessing today, unless they want to be economical with the truth,” Shittu said. 