The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Wabote, has said that the Nigerian Oil and Gas Parks (NOGAP) in Emeyal-1, Bayelsa State, will save the country the much-needed foreign exchange when completed. Wabote stated this on Wednesday in Emeyal-1 in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State during an inspection tour to ascertain the progress of the parks commissioned by the board in 2018. The executive secretary said barring any unforeseen contingencies, the parks would be completed in the first quarter of 2022 as the contractors had been working according to the project schedules. He also said the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, would be visiting the parks in February (this month) to see things for himself. Wabote said that one major challenge faced by the oil and gas industry in the country is local manufacturing, rationalising that the idea of the scheme is to incubate that manufacturing in-country and to drastically reduce importation of finished products. He stated: “The benefits of the parks to the industry, economy and the nation are tremendous. Like you know, one challenge that we have in the oil and gas industry is local manufacturing. Most of the finished products are imported. So the idea behind the oil and gas scheme is to incubate those manufacturing in-country. “Therefore, to a large extent, it will save the much-needed foreign exchange for the nation. Most importantly, it will create jobs for our people and we will get a lot of people engaged and it will enhance our capacity and in fact bring about technological innovation because most of those manufacturing activities will be done here. “Primarily, one of the challenges in the manufacturing industry has to do with power. We have been able to conquer that on this site. We have already built a 10-megawatts gas-fired power plant, so the site is guaranteed power. For the community, it will create a lot of jobs. It will be a spin-off effect to other economic activities. So, the benefits are enormous; I can’t recount all of them.” He said he was impressed with the quality of work so far, noting that the idea behind the facility was to get as many contractors as possible onto the site such that a standard is set and they are all working towards that standard. Wabote added: “I am impressed because most importantly, the project is being undertaken purely by indigenous contractors and the quality is superb. It is a quality you can measure anywhere in this country and outside the country. “On percentage completion, we have a long way to go. Currently, most of the buildings are getting to the finishing stages, some are just starting. We believe that we will complete this project by the first quarter of 2022. All the contractors are aware of the timelines. “I was here in 2018 when we did the groundbreaking ceremony. For those who were here you saw that we were inside water practically but today we are out of it and you can see structures coming out. “The Honourable Minister of Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, is planning a visit to these facilities within this month. We want him to come and see for himself the progress that has been made.”