Former Ogun State Governor Gbenga Daniel and ex-Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika have joined the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Two House of Representatives members – Blessing Onu and Yakubu Shehu Abdullahi – have also defected to the party. Daniel, who was a staunch member of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said he got many messages that encouraged him to join the ruling party. The former governor was the Campaign Manager for former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar of the PDP ahead of the 2019 election. He apologised to his former party for the late notification. “Dear friends and colleagues, pardon my short notice in informing you of my route to the APC, which, as you might have suspected, started with my supporting Governor Dapo Abiodun during the last election. “I have since experienced an avalanche of encouragement to come on board. However, in the last 48 hours, things took a dizzying speed with the decision of the APC National Caretaker Chairman to visit me at Asoludero on Wednesday (today) with about three governors. “While planning for the visit, Governor Abiodun also decided to visit me later today (yesterday) with another set of governors. “It, therefore, means that I have finally been ‘captured’. I thought I should quickly brief the house before the news goes viral,” he said. Ihejirika, who was the Chief of Army Staff between 2010 and 2014 under former President Goodluck Jonathan, announced his defection to the APC at his Isuikwuato country home in Abia North Senatorial District. His defection to the ruling party has ended speculations that he wanted to join the PDP and run for the governorship seat in 2023. He promised to unite the party. Onu, who is the daughter of former Senate President David Mark and member representing Otukpo/Ohimini Federal Constituency of Benue State, defected from the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) for the ruling APC. Abdullahi, who is the member representing Bauchi Federal Constituency, defected from the People’s Redemption Party (PRP) to the APC. In two separate letters read by House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila, the two lawmakers said they left the parties that sponsored their elections due to the crises in them. Onuh said she was leaving APGA due to leadership crisis at all levels of the party, adding that she decided to leave after consultation with her constituents. The lawmaker hailed the national leadership of the APC for making the defection possible. Onuh formally joined the APC at a well-attended event in her constituency in December 2020. Abdullahi said he dumped the PRP due to the crisis in then party, which had led to two men claiming to be its national chairman as well as two state chairmen in Bauchi State. He said both Alhaji Falalu Bello and Prof. Sule Bello were laying claim to the chairmanship of the party, with two separate national headquarters. He also said one of the factions of the party in Bauchi State wrote him a suspension letter from the party.