 Seven months after striking a deal, the Federal Government and the Bankers’ Committee, led by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), have signed a memorandum on the renovation and upgrade of the National Theatre complex in Lagos. The pact, signed  on February 14, involves a Public-Private Partnership (PPP)arrangement, by which the bankers will invest N21.894 billion on the edifice; and run it profitably before handing it back to the government. Against the backdrop of long-standing controversy over what to do with the national monument, the government had on 12 July 2020 reached the deal with the CBN and Bankers’ Committee, making clear it was not selling off the complex. On February 10 this year, the Federal Executive Council (FEC) approved the memorandum, described by Information and Culture Minister, Lai Mohammed, as landmark, because it ”paved the way for investment in the creative industry, as part of the resolve of this government to create at least one million jobs in the next three years in the industry.” He disclosed that the MoU has a life span of 21 years, after which the edifice reverts to the government. One major fear of those who opposed privatizing the theatre complex, including Nobel Laureate Wole Soyinka, had been that it could lead to job losses; and choke creativity as businessmen pursue profit. But the government has reassured that such would not be the case. Speaking before the memorandum was signed on February 14, Mohammed  said the project would rather facilitate the creation of at least 10,000 direct jobs. After the deal was reached in July 2020, he was quoted as saying: “This project will not lead to a single job loss. Instead, it will create more. Some 6,000 jobs will be created during the construction phase, while the completed project could generate up to an additional 600 permanent and 2000 to 3000 call-on/call-off jobs.” CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, who leads the consortium of investors, spoke to similar ends early this week, saying the project promised Nigerian youths limitless opportunities to reach the summit of their capacities. The investment deal will see the bankers not only restore and upgrade the theatre complex but also develop the 134-hectare fallow land within the premises. The project will be executed in two phases: the first being the restoration of the iconic complex, and then the development of the fallow land into a purpose-built cluster, having four hubs: fashion, music, film and information technology. Emefiele said the project would unlock the creative talents of hundreds of thousands of Nigerian youth in these fields. The National Arts Theatre was built during the military era and finished in time to host the 2nd World Black Festival of Arts and Culture (FESTAC), organised by the Olusegun Obasanjo regime in 1977. But over the years, it progressively degenerated and suffered from poor management by government. Moves by successive administrations to attract private investors met stiff resistance from the culture community, whose members feared investors’ passion for profit could disincentivize creativity. It was in this context that the Information minister, speaking when the deal was struck with bankers last year, said: ”For over 40 years, no major renovation work has been done on the National Theatre, while the adjoining land has been lying fallow. Many attempts to restore the complex have failed and the government has no money to do it.” Nigeria needs an all-purpose creativity complex as is being envisaged with the impending makeover, and so we commend the PPP deal with bankers that could turn the now decrepit complex into Nigeria’s own mini-Hollywood. It is also reassuring that investors will run the finished project for 21 years; since the government has never been a good manager and it is hoped capacity, in that regard, would be built over the period of investor-lease. But it is important that as huge sums are being committed to physical infrastructure, thought is given to proportionately investing in human capital allied to the project. Besides, both the government and the investors will be held to the promise of job protection. All in all, it is a good deal and it is welcome.