Kano State has recorded 118 new cases of leprosy -an infectious disease caused by a bacillus mycobacterium leprae, which affects the skin, peripheral nerves, mucosa of the upper respiratory tract and eyes. Endemic Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) such as river blindness has also been found in 18 local government areas, trachoma in 10 councils, while bilharziasis/schistosomiasis, lymphatic filariasis and soil-transmitted helminthes are endemic across the 44 councils of Kano state. Commissioner for Health, Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, announced this at a press conference marking the commemoration of 2021 World Leprosy and Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs). He, however, said no death was reported from leprosy throughout last year, adding that the 118 affected persons have been enrolled for treatment in government facilities. Tsanyawa said a total of 202,189 new leprosy cases were detected globally, while the African region detected a total of 20,209 new cases, of which Nigeria has the highest number with 2,424 leprosy cases, constituting 1.2 percent and 10th position of the global figures. He added that the country currently occupies 4th position of the 20 high leprosy burden in Africa. According to the Health Commissioner, the theme for the 2021 World Leprosy Day is: ‘Beat Leprosy, End Stigma,’ while the theme for the 2021 World NTDs Day is: “Face NTDs, End the Neglect.” Tsanyawa hailed the Ganduje administration for its significant efforts in reducing the burden, socioeconomic impact and transmission of leprosy and NTDs in addition to health promotion and rehabilitation of persons affected. He disclosed that 526 leprosy patients among 4,734 poorest individuals with disabilities have been enrolled to access free healthcare services under the Basic Healthcare Provision Fund through Kano state Contributory Healthcare Management Agency (KSCHMA). On river blindness, he said the administration treats over 910,000 people annually against river blindness in 18 endemic local government areas of the state, using Mass Administration of Medicine (MAM).