The House of Representatives has resolved that the Project Development Institute (PRODA), Enugu, stop all further procurement activities on the 2020 budget and pay contractors, suppliers and consultants who have executed contracts. The House resolved this following a motion of urgent importance to investigate the procurement deception, staff victimization and ongoing management problem in the Institute, which is under the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology. The motion was by the Hon Henry Nwawuba, representing Mbaitoli/Ikeduru Federal Constituency of Imo State. The House Committee on Public Procurement was mandated to investigate the serious allegations by inviting the Minister of Science and Technology, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Director General of Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) and PRODA management to appear before the Committee and report back to the house within seven days. The House noted that the Institute has over the years maintained a good record of project and programme delivery especially with regards to her core mandates working harmoniously with the supervising ministry — Federal Ministry of Science and Technology. The House also said it was aware that the Federal Government through the Honorable Minister, Science and Technology in its later dated 17th November 2020, with ref no. – FMST/PARA/110/S.1/111/T suspended the Director General/CEO who is the Secretary of the Board and the Chairman, PRODA Governing Board, Comr Onjeh Daniel. The lawmakers said they were aware that some serious management problems have emerged consequent to the suspension which has further degenerated to deception and fraud in the 2020 Procurement Process, indiscriminate suspension of officers and unprofessional victimization and conduct. They said they were further aware that in flagrant abuse of the Procurement Act 2007, the new PRODA Management within two months went into contract cancellation and re-award of same without BPP approval in contradiction of an already concluded 2020 procurement process where various contractors have executed their contracts, and are yet to be paid due to the same unresolved management brouhaha. They expressed worry that the contractors who are citizens of the nation, who may have borrowed money to execute and conclude their jobs may be subject to financial pressures and untold hardship if PRODA continues to withhold their payments. They further worried that if urgent action is not taken to resolve the issue in Project Development Institute (PRODA) Enugu, it may degenerate into break down of law and order. The Project Development Institute (PRODA) Enugu, is a research and development agency under the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology. Their mission is to facilitate the development and deployment of science and technology apparatus to enhance the pace of socio-economic development of the country, through appropriate technological inputs into productive activities.