 Lagos State Education Commissioner, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo has lamented the scarcity of Yoruba language teachers and other subjects. She spoke at the presentation of three Yoruba early grade books at the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB), Maryland on Tuesday which aroused fervent passion for the preservation of Yoruba language among top government functionaries at the event. The USAID funded the development of the books, Je Ka Kawe 1-3 (and its Igbo and Hausa versions, Ka anyi guo! and Mu Karanta!), with the objective of improving reading skills of lower primary pupils in their mother tongue to boost literacy across Nigerian schools. Mrs. Adefisayo lamented that Yoruba may go extinct if nothing was done to preserve it – giving the state’s difficulty in hiring teachers of the language for its public schools as an example. “As for hiring Yoruba teachers, there is a massive problem.  We have been hiring teachers for a while; but do you know there are some subjects we have some serious difficulty with? Yoruba is one of them; Geography is one of them.  History is one of them,” she said. The Commissioner urged parents to speak Yoruba to their wards at home, while schools should reinforce the learning.  She said she spoke Yoruba to her children growing up and they thank her for it today. Other officials at the event also underscored the value of using the Yoruba language in school. Prof. Solomon Makinde, one of the academics that worked on the project, said the books would ease implementation of the National Policy on Education which stipulates that children be educated in their local languages for the first three years of primary school. “The development of Je Ka Kawe is premised on the language provisions in the National Policy on Education that the mother tongue or the language of the immediate community should be the medium of instruction at the lower primary level of education. “Looking at the content of the materials, it must be noted that for every class (P1-3) we have the pupils’ book and the teachers’ guide.  The teachers’ guide was written in such a way that the implementing teacher does not need to write a lesson plan for him to teach any of the lessons,” he said. SUBEB Chairman, Mr. Wahab Alawiye-King said there was no reason to allow the language go extinct.  He said in addition to books, there have always been Yoruba songs and poems that teach morals and health values – all useful for helping groom responsible citizens. “We are slowly losing our mother tongue.  In order for us to enhance learning and teaching our tongues in our classrooms, we must go back to the basics. I remember writers used mother language to promote moral uprightness.  They use writings in mother language to promote hygiene, cleanliness and things like that. Songs and poems such as “ise ni ogun isee, mura si ise ore mi” – those are the things that remain with us that have guided us to do most of the things we are doing today,” he said. Chief of Party, Northern Education Initiative Plus, USAID, Mr. Nurudeen Lawal, said Nigeria ranked low in reading standard internationally. He said the local language books project could help address the reading deficiency in Nigeria – giving the success of Ma Karanta! piloted in Bauchi and Sokoto. “Our early grade reading assessment is so poor.  Even the teachers’ assessment is so poor.  And we need to solve those problems.  When children can read, they have the foundation for life-long learning,” he said. LASUBEB Board member, Mrs. Sherifat Adedoyin lauded the books as she gave testimony on how she was able to help a pupil learn literacy teaching in Yoruba language. Director General, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs. Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, said though born outside Nigeria, she learnt to speak Yoruba. Urging parents not to neglect the language, she added that Yoruba is taught abroad. “This Yoruba language is taught abroad – in Harvard University.  When I was there, I even took a class to believe it,” she said. Representative of the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja, Mrs. Chinyere Nwokorie, urged the Lagos State government to print more copies of the books so they can go round all schools in Lagos State.  