The House of Representatives on Wednesday asked President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately order the Ministry of Works and Housing to carry out urgent rehabilitation work on the Okpella/Okene portion of the Lokoja/Okene/Auchi/Benin federal highway. The portion of the road which is part of the ongoing contract for the dualisation of the Lokoja/Benin high way has been abandoned for a long time, with travelers spending several hours and sometimes days on the less the about 30 kilometer road. The resolution followed a motion sponsored by Hon. Nkeiruka C. Onyejeocha (APC, Abia) complaining about the deplorable condition of the road, stressing that if not done before the advent of the rains, travelling on the road may be near impossible. She informed the House of the deplorable state of Okpella/Okene road connecting the South -East and South-South States to the Federal Capital Territory, adding that the condition of the road has led to dire economic losses and untold hardship on motorists and commuters who spend days on the road due to its deplorable nature. She expressed concern that as the year 2021 raining season approaches, “the road reminds us of the harrowing experiences that motorist and commuters go through every year on the road,” adding that of particular concern is the Okpella/Okene portion of the highway. The Abia lawmaker who is also the Deputy Chief Whip of the House disclosed that the current state of the road has encouraged criminal activities such as kidnappings and armed robberies, adding that “if rehabilitation work is not carried out on this portion of the road before the rain sets in, travelling that road would be a nightmare.” He announced that the dualization of Lokoja–Benin road, Obajana Junction-Benin sectional Phase 1 Obajana – Okene, Kogi State has been an ongoing Project by the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing. She maintained that the objectives of the Federal Roads development in the country are to reduce passenger travel times, vehicle operating cost and traffic-related injuries or fatalities on targeted federal roads. Hon. Oyejeocha stressed that in the face of funding challenges, it is the responsibility of the Federal Government through the Federal Ministries and Agencies to sustainably manage the Federal roads for the overall benefits of the citizenry.