 The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 has said it may suspend flight operations from United Arab Emirates (UAE) and The Netherlands. The decision, according to the PTF is due to the new COVID-19 protocols introduced by the countries for travellers. The two countries recently asked passengers from Nigeria to do a PCR test four hours before departing Nigeria. This was disclosed in Abuja on Monday by the Director General of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Capt. Musa Nuhu during the weekly briefing by members of the PTF. Nuhu said: “Couple of countries, namely UAE and Netherlands have put in extra requirements for passengers who will be entering their country and some are specific to Nigeria. “In addition to the requirements are a requirement for PCR test before passengers departs from Nigeria to their countries. They are adding an extra requirement of having a rapid test done four hours before departure or before you board. “For us, passengers do the test 72 hours before departure and then the PCR test and the PTF recognizes the rights of all countries to put in measures to protect their citizens just like Nigeria has done. “However, these countries and airlines cannot determine for Nigeria who to approve or how these test will be done. We are going to be having a discussion with these airlines and these countries. “If they insist on having these additional tests being done, then PTF has decided that their operations will be suspended into Nigeria until the time the PTF puts in a structure and deals with the logistics on how this second test can be done successfully within four hours before departure to these two countries. “This will enable the PTF to have a clear and transparent process on determining who will do these test because there is a requirement for accreditation by NCDC, National Laboratory Council, Lagos state government for Lagos airport and FCT for Abuja airport.” Nuhu also stated that the procurement process has commenced to have the test done at the airports. He said: “The PTF has started the procurement process of who will be allowed to do the test at the airports and there is a shortlist of four or five companies. So, this process will be brought to conclusion in order to select the laboratories who will carry out the tests at both Lagos and Abuja airports.” He also hinted that some airlines that flouted the COVID-19 protocols have been sanctioned, adding that a comprehensive list would be out soon. “The NCAA has started the implementation of sanctions against airlines that have brought passengers that are not in compliance with COVID-19 protocol into Nigeria. Some of the airlines have been fined, some have paid and some have requested further information for them to process this. “We are working closely with the Port Health Authority to have the updated list of those who are in noncompliance with the PTF protocols into Nigeria.” 