The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) has arrested a suspected drug baron, Mr Chidi Olife who escaped arrest for unlawful importation of 5.250kg of heroin, concealed in books, from Pakistan to Nigeria since June 2010. The arrest was carried out by the Joint Task Force (JTF) Operation Unit of the agency in Lagos. A statement by the agency giving the details of Olife’s arrest indicated that following vital intelligence, a planned controlled delivery operation was coordinated and led by the Commander of the JTF, Adeniyi Olumuyiwa, a deputy commander of narcotics. “The careful execution of the operation led to the arrest of Oladimeji Oladotun and Alhaji Danjuma Idris while processing the documents for clearing the consignment. Both were the clearing agents hired by Chidi Olife, the owner of the drug. “Upon being arrested, Alhaji Idris Danjuma, one of the clearing agents was used to effect the arrest of Oke Ningo who Chidi contacted to receive the consignment from the agents on his behalf, unfortunately he escaped arrest at the point of receiving the drug as he suspected the person with the clearing agent to be an NDLEA officer. “Subsequently, the house of Chidi Olife was traced to a street in the Ajao Estate area of Lagos but before the JTF team could get there he had escaped with all members of his house due to the failed arrest of Oke Ningo. “The undaunted JTF team of officers placed surveillance on him. Their resilience yielded fruit ten (10) year after as Chidi Olife was eventually arrested and he is currently cooling his heels in NDLEA’s custody while a manhunt for Oke Ningo, his criminal associate continues.” Meanwhile, An all-inclusive Committee that will ensure the involvement of the entire country in the renewed onslaught against drug use will soon be inaugurated. This was made known by Brig. General Mohamed Buba Marwa (Rtd), Chairman/Chief Executive of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, NDLEA, during a courtesy visit by International Society of Substance Professionals (ISSUP) in Abuja. Marwa said, “Everybody has a stake in ensuring a drug free Nigeria and should be given a platform to contribute. The Committee to be known as ‘NDLEA Chairman’s Special Purpose Committee’ is our whole-society strategy to form a coalition of stakeholders against the drug menace. It will be made up of wide-ranging strata of society. Controlling substance use in Nigeria is a task that must be done.” He said the drug demand reduction department will be reorganized and streamlined under his leadership and would pay greater attention to drug prevention. “Prevention will be central to our drug control efforts because we have the responsibility to prevent more than 180 million Nigerians that are yet to get involved in drugs,” he said. He commended ISSUP Nigeria for its efforts to professionalize the field of drug control.