Bandits have killed 23 people in multiple attacks in Kaduna State. This is barely 72 hours after 19 people were killed in attacks on villages in Birnin Gwari and Kajuru local government councils. Governor Nasir El-Rufai at the weekend said the failure of the Northwest governors to work in collaboration is responsible for the incessant banditry and killings. He vowed never to negotiate with bandits but rout them out. Air Force jets have been deployed against the bandits after the latest round of killings. Also on Tuesday, seven people, who are members of a transport union, were kidnapped by suspected herdsmen at Iwaraja junction on the Ilesa-Akure Highway in Osun State. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan said the attacks were carried out by the bandits on soft targets. He listed the communities attacked as; Ungwan Gajere, Kutemeshi ward, Dankyawai, Janbala, Kishisho, Gwagwada-Kasaya, Agwa and Bugai, in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Chikun, Igabi and Kauru local government areas. Aruwan however, said that, the Nigerian Air Force fighter jets were already trailing and engaging bandits in some locations in Chikun, Birnin Gwari, Giwa and Igabi LGAs. He said: “Following the security situation across the state within the last 24 hours, the Kaduna State Government has received reports from security agencies of the killing of 23 citizens in different attacks on soft targets in Birnin Gwari, Giwa, Chikun, Igabi and Kauru local government areas. “The attacks on soft targets in these local government areas occurred around Kaduna state’s boundaries with neighboring states. “In Birnin Gwari LGA, 10 citizens were killed by bandits in an attack on Ungwan Gajere, Kutemeshi ward. They are: Abdu Hasan, Sufyanu Musa, Faisal Zubairu, Abdullahi Hasan, Ali Abdu, Rabiu Aliyu, Zubairu Yau, Bukar Yusuf, Mamman Ibrahim and Dankande Musa. “The following were injured in the attack: Baushi Alu, Rabe Sani and Usama Sani. “In Igabi local government area,  bandits shot dead one Dayyabu Yahuza between Sarkin Baka and Dankyawai village, near Gidan Kurmi. “In Giwa local government area, armed bandits invaded Janbaba village, one Yakubu Sule was shot dead. “In Kishisho village, Kauru local government area, gunmen suspected to be from a neighboring state killed five persons, listed as: Danlami Sunday, Abbas Abou, Sati Yakubu, Shaba John and John Francis. “In Chikun local government area, five citizens were killed by bandits in Gwagwada-Kasaya village in Kunai ward. They are: Habila Ibrahim, Samaila Audu, John Musa, Birnin Aboki and Ali Aboki. “Similarly, in Agwa, Chikun LGA, one Bitrus Joseph was shot dead in an attack by bandits. “Also in Chikun local government area, one bandit was killed near Bugai, when members of the community repelled an attack. As of the time of this security update, the air platforms of the Nigerian Air Force are trailing and engaging bandits in some locations in Chikun, Birnin Gwari, Giwa and Igabi LGAs, and citizens will be briefed upon the receipt of operational feedback,” he said. The Commissioner said Governor Nasir El-Rufai while recieving the report expressed sadness over the attacks. He said the governor sent his condolences to the families that lost their loved ones and offered prayers for the repose of the souls of the slain, speedy recovery for the injured. “Governor El-Rufai is also wishing the military success in the ongoing operation as he awaits reports.”