What are your expectations from the bench in this year? The bench is the enemy of itself. For instance, I am aware that if you get a judgment that is not in favour of the government, to enforce it would become an issue. I know of a judgment where they said the independence of the judiciary should be guaranteed by the law and up till this moment, they have not been able to enforce that law because they are not firm themselves. If you give an order and it’s not obeyed, you slam the authority including the Inspector-General of Police but the problem is, who will do it? If you want to enforce such judgment, you will still need the help of the police and if the IGP did not give directives, you will not be able to do anything. Meanwhile, you have the right to control everybody. The Judiciary is a watchdog over every organisation but, unfortunately, it’s not firm. They will disobey your order and nothing will be done about it. That is why state policing will not work in Nigeria because the governors will pocket the commissioner under them and they will use the state police to harass, intimidate and oppress the less privileged or the opposition and it’s a very pathetic situation. I just hope that there can be judicial activism where judges can stand by their judgments and say this is the order I gave and it must be obeyed and things would be better if this is being done. If the Supreme Court ruled today that Buhari is removed, that means it must take effect immediately because the judiciary is a powerful institution but they don’t use the power since the politicians know how to manipulate the judiciary and make it dance to their tunes. That is why they don’t want them to have autonomy and the best way to go is judicial autonomy, I mean physical autonomy. The country is presently faced with the challenge of insecurity. What will you suggest as the way out? There is no doubt that there are a lot of security challenges in the country and to think otherwise will be highly ludicrous. Firstly,the new Service Chiefs, though, belatedly appointed, should go back to the basics and try to tackle the issue of security from the root because without tackling the cause, it will be difficult if not impossible to win the war against terrorism, banditry and insecurities in the country. For instance, they should try to fish out the sponsors of Boko Haram and other militia groups in the country and deal with them decisively. However, the best way to tackle it should not be from tribal or ethnic angle but based on utopian ideology or angle that will be beneficial to all and sundry. Failure to see this has made some people to believe that the recent call by Mr Igboho that Fulanis should vacate Yoruba land is commendable or a step in the right direction, ditto for the call by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu  which was viewed or seen as a solution to the insecurities in the Southwest. I vehemently disagree with these positions because to give an individual the right to do such is to elevate illegality to the highest level or vantage position of recognition and promote a deadly culture of nonpareil impunity in the history of Nigeria. Government from all tiers should tackle the brewing security challenges and brigandage in the Southwest so as to avert the establishment of a reprisal group that may become notorious like Boko Haram in the Northeast. Kudos to the Southwest governors for the way they woke up to the recent security challenge in the region with a view to quickly arrest the situation, otherwise some other minions may spring up and claim to have some supernatural powers they don’t possess so as to draw attention too. So, politicians in the region should be wary of engaging thugs to fight against insecurity. Truth must  be told, it’s the failure of government that led to all these uprising in the land. Looking at government/judiciary relationship, is the judiciary really autonomous and independent? The issue is that they have killed our institution. How do you get an institution to work with the way it is being treated? And they will always cite America, United Kingdom and other countries as example, but how were they able to achieve that? It is because they have a good institution. For instance, if the judiciary is not independent, there is nothing that can ever work. You will say the judiciary is corrupt, but they are the ones that corrupted the judiciary. For instance, the Chief Judge of a state will go and defend a budget in the House of Assembly; he may defend a budget of N300 million and at the end of the day, and he will not get up to one third of the money released to the judiciary. So, how will it now function? An example of the situation is what is happening in Calabar, where you see people that have been employed without good pay. The judiciary must be independent, the legislature must be independent because the government has killed all these institutions. The president that we have today doesn’t have the political will to do anything. At a time, he came and said in line with the constitution, the judiciary must be independent and he issued Executive Order 10 in 2020 and before you know it, the governors went to meet him behind closed door and asked him to suspend the execution of that order and till today, the judiciary has remained what it is because if the judiciary did not have a fiscal autonomy; there will be problem. If you have physical autonomy, you control your finances and if it is discovered that there is fraud, they will arrest you immediately and strip you of your title either as a judge or whatever, but today, they still go cap in hand begging for money from government before you can do anything. How then will the governor not direct you on how to give a judgment in a case you are determining? But if you know that you have defended your budget and that your money would come to you and you will spend it in line with the dictates of the law, there won’t be control from any governor. How do you relate these challenges in the judiciary to delay in justice delivery? It is all related to the challenges the judiciary is facing in delay injustice delivery. In Lagos alone, we have over 6,000 pending appeal cases and over 4,000 pending motions and again; the environment in which the judges work is so unfriendly. The judges are trying their best but the more they are trying, the more the politicians are frustrating them. If the judiciary is not independent, there is no way it can function ultimately. However, despite the conditions in which they are working, it is still the only arm of government that is standing firm. Otherwise, Nigeria would have collapsed. For instance, the governors have killed the autonomy of the local governments and now, they are even saying that the local government should not be a tier of government, though it is still not clear how they want to achieve that, and when you talk about security, they would be clamouring for state police. I don’t think that would be our solution because the government will abuse it. Some stakeholders have called for a review of the 1999 Constitution and if possible to accommodate restructuring? What’s your take on this? The 1999 Constitution was imposed on us by the military. And there has not been any government that is serious about changing the constitution. It is an instrument imposed on us by the military and you are calling it a constitution. It does not take care of certain things and our problems in Nigeria are too many and these include tribalism and religious bigotry. With all these, there is no way you can forge ahead as a country. The constitution needs to be changed and several governments before now have done constitutional conferences and none of the recommendations has been adhered to. It is only when they leave office that they would start clamouring for it. Meanwhile, you didn’t do anything when you were there. Are we really in democracy? We are not. We are only under civil rule not practising democracy. The only difference is that it is not a military government. As far as modern democracy is concerned, we are not even close. When you talk about a democratic government, the government must be responsible to the people, it will do the wish of the people but today, Nigerians are finding it difficult to understand the government. The electricity tariff has been doubled; it’s terrible. In a good state, there must be price control agency but today people sell anything the way they want and once the price control regulation is not there, things become more difficult. We don’t import cassava, corn and some other things in Nigeria but in the country today, one orange sells for N50 and the government says they are working to improve the agricultural sector. A bag of rice now is equivalent to the minimum wage and the minimum wage is less than $60 and while some governors are still criminally saying they won’t pay the minimum wage; whereas the money is not even as big as what they used in buying newspaper per day. The money some of the governors used to buy newspaper in a year can build an estate and until we are able to wipe out corruption in our system, Nigeria can never grow. What’s your take on the  loans that the presidency is accumulating? This is also another great challenge. Some people will say, this administration is trying in terms of infrastructure and but it has not done wonderfully well. For instance, on the issue of rail transportatiuon, it is a good and fantastic innovation but then, the one they have been battling with, from Ibadan to Lagos, they have been in it for the past six years which they have just concluded last month and when they are kicking off, people thought it’s going to favour the masses but it’s not even affordable to them. It ought to be cheap and affordable to the citizens since it’s a government’s project. Now they still want to do the rail from Kano to Lagos and other states; they have borrowed and borrowed for all these things that have not even started and if it took them six years to finish Lagos to Ibadan, what time will they finish other routes around the whole country? That means this administration won’t achieve that purpose before its term runs out and now that they have less than three years, they keep borrowing. Unfortunately, we have a funny National Assembly where everything is ‘we we’ because they belong to the same party and they don’t want to criticise the government. That is why the more the legislative fight with the Executive, the better for the nation. I also want to say that if this government leaves power today, the index of corruption that will be discovered will be three times more than the one that was discovered under President Jonathan or Obasanjo. Looking at the last few months, are we still fighting corruption in this country? They have fought no corruption at all. As we speak now, the EFCC is on autopilot because of the selfish interest of some persons who are also corrupt. There are lots of allegations against the Attorney General and yet nothing had been done about it. They want to cripple the EFCC; now they are trying to inculcate them under the Ministry of Justice and once they do that, it’s the end of that institution. One can pinpoint many people that are standing trial for stealing money but till now they are still serving in the government. It’s until there is a complete change  of attitude in our politician, the National Assembly is populated by people who have filthy records and they keep hiding in political offices. After some of them leave as governors, they go from there to become minister or also to populate the National Assembly to go and make law. Why will such person make a law that will affect him when he has stolen a lot of money? So this is the situation we find ourselves in fight against corruption, and the government has not succeeded because they have not even done anything. Generally, this government has failed and that is just the truth.