The Holy Aruosa Cathedral, a traditional worship centre, is on Akpakpava Road, off Ring Road, Benin City in Oredo Local Government Area (LGA) of Edo State. The cathedral is the oldest worship centre in Africa and was established by the Portuguese before they started the Roman Catholic and other churches. The reigning Oba of Benin, Omo N’ Oba N’ Edo Uku Akpolokpolo, Oba Ewuare II, worships at the cathedral. The Holy Aruosa Cathedral, according to sources, was built by Oba Esigie in 1849. The cathedral is an unusual worship centre where tradition and religion are practised with the teeming worshippers having direct contact with God without going through any intermediary like Jesus Christ, according to a senior member of the cathedral, who spoke with our reporter, but would not want his name in print. The Benin Traditional Council (BTC), Oba Palace, Benin City, in a statement by the Secretary of BTC Frank Irabor, stated: “BTC wishes to inform the general public that in the name of the Almighty God and the Great Royal Ancestors, HRM, the Omo N’Oba N’Edo Uku Akpolokpolo Oba Ewuare II, the Oba of Benin and the Traditional Head of Holy Aruosa Cathedral of Benin has been constrained by traditional dictates to reluctantly approve the recommendation of the removal of Mr. Harrison Okao as the Ohenosa of Holy Aruosa Cathedral of Benin by the Joint Elders’ Committee and some senior chiefs of the Oba’s Palace, Benin. “The recommendation and eventual acceptance by HRM is predicated upon long-standing lingering breach and nonchalance over many years by Mr. Harrison Okao, pertaining to the age-old custom and tradition regarding the continuous unauthorised officiating as Ohenosa at the Holy Aruosa Cathedral of Benin. This decision is expected to bring lasting peace, sanity and tranquility to the holy spiritual environment that is imperative in the Holy Aruosa Cathedral of Benin, which has hitherto been absent in the Holy Aruosa Cathedral, because of the non-compliance with tradition and custom by Harrison Okao over many years. “Consequently, all properties, paraphernalia of office as Ohenosa and keys of the Cathedral should be handed over to Chief Esere, Head of Iweguae. Mr. Harrison Okao is also to refrain from operating the bank accounts of the Cathedral, with immediate effect.” The suspension of Okao led to protests. His backers insisted that he had served Holy Arousa Cathedral very well in the last 20 years and he should not be disgraced out of office. They urged the Oba of Benin and members of BTC to temper justice with mercy and reinstate Okao to ensure peace and progress of the cathedral and its members. To avoid the breakdown of law and order, the cathedral was  sealed. The worshippers were also barred by security operatives from entering the worship centre. Our reporter, who was at the cathedral in the morning of February 7, observed that the worship centre was locked. The supporters of Okao were on the premises calling on the Oba of Benin to rescind the decision. Okao and the Acting Ohenosa, Chief Esere, who is also the head of Iweguae, declined to react through the telephone. A senior chief at the palace of Oba of Benin, who spoke in confidence, stated that Oba of Benin would never respond to our reporter’s enquiries and clarifications in line with Benin tradition and custom. Irabor, who signed the suspension statement, was not available. At the cathedral, our reporter spoke with the Deputy Chief Usher, Sunny Ekhaguere, who confirmed that the worshippers came for the usual Sunday morning worship, but that they were prevented from entering the cathedral. “We do not know why our Presiding Priest was suspended indefinitely. We are not aware of the allegation of unauthorised ministration levelled against him in the press statement from the Palace of the Oba of Benin. “The suspended hardworking priest has served the Holy Arousa Cathedral, Benin City very well in the last 20 years. “The Oba of Benin might have asked the new Commissioner of Police in Edo State, Phillip Ogbadu, to beef up security at Holy Aruosa Cathedral, to prevent the escalation of the crisis and to give peace a chance. “Police officers and men, as well as other security personnel, are patrolling the area to prevent the breakdown of law and order. The security operatives are not allowing worshippers, friends of the cathedral and other persons to access the premises of Holy Arousa Cathedral, much less of entering the worship centre. The police personnel and other security operatives on the ground are not allowing people, no matter how highly placed, to move into the premises of the cathedral.” A senior officer of Vigilance Group of Nigeria, Mrs. Elizabeth Eguaoba, who was controlling traffic in front of Holy Arousa Cathedral, noted that before our reporter got to the cathedral, the worshippers knelt down for so long to beg Oba of Benin to pardon the suspended presiding priest. Mrs. Eguaoba said: “I resumed on February 7, 2021, in front of Holy Arousa Cathedral at 6:30 a.m, with an instruction from my bosses that no vehicle should be allowed to park in front of the cathedral and also that no worshipper should be allowed into the premises. That is why the worshippers are standing by the road side. “Prior to your arrival, the worshippers, who are backing the suspended presiding priest, all knelt down and continually said: ‘Baba (Oba of Benin) Laho (please).’ “The pleading worshippers want the first-class monarch (Oba of Benin) to temper justice with mercy and forgive the suspended presiding priest and recall him.” A senior officer of Vigilance Group of Nigeria, who is an indigene of Sabongida-Ora in Owan West LGA of the state, stated that controlling vehicular and human traffic in the area was very hectic and quite challenging. He urged the warring parties to sheathe their swords and give peace a chance. 