 After five years on Nigerian TV, the Nigerian Idol franchise returns for the sixth edition in 2021. The Nigerian Idol has produced several music stars that include Mercy Chinwo, Moses Obi Adigwe, Evelle, and K-Peace. Other big names that have come from the Idol franchise are Omawunmi, Timi Dakolo, and Jordie. The 2020 edition is in collaboration with Multichoice, as the owner of the franchise, and Bigi as headline sponsor. The Judges For the 2020 edition of the Nigerian Idol, the judges were unveiled as Obi Asika, Seyi Shay, and DJ Sose. The three new judges replace former judges of the show that include Jeffrey Daniel, Yinka Davies, Audu Maikori, Charly Boy, Femi Kuti, and Naeto C. According to the organisers, the choice of the new judges stems from their track records and achievements over the years. While Obi Asika is renowned for making stars and contributed to the Nigerian music industry for over 20 years, Seyi Shay has established herself as a frontline music star and DJ Sose as a frontline disc jockey flying the Nigerian flag high. The Host IK Osakioduwa was announced as the host of the 2020 edition of the Nigerian Idols. IK was announced as the host in a recent unveiling of the show that is scheduled to kick off on March 14. Osakioduwa returns to the spotlight having hosted some of Multichoice’s borrowed franchises that include Big Brother Africa, Big Brother Naija, and Nigerian Idol. Format and Grand Prize The 2020 edition of the Nigerian Idol will follow the usual format known with it. The build-up of the proper show kicks off on March 14, 2021, while the proper show begins on Sunday, March 28 till July 2021 for 16 whole Sundays. The organisers also announced that the music reality TV show will be filmed in a world-class studio in Lagos, Nigeria. Contestants are judged and put up for evictions while the viewers vote for who eventually emerges the winner of the show. According to Channel Director: Africa Magic Channels, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu, over 3600 entries were sent online from where the judges auditioned the candidates that will make the show. Mba-Uzoukuwu also stressed that as the company did during the filming of BBNaija season 5, the company will put in place all required protocols and guidelines stipulated by the NCDC to curb COVID-19. Martin Mabutho, the Chief Customer Officer of Multichoice announced that a grand prize of N50 million is up for the eventual winner of the show. Mabutho stressed that the grand prize includes a recording contract, a luxurious car, and other prizes.