 These are not the best of times for players in the global air transport industry as the continuous wave of the coronavirus, otherwise known as COVID-19, pandemic is dealing a deadly blow on airlines and other players in the logistic value chain. Significantly, airlines are recording lower passenger traffic, forcing their owners and managers to rethink their operational model to keep the business afloat. Shrinking revenue accruing to airlines during the pandemic, when airplanes are flying half  their configured capacity, is creating unease for airline owners and managers. Besides airlines, which are experiencing low passenger traffic, airport authorities and aircraft manufacturers are also experiencing lull in their business as the preference for bigger airplanes is no more the fad for global carriers. To bride this gap, global carriers are embracing the use of medium range fuel economical airplanes to navigate the pandemic until the industry returns to a rebound. Though medium range aircraft such as Brazillian Embrear has been in use by many carriers, including Associated Aviation, Virgin Nigeria Airways, Arik Air and AeroContractors in Nigeria, more carriers, especially Air Peace, have also embraced it. Such an aircraft, an expert, Mr Alex Nwuba, said is best suited for operators who understand the dynamics of commercial air transport. Besides saving fuel costs, which experts said, account for over 40 per cent of airlines’ bill, regional jets such as Embrear‘s 195-E2 will enable airlines minimise costs in achieving a sustainable operations. Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika said many airlines could surpass their achievements if they utilise the right airplanes. According to Sirika, appropriate airplane use is among the key factors that will enable an airline achieve profitability. Sirika said most carriers were responding to challenges of the time by acquiring new airplanes to reduce the huge offshore funds spent in fixing airplanes at maintenance facilities. Besides, the minister said only creative carriers would take the courageous step of buying such airplanes, urging its managers to look critically at how to achieve cost-friendly operations based on airplane’s use, growth capacity and appropriate flight scheduling as well as pricing structure Described as audacious, a move by a carrier, Sirika said the airline had rewritten the narrative about indigenous carriers in their capacity to embrace global move in modernising the aircraft in their fleet. He said the Federal Government had a few years ago designed a roadmap for the sector that would assist indigenous carriers to acquire appropriate airplanes in deepening the development of the airline sub sector. Only last week, Air Peace received one of the 30 Embrear 195-E2 aircraft it ordered from the Brazillian aircraft maker. The road to the delivery had begun in 2019, when the carrier signed an agreement with Embrear, to buy 30 airplanes to boost its operations. Out of the 30 Embraer 195 E2 jets, the carrier, according to Peace Air’s Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Allen Onyema,  ordered 13, but announced purchase rights for 17. Air Peace, investigations have shown, is the first operator of Embraer 195 E 2 in Africa. Airlines, it was shown, are rushing for the Embraer 195-E2 aircraft because if offers  passengers aisle access. The aircraft allows passengers to enter and leave their seats without hopping over their neighbour’s seat. The airplanes, the carrier said, will assist in achieving its expansion plans. Air Peace is among the second in global carriers in ordering brand new Embraer jets, after Lufthansa German Airlines, which took delivery of 35. On the aircraft’s performance, Onyema said: ”The Embraer E195-E2 is the perfect aircraft to expand our domestic and regional operations. We are aware of the aircraft’s economic performance as well as its unique configuration. These are the major reasons we placed order for this type of aircraft. “The aircraft will further help us actualise our ambition of connecting not just Nigeria, but also the entire African continent while feeding long haul flights from our Lagos hub.” President/Chief Executive Officer, Commercial Business Aviation, Embraer, Mr Arjan Meija said the decision of a  carrier to acquire the brand new Embraer 195-E2, which he described as the “Profit hunter aircraft “, would assist the carrier in achieving its ambition of connecting not just Nigeria, but also the African continent while feeding long haul flights from its hub in Lagos. Senate Committee Chairman on Aviation, Smart Adeyemi described the decision by Air Peace to acquire brand new Embraer 196-E2 jets as a courageous step by investors in the aviation sector, saying running airline business with the right aircraft is the strategic way out of the pandemic, judging by developments in global aviation, for which Nigeria is not insulated. He said the carrier has opened a new chapter in the history of aviation through its fleet enhancement programme borne out of foresight and ingenious business strategy. According to him, ”Air Peace has opened a new chapter in the history of air transportation as the use of brand new planes is a blast that will echo to the international community that Nigerian carriers are getting it right by deploying middle size, efficient aircraft to routes at a time global aviation is experiencing low passenger traffic.” An expert, who declined to be named, described the strides by the carrier in its sixth year of existence as phenomenal, saying the move to bring brand new planes shows to aircraft manufacturers, and global insurance players that Nigeria is not an aviation high-risk country. Besides, the expert said the development would also signal Nigeria as a strong carrier that can compete with global airlines. Investigations have shown that many passengers are upbeat about new airplanes. They are, however, urging the government to support such airlines rather than dissipating much energy in the proposed carrier. Also, an aircraft engineer, Sheri Kyari, said Nigerian carriers were beginning to embrace strategic initiative that would keep them afloat. He said in the last few years discernible operator realised that middle size, fuel economic airplanes are suitable to run their route network. The analyst said new airplanes such as Embraer 195-E2 would not only save the carrier fuel, but also lead to reduced maintenance and other costs. Besides, he added, this would offer passengers efficient travel in the latest aircraft technology. Noting the decision of some indigenous carriers, including Air Peace, to resume on some routes it hitherto abandoned, the aircraft engineer said brand new planes would assist airlines to achieve effective equipment utilisation. Investigations have shown that the Brazilian aircraft is making in-roads into the sector  by supplying regional jets to many carriers. Embraer released its recent Commercial Market Outlook has detailed global passenger demand for air travel and new aircraft deliveries over the next 10 years. It shows that the global pandemic is reshaping air travels and demanding new aircraft, with four main drivers. According to the Commercial Market Outlook, airlines are emphasising fleet right-sizing with a shift to smaller capacity and more versatile aircraft to match weaker demand. The outlook indicates that firms that use aircraft are seeking protect their supply chains from external shocks that will bring businesses closer, and generate new traffic flows under regional arrangements. The Commercial Market Outlook highlighted passenger behaviour tilting preference for shorter-haul flights. Studies have shown that passengers are emphasising  environmental considerations with renewed focus on more efficient greener aircraft types. Meijer said: “The short-term impact of the global pandemic has long-term implications for new aircraft demand. “Our forecast reflects preference for more profitable smaller airplanes to match weaker travel demand.” On how local carriers could navigate the pandemic as it affects the use of smaller airplanes, the Group Managing Director, Nigerian Aviation Handling (NAHCO) Plc, Mrs Tokunbo Fagbemi said strategic route planning and equipment choice would give carriers the edge. She said airlines could use smaller airplanes such Embraer 195-E2 regional jets to connect secondary airports such as Akure, Ibadan, Ilorin, Benin, Asaba and Makurdi using appropriate fare pricing to attract passengers. Mrs Fagbemi said with a small or medium size aircraft, operators could attract more passengers to such airports by looking beyond routine operations and venturing into cargo. She said: “The question of airline’s profitability deepends on a lot factors ranging from the equipment choice and size to the fare structure as well as timing of schedule. Any operator who targets the right time for the flight when the propensity to fly is high will certainly break even and become profitable if the aircraft is properly utilised. “This accounts for the reason  local airlines are going for smaller or medium range aircraft to service small airports with moderate passenger capacity. “Besides, local airlines could go beyond scheduled passenger operations and look at the cargo chain with appropriate charges to make up for shortfall in passenger because of the pandemic.” A United States Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)-licensed flight dispatcher, Mrs. Victoria Adegbe, said airlines were rooting for suitable airplanes to make up for sharp drop passenger traffic. Citing Air Peace, which has different aircraft, including its Embraer regional jets, she said it deployed such airplanes on not-very-busy routes when there was dip in passenger traffic.  