One of the upscale estates in Lekki area of Lagos, Lekki Gardens and her residents are up in arms. Investigations by The Nation revealed that the residents want control of the estate’s utility such as generators, sewage treatment plant, estate flood control pumps and water holding tank, which are located in a particular area. While the Developer is insisting that it would manage the infrastructure. Sources at the estate allegedly said the issue which was already being addressed with the leadership of the Residents Association was quickly escalated to slander the brand name and set wrong narratives. He said: The author accused the real estate developer of employing the services of “suspected thugs to break into their Premier–1 Estate in the early hours of Monday,” a statement that is completely false and a mere distraction from the issue at hand”. It was gathered that on December 31, 2020, residents of the estate wrote the developer requesting to take over control of shared services and facilities in the area which the developer promptly wrote back to turn down their request, giving reasons for the decision. They stated that the facility being sought to control was a shared infrastructure between two estates, Premier-2, and one of the developer’s offices in the area hence; it was not possible to cede control to the Residents Association. Unfortunately, while they were still dialoging and exploring avenues to resolve the matter, the residents resorted to self-help by breaking into the service area and shutting other users out from the service. As it stands, the developer has reported the issue to the Police for investigation and peaceful resolution. Spokeperson for Lekki Gardens said their organisation is a responsible company that takes pride in developing quality real estate properties with a knack for customers satisfaction at all times and will not directly or indirectly seek to jeopardise the very essence for which they are in business – to provide luxury apartments that are affordable and consequently help reduce the over19million housing deficit in Nigeria.