Proprietors of mission secondary schools have rejected the approval of hijab wearing in mission schools by the Kwara State Government. The state government had earlier approved the wearing of hijab by students of grant-aided schools in the state. But the proprietors of the affected schools in a communique read by Rev Victor Dada said that the “body condemns the use of hijab in Christian missions grant-aided schools as this will cause discrimination in schools and allow terrorist to easily identify our children and wards. “Christian mission grant-aided schools should be returned to the owners promptly as most of these schools have churches beside them and unnecessary trespass may lead to break down of law and order. “Christian faithful should occupy all grant aided schools. Christians should have a day for prayers and fasting for God to intervene in the imbroglio. “We shall continue to interact and dialogue with the state government on the return of grant aided schools to the proprietors.” Media reports yesterday had quoted the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Prof Mamma S. Jubril, as saying that the state government had approved the wearing of hijab by pupils in grant-aided mission schools in the state. He said in taking the decision, ”the state government has considered the submissions of all major interest groups on the matter. It has also thoroughly considered the education law of Kwara State, the prevailing court judgments and current global trends of multiculturalism in evolving a consultation-based decision that will bring lasting peace and understanding to our communities. “The government has also paid particular attention to the ‘declaratory’ nature of the subsisting judgments of the Court of Appeal and their purports. ”Consequently, the government hereby acknowledges and approves the right of the Muslim schoolgirl to wear the hijab, and directs the Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development to come up with a uniform hijab for all public/grant-aided schools, which will be the accepted mode of head covering in schools. “Any willing schoolgirl with the approved (uniform)  hijab shall have the right to wear same in public/grant-aided schools.”