 Worried by the economic hardship in the country, the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has called on the Lagos State Government to ameliorate the sufferings of the people, saying that the poverty in the land was alarming. Its Lagos State Chairman, Adedeji Doherty, made this call at the Chairman’s Virtual Town Hall Meeting recently. He said the sufferings of the greater population of the people was unbecoming, hence the need for a concerted effort for people-friendly policies to make the common man smile. Doherty stressed that the PDP is open and ready for collaboration with the ruling party only if the All Progressives Congress (APC) is willing to engage men and women from the PDP, who according to him, know their onions for cross-fertilization of ideas that would move the state forward. He said since no one is an island of knowledge, the PDP is fit, proper and ready to proffer feasible, viable and sustainable ideas to effect prudent management and administration of human and material resources in the state to better the lots of the masses. He said: “No one has a monopoly of knowledge, though we know our differences, however, we can come together for cross-fertilization of ideas to move the state forward. Nothing stops the government in power to engage the best brains across party lines. “What is paramount is to give the people a meaningful life. We must remember that the success or otherwise of a government can only be measured by the quality of well-fare and well-being of the governed. “This administration should show impartiality, accountability and honesty to the people in each of its affairs. “We as a party must do everything possible to redeem our image and keep our campaign vows.” The PDP Chairman called on the young people to swiftly resist any form of temptation from any party or persons to use them in furtherance of evil deeds, noting that the end of such engagement is destruction. “Let no one use you and dump you for destruction. Our youths are not professional thugs or agents of destruction. We must strive to make their life better by identifying their unique talents and potentialities and help them in any way possible to develop themselves to be useful not only for themselves and the state but for the country at large.” 