 The design philosophy for Geely Auto is simple and unique: It is stylish and modern; and  with all these qualities are also safety, hi-tech, durability.Interestingly, it  is comfortable and affordable. These were brought to bear when the emerging auto giant launched its brands – Emgrand 7 and X7-Sport. In the past, cars were just considered a means of transportation, but today they have become so much more – they have become an inseparable part of people’s lives. People are spending more and more time in their cars, so to improve their lives and their driving experience, Geely’s iNTEC brand of technologies were showcased at the ZORYA Place, an event centre on Victoria Island, Lagos. Mikano International Limited, exclusive partner of Geely Automotive in Nigeria hosted eminent Nigerians and foreign nationals at the unveiling of Geely flagship models— Emgrand 7 & X7-Sport. According to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Mikano International Limited, Mr. Mofid Karameh, “It took us 10 years to make up our mind on which company to bring into Nigeria so we can be sure to deliver the best to our esteemed customers.” Mikano General Manager, Operations, Mr. Kamal Karameh, however, told the gathering that the company signed the deal with Geely in 2019 because “Geely is one of the world’s top automakers. They are the owners of Volvo Car Group, and the biggest shareholder of Daimler AG (group to which Mercedes-Benz belongs). Its sales exceeded 2.1 million cars, placing it among the world’s top car manufacturers. “With more than $14 billion investment over the last 10 years in R&D and plans to further invest for the next five years, its commitment to provide the highest level of modern technologies in its industry has seen Geely recorded notable growth indexes.” Geely has acquired 100 per cent of Volvo Car Group, 9.69 per cent of Daimler AG (becoming the largest shareholder), 100 per cent of London Taxis, 100 per cent American Flying Car Company (Terrafugia), 100 per cent Lynk & Co (the Prestigious Brand from Geely), 51 per cent of Lotus and 49.9 per cent of Proton.” He added that Geely Holding Group has been ranked on Fortune Global 500 top companies for the ninth consecutive year. Karameh further elaborated that the Mikano-Geely partnership has brought the Geely global stamp of excellence and the Mikano time-tested power and service and availability into cars, specifically engineered and assembled in Nigeria for the market. In an ever connected world, Geely Smart Ecosystem (GKUI) allows users to connect with their cars and stay connected to the world. The system takes convenience to the next level, letting people seamlessly stay mobile, stay connected. It wasn’t a surprise to many guests at the event when Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, hailed Mikano’s investment in bringing the vehicles to Nigeria. Adebayo urged other investors to emulate Mikano. Geely Auto General Manager for Africa Market, Shubin Liu, in his virtual speech, lauded the legacy of Mikano International Limited and expressed his confidence in the positive outcome of their partnership with Geely for Nigerian market. Mikano Sales Manager for Geely Ralph Haidar, said the Geely flagship models Emgrand 7 and X7 Sport come with a comprehensive three-year free insurance, three-year free servicing and five-year warranty. Further elaborating on the USPs of the Geely brands, Haidar said the high technology endowment of the Geely brand as well as its well-engineered functionality, using influences from Volvo and other acquired auto companies. The highpoint of the event were the official unveiling and the announcement of the vehicles’ prices. X7 Sport goes for N13.4 million while Emgrand7 is put at N8.7 million. Guests took turns check the vehicles. In attendance were Director-General of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA) Amb Ayoola Olukanni; Managing Director, Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA) Prince Adedamola Docemo; Director-General, Manufacturer Association of Nigeria (MAN), represented by Mr. Joseph Emoleke; Former Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mr. Mohammed Abubakar; International supermodel, Naomi Campbell; and Chief Medical Director, University College Hospital (UCH), Prof Jesse Otegbayo. Others were music stars and influencers such as Davido, Cubana High Priest, and businessman, Ned Nwoko.