Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq on Wednesday alleged that some politicians were plotting to attack the public, to smear his name. He said security agencies should be on the alert. Addressing reporters in Ilorin, the governor’s spokesman, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, said: “The politicians are plotting to sponsor street urchins and other criminals to attack the public and political interests and attribute it to the governor. “The objective of the plotters is to create a false image for the governor as a promoter of violence, thereby heating up the polity in the name of politics and pitting him against the public. The desperadoes behind this plot do not care about the safety of the ordinary people and their belongings. ”The image they desperately seek to give the governor is contrary to the sustained policy of the governor not to patronise thugs or violent elements, as was the case in the recent past. Rather than deploy the children of other people for political violence, the governor desires to build a state that gives everyone, including those long condemned to thuggery and other anti-social behaviour, a fair chance to live a decent life. However, his adversaries have perfected their plans to constantly link him to violence for their selfish reasons. “They have resolved to make the state ungovernable for their own selfish agenda. Central to this evil plot is a resolve to instigate crises/attacks and then instruct those who carry out the attacks to “drop” the names of the governor or his aides as their sponsors. They want to go as far as sewing cloths with the signature (AA) initials of the governor and give same to their foot soldiers or hit men to wear in order to blackmail the governor.” He added: “Another leg of the evil campaign is a planned and sustained media campaign of calumny woven around baseless allegations of corruption, contract inflation and the likes, using doctored documents and wicked innuendoes. All of these are targeted at the governor because he chooses to do things differently. His only sin is his principled stand that ‘Otoge’ means we cannot continue to share public patrimony to a few individuals.”