The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Zamfara State has been resolved following the reconciliation of the two warring factions led by the former Governor of the state, Abdul-Azeez Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa. The two camps, however, resolved and picked the former Governor of the State, Yari as the leader of the party. As the two factions agreed to bury their differences and collapsed the factions into one structure, Senator Marafa agreed to drop all court cases he instituted against the party. The resolutions, which were read by one of the stakeholders, Mikailu Barau in the meeting they held in Kaduna yesterday had the supporters of both Yari and Senator Marafa from all the 147 wards in attendance. According to him, the two camps met in Kaduna on February 6 and 7 and agreed with the exemplary leadership and effort initiated by the APC National Caretaker Committee led by Governor Maimala Buni to resolve the crisis. To achieve genuine peace, Barau remarked that 11-point resolutions have been adopted by the camps. He said: “The supporters of Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa and Abdul-Azeez Yari unanimously endorsed the reconciliation move and welcome development for repositioning the party so that it would occupy its rightful leadership place in Zamfara State and Nigeria. “Discussion points shall be divided into two; (a) those that are for the public audience which comprises all the propositions in the present submission and (b) confidential issues to be discussed in a closed-door session between the two leaders of the factions namely Hon. Abdul’Azeez Yari Abubakar and Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa. “The interim leadership of the APC in Zamfara State from the faction of Abdul’Azeez Yari Abubakar is accepted in the good spirit of progress with high expectations for fair deal through the inclusion of Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa’s supporters at all levels. “By this statement, all parallel party structures under Senator Kabiru Marafa are considered dissolved. “Abdul’Azeez Yari Abubakar is recognised as the leader of the party in the spirit of reconciliation, unity and progress of Zamfara as a state and APC as a party. “All court cases initiated by Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa-led faction in respect of party leadership are hereby withdrawn for the reconciliation to thrive. “Notwithstanding the dissolution of parallel party structures, the two factions (Marafa and Yari factions) shall be maintained for six months with alignments evolving naturally until one party is achieved. After this, a review meeting will be convened to evaluate the progress made. “For the sake of clarity, the Marafa faction comprises interests from the erstwhile Wakkala, Abu Magaji, Dan Ali groups. “There shall be an arbitration committee with representatives from each faction that will monitor the implementation of agreed terms of reference. “The leadership of the two factions should caution its members, especially the social media team, against unguarded utterances that can affect the process of the reconciliation. Distinguished members should be enlightened in the form of training to facilitate the reconciliation of the two groups. “Persistent violation of the agreement and inability to respect the terms by either faction amounts to the automatic dissolution of the overall agreement and give the aggrieved party the automatic right to go its way. “The terms spelt out in this resolution and those to be discussed in a closed-door meeting between Abdul’Azzeez Yari Abubakar and Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa should be communicated to the leadership of the APC at the national level accordingly.”