Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has dispatched top government officials to Government Secondary School, Iluke Bunu for an on-the-spot assessment. The Principal of the school, Mr Dare Ayebinu, conducted the trio of the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Wemi Jones, the Commissioner for Information and Communications,  Kingsley Fanwo and the Local Government Chairman of Kabba/Bunu, Moses Olorunleke, round the affected areas. Jones thanked the people of the community for doing the bit they could to prevent the school from being razed completely. He said the Governor has directed his Ministry to ensure the students do not suffer from the effects of the inferno. “We are relocating the students to other classrooms temporarily as we work to fix the affected parts of the school. “We have looked at the areas affected and also how the fire incident happened. It will be hasty to blame it on anyone yet as investigations continue. Let us be cautious in levelling allegations and accusations to ensure peace. “But we want to assure you that we will make the reports of our investigations public as we cannot tolerate any form of negative impact on education,” he said. The State Commissioner for Information and Communications, Kingsley Fanwo said it was emotional seeing the school in flames. “I was baked here at this great institution. So, it was quite emotional seeing the school in flames. But the Governor has wiped our tears by promptly directing the relevant ministries to ensure the school is immediately rehabilitated. “Allegations of the school being burnt by Fulani herdsmen are reckless and irresponsible as there was neither evidence nor basis for that. Kogi State is at peace with all ethnic nationalities living here.” “We are interested in ensuring thorough investigations as Government will surely apply the law against anyone found guilty. “As rightly posited by the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, there is a need for communities to protect the government’s facilities in their domains as exemplified by the Iluke people,” he said. Fanwo said the Governor is committed to ensuring the school is renovated immediately, assuring the people that Governor Bello will never toy with his number one priority as a Governor. Chairman of Kabba/Bunu Local Government Area, Moses Olorunleke thanked the Governor for his quick intervention, which he described as the Governor’s “reassuring love for the Kabba/Bunu people.” He said the LGA has no problem with settlers which he said are up to 28 ethnic groups. His words: “As the Chief Security Officer of Kabba/Bunu LGA, I can say that we have no problem with over 28 ethnic groups living peacefully with us. They are contributing to our economy and our IGR. They are a part of us here.” The Secretary-General of the Iluke Welfare Association, Femi Obayomi thanked the Governor for his prompt response to the fire incident in GSS Iluke. “As a community, we appreciate the Governor and all the government officials who are here to assess the extent of the damage. Our community has been doing its best to help the school,” he said. Obayomi said Wemi Jones is a proud Bunu son who has displayed excellent leadership qualities.