Mixta Real Estate Plc has listed its N1.66 billion commercial paper (CP) on the FMDQ Securities Exchange. Mixta Real Estate’s N1.66 billion Series 33 CP was issued under its N20 billion CP issuance programme. FMDQ stated that the quotation of Mixta Real Estate’s N1.66 billion Series 33 CP on FMDQ Exchange is another testament of FMDQ’s leadership and resilience in providing the required support to governments, corporates and individuals through the delivery of innovative and dependable capital market solutions. FMDQ noted that its CP market has continued to prove a viable alternative for corporate entities in diverse business areas looking to secure short-term funding for working capital requirements and other capital expenditures. According to FMDQ, the CP market avails companies with opportunities to carry on with key business activities which contribute to the revitalisation of the Nigerian economy despite the pandemic. “As the leading organiser for the Nigerian debt capital market and in its role as a catalyst for infrastructure development, FMDQ Securities Exchange provides a choice platform for the registrations, listings, quotations, and trading of debt securities, towards empowering the Nigerian financial market,” FMDQ stated. Mixta Real Estate, a subsidiary of Mixta Africa, is a leading real estate development company in Nigeria. It has diverse real estate portfolio, with operations spanning the residential, commercial, and retail sectors of the Nigerian real estate industry. Mixta has successfully delivered close to 4,400 real estate assets, comprising homes, plots and retail outlets to end-buyers and continues to seek innovative solutions to activate development finance for affordable housing in Nigeria. The Mixta CP, like all other securities listed, quoted and traded on the FMDQ Exchange platform, shall be availed global visibility through FMDQ Exchange’s website and systems, transparency through its inclusion in the FMDQ daily Quotations List, governance and continuous information disclosure to protect investor interest, credible price formation, among other benefits derived from its preferred admission to the FMDQ Exchange platform. FMDQ Group is Africa’s first vertically integrated financial market infrastructure (FMI) group which provides a one-stop platform for the seamless and cost-efficient execution, risk management, clearing, settlement, depository and data and information services for the Nigerian financial market, through its subsidiaries including FMDQ  Exchange, FMDQ Clear Limited, FMDQ Depository Limited and FMDQ Private Markets Limited. 