 The task given to President Muhammadu Buhari, by the Governor of Ondo State, Olurotimi Akeredolu, SAN, to indicate his stand in the raging farmers/armed Fulani herdsmen crisis is not herculean, so it deserves attention. Against the background of innuendos and accusations that the President is sympathetic to the marauding armed herdsmen, because of his filial relationship as a Fulani, the governor called on the president to declare his stand to avoid equivocation by Nigerians. According to the governor:  ”What we expect from Mr President is for him to come out and let Nigerians know that he does not support criminality.” This ordinary request has become poignant because many people tend to believe that because the president is a Fulani, the security agencies are afraid to tackle the criminality of the herdsmen, so as not to incur the wrath of the powers-that-be. We agree with the governor that the president should speak up. To pretend that the crisis does not deserve the direct intervention of the president is to underrate the discontentment in the polity. Narrating his finding, the governor said: “In Ondo State, we discovered criminal herdsmen were using our forest reserve to perpetrate crimes; and we said look we cannot stay by and watch things happen this way.” What is true of Ondo state, is also true of several other states across the country. In Igangan community in Oyo state, the crisis got to a head, and the community resorted to self-help. The same resort to self-help is dangerously playing out in Orlu, Imo state. Of course, while crime is not the exclusive preserve of the itinerant armed Fulani herdsmen, the challenge is that security agencies treat their alleged criminality cautiously. In Ogun State, members of a community, were allegedly flogged by some military men, for asking herders, who destroyed their crops, to leave their community. According to the report, the herders were not only escorted back to the community, the soldiers came back to warn the community leaders to desist from granting interview to the press. It is such perception of favouritism that gives the impression that the bad elements amongst the herdsmen have the protection of the powers-that-be. The level of the challenge, now faced by the security agencies, was captured by the governor of Kaduna state, Mallam Nasir el’Rufai. He said that considering the huge ransoms paid to kidnappers, the criminal elements amongst the herdsmen would find it difficult to abandon the illegal activity. The vulnerability of the local communities is compounded by the fact that these herdsmen freely carry firearms, and the police seem afraid to arrest them for illegal possession of firearms. What many Nigerians considered as a strange exclusive entitlement for the Fulani herdsmen has received the ratification of the governor of Bauchi state. In a strange logic, Governor Bala Mohammed said of the herdsmen: ”He has no option than to carry AK-47 because the society and the government are not protecting him, what is his fault; it’s the fault of the government and the people.” It is such type of reasoning, which some have interpreted as a sense of exceptional  entitlement, that is at the root of the agitation for the President to speak up. What Nigerians expect from the president is to publicly condemn the activities of the armed Fulani herdsmen, and call to account their leaders.  He should also give matching orders to the security agencies to deal ruthlessly with anyone engaging in criminality. Of course, without changing the gun-ownership laws, no one should be allowed to carry guns. And very importantly, the archaic culture of open grazing should be banned without further delay.