Minority shareholders in Union Diagnostic and Clinical Services Plc have accepted a N492.75 million deal to sell their shares to Cedar Advisory Partners Limited, in a buyout that may lead to the delisting or re-categorisation of the only listed health laboratory science company. Minority shareholders agreed to transfer their shareholdings totalling 39.62 per cent to Cedar, which already holds 20.04 per cent equity stake Union Diagnostic, thus increasing Cedar’s majority shareholding to 59.66 per cent, making Cedar the single largest shareholder in the company. The deal involved transfer of some 1.408 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each of Union Diagnostic held by sundry minority shareholders to Cedar at 35 kobo per share. Shareholders of Union Diagnostic have given their final approval to the scheme of arrangement for the buyout and also consented to probable modifications by the Federal High Court, technically completing the deal. The transaction price of 35 kobo per share represented a premium of 75 per cent on the company’s last closing price on March 16, 2020 and 70.1 per cent on 90-day volume weighted average share price. At the court-ordered meeting in Lagos, shareholders approved the scheme of arrangement for the buyout dated Monday, December 7, 2020 and also authorised the board of Union Diagnostic to “consent to any modifications of the scheme of arrangement that the Federal High Court or any regulatory authority may deem fit to impose or approve”. The meeting also empowered the board of Union Diagnostic to take “all necessary steps and to consent to any modification of the scheme of arrangement that the Federal High Court shall deem fit to impose or approve”. Procedurally, shareholders’ court-ordered meeting is the final and most crucial meeting of shareholders on any issue of material change in shareholding structure or other related issues. With the approval of the buyout and the designation of the board to act and complete the final stage of Federal High Court authorisation and transfer of shares, the shareholders have completed the deal. The Board of Directors of Union Diagnostic, which initially received the binding offer for the buyout from Cedar, a healthcare investment firm, had considered and recommended the transaction to shareholders for consideration at the court-ordered meeting. 