 Non-Agile organizations will face adverse consequences in today’s business environment where technology deployment and usage define organizational efficiency and profitability, the  Managing Director/ CEO Financial Institutions Training Centre (FITC), Chizor Malize has said. Speaking during the institute’s maiden summit for the year with theme: organized by FITC, with theme Building an Agile Organization: Driving Innovation and Efficiency for Growth”, she said agile organisations have so much to gain in today’s business environment. And those that fail to embrace the new tech-driven work culture and operational plan, have a lot to lose. According to her,  agile work culture which relies on the use of technology to achieve seamless business operations and results. Surprisingly, many reputable organizations still carry out a large part their operations manually because they have failed to realize that the business environment is moving to technology-enabled solutions increasingly delivered with Agile ways of working. The facilitators at the event include Mrs. Osaretin Demuren, Chairman, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc. and the keynote speaker; Mrs. Folake Sanu, Executive Director, Wema Bank Plc; Mr. Ladi Asuni, Partner Emerging Technology and Data Analytics, KPMG and Mrs. Abimbola O Adebakin, CEO, Advantage Health Africa. In her welcome address, Malize said the theme was painstakingly chosen, in view of the recent developments of 2020, and established facts that organizations must become extremely agile, highly innovative and efficient in their operations. According to her, the event, was designed to be able to engage and equip organizations with the right tools needed to navigate in today’s business environment. “At FITC, we remain extremely focused on driving innovation, which has become visible in all our operations. We are changing our processes to ensure we are not just an agile organization, but innovative in all our programmes,” she told participants who were drawn from different countries and across diverse industries. Chairman, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc and the keynote speaker,  Mrs. Osaretin Demuren, delved into the leadership role in agile organizations. Speaking on the topic: ‘Becoming an Agile Organization: The Role of Leadership’, she said organizations should be ever ready in today’s business environment full of unpredictability. A case was in the corporate world where some companies were able to quickly navigate the “New normal” and adapt their businesses to remain productive relying on existing infrastructure that enabled electronic communication and provision of services with minimal physical interaction. But there were still a large group of companies where the COVID-19 upheaval exposed their significant weaknesses such as lack of technology, systems and skill to keep their workforce up-to-speed on the latest processes, procedures, and best practices. Mrs. Folake Sanu, Executive Director, Wema Bank Plc, spoke on ‘Enabling Innovation and Efficiency in an Agile Organisation’. For her, companies find themselves facing certain challenges, including ways to keep budget flat, antiquated technology, poor data, manual back-end operations among others, making it difficult for them to embrace Agile ways of working. Still, Management should expect resistance when they want to change these hinderances. In her words, Sanu advised; “Do not retreat at the sight of setbacks. Rather, build your best team, educate yourself on how to run an Agile Organisation, be systemic and progressive in your approach to adopting Agile in replacing traditional modes of work and success will be yours”.  