 The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, has thrown his weight behind the revival of the National Principals Cup competition, saying it is a national asset for building the character of future leaders and uniting the nation. He said that he played in both the Headmasters and Principals Cups in his primary and secondary school days, adding the experiences contributed to what he is today. The Ooni further gave his commitment to the success of the on-going revival of the event in Ile Ife on Monday when a delegation of the Organising Committee led by Dr. Ademola Are, Director of Grassroots Sports at the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development paid him a courtesy call to seek his royal blessings. “The reason why I am excited today is that I played in the Headmasters Cup and I played in the Principals Cup,” the Arole Oodua said. “They are the greatest assets to cultivate the subconscious nature or mind of the average Nigerian youth. It is very important that you are bringing the Principals Cup back. It will solve idleness, it will solve youth employment. It will provide an opportunity for a lot of people to display their talent as I am a living testimony,” Ooni continued : “The Principals Cup was one of the greatest programmes organised by the Federal Government. It goes round every corner. The dedication and commitment from all corners was a lot. That time, there was very little crime because you are preparing the mind of the youths to be responsible. “Football is all about responsibility. You must be responsible with the ball you are holding and careful not to lose it to the opponent. So, psychologically, you are preparing future generations that must be responsible.” Earlier, Dr. Are informed the Ooni that though the Principals Cup is traditionally a football event, the Minister of Sports has considered it necessary to include other sports including boxing, badminton, athletics, swimming and table tennis so as to provide opportunity for youths who are talented in other sports.