Four notorious Kidnappers were among 45 suspects arrested at different locations, for various crimes in Plateau state within the last quarter of 2020. Parading the suspects at the Plateau state Police Headquarters, the Commissioner of Police, Edward C. Egbuka, said the feats recorded by the Command within the time under review could not have been possible without the cooperation of patriotic citizens in the state. According to him, “on 27 January, 2021, while on intelligence-led raid of criminals’ hideouts at Ruga Village, a boundary settlement between Taraba and Bauchi State, a combined team of Police operatives, local vigilante and hunters burst a gang of kidnappers’ hideout. In the gun duel that ensued, some of the suspects fled, while three were arrested. “They were later identified as: Musa Alhaji Shehu, Bello Alhaji Adam and Ali Ibrahim, all male of Kampan-Zurak Village. On interrogation, the arrested suspects admitted being part of the notorious gang carrying out criminal activities in the area. Investigation still on-going.” He added that, ” if you will recall, on 23 December, 2020, a gang of vicious hoodlums attacked and shot dead one Barrister (Mrs.) Kenmuen Tapshak Pwul at her home in Latiya Area of Jos South Local Government Area. Her six year old daughter was also kidnapped, but later released to the family unhurt. ” In the course of investigation of this heinous crime, and while combing the nearby hills and forests, police operatives apprehended one Idris Musa ‘m’ of Kafi-Abu area, Barkin-ladi who had a gunshot wound on his leg. “The suspect initially denied any complicity in the crime; but when confronted with evidence from the scene of crime, he confessed to the crime, and mentioned some of his accomplices. Efforts are ongoing to arrest the fleeing suspects.” He further stated that on 10 October, 2020, acting on a tip off, police detectives attached to ‘A’ Division Jos, burst a criminal hideout and arrested six suspected armed robbers. He gave their names as Bitrus Dung, Moses Meshak, Joachin Dung, Ikechukwu Lucky, Precious Onyekuleje and Hemen Davou, all male. On interrogation, suspects confessed to have carried out several robbery operations within Jos meteropolis and environs. CP Egbuka stated that, “their modus operandi includes trailing of unsuspecting victims to their houses, particularly, in isolated areas, and robbing them of their belongings. Exhibits recovered from the suspects include; one locally fabricated gun, two pairs of Nigerian Army Uniform, and a Toyota Highlander vehicle with Reg. No. MUG 275 FM, one Mini ACCER Laptop, one Tecno Tablet, one Samsung Tablet, two hand bags, one trolling bag and one FREE TV decoder. Investigation is in progress.” According not him, On 31 January, 2021, Police Safer Highway patrol team attached to Angwan Rogo Division Jos, while on stop and search, at Naraguta area, by the University of Jos gate, suspected and arrested thirteen persons, operating in three tricycles with registration numbers: JJN 859 WQ, BUU 156 VC and JJN 286 WQ. When interrogated, the suspects could not give satisfactory explanation about their movement. He said, “they were immediately searched, and two locally made pistols and one live cartridge were recovered from them. “They were transferred to the Anti-Cultism Unit of the State Criminal Investigation Department, where further investigation revealed that they were members of the Black Axe Confraternity, a notorious cult group.” He named the suspects to include Umar Wada’s, Longji Long kat, Mohammed Biola, Alphusus James, Mark Desmond, Isaac Caleb and, Peter Jonathan. “A comprehensive list of other members of this dangerous cult group is with the police, and detectives have been detailed to go after them. Investigation is still in progress. Suspects will be charged to court as soon as investigation is completed,” he added.