New carriers are springing up in the aviation sector, despite lingering effects of COVID-19 pandemic on the logistic value chain. Though the regulator’s statistics do not indicate projected increase in passenger traffic for any rebound, applications for fresh carriers continue to soar. Investigations by The Nation revealed that over a dozen carriers are at various stages of certification at the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) seeking the Air Operators Certificate (AOC) to  operate scheduled airlines. Although Air Peace, Arik Air, Dana Air, Aerocontractors of Nigeria, Max Air, AZMAN Air, Overland Airways, Ibom Air and United Nigeria Airlines already providing scheduled services, it is expected that more carriers will be approved by the regulator in the months ahead. According to the Director-General, NCAA Captain Musa Nuhu, prospective carriers, namely Green Africa Airways, NG Eagle Airlines, Cally Air, 7-Star Global Airlines, Valujet Airlines and Jet Airways, have applied  for licences. The regulator assured that the carriers that qualify would be licenced. While NG Eagle Airline last week  flew in two of its aircraft from Addis Ababa, the Ethiopian capital, for livery change preparatory to take off, Green Africa Airways unveiled uniforms for its pilots and cabin crew. In an interview, Chief Executive Officer, 7-Star Global Airlines, Isaac Balami said though the pandemic had created disruptions in the industry, it would not stop investors from setting up carriers from meeting travel needs. He said what is critical in the industry is for investors to utilise the appropriate business model that will give birth to a functional/profitable carrier. Balami said 7-Star Global Airlines, which is in stage three of its certification, has acquired four Embraer jets preparatory to take off. The aircraft engineer and former President, National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE) said the choice of equipment is a key component in delivering an airline that will offer premium services. Balami said the business model of the airline would be different as it would not compete with existing ones, but would rather offer premium services with a target at high users. He exolained it would operate as a scheduled premium carrier. He noted that the pandemic has provided the window for airline start-ups, especially as the foreign carriers were struggling to survive even with government palliatives. “This is the best time to start an airline because everybody is on ground zero. So, when you enter, you all start afresh because most airlines are looking for money to start all over. So, it’s a level-playing ground. This is the time for Nigeria to have a strong carrier because all the big airlines are struggling now,” he said. On ways to deliver premium services, Balami said the airline intends to reconfigure its Embraer aircraft from a 50-seater to a 24 seater cabin and install a facility, which allows computers, smartphones and other devices to connect to the internet wirelessly to enhance passenger comfort on board. “We intend to change the face of domestic air travel by offering premium scheduled services, not charter on major routes with aircraft with fewer seats. “This strategy targets high net- worth aviation users on major routes, including Lagos/Abuja/Port Harcourt and some routes in the northern parts of the country,  if the passengers, especially state governments who want such services are ready to pay for such services. “With fewer passengers, our cabin crew will attend to such passengers and offer bespoke services.” Balami added: “This is the time to come out with a good airline that could compete. Our mission  is to float an airline that will offer premium service for high end users. It is a new model in the industry.We already have the personnel to drive the new carrier with over 40 cabin crew. Some of our aircraft, which are 50-seater will be reconfigured to 24 seats to offer quality service. “This kind of service will improve productivity for passengers.The whole idea of premium services is the ability to pay.” Bre that as it may, Air Peace has described its new Embraer 195-E2  aircraft as an equipment configured to offer superior travel experience to passengers. Its Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mrs Oluwatoyin Olajide, who made this known, said the airline chose the aircraft model – a 124-seater  capacity jet – because of its impressive economic performance. On the reconfiguration, Mrs Olajide said: “The interior is excellent. The staggered seats that we have in the Business Class are second to none. Furthermore, there is an innovation with the table – it has an iPad holder.” She emphasised that Air Peace wants the flying public to experience the enhanced comfort, increased privacy and beauty offered by the brand new E195-E2,which is considered the best in its segment. Olajide said one of the strong points of this plane is its advanced fly-by-wire system, which enables the aircraft to adjust through turbulence in such a way that the passenger is oblivious to it.