Medical Director of Federal Neuro Psychiatric Hospital, Kware in Sokoto State, Dr. Shehu Sale, has cautioned hospital workers to be careful in handling psychiatric patients due to vulnerability to COVID-19 infection. He gave the warning at a sensitisation training tagged: “Restrategising, Preventive and Control Measures against second wave of COVID-19 Pandemic in Psychiatric Hospital”, organised by the hospital on Wednesday. The training was in collaboration with FODEE Media Consult and different experts presented lectures on topics related to COVID-19 spread and safety protocols. The medical director, who was represented by the Head of Clinical Services, Dr. Danjuma Ishiak, said the training was to remind workers on the need to always obey the COVID-19 safety guidelines. He explained that the guidelines on frequent washing of hands, the use of gloves while examining patients and wearing of face mask, among others, must always be observed. He said: “Psychiatric hospitals are facing enormous challenges due to the peculiarity of their patients. “This is because the patients have impaired judgments due to depression and other psychological disorders. “Psychiatric hospital workers are highly exposed to contacts as they must accept, treat and interact with the patients.” The hospital’s Head of Administration, Alhaji Abdullahi Gada, who said workers from departments were selected for the training, added that it would be continuous. Gada said the effort was aimed at safeguarding workers, along with the hospital community against COVID-19, and enjoined the workers to always obey the COVID-19 protocols. The resource persons included Dr. Umar Kaoje from Community Medicine of Usmanu Danfodio Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), who spoke on “Improving Sanitation and Hygiene Measures amid COVID-19 Pandemic”. Another speaker, Dr. Sabitu Zainu, also from Department of Microbiology, UDUTH, delivered lecture on “Restrategising Infection Prevention and Control Measures amid COVID-19 Pandemic in Psychiatric Hospital.”