Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, has urged the Nigeria Immigration Service to improve on securing the land borders with a view to stopping foreign herders from gaining access into the country. Governor Akeredolu said most crimes perpetrated in the state forest reserves were done by foreigners. The Ondo Governor lamented that the foreigners have almost remained permanent in the reserve. Governor Akeredolu who spoke during a courtesy visit by the Zonal Coordinator Zone ‘F’ of the Nigeria Immigration Service, comprising Oyo, Ondo, Osun and Ekiti States, ACG Dora Amahian, said the rate foreigners were coming into the country through the land borders was alarming. Akeredolu said the unknown individuals coming into the country were without record and identity. He said, “We all know what this service is established to do. It’s clear to us . The number of people who come into Nigeria through the land border is becoming alarming. “Knowing your efforts to secure our borders, we are worried about some foreigners that come in and are almost permanent in our forest reserve. I know a number of criminal activities that are being perpetrated in our reserves that are done by foreigners. “Yes! Foreigners. They might be Fulanis but they are not Nigerians. I think there must be collaborations. Collaborations with other security agencies. That way you can function well and achieve more results. Collaborate with security agencies like Amotekun. “Peace is very important to us, not only in the Southwest or Ondo state but peace in the country. All over the country, we are being ravaged by foreigners.” In her address, ACG Amahian praised the cordial relationship between the state and the immigration service. She said the passion of the Governor for good governance and delivery of dividends of democracy has been seen in his ability to maintain peace as evident in the peaceful co-existence of the diverse people of the state. Meanwhile, the All Progressives Congress (APC) Southwest caucus in the House of Representatives has declared support for any legitimate step to flush out criminals in the region. The lawmakers who commended Governor Akeredolu over the fight against criminality in the Southwest said the cultural differences of the various ethnicities in the country must be respected. Hon. Femi Fakeye (Osun), Dolapo (Lagos) and Mayowa Akinfolarin (Ondo) who spoke in Akure during a visit to Akeredolu said his performance in office was responsible for his resounding victory in the October 10, 2020 poll. “Because of the stride you have achieved in your first term, the people of Ondo State has returned you for a second term. You have performed and still performing. “Let us first commend your efforts in Ore. The ore flyover. That speaks for itself. It’s one of the reasons you are returned. Again, the ore industrial hub, there is no country that can make it without an industrialized economy. Governor Akeredolu explained that it was part of the move to secure the state and Southwest in general that led to the creation of the Amotekun Corps. He said:” The most important thing you have said is that we have to think about our people first and in doing that, we have to make a declaration. “We felt convinced that we can not have a situation where a first Oba is killed, a deputy VC killed, kidnapped the chief of staff’s wife and we feel the people elected us to protect their lives and property. It’s one of the things that led us to create Amotekun. “When we came up with Amotekun, people were scared they thought it was state police, but we stood our ground and Amotekun has come to stay. “You have a duty to us, to our people and that has to do with the issue of state police. The time is now. This rampant security challenge is virtually everywhere. This issue of state police, we need to pursue. “If we have the state police, we may not need Amotekun. It will be a great fight for our people. We must stand together. I commend the Governor of Kano State who said cows should not be moved to the south again for grazing.”