 In January 25, the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation reached a historic milestone in its on-going modernization of the $1.6 billion Lagos-Ibadan sector of the Nigerian rails. It successfully poured the last 25-metre monolithic track bed superstructure, linking the rail line to Apapa port. Describing the 8.72 km Apapa Port Spur line “as a crucial channel linking the main line of the Lagos-Ibadan railway to the port”, the firm via a tweet says that “it has become an important transportation passage for the import and export of goods”, adding that it would serve as “a significant guarantee with regards to the comprehensive operational efficiency of the railway”. Of all the projects that the Buhari administration can deservedly claim as signature, the railway modernisation programme obviously stands out. From the 187km Abuja-Kaduna rail line, which it inherited from the Jonathan administration and which it successfully delivered after barely a year in office; to the 326km Itakpe-Ajaokuta rail line, which successive administrations had abandoned for more than 30 years but which the administration also delivered In September last year.  Now with the Lagos-Ibadan rail nearing completion, the administration has demonstrated that it can put its money where its mouth is. However, what makes the latest development on the Lagos-Ibadan rail corridor truly historic is that the nation’s busiest ports in Apapa, notoriously ill-served by transportation and allied infrastructure, will finally have a permanent relief with the coming of the railways into the mix. Also, businesses along the Apapa axis, forced to put up with the nightmare that movement of goods and personnel along the corridor had become – the result of the indiscriminate parking on the highways while the reconstruction of the segment lasted — will finally be spared the nightmare of such unseemly sights. For port users, it means – potentially – faster turnaround time in operations, enhanced ease of movement into and out of the ports and, with it, greater ease of doing business. Over all, it means cheaper and more efficient transportation of goods within and without the ports. If, that is, the operational inefficiencies in the ports do not serve as the next frontier of nightmare, especially now that the road access is in top gear. For the Nigerian in particular, it means more businesses, from haulage and related activities. And now with the Ibadan Inland Dry Ports also under construction, a lot of the activities currently being undertaken in the port area are not only expected to move upland but will expectedly create commensurate values along the way. The benefits, to put it mildly, are innumerable. None of these, however, could be achieved without demonstrable upscaling of operations within the ports itself. In other words, the coming of the railways, rather than being an end in itself, should be a means to an end. The end is to deliver services seamlessly, efficiently and most profitably to the end user. That would only happen if the different actors are prepared to inject greater efficiency into their individual operations without which the rail link would deliver little or no benefits in the end. As it is, a lot depends on what the actors in the ports system are able to deliver. A situation where operations that could profitably be done with the aid of a scanner but are nonetheless still being undertaken manually can only lead to avoidable delays along the line. The same could be said of the dry port established to relieve the ports of congestion. It goes without saying that a dry port without a robust information technology platform, and a matching road access and its ancillary infrastructure, would simply replicate the very chaos that it sought to avoid in another location.