Vice Presidential Candidate of the People’s Democratic Party, PDP, in 2019 elections, Mr. Peter Obi, has encouraged students not to undermine educational opportunities, but see them as avenues of empowerment that will enable them to change the world. Obi said this when he visited St John’s Vocational and Technical Institute, Neni run by the Catholic Diocese of Awka, Anambra State. Obi, who presented the school with a cheque of N1.5 million, urged the students never to be weary of creating better future for themselves through education. He reminded them that getting a good education does not necessarily mean attending a tertiary institution. He said that acquiring basic and secondary education was enough to equip one with the requisite knowledge for success in life. “Now, you have no reason not to succeed in life, having acquired primary and secondary education. Apple Inc. which, today, is the most valuable company in the world has annual revenue greater than Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product. It might shock you to know that the company was founded by a homeless child, Steve Jobs, who never went to the university. Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, was a university drop out, so was Bill Gates, Mercedes and Benz, and so on. But they all had their basic education which greatly helped their journey to success”, Obi explained. Proprietor of the institute, Most Rev. Paulinus Ezeokafor, represented by the school’s Rector, Rev Fr Francis-Michael Enyosiobi Obi, thanked Obi for his show of love and affection for young people. He said the institute was grateful for what  Obi had done for them in the past. Student Leader of the institute, Ebiji Ebere Stella-Maris, thanked Obi for his impact on the school. “Ever since 2013 when you stepped your feet into this institution for the first visit, the life of the institution changed for the better. You donated 18-seater bus, 30KVA sound proof generator, 30 laptops for our academic needs. May God bless you today and always,” she said. Others at the event were Awka Catholic Diocesan Education Secretary, Rev. Fr. Hilary Nwajagu; the Rector of St Dominic Savio Seminary, Akpu, Rev Fr Maximus Okonkwo and Vice Rector, St John’s Vocational and Technical Institute Rev. Fr. Raymond Umennajiuba.