The Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) host communities have called on Federal Government to direct the institution’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Francis Eze to sign the agreement reached in the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between them, the University and the Federal Government through Ministry of Lands as parties on 1000 hectares of land ceded to the communities. Briefing newsmen Wednesday on the matter, the Attorney to the host communities, Chief Sam Anokam accused the Vice chancellor of playing tricks with the contents of the Memorandum of Understanding by deviating from the clauses of the agreement thereby blocking the chances of the host communities from getting what was approved by the Federal Government. Expressing sadness over the development, he noted that the vice chancellor had refused to sign the MoU reached since 2019 as part of the effort by the Federal Government to resolve the perennial impasse that had brought acrimony over the years between the host communities and FUTO. Anokam, who is also a chartered estate surveyor said: “We understand that they are not happy that the government decided to give back certain portions of the land been occupied by FUTO to host communities. “As a matter of fact, we approached the Federal Government and a technical committee known as Ministerial Technical Committee on FUTO Land Matters headed by the Federal Director of Land with representatives from FUTO and host communities and others as members was set up. At the end, a memorandum of understanding was reached and as a result of this, the Ministry decided to approve about 1000 hectares of land to the host communities, particularly along the Port Harcourt road axis. FUTO accepted to give back 300 hectares only instead of 1000 hectares approved by Federal Government. “On this note, the VC formed a clique of the institution’s director of works, and another person and decided to apportion the 300 hectares by themselves directly to some members of the host communities instead of involving all parties including the host communities’. “I want the public to know what is happening there over FUTO lands and if there is any breakdown of law and order and the host communities carry laws in their hands, FUTO VC, Prof Francis Eze should be held responsible. I have been restraining my people (host communities) from taking laws into their hands, but if the worst should happen, FUTO VC should be held liable,” he warned. He, however, raised the alarm that even the 300 hectares FUTO agreed to give back to host communities, about 200 hectares have all been occupied by private developers, warning those who are buying lands at the Port Harcourt road axis to be careful as such parcels of land have no title deeds. Anokam recalled that the host communities comprises of 11communities had their 4,455 hectares of land forcefully taken away by the Federal Government in 1982 and since then they had suffered untold hardship . The communities are Avu, Obinze,Umuanunu, Ihiagwa Ancient Kingdom, Dindin Ihiagwa, Eziobodo, Eziokele, Emeabiam,Obibiezenna, Umuoma Nekede and Okolochi. According to him, “we don’t want unrest in the area as the youths are posing for war over the unfriendly attitude of the vice Chancellor in implementing the agreement.” Reacting, the Vice Chancellor, Prof. Eze told the Nation that “there is no agreement reached. What I know is that there was a committee set up by the ministry of education including the state government to resolve the problem amicably. We are working with the current administration of Hope Uzodimma to make sure the issue is solved. “We don’t have teaching hospital. So we decided to use part of the land to build the hospital for our medical school and this is for the common good of the people.” He however accused the attorney of instigating the youths against the school. “Some of the host communities have told us that Mr. Anokam is not their attorney.” He alleged that the attorney’s interest has always been to collect 20 per cent of the land if it is returned to the communities as his professional fees, adding; “The land does not belong to him but to the Federal Government which acquired the land through the state government.”