 Isa Akinbode, a retired medical doctor graduate of the University of Maiduguri, just got honoured by the Borno State Governor, Prof. Babagana Umara Zulum, for his sense of duty and patriotism. Dr. Akinbode, who for 22 years had served diligently with the General Hospital in Mugono before his retirement, had remained faithful to his Hippocratic Oath by continuing to treat his patients, even amidst a serious insurgency, that posed acute danger to both his life, and his ability to do his job. But the governor, on a tour of the hospital, had got wind of his odyssey; and approved, for the doctor, N13.9 million — arrears for unpaid services, for the Borno public.  That was the value of the state government’s contractual obligation to the doctor, resulting from bureaucratic delays on a contract appointment, ordered by the governor’s predecessor, now Senator Kashim Shettima.  To further show the Borno people’s appreciation, Governor Zulum added a car gift (for the doctor) and a civil service employment offer, for the doctor’s daughter, who equally graduated from the University of Maiduguri. We commend Dr. Akinbode, a native of Ogun state who ordinarily, in self-preservation, could have abandoned the North East, where he had been for years, before Boko Haram, to return to his safer home state; or even totally flee the country, as many of his colleagues in the medical profession.  But he chose to stay back and serve the people, even at the risk of death and state indebtedness. He was even allegedly abducted once by the insurgents and released. The choice to stay and continue saving lives in a state far from his ancestral state, given the renewed ethnic sentiments and bureaucratic bottlenecks that delayed the payment of his contractual entitlements, marks him out as a rare patriot in a very charged socio-political environment. We commend former Governor, Senator Kashim Shettima.  He had a history of investing in those who come to serve in the state, either as youth corps members, or as non-indigene staff in the state civil service. He in fact started the contractual offer, to the medical doctor in question. We also commend Governor Zulum, who has continued where his predecessor stopped. Beyond facilitating the payment of the doctor’s entitlement, the car gift, and offering the daughter employment, he is very active in the education and health sectors, with physical and constant visits to schools and hospitals. Earlier in his tenure in February 2020, he had given one school teacher, Obiageli Mazi, a cash gift; and a promotion, from class teacher to assistant headmistress, in a school she had dared all odds to remain teaching, despite the insurrection. She was, during the governor’s visit on that day, the only teacher on duty, which spoke to how punctual and dutiful she had always been, as her colleagues and former pupils later referenced. For a rare display of dedication and sacrifice, the governor gave her national exposure and appreciation. We see these (and other reported and unreported acts of the human family) as evidence that the best humans are still with us. Even though divisive political rhetoric often come from politicians, Shettima and Zulum have shown that any leader, desirous of progress, can actively lead by example. The Borno example stands in complete contradiction to some governors in the South East that sacked civil servants from neighbouring states. We equally know that these stories of diligence and patriotism are not unique to the teacher and the doctor under reference here. There are millions of their ilk all over the country, just serving humanity in ways they can, irrespective of their ancestral linkages. These incidents must force introspection in all Nigerians. These two, for instance, did not go with the usual non-charlance of civil servants across the country. Their sense of duty stood them out. These Borno governors have shown true understanding of leadership, by being houghtfully proactive. We equally hope that other Nigerians, especially politicians and civil servants often known for nepotism and for deliberately creating bureaucratic bottle necks like the one that affected the medical doctor, would change their attitude to work. In all, humanity is the same; and the best of us must be put forward always for our general development. We wish for a Nigeria where only excellence and merit matter.