A Junior Secondary School (JSS) 2 student of Bishop Howells Memorial Grammar school, Bariga, Omoobajesu Iroyinayo Idris, on Monday, emerged as the one-day principal of the school for the 2020/2021 academic session. The annual event designed to encourage and reawaken the academic excellence of students recognised the unprecedented academic feats recorded by Omoobajesu Idris. The school principal, Ven. Tunde Oduwole in his address said, “Today is a significant day in the school. The tradition of being a one day principal is one that has been on for years. Transiting from JSS1 to JSS 2, the student was judged based on academics, spirituality, and morality. She was also adjudged the overall best student in JSS1 class.” He further noted that her emergence is a testament to the school’s respect for girl child education. “As a Christian institution of the Anglican extraction, we are deeply committed to the fact that any student that leaves the school will be the best in all aspect of life. She satisfied the entire grading…. “So much attention is paid to the girl child; we always celebrate the girl child day as a school. It underscores what women can contribute to the society. Idris is another potential Cleopatra, Madam Tinubu in the making.” He said. The school PTA chairman, Mr. Eyo Ekpo while presenting a plaque of recognition, congratulated Idris and her parents. He said, “You’ve made your parents proud”. Addressing her fellow students, Idris, stressed the need for hard work and fear of God in achieving individual goals. She admonished them to work hard, study harder to achieve academic excellence, be punctual and prayerful. Idris, who aspires to become a surgeon in future, urged the government to provide more schools so as help the students to achieve their goals and talents. Meanwhile, the proud parents, Mr. Idris Abidemi and Mrs. Eniola Idris were all smiles, as their daughter recorded a feat as the fifth student to occupy the school’s principal office. The parents acknowledged that God did it for her. Her father said, “Her elder brother encouraged Omoobajesu to read more. She is very brilliant; she has this special kind of a photo-magnetic brain”. Idris who rode the school principal’s car, also performed some other official duties including inspecting classes, meeting staffs, interacting with students, others.