Eleven persons were burnt to death in a ghastly motor accident which occurred along the Afikpo/Okigwe expressway on Monday. The incident it was gathered occurred at the Ayaragu Ivo local government area Ebonyi state axis of the expressway. Eyewitness at the scene blamed the accident on over speeding which forced the driver to lose control of the vehicle as he approached a bend on the road. The source said the car somersaulted many times before coming to a halt inside the bush. Police spokesman, Loveth Odah confirmed the incident. She said: “It is an unfortunate incident this morning when the DPO of Ivo Division called on the Commissioner of Police that there was a fatal motor accident that occurred along Afikpo/Okigwe Expressway by Ayaragu in Ivo local government area of Ebonyi state involving 18 seater Bus belonging to Abia Line Network Company Ltd with registration number MUS938XA conveying about 14 passengers on board. “According to an eyewitness, on reaching the said area, one of the tyres bursted and the vehicle somersaulted and landed on the ground. Before it could reach down according to the eyewitness, it has already cut fire. “So, the fire burnt about eleven of the passengers beyond recognition. Three survived, one is in the General Hospital Ishiagu while two others have been discharged but the driver died on the spot,” she said. Mrs Odah said the manifest in the vehicle was dated 7/2/2021(Sunday) ‘The question is did they load yesterday or the manifest is faked to deceived the police and other security agencies on the road?” She wondered The spokesperson said the Commissioner of Police has sent his condolences to the family. She called on the general public whose brothers and sisters travelled from Umuahia to Abakaliki to move to Ivo general hospital for possible identification of their corpses. “The problem is that someone who was burnt beyond recognition, how do you identify such person? It is very unfortunate incident and it now takes me back to what I have been telling drivers to always check their vehicles to ensure they are road worthy before they ply roads. “The other day, the tyre of another mass transit bus bursted and three persons died. Today, the tyre of this particular bus also bursted,” she said.