Like Tokyo Olympics 2020, the National Sports Festival, Edo 2020, is caught in the COVID-19 warp.  Better to halt the games, than risk the lives of sporting youths nationwide — more than 11, 000 of them — that would have converged on Benin, the Edo capital, for the Nigerian mini-Olympics. That, by any measure, is no easy decision.  Like the Tokyo Olympics, massive investments have been made.  The Edo government has spruced up the events main venue, Samuel Ogbemudia Stadium, Benin-City.  The main bowl not only boasts an all-covered stands, glittering facilities for the multi-sports festivals, fashioned after the Olympics, have sprung up, awaiting the very best of Nigerian athletes. So, you can understand the disappointment of Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu, chairman of the Local Organizing Committee (LOC), who couldn’t wait for the cut-and- thrust, and the exciting rush-and-dash, all in roaring and quaking stadia, to begin. But aside from fretting hosts, many states, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) of Abuja, are also in close camping, in preparation for the games, thus underscoring another level of investment in athletes’ training, welfare and wellness.  Besides, for not a few, Edo 2020 could well be the perfect run-in to Tokyo 2020 Olympics, now billed for July 23 to August 8, after postponement from 2020, no thanks to coronavirus. Still, what caused Edo 2020’s postponement — like the Tokyo Olympics — is still very much in the air.  Originally fixed for March 2020, the break-out of COVID-19 caused Edo 2020’s first postponement till 3-8 December 2020. Between March and December 2020, the Federal Sports ministry, the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 and the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), were to midwife safety protocols, to make the games COVID-19 free, including the “deployment of rapid test kits for over 11, 000 athletes.”  The December new date was contingent on those measures. Still, come December, a new, more virulent wave of COVID-19 flared.  Unlike the first wave from March 2020, however, stark economic realities made another shutdown —to freeze, contact and test, to curtail spread — practically impossible.  So, with other things so unequal, you cannot risk a mass gathering of athletes and their coaches, without turning the Sports Festival into a powerful spreader of COVID-19, and all its socio-economic implications. That must have determined a second short postponement, from 3-8 December 2020 to January 3 to 17.  But the turn of the new year, with its spiking deaths, COVID-19 infections and hospitalizations nationwide, the new January date again became unrealistic.  It’s a tie-back to March 2020 all over again — except that the COVID-19 outlook is even grimmer! But aside from scientific reasons, some managers and coaches of state squads distanced selves from the January 3 date, stating it was too close to the Yuletide break.  ”January 3 is just three days after Christmas and New Year celebrations,” one of them told The Guardian, “it would be difficult for most of the athletes to hit their best form for the competition.” The PTF’s failure to give the games a COVID-19 all-clear drew anger from Deputy Governor Shaibu, the LOC chair.  He charged the PTF with acting with bad advice.  But with the state of things, that accusation was clearly harsh, as it was clear the January date was unrealistic.  Still, the deputy governor and the Edo government are entitled to their justifiable angst, having prepared so hard for it all.  But as it is, it is clear the games just have to be postponed, until the COVID-19 threat is much more reduced. With America, Europe and Asia involved in vaccine nationalism and regionalism, a possible postponement of the Tokyo Olympics hit the headlines.  But it was slapped down by both the Japan LOC and the International Olympics Committee (IOC).  Yet, Tokyo stands a better chance of making mass athlete vaccination, as part of its safety mix.  If lobbies in Tokyo, far better placed to mount COVID-19 safety measures are that jittery, what fires the confidence of Edo 2020? Let Edo 2020 stay postponed until the COVID-19 threat is much reduced.  Let the organizers be strictly driven by science and data.  That is the only way to ensure a sports fiesta doesn’t turn a public health catastrophe.