These are trying times for students of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) who have accommodation problem. Before now, 12 students are allowed in one room in the school hostels, but the authorities have given an instruction that not more than seven students are to stay in a room. This is to maintain social distancing and prevent the spread of COVID-19 which continues to ravage the world. The Presidential Task Force (PTF) National Coordinator, Dr. Sani Aliyu, had in a virtual meeting of education stakeholders, given a directive that the premises of each tertiary institution should be decontaminated and efforts geared towards the maintenance of hygiene. “Education is an important aspect of our lives and so cannot be allowed to go into extinction. This is why we have brought these COVID-19 preventive measures that will help contain the further spread of the virus and keep our students safe. “University authorities should therefore ensure social and physical distancing in classes, hotels and meeting places are strictly adhered to,” he said. Thus, this directive has forced most students to seek accommodation outside the school, especially in Ekosodin, which is very close to the campus. Although UNIBEN has over 17 hostel blocks, estimated to house over 30,000 students yearly,  it is still reeling from the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic, hence, providing adequate accommodation for its students has been problematic. However, following resumption, students have been unsettled in their quest to secure comfortable accommodation. Since the institution resumed on January 30, many students have engaged in fruitless search for accommodation. Unfortunately, the outrageous increase in rents by landlords who have taken advantage of the shortage of accommodation at Ekosodin has compounded their woes. Findings by CAMPUSLIFE also revealed that the newly-constructed Ekosodin Road and sub -streets played a major role in the exorbitant rents demanded by landlords in the community. A self-contained hostel which is a room, kitchen and bathroom that was rented out for N70,000 now goes for N200,000, depending on the area, N130,000 difference; while a single room, public toilet and bathroom that was N30,000 is now over N70,000. Against this backdrop, some students have decried the lack of adequate hostel space and high cost at off-campus hostels in Ekosodin community and Osasogie, among others. Some students who could not afford the high rents have resorted to squatting with colleagues and friends, albeit temporarily. According to some of them staying at Ekosodin, the landlords and caretakers of the hostels have taken advantage of their desperation to increase their rents unreasonably. Lucille Akpoveta, a student of the Department of Optometry, lamented the terrible situation she had been facing since she resumed. She noted that she had shared her belongings to different classmates to keep for her while she slept at various places. For her, school is no longer interesting because she doesn’t know where next she will sleep. “The day I resumed I went to the school hostel but there was no space for me to stay because the hostel spaces have already been allocated to students who came earlier. “This was not the case before but as a result of the COVID-19 protocols, the school had to reduce the number of students in the hostel. “I was so hopeless that day because I had no place to go. Luckily for me a student staying at Ekosodin saw my situation and offered to help me. “But most of my belongings remained in the school security house till the next day because the girl’s room is not spacious enough to accommodate them. “At present, I stay with a classmate today and another classmate the next day. However, I have been making efforts to raise at least N60,000 to rent a single room. This money would have been enough to rent a self-contained apartment last year but it is quite unfortunate that it is not possible now. “You know when they started constructing the Ekosodin Road last year, we thought it would make life easier for students staying in the community but this has not been the case. Instead, life has become harder for us. Food sellers have also increased the prices of their goods; transport fare has also been hiked. “We are, therefore, calling on well meaning members of the community and school authorities to intervene in this appalling situation,” she said. Noah Osamor, a 300-Level student of the Department of Philosophy, said increase in hostel rents in Ekosodin was uncalled for and unjustified. Osamor insisted that the development in Ekosodin should have made life easier and not harder for students. “The extortion by these landlords and caretakers is getting out of hand. I live in Lagos and one of the rules to increasing house rents there is renovation of the house by the owner, but here in Ekosodin, no renovation was done and yet the rents were increased. “The extortion is becoming too much and if nothing is done about it, the situation will become too hard for the students who cannot afford such high rents,” he said. Michelle Simpa, a student of the Department of Business Administration, described the increase in house rents in Ekosodin community and environ as an act of selfishness on the side of house owners. “Hostel rents are being increased everyday and we are getting tired of such selfish and inconsiderate behaviour of the landlords and caretakers. “Most students are still stranded because they are not able to afford the rent for the hostels. How can one study under such circumstances? It is almost impossible to assimilate what has been taught in school if one is not comfortable and focussed. And that is one of the problems students without a roof over their heads are facing. “I am using this medium to call on well-meaning stakeholders and school authorities to intervene in this situation and find a solution to the problem,” she said. Another student of the Department of Philosophy who did not want to be named, however, said the increase in rents was due to the heavy presence of ‘Yahoo boys’ in the community. “Since the Ekosodin Road was tarred, some ‘Yahoo Boys’ who are alleged to be students started living in the community. Hence, most landlords had to increase their rents, because the ‘Yahoo Boys’ are ready to pay any amount for an accommodation so long as it meets what they desire. “This, however, is wrong because not everyone is into Yahoo and so we do not have the means of paying such exorbitant rents. Imagine a student paying N200,000 for a self-contained room. “This is what most working class families pay for a two-bedroom apartment. Ekosodin off-campus has always been a conducive environment for students who want to stay outside the school, but the recent increase in not only house rents but also in food items and provisions has forced students to have a rethink. “It will, therefore, be a great idea if the Students Union Government (SUG) intervened in this situation. Also, the school should look into ways to help bring relief to the students by reaching out to house owners in Ekosodin to find lasting solutions to the problem students are facing,” he said. The landlord of Jericho Hostel, who gave his name as Paul Osas, said increase in hostel rents in the community was as a result of the just-constructed Ekosodin link road which made the community easily accessible. “Ekosodin is not as it used to be and it is becoming more developed. So, there is no way the hostel rent will remain the same. A lot of people, even working class citizens, are already moving into Ekosodin because the road is accessible now,” he said. Another landlord who preferred anonymity said increase in hostel rents was as a result of high demand by students. He further attributed it to the newly- constructed Ekosodin link road. Nonetheless, some officials of the university who craved anonymity noted that the institution was working tirelessly to ease the accommodation burden of its students. According to them, very little will be done for now as the university continues to grapple with many challenges arising from the effects of the coronavirus pandemic.