 The Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NiMet) has predicted that some parts of the country will experience drought this year, which could lead to crop failure and food shortages. Also, areas that are prone to floods are also warned to be on alert because there would be flood at the peak of the rainfall. The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika made this known in Abuja yesterday during the seasonal climate prediction with the theme, ‘Supporting the economy to cope with the challenges of COVID-19 pandemic in Nigeria.’ Sirika said there would be dry spell, which might span in some places up to about 15 days and this is extremely important to avoid people losing their crops or to ignore flooding which may wipe away houses, businesses and farmlands. “What we recorded last year is going to be what we will record this year, but what is more important is the likelihood of dry spell, which is going to be greater compared to what we had last year in terms of spatial coverage and more places are likely going to be affected. “This year, severe dry spells are predicted in Kebbi, Sokoto, Zamfara, Katsina, Jigawa, Yobe, and Borno in  June and July which may last between two  and three weeks after the onset. “So, the implication of this is the likelihood of crop failures and even if crops don’t die completely, their growing capacity is going to be affected. Farmers should adopt soil-moisture conservation techniques to reduce the chances of crop failure during this period,” Sirika said. According to him, the length of the growing season will vary from 110 days in the North to over 300 days in the South. He explained that this means that on the average, those in the North should not plant crops that would take more 100 days to mature while those in the South have the opportunity to probably plant crops twice since they have over 300 days. The minister said: “The 2021 onset of the growing season is predicted to be normal to earlier than normal in most parts of the country. “The earliest onset date is likely to occur on the 1st March 2021 along the coastal line of the country while the latest date is anticipated to be around 29th June in the northernmost parts of the country.’’ “However, later-than-normal onset dates are expected over a few places such as parts of Lagos, Ogun, Kebbi and Niger States. “The earliest cessation date is around 9th October 2021 and it is expected around Katsina and the northern parts of Sokoto while the latest cessation date is expected on the 25th December 2021 over the Niger-Delta region.” On the amount of rainfall expected this year, he said: “A normal to above-normal annual rainfall amount is expected for most parts of the country. However, below-normal rainfall totals are expected over a few places in the North-western parts of the country such as Sokoto, Kebbi, Zamfara and Kano States.” On the likelihood of flood, the minister said: “It has also been observed that there will certainly be flooding and I urge stakeholders to go through the predictions. Flooding is bad news for our houses, farmlands and businesses and I think we should be very serious about it. “The normal to above normal rainfall pattern in the country will lead to the possibility of isolated flash floods due to increasing high-intensity rainfall at the peak of the season, especially in areas that are naturally prone to flooding.” Also speaking, the Director-General of NiMet, Prof. Sani Mashi said the agency will partner will traditional rulers in order for the prediction to reach core farmers and those in the grassroots. “We shall particularly appreciate the cooperation and support of our royal fathers who live and work directly with the people operating at the lowest strata of society.” He also stated that the agency has increased its meteorological stations from 54 to 200 through its partnership with universities and other higher institutions. 