A young lady was on her way home from work, quite late in the  night;  she was raped and then killed. Again, it happened to another girl  who  was home bound from a party on  Saturday night. Sadly, rape persists in our country despite measures put in place to curb it. It is, however, baffling, that some critics have accused  young girls of indecent dressing,which they say, perhaps, is a justification for rape. The blame game in our society when young girls are sexually molested is quite painful. We live in a society where anytime anything goes wrong, we ask the wrong questions about the situation. Critics prefer to blame victims because of their mode of dressing. They accuse girls of wearing mini skirts, revealing dresses and all sorts. Is that a justification for sexual abuse? They believe when girls dress in  revealing apparels, they are asking for it. Meanwhile, women from India, who wear saris and women from the North putting on hijabs and are  raped. A rapist might have other reasons to rape, but dressing should  never be an excuse for rape. Carol Costello, a 55-year-old American television anchor, once said on her show: “A rapist is a violent criminal who craves complete power over his victim. He gets sexual urge and sometimes he doesn’t. It has little or nothing to do with what a woman looks like and everything to do with violent, criminal tendencies.” According to research, one in four rapes take place in the victim’s house; two in 10 rape cases take place at the home of a friend, neighbour  or relatives. And almost two third of all rape offences are committed by someone the victim already knows, so don’t think a short skirt provoked these men to rape. Many  victims of rape were beautiful,others plain. Some were young,others elderly; some were attacked while wearing jeans and a t-shirt, others while wearing jogging clothes or heavy clothes. Some were children. So, when we say the ladies who dressed indecently asked for it,what do we say about a girl of four years who was raped by  a relative because he said she was naked, does she have busts or hips to reveal? How about the elderly woman in her early 80s, was she also asking for it, where she was peacefully sleeping in her room? The myth that indecent dressing is a consent to rape is plain wrong.  Dressing is not an important factor,the only factor that influences whether a female will get raped or not is the decision or intention of the man contemplating it. Ladies have the right to put on whatever  pleases them  without the fear of being raped,though indecent dressing is not  ideal. Our society is faced with  how victims should avoid being raped.This  prevents men from taking responsibility for their actions. The fact still remains that whether a person takes steps to protect themselves or not,they don’t deserve to be sexually molested. There is  no justification for rape, be it indecent  dressing or not. Hence, it  should not be taken lightly.