 The  Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 Pandemic has warned Federal ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) not to violate the instruction that directed civil servants below Grade Level 12 to work from home. Chairman of the PTF and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, issued the warning on Monday during the task force’s media briefing in Abuja. According to Mustapha, the warning became imperative following reports that some MDAs were already compelling their staffers to start reporting for work. He reminded heads of the various agencies that no one has the authority to vary the instruction, which, he said, was authorised by President Muhammadu Buhari. “At the last briefing, we informed you that the President had authorised the extension of all measures in place, including the limitation of the categories of workers allowed to come to the office to those above GL-12. “The PTF has received reports that MDA are compelling their workers in the categories barred from the office, to report for work. For the avoidance of doubts, all employees from GL-12 and below shall continue to work from home and no agency is allowed to vary this instruction. Permanent Secretaries and CEOs are to ensure strict compliance,” he said. On the recently signed regulations by President Buhari, the SGF said the enforcement of the guidelines would be taken seriously, urging citizens to fully comply with the codes and protocols in order not to be found on the other side of the law and having to pay penalties. “I wish to remind all Nigerians that enforcement of the new regulation will be taken seriously and urge full compliance. In the final analysis, let us remember that it is for the good of the individual and his/her loved ones. I also urge the media to please go the extra-mile to educate Nigerians and report levels of compliance,” he Mustapha. He, however, urged the states to set up appropriate structures and systems for the enforcement of the regulations, even as he advised them to pay more attention to the rising number of cases and the associated fatalities. “The PTF strongly appeals to sub-national entities to please remain conscious of the rising numbers and the associated fatalities. They are, therefore, required to establish appropriate structures and systems for the enforcement. “The PTF will continue to collaborate with the Nigeria Governors Forum on the management of this public health emergency because every citizen resides within the jurisdiction of the states,” he said. On vaccines procurement, he said: “As you are aware, the whole world is pursuing the same commodity and we have to secure our source while at the same time preparing our infrastructure and capacity for administration.” Mustapha said the PTF has reviewed reports received on the new testing regime allegedly imposed by some airlines and the associated charges. He warned that this is considered inimical to the interest of Nigerians and will be addressed through appropriate channels. He said: “In our effort to continue to balance lives and livelihood, I wish to state that the PTF is fully conscious of the pains and concerns of businesses in the aviation and related sectors, especially around international airports that are yet to reopen (Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu). “We feel your pains and share your fears. The evaluation of the COVID-19 developments is progressing and we are also expediting action on the arrival of vaccines so that we shall further relax the restriction and reopen our vital facilities,” Mustapha said.