After two years of nursing a broken home, aggrieved major gladiators in the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State Monday returned to work together and approach the 2023 election as a united house. They attended a stakeholders meeting at its newly constructed building on Oke-Ado where they all agreed to let go of past bitterness and pains and put the party’s interest above personal ambition in readiness for the commencement of the party’s membership registration and revalidation exercise and 2023 election. The impressive attendance of those described as critical stakeholders at the meeting indicated that the crisis which blew up in 2018 might have been resolved. In his Welcome Address, the State Caretaker Chairman, Chief Akin Oke, did not mince words in expressing his delight over “the collective resolve of all leaders, chieftains and members of the Oyo APC to work together as one and thus reposition the party for the task of winning future elections in the state. He said: “Although the main objective of today’s meeting is to deliberate on how to mobilize for the success of the party’s membership registration and revalidation exercise, we must express our happiness and joy on account of the attendance of this meeting by all the critical stakeholders including our leaders who were aggrieved at one time or the other. It is a new dawn and we salute your courage for putting behind all issues of grievances to channel a new cause for the good of our dear party and the nation as a whole.” In his own speech, former Governor of the state, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, appealed for greater commitment and synergy among all stakeholders with a view to making the party stronger. “We must swing into action immediately as we have no luxury of time ahead of the next general election in which we would do everything humanly possible to reclaim power in Oyo State,” Akala said. He added: “As much as we are ready to mobilize for the success of the party’s membership registration and revalidation exercise, we also need to take a step further by setting appropriate modalities in place for Oyo APC faithful to work together as a family and dislodge the PDP from power.” While addressing the meeting, the minister of Sport and Youth Development, Mr. Sunday Dare, eulogized the Akin Oke-led state executive committee for organizing the meeting which he described as “very important at this critical time when all hands must be put on deck to save the state from the PDP whose conduct in government, so far, leaves much to be desired.” Other speakers at the meeting include the lawmaker representing Oyo Central Senatorial district, Sen. Teslim Folarin; former minister of Communication, Barr. Adebayo Shittu; Sen. Olufemi Lanlehin; former Deputy Governor, Chief Moses Alake-Adeyemo; Sen. Ayoade Adeseun; former Secretary to the State Government, Alh. Olalekan Alli; Hon. Tolulope Akande-Shadipe (Oluyole Federal Constituency) and the Minority Leader of the Oyo State House of Assembly, Hon. Asimiyu Alarape. The meeting resolved that Oyo APC shall be democratic in all its political activities by embracing internal democracy, particularly in the area party congresses and elective positions. They placed a total ban on activities of divisive groups such as Lamists, SENACO, PDP Reform and Unity Forum within the party and also resolved that Oyo APC is now an indivisible family poised to win all future elections in the state. The stakeholders agreed to work together with the national secretariat for the overall success of the membership registration and revalidation exercise. Other APC dignitaries who attended the meeting include: Prof. Adeolu Akande; Prof. Taoheed Adedoja; Alh. Fatai Ibikunle; Hon. Akeem Adeyemi; Hon. Olajide Olatunbosun; Hon. Olaide Akinremi; Chief Adebayo Adelabu; Mr. Zaccheus Adedeji; Hon. Olatunbosun Oladele; Alh. Isiaka Alimi; Hon. Jacob Bamigboye; Hon. Isiaka Kazeem; Hon. Wumi Oladeji; Hon. Rt. Hon. Olagunju Ojo; Hon. Folake Olunloyo-Osinowo; Hon. Bimbo Kolade; Dr. Isiaka Kolawole; Hon. Bimbo Adekanmbi; Alh. Abu Gbadamosi; Alh. Wasiu Dauda; Alh. Olalekan Kazeem; Chief Wale Ohu; Alh. Kayode Olayiwola and Hon. Lasun Adebunmi.