Borno State Government has warned ministries, departments and agencies against extra budgetary spending. Alhaji Adamu Lawan, the Commissioner for Finance, Budget and Economic Planning, gave the warning on Friday in Maiduguri while briefing the media on the 2021 approved budget. According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report,  Adamu said that some ministries and parastatal agencies were fond of spending outside budgetary expenditures. “It is once again noticed with dismay that Ministries, Departments and Parastatal agencies are not yet observing strictly the laid down budgetary guidelines and procedures. “Despite all efforts by the Ministry of Finance, Budget and Economic Planning to curtail indiscipline, some government agencies went to incur expenditures that were not budgeted. “Miscalculation and misappropriation of public funds will no doubt distort the process of the budget. “It is in light of the foregoing that the attention of all Accounting Officers is drawn to adhere and operate strictly in accordance with the laid down rules and regulations. “In addition, all requests for funds either in form of memo or otherwise must be covered by approved provisions and the balance of the budget. “The attention of accounting officers is drawn that the budget document is a set of policy guidelines to enable you to operate during the 2021 fiscal year. “The success or otherwise of this policy will largely depend on every one of us. “I, therefore, crave your indulgence to operate strictly within the bounds of the budget so as to achieve the set objectives,” Adamu added. Adamu said that the state recorded 70 per cent implementation of last year’s budget, adding that in 2021, the state was aiming at 90 per cent. He said that the government had begun a Single Treasury Account (TSA) and other measures to block leakages. He said that the 2021 budget of N248.3 billion named ‘The People’s Budget of Recovery and Consolidation,’ comprised N69.1 billion recurrent and N179.2 billion capital votes. 