It is often believed that aged people, particularly those with underlining ailments, are prone to the deadly COVID-19 pandemic. But, a 101-year-old grandma has been successfully treated and discharged from Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile-Ife, Osun State, after she recovered from the virus. The grandma was on admission in a private hospital for treatment before the medical personnel of the hospital noticed she was showing some symptoms of COVID-19 like the acute cough, breathlessness, fever and malaise warranting her transferred to OAUTHC. Chief Medical Director (CMD), Ile-Ife, Prof. Victor Adetiloye, who stated these in a statement, did not reveal the name of the patient, noting that the woman’s recovery was a record-breaking achievement. Adetiloye said: “She is a 101-year-old woman, who initially presented at a private hospital in Ile-Ife with acute onset of cough breathlessness, fever and malaise. Symptoms started eight days before presentation. The patient’s clinical condition worsened and this warranted a screening test for SARS CoV2. “The PCR result returned positive and she was subsequently admitted to the OAUTHC Isolation Centre on 30/01/2021. The relevant findings on admission included poor oxygen saturation (SpO2 90% on oxygen), lethargy, altered sensorium, neutrophilic leukocytosis and hypokalemia. “She was subsequently managed with intravenous antibiotics, supplemental oxygen, high dose multivitamins, zinc sulphate, potassium supplementation, subcutaneous clexane and low dose intravenous dexamethasone. “The challenges encountered in the clinical management of this patient included: advanced age, frailty, poor sleep and appetite as well as frequent desaturation. “We closely monitored her as regards vital signs, especially the oxygen saturation, pulse blood pressure and blood glucose. She was cautiously anticoagulated and subsequently mobilised on a wheelchair.” He noted that her clinical condition gradually improved and she was weaned off oxygen six days after admission and at discharge. She was stable with oxygen saturation at 97 per cent and other vital signs were within normal limits. “She was discharged home on medications and counselled on the need to observe all the non-pharmacological preventive measures against COVID-19. “The total length of admission was 12 days and she was discharged into the warm embrace of her children and other close relations,” Prof. Adetiloye said. He added that the hospital had managed 255 cases.