Nigeria’s final hope of having boxers as part of its contingent to the delayed Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games recently came to an end after the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) scrapped  the final boxing qualifier for Tokyo 2020, OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA captures the mood of the pugilists cum stakeholders.  Nigeria has had a long standing boxing tradition, birthed from a chronology of colonial events, and strong indigenous characters, who had an unshakable support for the “sweet science”. Indeed, amateur boxing provides avenues for numerous young men and women, especially in areas where there is a high incidence of poverty and crime as such its decline can be viewed as disaster. In fact, Lagos was a mecca for boxing in the country. Lagos Island, popularly known as Isale Eko has a rich history of producing talented boxers. The same goes for Ajegunle and Mushin, both notorious areas where many boxing champions started their careers sparring on the streets. Now, there is hardly any competition for amateur boxing and those that manage to get off are mostly poorly funded with little or no sponsors. The national boxing team has fared no better despite being a regular source of medals for the country in the past, the team has been all but neglected by the sports authorities. To crown it all, the country will not be represented at the delayed Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games for obvious reasons. Nigeria missed the African Olympics Qualifiers in Dakar, Senegal early last year due to lack of funds and missed the first opportunity to qualify when the male and female teams missed their respective AIBA World Championships last year in Russia. Then last week,  Nigeria’s final hope of having boxers among its Olympics contingent later in the year came to an end after the International Olympic Committee’s (IOC) decision to scrap the final boxing qualifier for Tokyo 2020 – a global event which was due to take place in Japan in June. Fifty-three quota places – 32 for men and 21 for women — that would have been available at the world Olympic qualifiers, will now be assigned based on rankings instead, with the best-ranked boxer per region, per weight category receiving a Tokyo 2020 berth. This would be the first time since the 1988 Games in Seoul, Korea that Nigeria would not be represented at the event that has provided the second highest number of medals (6) and Nigeria’s first ever Olympic medal when Nojeem Maiyegun won the bronze medal at the 1964 Tokyo Games. Inside sources told NationSports that the Nigeria Boxing Federation could not get the necessary support from the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and there was no way the team could travel for the qualifiers.  However, head coach of the Nigeria Boxing Federation, Anthony Konyegwachie, said the news was disappointing for him and the boxers who have toiled on a daily basis in order to book a spot at the Games. “The slots will be divided among the continents; the last African qualifiers will be used for the allocation of slots in Africa, but unfortunately we didn’t attend. “It’s painful that none of our boxers will be in Japan, but there’s nothing we can do about it. It is very frustrating. A lot of my boxers have called and are crying because most of them trained every day, hoping that we will go there and shock the world but the news has disoriented many of them,” Konyegwachie said. Among the boxers with dashed Olympics dreams is Abdulafeez Osoba. After his respectable performance at  the 2019 African Games in Rabat, Morocco; the  silver medallist was widely tipped to clinch a berth at the 2020 Olympics at the African Olympic qualifiers in February last year in Senegal. “This news is heart-breaking,” Osoba said. “For the last few months, I have done my best to train every day, so that I get into the best shape to compete and get a ticket to Tokyo.” Osoba is not alone. His compatriots including 2019 All Africa Games silver medallist Toyin Adejumola; Ayisat Oriyomi and Bolanle Shogbamu, who are supposed to travel with Osoba for the final qualification stage are equally frustrated. For Bolanle, missing the Olympics qualifiers last year was the lowest moment in her boxing career thus far. As the current African champion in the women’s welterweight division, the 27-year-old believes she had a chance in getting the ticket as she was in top shape and was very much undefeated in her weight class. Bronze medallist and two-time Lagos Governor’s Belt champion, Ayisat Oriyomi said if the situation continues, they will dump amateur boxing. “This is the situation that is forcing amateur boxers to turn professional. “ Oriyomi said “We don’t get anything from amateur boxing. We sacrifice personal resources, but they don’t treat us well. This was our chance to fight and showcase our skills. The only joy we get from amateur boxing is when we fight outside the country,” she said. Femi Babafemi, the national boxing coach at the 2010 Commonwealth Games in India feels there are hardly any discoveries in boxing. No more catch-them-young programme for the country’s future Olympic Games hopefuls. He also feels there are hardly competent coaches around these days to impart fresh knowledge of the game on the boxers. The blame for the poor state of boxing in the country should lie squarely on the shoulders of the board of the Nigeria Boxing Federation (NBF), according to Ex-Olympian Jeremiah Okorodudu. The Delta State-born former boxer turned coach added that there was no way the sport can develop with the attitude of the members of the NBF because the essence of their membership of the federation is to ensure that they contribute in their own way to ensure that the sport is moved forward but that is not what they are doing at the moment. Former Lagos state head coach, Wasiu Bisiriyu, argued that more attention should be given to the development of amateur boxing by organising more competitions for the athletes to hone their skills. “In order to raise world class boxers, more competitions need to be staged across the country,” he noted.