 From being a member of the bronze medal-winning team at the 2015 Afrobasket Women’s Champion, Elonu has been part of the back-to-back champion of Africa in 2017 and 2019. Now that the team is heading for the big stage at the Olympic Games, the Uni Girona CB of Spain star believes D’Tigress have the quality to rival some of the best teams in the world. “I am very excited for the Olympics,” she said with a breathy purr. “The closest I have been to any Olympics was the All-African Games in Brazzaville 2015 and that experience remains the best of my sporting career thus far. “ So if the Olympic Games are bigger and better , I can’t wait. Everyone that I have spoken to , said the Olympics is an amazing sporting experience and moment; and one that they can’t  forget. “I am excited  already and looking forward to experience same with the D’Tigress in Japan. “We have a great group of women that are very fun and interesting. That alone will enhance the experience. “If I could only use adjectives, our team could be described as: resilient, fearless, unbothered, confident, intense, lively, interesting, beautiful, fierce, determined, bold, and fiery. The list can go on. The name D’Tigress really summed  us up,” Elonu enthused. Aware of the quality of opposition they would face in Japan, the 2019 Spanish Cup MVP said: “We will go as far as we can push ourselves. Our group has great teams. However, we see ourselves as a great team as well. “It seems many people already have doubts in the D’Tigress’ abilities but we know our true supporters have confidence that we will compete at a high standard and put forth a resilient effort per usual. “ We respect all of our opponents and the team feels that with our positive showings in the last few competitions we have garnered a sense of acknowledgement from other continents. The most important is how we as a team aim high and try and reach the goals we have set for ourselves and even push past those.” For Elonu, basketball runs in the family. She said: “I embraced basketball because I  have  passion for  it. It also became a family sport, with all four of my siblings participating heavily in basketball. “I participated and enjoyed many sports like soccer, volleyball and athletics but my passion and talent for basketball superseded the others. “Getting the opportunity to complete in university and study was also a great influence in my decision to continue with basketball.” Relishing the value she has gotten from basketball, the former Atlanta Dream star said: “Basketball has given me quite a few things. I discovered a passion to travel and explore, I have found great friends and connections, as well as forming and solidifying who I am as an individual. Playing overseas has allowed me to see how different perspectives and lifestyles can be and has opened up my mind to many life lessons I probably would not have realized before like the importance of leisure and family time, which is built in mostly everywhere in Europe.” Elonu cherishes every moment she has had in the colours of Nigeria. “Playing in the green and white colours of Nigeria has provided me a great sense of connection with the country which defines me and my family. “Playing with Nigeria is enjoyable and an honour, especially knowing that my family is very happy and excited for me whenever they are able to watch and follow our matches. “Our unbeaten streak has been made possible by the great players the National Basketball Federation (NBBF) has been able to keep at the core. “The past years, we always experience major changes within the team’s personnel for various reasons and being able to keep a solid core of players for the past competitions have been valuable to the chemistry that has been built, which allows additions to the team to meld into the system smoothly. “Nigeria has an abundance of talent and former players who dedicated their time and patience to the Nigeria program made the past successes possible. “The NBBF played  an important role in creating the opportunities for us to come together to train and prepare adequately for competitions. “It is obvious that adequate training schedules and support staff is essential for a program to remain viable and produce results and the NBBF are working diligently in continuing to improve and provide the resources and opportunities we need to stay on an upward projection,” she noted.