The Senate on Tuesday adjourned plenary sitting in honour of late House of Representatives Member, Hon. Ossy Prestige. This is even as Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, expressed “shock and sadness” over the death Prestige. Hon. Prestige represented Aba North/Aba South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives. He was elected into the House in 2015 and re-elected in 2019. Lawan in a statement by his Special Adviser (Media), Ola Awoniyi, in Abuja, said that the departed lawmaker would be sorely missed by all his colleagues in the National Assembly. The Senate President said that Hon. Prestige was a good representative of his constituency in the National Assembly who touched many lives through his business engagements and charity outreach such as the Prestige Ossy Foundation and The Favoured Initiatives. Lawan commiserated with his family, friends and political associates over his irreparable loss. He also condoled with the Government and people of Abia State and prayed that God would grant them the fortitude to bear the loss. On his part, the Minority Leader of the Senate, Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, expressed sorrow and deep shock over the death of Hon. Prestige. Abaribe in a statement by his Media Adviser, Uchenna Awom, described Prestige’s death as a personal loss to him, being a bossom friend, brother and ally. The Abia South lawmaker lamented that the zone has lost a “major stakeholder, a political leader of repute and one personality that was beholden to all irrespective of deferences in political party affiliation. “I have lost a friend, brother, ally, a committed patriot and a good natured Abian. I had wished in my heart and prayed that Ossy recovers to continue with his work in the House. “We spoke severally while he was on sick bed and he kept assuring me that he will be okay, and here we are with this sad reality. He will be sorely missed.” The Minority Leader however condoled with the family, the people of Aba North/South Federal Constituency, the government and people of Abia State on the huge loss.