A victim of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Beech Craft King Air BB35Oi plane that crashed on Sunda in Abuja attempted to jump out of the burning aircraft, an eye witness, told The Nation at the crash site. The plane crashed at Bassa Village, one of the communities that share boundaries with Nnamdi Azikiwe Airport. All seven Service Personnel onboard were killed. A teenager, ThankGod Joseph, recounted how the plane crashed, caught fire and then exploded, dashing the hope of survival by those onboard. The 13-year-old lives in the Bassa community. He said many of the residents witnessed how the plane drifted usually before it crossed the ground. According to him, they saw one of passengers attempting to jump out immediately the plane crashed but fell. She added: “As the plane crashed, it scratched the ground and made a noisy sound. “Some of the people working at a building site tried fetch water to quench the fire but before we could take action, the plane exploded. Fire service people came about 15 to 20minutes after the crash. “The fire servicemen struggled to access the area because of bad road. They eventually put out the fire and removed the remains of the victims.” Commercial motorcycle riders had a field day ferrying inquisitive people to the crash site. They made quick money, charging between N100 and N150, per trip. Spokesman for the NAF, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Ibikunle Daramola, said Chief of the Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Isiaka Amao has ordered immediate investigation into the cause of the crash. He said: “This is to confirm that a Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Beechcraft KingAir B350i aircraft crashed while returning to the Abuja Airport after reporting engine failure enroute Minna. “First responders are at the scene. Sadly, all seven personnel onboard died in the crash. “While urging the public to remain calm and await the outcome of investigation, the CAS, on behalf of all NAF personnel, commiserates with the families of the deceased.” The statement added: “The CAS visited the scene of the accident, in company of the Honourable Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Magashi (retired); Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika; Chief of Defence Staff, Major General Lucky Irabor, and other Service Chiefs. The CAS, on behalf of officers, airmen and airwomen of the NAF, commiserates with the families of the deceased personnel and prays that the Almighty God grants their souls eternal repose”.