The national president of Nawairudeen Society of Nigeria, Alh. Rasheed Yusuff has called on Nigerians, particularly the ethnic jingoistic, to embrace peace and avoid act capable of triggering crisis among the nation’s ethnic nationalities. Yusuff urged Nigerians to put the country first before whatever section, ethnic, political or religious interest they represent, saying it is too late in the day for anybody to still place ethnic or sectional consideration above national interest. He gave the advice while speaking with The Nation shortly after their National seminar on capacity building at the NUD National Headquarters, Abeokuta, Ogun State He noted that Nigerians despite their diversities, Nigerians have intermingled so much and necessitating that everybody works for the continued unity and peace of the country, even as he appealed to people or group whipping up ethnic and sectional sentiments to “cool their temper.” He also called on the government to always put all Nigerians at heart in whatever it does for the country. “Everybody should cool his temper and put Nigeria first before whatever ethnic or section he represents. Nigeria is too diverse and too intermingled to think in terms of ethnicity or religion or section. It is too late in the day for people to be thinking of ethnicity or sectionalism for Nigerians,” he said. The event was attended by the zonal and branch of IMAMS from across the country. Addressing the participants, Yusuff said the seminar sought to strengthen the over 50 branches of the society in Nigeria as well as imbue their leaders – Imams, with determination to change things for the better. Also, the Director, National Training Centre of the society, Alh. Abduwaasihi Aiyepola said the seminal carefully crafted and painted a correct picture of what the spiritual and national leadership of the society was promoting, that is enhancing the capacity of religious leaders for a vibrant ummah/society. Fielding questions from newsmen, a Chief Imam and resource person for the seminar, AbdulRazak AbdulAzeez, said religious disharmony in Nigeria or elsewhere is not the making of God but an act of man. “Believe you me; disharmony among religious groups is not for God. It is politics. Going through Koran and the bible, you discover that the basic thing is the same. Islam says that Allah is one; Jesus thought his adherents that the first of his commandments is that the Lord your God is one. “The second one is, love your brother as you love yourself. The Prophet of Islam said that you are never a believer until you love your fellow human being as you love yourself. Where is the difference? “…Muhammad and Jesus Christ were brothers. Muslims believe that Jesus Christ is a prophet of God. Any Muslim that does not recognize Jesus Christ does not have complete faith as a believer. So, people are fighting because of their personal gains.”