Former Golden Eaglets invitee, Ibrahim Connel, has revealed why Indian Super League is far lucrative than Nigeria Professional Football League. The Borno-born is the Connel Sports Management Private Limited, a sport firm based in India. “We have talents in Nigeria but unfortunately our league is not lucrative in so many ways and that’s why you see players of under-age running out of the league to sign for European clubs. In India, the local players play in the league because it gives them what they want unlike in Nigeria,” said Connel. “After my professional days, I still want to be relevant in the football industry without being a coach, so it was easy for me to be an intermediary, a profession I developed as passion and with a mission to direct young and old players.” “Over the years, I have been able to orientate players on what is possible to what is not possible in the sporting industry. A lot of players want agents to perform magic by getting them deals but I always educate my clients on due processes. “Football is a process, getting a contract for players still another process. So it has to be one step at a time. Every footballers want to jump to Europe and started playing for Chelsea and Liverpool. It doesn’t work that way. And that’s why most Nigeria players enter into slavery deal.” He is the only Nigerian and black intermediary registered in All India Football Federation who has used his international contacts to lure big footballers into the Indian Super League. “As a local player, you must have action videos and photography to present to international contacts but I realised that most Nigerian local clubs does have multimedia database for their players and the players are also not doing enough to be proactive. “In Europe, players get videos of their matches, though some clubs don’t release it but as a player you have to ensure you have videos of your action while negotiating for deals, it will help you. “I believe so much in Nigeria local players because I started my career in Nigeria and by the grace of God I was invited to the U-17 team in 2009. So I have been part of the local player before now.” He added: “A player from the local league must be ready to sacrifice a lot while moving to Europe. Look at Ahmed Musa today, he started from scratch and became a top star in Europe at some point in his career. That’s the process it entails to become a successful player.” Speaking about his international contacts already trading in India Super League, he said: “In the past, lots of players have moved here and now you can see many big players coming to plying their trade in the country. ‘’There’s a project about the league and very soon it’s going to be the most lucrative league in the Asian country. We have lots of big names here and we have been able to work successfully with players like Fran Gonzales, Joseba Beitia, Fran Morante , Danilo quipapa, Kingsley Obumneme, Smart smith Ebho, Julen Colinas , Salva Chamorro.” Connel is widely regarded as one of the most influential sport personnel to bring talents into Indian top league. “I have been here for years and been able to prove my integrity with my clients locally and internationally. I was part of the deal of player to Galatasaray recently and I have partners in Greece, India, Turkey and other parts of the world. We have been able to bring quality players to different clubs and the India Federation has recognised my importance. Everything is all about trust and hardworking. I educate players on possibilities not on inferiorities.” “In the coming season, there are lots of European players already working to play here and we will see how we can work with some national team players of Nigeria to bring their wealthy experience into the league,” he shared.