The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) is pushing out about 24 million additional membership registration forms to all the polling units nationwide for the on-going membership registration and revalidation exercise. The party had earlier released 12 million registration forms at the take-off of the exercise to all the 119,973 polling units with each unit allotted with 100 registration forms. The Nation checks at the National Secretariat of the party revealed that 200 registration forms were dispatched on Tuesday to each of the polling units across the country. It was gathered that party dispatched staff on Tuesday to take the additional registration forms to the states, in order to address the shortfall of the forms as complained by the states. Chairman National Registration Committee of the party, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello last Thursday told newsmen at the party Secretariat that his committee has been receiving complaints of shortage of registration forms in virtually all the states of the federation. “The registration is going on well. I have been receiving reports from other zones. And the major complaint is that the 100 forms per unit are too small. But, I have made complain to the national headquarters and more materials will be provided for the local governments or units that need more materials.” Confirming the development, the Secretary Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Senator John James Akpanudoedehe told The Nation that the nationwide response of eligible Nigerians necessitated the issuance of more registration forms to the states. “The response has been amazing. Both old and new members are trooping in their large numbers to revalidate their membership, while new ones are coming in for registration. Reports from the states showed that the 100 forms sent to each polling unit were grossly inadequate. “Initially we produced 12 million registration forms and with reports from states on the on-going registration and revalidation exercise, the initial 100 forms were grossly inadequate, as more Nigerians are yearning to join our party. Today (Tuesday) we are sending additional 200 registration forms to each of the polling units across the country.” Asked if the party will extend the registration billed to end on 23rd of February, Akpanudoedehe said, “with the additional forms sent today, we hope to cover more grounds and if there will be any extension, the Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) will meet to discuss the development,” the Secretary hinted.