Chairman and founder of AfroRedFlag White-Collar Protective Shield Limited Dr. Mannixs Paul has called for more collaborative efforts aimed at tackling the menace of white collar crimes and corruption in Africa. Paul said this at the launching of the AfroRedflag 2021 Innovation Drive for Africa held virtually recently in Abuja, Lagos and Bayelsa. The event attracted economic experts, government representative and IT experts from the United State of America, Africa, Asia and United Kingdom. He pointed out based on the report of transparency corruption index reports, most Africa countries, including Nigeria, are regressive in the fight against fraud and corruption. He noted regardless of the statistical data analysis, which supports the retrogressive outcomes in most African countries, some relevant laws and policies are in place to regulate those shortcomings and deterrence. He pointed out based on the forward trend observed it is good to acknowledge that white-collar crimes and corruption are real threats in the developing world. According to him, nation-building is a shared responsibility for private and public institutions, adding the growing trend of gross deception and dishonesty among business organisations’ stakeholders are undeniable. Paul, who is a licensed private investigator, said: “With a wide range of collaborative effort, we are introducing Afroredflag as a game-changer to shift the model for the fight against white-collar crimes and corruption to help the business community to achieve sustainability by mitigating the high risk of fraud and corruption in Africa.” Auditor General, Republic of Ghana, Mr. Daniel Yaw Domelevo, lamented the spate of crimes in work place across Africa, which according to him undermines democracy, violate human rights, exacerbate human insecurity and help the poor disproportionately. He noted although “there is no one- sized fix in tackling crimes in Africa but we need a critical mass of people who will not take side on moral issue.” A forensic psychologist, Dr Tersoo Shaapera, said the traditional methods of fighting crime had been “seriously overstretched from arrest, prosecution and then conviction.” He said that with AfroRedFlag, fight against corruption would be approached from the mind, adding “we begin to fight it there up to the level of organisations as individuals.” A Technical Consultant with the group, Mrs. Caroline Ndubuisi, called for sustained effort to nip corruption in the bud for a better nation.