Ahead of the 2022 governorship election in Ekiti State, former governor Segun Oni, has unfolded his ambition to contest for the gubernatorial race under the People’s Democratic Party Oni broke his silence on his speculated governorship ambition while unveiling his campaign office in preparation for the forthcoming poll in the state. Addressing his cut-like followership from across the 16 local government areas of the state in Ado-Ekiti on Monday, the PDP chieftain, boasted that the ruling All Progressives Congress will suffer worst electoral fatality in the election. The former PDP National Vice-Chairman, Southwest, said everything legally would be done to wrestle power from the APC, which he said had put in reverse gear the development and growth of the state. He said the PDP will work assiduously with the masses, whom he said were already disenchanted with APC to get rid of the ruling party, like Americans did to President Donald Trump in the recent Presidential poll. “Ekiti PDP is not afraid of incumbency power and the federal might. At a time in the history, Nigeria was being controlled by PDP. But Nigerians changed their minds and voted for APC in 2015. “If you look at the mood in town now, the people have changed their minds going by what the people are saying in town. People are not inclined to have APC after the next expiry in 2022 in Ekiti, that is, after Governor Fayemi. “No government is undefeatable. President Donald Trump wanted to conquer America. He introduced Mafian styles thinking that he could not be defeated. Where is he today? He is in Florida in retirement. That is the power of the people. “Politicians should be able to subject themselves to the will of the people, so that we won’t destroy the system. You can see that if our democracy had continued growing from 1966, Nigeria will be better than where we are today. “All of us must subject to the will of the masses. No one should think he could perpetuate himself in power. In the Ekiti governorship, I won’t advise anybody to do anything funny, that won’t be in the best interest of anyone”. He maintained that he would work with other leaders, including ex-governor Ayodele Fayose, Senator Biodun Olujimi and others, to reposition the PDP and makes it formidable. “We want to tell Nigerians that there are new formula in town, which is formula of friendship, unity and oneness. I don’t believe in character assassination and exclusion, it is for all of us to be together. “No single action can cement any crack in a political party, but when the process is coming from different ways, then you see the crack filled up. “I have been in politics for long and I understand the importance of unity. Let all leaders play their roles. Politics is a team game. As for me, I am not going to engage in names calling,” Oni added.