Driven by the mission to provide opportunities for young and aspiring African students, i-Scholar Initiative (iSI), a charitable organization registered in the USA, which is completely run by volunteers, continues to set the pace in empowering scholars to fulfil their dreams to pursue their graduate studies in renowned universities around the world. According to the President of the Initiative, Victor Ogunmola, a career professional in the Oil & Gas Upstream Industry, said, “i-Scholar Initiative (iSI) was inspired by a product of life experience and a passion to build an innovative and solution driven society.” He noted that the Initiative enjoys an unwavering support from the most dedicated and selfless management team and partners who remain committed to investing their time, energy, intellect, experience, finance and more to provide the needed uplift for the iSI scholars. The organization which boasts of high-profile Board of Trustees (BoT) chaired by Mrs. Tolulope Ewherido is strategically positioned as the go-to organization for building a younger and self-driven generation for leadership, innovation and overall development in Africa. Mrs Ewherido, a global leader in the Oil & Gas Upstream Industry, expressed, “I started with iSI as a financial partner. Like most people who have had opportunities like I have to be a global leader, you look back and you want to be part of creating that opportunity for others. When I was asked to lead the BoT, I was honored to constitute a team that can complement the passion, dedication and excellence already within iSI’s culture, so we are now in a position to leverage our currency as a BoT to amplify iSI to even greater impact.” According to iSI, many of the beneficiaries under the scholarship programme are currently in various fully funded graduate programs in USA and around the world, while others are at different stages of their admission process. Eligible scholars who are being sponsored, are not just selected randomly, they are critically assessed based on key metrics of academic records and financial needs. As i-Scholar Initiative continues to broaden the opportunities for more prospective scholars, some of the i-Scholars who are current recipients of the passion-driven scholarship programme, have testified to the organization’s commitment towards helping them secure fully funded scholarships in world-class foreign universities. This has purposefully positioned them on a sustainable career path as leaders and changemakers in the society. Oluwadara Olasupo, a Chemistry Graduate of University of Ibadan studying PhD in Chemistry at Florida State University, USA, said “i-Scholar Initiative in simple words is a home that made my dreams and hopes come alive. While the Initiative has set my feet in a land of vast opportunities, it has also redefined and fine-tuned my perspective towards giving back to the society by helping others to grow.” Gerald Ogbonna who is at Cornell University studying PhD in Systems Engineering, said, “I am thankful to the pioneers of this great Initiative, the financial support and mentorship helped me secure several admissions and funding in the USA.” Esther Oyedele, a Geophysics Graduate from the Federal University of Technology, Owerri (FUTO) who is currently at Bowling Green State University, USA studying MS Geology, said, “i-Scholar Initiative has been a lamp to my academic path; from the standardized tests funding to mentorship to career guidance and moral support.” Similarly Cyril Pepple, a Petroleum Engineering Graduate from University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT) who is currently doing his MSc at Imperial College London, said, “iSI’s influence on my journey so far has been tremendous. The mentorship and network iSI provides is priceless, and I am privileged to be amongst these awesome individuals.” Patience William, a beneficiary studying at Oklahoma State University, said “I am truly grateful for the i-Scholar Initiative scholarship support. This scholarship allowed me to work less, focus on my studies and receive additional graduate funding opportunities. Your generosity has inspired me to help others and give back to the community. Thank you again for your contribution and for seeing the potential in students like me.” Another beneficiary, Victor Fakeye who is also at Oklahoma State University, USA, said, “Covering the cost of my standardized tests was a launchpad to my aspiration for a graduate school career in the USA. The quality mentorship, the regular checkups, the timely motivation, just to mention a few, are golden. I am forever grateful for all. Forever grateful.” Babatunde Obadawo, a Chemistry Graduate from Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba (AAUA) Ondo  studying PhD Chemistry at University of Toledo, USA, said, “It is highly worthy of note that on my path to success, God has used i-Scholar Initiative to fast track my journey.” A Geology Graduate of Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA), Victor Obi, who is currently studying MS Geology at Kent State University, USA, said, “iSI has been very Instrumental throughout the process and was very helpful in paying for my standardized tests which qualified me to apply to schools.” Another graduate from the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Solomon Adelowo who is studying MSc in Sustainable Aquaculture at University of Stirling, UK, said, “i-Scholar Initiative serves as a giant that aided my journey positively. I have greatly benefited from the gift of mentors and fellow passionate scholars. i-Scholar Initiative gave me the motivation needed to make my scholarship dream a reality.” Also, David Nworie, a Geology Graduate from Ebonyi State University (EBSU) who is a current MSc Geology student at the University of Campinas, Sao Paulo, Brazil, said, “Timely and tremendous impact. I cannot thank iSI enough for illuminating the path and providing the needed resource for the needed examinations. iSI remains an important part of my journey” In addition to the full funding that covers selected scholars’ standardized tests, i-Scholar Initiative, through its network of partners and volunteers, also provides a strategic end-to-end mentorship to ensure that they have seamless experiences in achieving their ultimate goals. “We make a deliberate and strategic investment in our scholars towards achieving their career and community development goals.” Mr Ogunmola added. Till date, the current cumulative dollar value of scholarships that have been awarded to i-Scholars by their various universities stands at over Two Million USD ( over $2 Million), thanks to the organization’s initial investments in mentorship and funding the scholars’ standardized tests. According to her BoT Chair, Mrs. Ewherido, “i-Scholar Initiative is an organization with high integrity and a clear vision to create the next generation of leaders on the African continent via access to world class education.” She identified the cardinal plans and prospects of i-Scholar Initiative as, to grow impact via more scholarships, continue focus on end-to-end mentoring to assure positive outcomes for scholars, broaden reach to cover all of Nigeria and Africa and to do all these, there is a dire need to access more funding by expanding the Initiative’s private and corporate donor base. The organization, therefore, seeks for more partners and volunteers to join its mission.