Kano State Governor Abdullahi Gaduje has partnered the Federal Government on animal breeding programmes in the ongoing project of the Kano State RUGA Centre project. The partnership with the National Biotechnology Development Agency (NABDA), an agency under the Ministry of Science and Technology is for improved and massive livestock production. The governor stated this in Abuja during a facility tour of NABDA headquarters. In a statement, Head Information and Protocol Unit, NABDA Ifeoma Ndefo said: “The Governor declared his intention to sign a Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) with NABDA on the move to incorporate NABDA’s cutting-edge animal breeding programmes in the ongoing project of the Kano State RUGA Centre project. He also commended the Bio-Gas plant programme of the Environmental Biotechnology Department of NABDA that succinctly relates to the waste-to-wealth ideology in a very practical way. “According to Ganduje, the programme will provide an environment conducive enough to herders to breed their animals in the most productive way and afford them the opportunities to educate their children to emerge as professionals in various fields. “He added that this would ultimately eradicate the farmers’/herders’ crises in Nigeria that have degenerated to ethnic, religious and economic sentiments. “The Governor made a facility tour of the headquarters of the National Biotechnology Development Agency, (NABDA) Abuja Nigeria. “He was received by the Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of NABDA, Prof. Abdullahi Mustapha. The NABDA boss explained the core vision and the mission of the Agency with particular reference to the Animal Feed Production Technology programmes of NABDA, such as the hydroponics fodder farming for improved and massive livestock production that has the potential to improve the quality and quantity of meat and milk production in animals. “Prof. Mustapha noted that NABDA’s creation of a new Bioresources Development Centre (BioDec) in Ganduje Town in Kano is predicated upon the Agency’s desire to use her scientific and innovative programmes to address the prevailing economic needs of Nigerians at the grassroots in the most sustainable ways. “He noted that the Agency would employ genetics and genomics technologies for the improvement of the Bonaji cattle variety to produce about 25 litres of milk per day as against its natural capacity of production of five litres of milk per day.”