 Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun has advised those exploiting the diversity of Nigeria to turn it into strength for the good of citizens. He spoke yesterday at a colloquial zoom meeting to mark the state’s 45th anniversary. Abiodun said it was unfortunate that some people were stoking the embers of disintegration of the nation through violence. He said although Nigeria comprised diverse ethnic nationalities, it had become imperative to harness the potential and strength of each of the groups for the good of all. The governor said: “Let us also use the occasion of the 45th anniversary of our dear state to appeal to the rest Nigerians. We must eschew violence and learn to live together. We must also appreciate that there can be no development in an atmosphere of insecurity. “We must learn to manage our diversity and turn it to our strength. We must not encourage those stoking the embers of violence for disintegration of our great country. “A country where tribes and tongues may differ but stands in brotherhood is where unity in our diversity thrives. We all have duties, responsibilities and obligations to aid better understanding of our local and national realities. All we need do is manage our differences effectively and efficiently and Nigeria will be greater.” Abiodun, urging the rest of the country to take a cue from Ogun State, said the state had directed the potential and strength of its over 10 sub-ethnic groups for its benefit, adding that its diversity had been one of the forces propelling development. “Today, Ogun State is the home to not just indigenes of our dear state, but also people from diverse background all over the country and even to a lot of foreigners. Yes, I agree there may be reasons for us to disagree on certain issues of our essentials, but, we will only disagree to agree and move forward.” “A country where tribes and tongues may differ but stands in brotherhood is where unity in our diversity thrives,” he said. According to him, Nigerians have duties, responsibilities and obligations to aid better understanding of the nation’s local and national realities. He said if the differences are effectively and efficiently managed, Nigeria will be greater. The governor noted that with a humble beginning in 1976, Ogun has grown to become one of the most viable states in Nigeria, having the fastest growing investment and commercial destination not only in Nigeria, but the whole of West African sub-region, attracting one of the highest foreign direct investments and local investments. He said from one university in 1982, Ogun State is now the education capital of Nigeria with about 26 tertiary institutions, blazing the trail in agriculture as one of the biggest producers of cassava and poultry in Nigeria, the biggest rice producer in Western Nigeria and one of the biggest producers of other food and cash crops in the country. Abiodun lauded the founding fathers and mothers, whose efforts led to the creation of the state, as well as the zeal of pioneer public servants transferred from Western State, who commuted daily from Ibadan to Abeokuta, for contributing to the making and sustenance of the state in its current form. He acknowledged that without their sacrifices, good faith and great passion, “Ogun State would have been a mere geographical expression.” Assuring the indigenes and residents that he would continue on the path of the founding fathers, Prince Abiodun restated the commitment of his administration to continue deploying resources towards ensuring a conducive environment for the people to discover and nurture their potential, irrespective of their age, gender, status and location. He enjoined the people to look back as proud inheritors of worthy legacies, saying his administration would continue to put Ogun State on the top among the comity of states in Nigeria. The governor sought contribution and cooperation from individuals and corporate organisations to build a viable future, “as the government cannot do it alone.”