 Ace radio commentator, the late Ernest Okonkwo, waxed lyrical about YisaSofoluwe, the petit, sinewy, lean-and-mean man at Nigeria’s left full back; and overlapping dynamo, whether as U-20 international in the Flying Eagles, or as full international, at the Super Eagles. Sofoluwe, like the most impactful national team players of his day, earned Okonkwo’s special sobriquet, poetic monikers from the colourfulcommentator: “Chairman” Christian Chukwu, “Mathematical” Segun Odegbami, “Quick Silver” Slyvanus Okpala, “Block Buster” Aloysious Atuegbu, “Chief Justice” Adokiye Amiesimaka, etc.  But it was only fair-skinned Sofoluwe that earned a double: “Defence Minister” and “Dean of Defence”. Yet, he was so slight, not-so-tall and extra-lanky most attackers would have thought they would breeze past him.  But there was hardly, in his day, a more tenacious defender, or a more fluent over-lapper, with silky skills to match, thus presaging the exciting wing backs of today!  Sofoluwe duly earned his place among the pantheon of football greats of his era. In his First Nations Cup, Sofoluwe, with the fellow rookies Coach Adegboye Onigbinde drafted to the 1984 championships in Côte d’Ivoire, raced to the final, and even nicked the opening goal, against Cameroon.  But the Cameroon of Roger Miller, Theophilus Abega and Stephen Kunde, much more seasoned foreign-based professionals, if not veteran internationals, would eventually prevail, 3-1. At 17 in 1984, he was among the rookies in that Onigbinde squad.  The others were Chibuzor Ehilegbu (19),  Humphrey  Edobor  (17),  Ademola Adesina (19), Tarila Okorowanta (18), Paul Okoku (18) and Henry Nwosu (20) — though Nwosu was no rookie, since he had, as a teen himself, broken into 1980 Nations Cup winning team in Lagos. The oldest member of that 1984 team was Muda Lawal (29). There were also Peter Rufai (20), a fledgling Rashidi Yekinni (20), and Stephen Keshi (22), team captain and regnant spirit of the new youthful Eagles squad.  Which was why that team’s final-reaching achievement, when pre-tournament nobody gave it a chance, was remarkable. Sofoluwe,  Ehilegbu, Okorowanta and Okoku were part of the Chris Udemezue-coached Flying Eagles squad to the Mexico 1983 U-20 World Cup.  Though that campaign didn’t go too well, Sofoluwe and co-rookies would come back to power the new national team, after the 1980 squad, that won the Nations Cup in Lagos, had faded out, after losing their title at Libya ’82. That new team, in a World Cup qualifier in October 1983, beat Ghana, in Accra, 1-0, the first time Nigeria would record such a feat.  Ehilegbu nicked the winning goal.  At the Nations Cup in 1984, Nigeria would repeat that feat over Ghana, the championship’s defending champions.  Again, overlapping Sofoluwe would surge forward to feed Ehilegbu, who again scored the winning goal. But unlike Ehilegbu, Okorowanta and Okoku who soon faded out of the national team (Ehilegbu and Okoku went to the United States for further studies), Sofoluwe would annex the Eagles left full back position as near virtual-birthright, grossing no less than 40 caps for the national team, and winning the FA Cup twice (1985 and 1987), with the defunct Abiola Babes. During his career, spent entirely in the local league (at ITT FC, Abiola Babes and Gateway FC), he was one of the most talented, one of the most respected, and among the most admired by fans. Which was why when news filtered out that he was ill and needed urgent help, not a few remembered the dutiful “Defence Minister” of yore, on sporting duty for his country.  How come, many asked, that he could be down with little help, from cerebral atrophy? That he died, when help in cash to fund his care was reportedly on the way, again raises the imperative for some trade trust funds, to help former athletes, and even other retired professionals (journalists, doctors, lawyers, etc) in medical distress.  If such a trust was in place, maybe Yisa Sofoluwewould have survived his health challenges? Sofoluwe died at a relative early age.  But in his active club and national team career, he brought joy to thousands of fans.  That image of him abidesin cherished memories.  Which is why the government, and Nigerians at large, should rally to aid the family the late footballer left behind. The government of Ogun State should take particular interest.  Sofoluwe was such a forceful and colourful role model (playing mostly for Abeokuta-based teams), when Ogun was trying to find its football identity.