In the modern world, businesses in Nigeria depend on technology. They want to hire employees that have a good knowledge of computer software and that know how to operate technology to their advantage. In particular, businesses want people that understand coding languages, how to troubleshoot and know a variety of word processing software. This means that individuals have to work on developing their skills and build experience from a young age. The great thing about learning is that there are plenty of opportunities available for you. In particular, you can take an online course in order to build your knowledge about computers and modern technology. There are free online courses, as well as paid ones. You can access them from home on your computer and you can learn at a time that suits you. This is a good idea if you are already working full time or you have other commitments. You can learn around your schedule and build your resume for a future job. In particular, there are courses about programming languages, web development and software. The more time you spend on the computer, the more you are going to learn about using it. A lot of people learn better by carrying out tasks rather than reading about them. Therefore, if you want to build up your computer skills, it is time to explore and see what is out there. For instance, you can practice researching using the internet. In addition, do not forget that you can have fun and learn at the same time. You can play games, such as online poker or using a PA sportsbook. All of these tasks are allowing you to become more familiar with the computer and what it can do. The main idea of social media is to keep in contact with friends and family. You can say whatever you want and upload photos and videos. Social media is available on a variety of platforms and it is a good way to have fun. But businesses are also recognizing that social media is a great way to build an online presence, market to new customers and make sales. If you have a lot of following on social media and you can demonstrate your knowledge, this can be appealing for a business. So, get on your favorite platform and see what traction you can make. Again, businesses realize that blogs are an amazing way to market and connect with their audience. If you already have a blog and you can demonstrate you know how to make people read your content, this is going to be appealing to an employer. Therefore, start your own blog and try to grow your audience. In the meantime, this can be a fun way to share your opinions and feelings, as well as connect with like-minded people.