4G LTE Broadband service provider, Smile Nigeria has completed the upgrade of its Core Network Expansion (CNE). This upgrade is significant in its far-reaching modernisation of the network for increased capacity to enable the firm serve more customers and improve the experience of existing customers. Its Chief Technical Officer Akinola Alayoku, said the Radio Network Expansion started in last month, adding that the expansion would improve the internet experience of customers on the network giving them SuperFastinternet experience. Acting Managing Director of the firm, Abhulime Ehiagwina, said the upgrade was strategically timed to coincide with the period of high traffic on the network. He said the CNE aligns with Smile’s global vision and mission to be the mobile broadband provider of choice in all markets, whilst enabling its customers to do and achieve more. He further said having the best network in its class “is something we have a passion for, and we are excited about this latest upgrade as it will enable us to redouble efforts towards providing continued access to SuperFast, SuperReliable and affordable 4G LTE services to all Nigerians”. Its Chief Marketing Officer Abdul Hafeez, said the upgrade reaffirmred Smile’s commitment to creating opportunities that would enable the customers  enjoy the best broadband internet experience by providing differentiating solutions that will enrich their lives. He said the upgrade was done to enhance   service quality,  extend internet connectivity and access to  more Nigerians, make quality access more affordable and empower the customers to do more and succeed in their respective endeavors.  A cross section of Smile subscribers have confirmed remarkable improvement that the upgrade has engendered. John Okosun, a Lagos-based Company Executive, said he is pleased by the upgrade. He confirmed being on the Smile Network for about five years and applauded the company for “lots of new ideas and new ways to deliver what customers really need, super-fast internet that you can manage and use to improve your business or your experiences at home”.  For Hassan Umaru, an Abuja-based Civil Servant is happy with the “fast pace and reliability of the Smile network”. To Dagogo Whyte, an entrepreneur in Port Harcourt, Smile’s constant upgrade of the network continues to set it apart from the others. To him, “it is thumbs up for Smile for always thinking right and doing the right thing”. Acclaimed as the pioneer of 4G LTE technology in West Africa, Smile Nigeria is famous for continuously enhancing services to beat the existing industry benchmark and expand on the existing market offers in a bid to provide real value adding products and services. 