The Chairman Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the All Peoples Congress (APC), Governor Mai Mala Buni, on Thursday faulted Chief Bisi Akande’s description of the ruling party’s ongoing registration as an aberration. Buni, who is also the governor of Yobe State, said the exercise which “is part of the strategic measures taken by the committee to give existing and new members a sense of belonging” is within the ambit of the law. ”The membership registration and revalidation is a constitutional provision,” he said, recalling that the APC last engaged in such an exercise more than six years ago. Akande, a former Interim National Chairman of the APC had while receiving members of the ruling party’s Registration and Revalidation Committee in Osun State in Ila-Oragun on Wednesday argued that the exercise contradicted the rule of periodic census. But Buni, in a statement by his Director-General, Press and Media Affairs, Mallam Mamman Mohammed, said: “Since the initial exercise in 2014, the party has not registered new members nor updated the personal information of our existing members as provided for by the constitution.” He explained that the membership registration and revalidation formed a “part of the strategic measures taken by the committee to give existing and new members a sense of belonging.” The committee chairman added that the registration gives existing members the chance to update their information and provides the party the opportunity to expunge the names of those who left from its register. Governor Buni also said the registration and revalidation would help the APC to generate a valid, accurate, and up-to-date data of its members. He assured that the CECPC was committed to reconciling aggrieved members, uniting the party and ensuring the success of the registration and revalidation of its members. According to Buni, APC has through his committee succeeded in building confidence among its members by reassuring them of new hope. He added: “Our focus is to strengthen the party through a bottom-up approach and to carry everyone on board, while those aggrieved have happily rejoined APC just as new ones have joined the party. “The caretaker committee has reconciled many aggrieved members and factions across the country, including the Zamfara State factions among others. It has also brought in prominent politicians into APC, including David Umahi, the serving governor of Ebonyi State with more coming.” Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu and his wife, Betty, have revalidated their membership of the party at Ijebu 2 ward 5, polling unit 6 in Owo, headquarters of Owo Local Government Area. Akeredolu, who was in company with the Acting Chairman of the APC in the state, Ade Adetimehin and other party chiefs said APC had come to stay. He said: “I know some of us have registered before. I have registered before too and that’s why I can contest under the party. We are here to revalidate our membership. If you haven’t registered before, do it afresh.” Federal Capital Territory Minister Muhammad Bello said that APC has since 2015 brought tremendous changes to Nigeria. Bello told members of the FCT Registration Committee that APC’s successes were more evident in the territory He said: “Those of you who are residents of the FCT or who are frequent visitors to the FCT know what the FCT was in 2015 and what it is today. The APC administration has since 2015 brought tremendous changes to Nigeria.” Former commissioners and aides of a former Osun State, Rauf Aregbesola, have kicked against alleged   inclusion of a Social Democratic Party (SDP) chief, Tayo Adewakun, as a member of the registration committee in the state. In a letter dated January 30, 2021 and addressed to Governor Buni, they demanded that Adewakun be replaced with a committed APC member without delay. They hinged their complaint of the fact   that Adewakun, whom they described as a relation of a former deputy governor of the state, Iyiola Omisore, had yet to quit the SDP. The former commissioners and aides also complained about the three slots given the state as seven were allotted to other states. The letter was signed by  Azeez Adesiji, ex- the APC Caretaker deputy chairman;  Kolapo Alimi(ex-commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs); Biyi Odunlade (ex-commissioner for Youth and Sports), Idowu Korede (ex-commissioner for Environment), and Nureni Adebisi (former member of the House of Assembly). Others are Akintoyese Ademola, Gbenga Akano, Comrade Gbenga Awosode, Sadiq Olajide, Muyideen Olateju and Busari Ibraheem. A group under the aegis of Concerned Youth Stakeholders of Kwara State APC urged the national headquarters of the party to disband the state’s registration committee. The youth said their demand was informed by the violence that greeted the registration of new members in the state. They canvassed an independent registration committee that would be fair and just to all interests in the party. A spokesperson for the youth, John Adegboyega, said: “Any attempt to go ahead with the registration by the Danboyi-led team is an invitation to anarchy. “Assuming our leaders are showing maturity at their level, it is doubtful if our members would be able to hold their cool at the grassroots when they face one another. “Our chairman, Bashir Bolarinwa, was assaulted and several members of the party beaten black and blue by thugs. “We reject the membership of the APC registration committee. We have raised the alarm timely more to give our national leaders ample time to retrace their steps.” Governor Inuwa Yahaya warned against extortion of members by party officials during the registration/validation of members. Yahaya, at a stakeholders meeting urged the party faithful in the state to participate in the exercise without fear He said:  “Everyone should be allowed to register. Honesty should be key while the exercise lasts. “No one should pay for the registration, stakeholders should mobilise their members to participate in the exercise. I hereby call for an adequate supply of materials throughout the period of the exercise.”