The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has demanded the immediate and unconditional release of Mr Salihu Yakasai, a media aide to Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje. Yakasai was on Friday arrested and detained by the Department of State Services (DSS) for criticising President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. In a statement on Saturday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party described  the reported arrest of Yakasai as well as his alleged detention as completely unacceptable. “Salihu Yakasai’s ordeal is a sad reminder of the sudden disappearance of another known critic of the Buhari administration, Abubakar Idris, popularly known as Abu Hanifa Dadiyata, since August 2019”, the statement said. The PDP reminded agents of the APC-led administration that Nigeria remained a democratic nation and that the rights of citizens, including their freedom of expression, within the ambit of the law, are firmly guaranteed in the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and that such rights must be respected. The statement further said: “Our party therefore rejects the arrest of Salihu Yakasai, for joining other patriotic Nigerians in demanding a presidential commitment of a decisive action to rescue the abducted Zamfara schoolgirls as well as to end all acts of terrorism in our country. “The PDP also condemns the decision of the Governor of Kano State, Alhaji Umar Ganduje, in summarily relieving Salihu Yakasai of his appointment as his Special Adviser on media, on the ground that his patriotic demand for a decisive action to end terrorism, was contrary to the stand of the APC government. “It is also instructive to note that Governor Ganduje equally warned all political appointees and public servants in the state against such patriotic expressions like those made by Salihu. “The action of the Governor Ganduje has again heightened apprehensions on the alleged connections between APC leaders and the bandits pillaging our nation. “In this regard, the PDP demands that Governor Ganduje comes clean on the matter. “This is because such stances have continued to embolden bandits while frustrating patriotic citizens who are raising voices against acts of terrorism in our country.” The PDP charged Nigerians to hold the APC and its leaders responsible for the escalated acts of banditry and terrorism in the country as well as any harm that may come the way of well-meaning citizens who are raising their voices against the activities of outlaws in the country.