The National chairman of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), Chief Victor Oye has debunked rumoured plans by President Muhammadu Buhari to rig the November 6 governorship election in Anambra state. He also described as ridiculous alleged Buhari’s non interference of the 2017 gubernatorial election in the state following an agreement he reached with Governor Willie Obiano to allow him complete his 8-year tenure. The Imo state governor, Sen. Hope Uzodinma had during a stakeholders meeting of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state, boasted the party’s capacity to win the election, including deployment of seen and unseen forces. But the APGA boss, in a chat with newsmen on Wednesday, dismissed the rigging allegations as unfounded and ridiculous targeted at smearing the image of the President. He said, “People are just painting the President in a very bad light and I’m not happy about that. President Buhari is not that kind of leader, he doesn’t influence anything. There was no agreement between Buhari and Obiano in 2017. “I’m the National Chairman of the party and I can say that without any form of equivocation. There was no such arrangement. If it’s the Buhari I know very well, he won’t support anything that will cause chaos or crisis in this state. Buhari is an honourable man, he loves progress. “Buhari doesn’t interfere in any elections, if he does, he would have interfered in that of Edo, hope you know. But he didn’t. Hope Uzodinma and his team went there, including Ganduje. Nobody knew when they left Benin. “When they saw the result trickling in, they disappeared before morning. The same thing will happen here. We have the capacity to protect our votes, over capacity.” Oye further claimed that the Anambra poll would be unopposed for his party, stressing that other parties eyeing the exalted seat lacked the pedigree, mental capacity and vision to govern the state. He added, “The forth-coming election is all about performance. The people angling for the position don’t have the pedigree, mental capacity and vision. They have noting to offer to the state. “We have been in the business for a very long time. So we can read the pulse of the nation politically. I don’t see any strong contender for this office against APGA. That office is divinely made for APGA. “Anambra is the home of APGA. It’s just like going to stop the source of River Niger from flowing. This is the source of life for Anambra. The people have seen the light and they can’t go back to Egypt. The days of yore, uncertainty, crisis, looting are gone. “In 2017, it was the same thing everywhere, with people shouting APC, PDP. I told them the election will end in 21/21 and it was so. The one coming now is unopposed. It’s my prophetic utterance, write it anywhere. “It’s God that made kings and it is him that made Obiano king over the people of the State. There is order. Obiano has performed excellently. He has shown leadership, prudence in management of state scarce resources.”