DJ Cuppy’s foundation, The Cuppy Foundation, has revealed how it partnered with Nikki Laoye’s Angel 4 Life foundation and Kaffy’s Kaffy Foundation in 2020. DJ Cuppy made this known during the Gold Dust conference, which was held on Thursday, February 11 via YouTube. The conference had various speakers in attendance and they included Kevin Watkins (CEO, Save the Children UK), Dr. Adaeze Oramalu (Senior Nutrition Adviser, Save The Children Nigeria), Dr Nura Tukur, and Maryam Ahmed (Youth Ambassador, Save The Children Nigeria). Hosting the conference herself, Cuppy explained the activities of The Cuppy Foundation after the golden gala, which was held in Abuja in 2019. Detailing the activities, DJ Cuppy said funds raised during the gala were used to reach over 9000 individuals and families since 2019. She went further to say that funds also enabled 295 individuals trained on infant and young child feeding. At the conference, the founder also revealed that the sum of N50 million was donated to supporting the Lagos state government and Federal Capital Territory in the battle against COVID-19 through Save The Children Nigeria. The donations were used to procure Personal Protective Equipments, Infection, Prevention and Control materials to support the COVID-19 action response team. Speaking at the conference, Kevin Watkins lauded the philanthropic gestures of The Cuppy foundation saying she has brought uniqueness to philanthropy. On her part, Nikki Laoye said, “Thank you Cuppy. We are grateful for your work with us at Angel 4 Life Foundation for the past 3 years with students with Disabilities. The Cuppy 12 students are forever grateful for your love.” Award winning dancing queen, Kaffy also expressed gratitude to DJ Cuppy’s foundation for the support provided for her Kaffy foundation. DJ Cuppy reiterated that The Cuppy Foundation is aimed at tackling various issues surrounding child protection and education for girls and minorities, and has since its inception, carried out various groundbreaking activities. Cuppy closed the show with a standout performance of some of her biggest hits and fans favorites like Gelato, Green Light, Litty Lit & Jollof on the Jet.