Residents of Oriba Land, Epe Local Government, Lagos State have cried to the government to come to their aid in  developing the area. An ancient community founded, whose major occupation is fishing and farming, the residents said they lack access to road, drinking water,  healthcare centre and have poorly equipped schools. The community made the appeal when a real estate firm with more than 10 estates in Epe, Brit Property Nigeria Limited, hosted the community as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programme. They lamented that despite voting for the government, they have been forgotten. The Oba-elect of Oriba Community, Yusuf Kasali Olanrewaju, Ajagungbade I, said there are bad roads in the community, and are urging the government to come to their rescue. He said: “This place is strategic to the development of new Lagos, but we don’t have any road. Majorly, we use water as our means of transportation. This is a town that has been in existence since 16th century.’’ He urged Brit Property Nigeria to   link the community with the state government so that they could provide social amenities for the people. The Baale of Oribaland, Nurudeen Olowolayemo, also said the community have a public maternity hospital but it is not functioning. “We have about 40 towns under Oriba community and we voted for the government in power and supported them, yet they forgot the community. We want help and assistance from the government,” the Baale said. Meanwhile, Brit Property has given out medical care, palliatives, including rice and groceries, as well as books to children. The Managing Director/CEO, BRIT Property, Bright Chimezie, said the company embarked on the exercise because one of her goals is to give back to the community where it operates. He stated that Brit is a real estate and property management company specialising in managing residential and commercial properties. Chimezie, who noted that Brit has been in business for 10 years, said: “This is our 10th Anniversary and we have about 12 estates within this airport axis alone. This is the main village. The location is attractive. The proposed airport is close by; Dangote Refinery is not too far from here. The water here links to Ajah, Lekki, Victoria Island and Ikorodu.” He noted that the way the government was planning the axis, the water would link to Ikorodu and the Fourth mainland bridge which is not too far from Ajah. “If Lagos State government can build a bridge from here across to Badore, it will open up a lot of business opportunities here. Ajah is filled up, and we have free land here. The bridges along the roads were built by Jakande and he also provided electricity for them, Fashola also did some during his administration. This place is significant for the future of Lagos State. In the next three to five years, this place will open up significantly, and any land you buy from a real estate company is secured because we buy in bulk and acquire the necessary documents, he assured customers.” He said his firm was working to bridge the housing deficit in Lagos by building low-cost housing of N5 million for middle class on a convenient payment plan.