The leadership of the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies (SSASCGOC) has disagreed with the Amalgamated Union of Public Corporation Civil Service and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE) over plans to picket the the Corporate Affairs Commission over anti – labour practices today. The SSASCGOC, which is an affiliate of the Trade Union Congress noted that AUPCTRE, an affiliate of the Nigeria Labour Congress cannot mediate for senior workers in the commission, going by the judgement of the National Industrial Court (NIC). SSASCGOC stated that as a legitimate union of senior staff in CAC, it has put machinery in place to discuss and resolve all industrial relations issues both old and emerging trends with the Registrar of the commission. In a letter addressed to the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment and Registrar General of the CAC and signed by the General Secretary of SSASCGOC, Ayo Olorunfemi, the union said the NLC and AUPCTRE can only speak on behalf of junior staff of CAC which they represent according to the Trade Union Act and NIC judgments. Olorunfemi, who later addressed reporters on Tuesday, urged the Federal Government to hold NLC and AUPCTRE responsible for whatever crisis that may break out as a result of threat to shut the Commission on matters affecting senior staff. He said: “We insist that AUPCTRE has no locus stand under the law as pronounced by the NIC judgment, to speak for any senior staff be it in CAC or any Statutory Corporation until the judgment of NIC is reversed through the court of appeal or supreme court. “We make bold to state this because the National Industrial Court has made several pronouncements/ judgment to that effect that the freedom of Association as enshrined in the Nigeria Constitution in not absolute. The Trade Union Act specifically classifies AUPCTRE as a junior staff union. These judgments and the provision of the Trade Union Acts can never be subjected to the NLC President’s mere internal digestion. He must obey the judgment otherwise he risks being charged for contempt of the court. “The National executives of Nigeria Civil Service Union was recently sacked by the NIC and an administrator appointed by the court is currently running the affairs of the union while the executives had gone to court of appeal and are also requesting for a “stay of action” the NLC should advice it’s affiliate the legitimate way to go on this matter instead of unnecessary posturing that will never change the cause of the law.”