The Ministry of Economy and Finance in France has partially funded  Edojobs Online Academy to serve as a catalyst in boosting the employability of youths in Edo State, Nigeria. The scheme will also help in empowering over 3000 job seekers in Edo State with the required expertise and skills to boost local entrepreneurship and growth of the creative industry. The project is also expected to help in upgrading all trainees with the skills, trainings to excel and raise the standards of the creative industry in Nigeria and Africa. Also in the partnership establishing the scheme are Edo State Skills Development Agency (EdoJobs), Teach on Mars, Wazobia, Webforce3, L’ Académie Franco-Anglophone des Arts Audiovisuels et du Cinéma (LAFAAAC), among others. In a statement, the facilitators said the global pandemic which impacted economies around the world, caused the urgent need for progressive governments and private institutions with an innate drive for development to re-evaluate their strategies and adapt to the current realities of online learning and engagements. “With the African continent set to become the next hub of creative industries and with a keen global spotlight on the rapid growth of its audiovisual and cinematographic production, it is imperative to empower the rising industry with required trainings such that meets international standard. It is in this context that the Edojobs Online Academy was developed in one of Africa’s leading economy,” the statement said. Speaking on the Project, Tatiana Moussali, CEO of Wazobia stated that, “It is imperative for leadership in times of crisis to always provide ingenious solutions that provide succour to the people in times of need. The partnership with Edo State Government is one driven by the commitment of the Wazobia Media Group in joining forces with the government to reducing unemployment, improving self-dependency, and fighting the scourge of modern slavery faced by most of the vulnerable members of the society whose only hope lies on the sojourn abroad for a better life. Edo State has a lot of young and budding talents that require the right guidance and mentorship to channel their energy into productive use in the state. Through the Edojobs Online Academy, we hope to empower these youths with the skillsets that would make them see value in their talents and in return contribute to the development of the creative industry in their community and Nigeria at large.” According to Ukinebo Dare, Managing Director of EdoJobs, “We are glad to be partnering to kick-off this ground-breaking project in Nigeria, starting with Edo State. We say thank you to the French Government and all sponsors. As a home of rich culture in Africa, this project will enable job creation for our young creatives.” For  co-founder and CEO of LAFAAAC, one of the partners, Olivier Pachal, “This project allows us to validate a key milestone in our development on the African continent: upstream, it allows us to federate the dynamic forces that are today united around this platform, in France as well as in Nigeria, in the public and private sectors.