 Total Respite Foundation (TRF) has opened a primary health centre (PHC) in Mowokekere, Lagos. It was facilitated by Chairman/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Nigerian Diaspora Commission, Hon. Abike Dabiri-Erewa. Its Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr. Bolajoko Sogbesan, stated that the Mowekekere Health Centre is one of the four PHCs handed over to TRF under the private-public health SME initiatives of the state government and it is the first to be managed by TRF. It is a 12-bed facility with wards, emergency rooms, and pharmacy, among others. “The massive support and the enthusiasm of the members of the community encouraged TRF to kick off its services in Mowokekere. The vision and core objective of TRF is to be the facilitator of accessible, affordable, quality healthcare to rural communities in Nigeria, particularly Lagos. We work to provide high grade, value for money healthcare services at very reasonable and easily affordable cost. “TRF hopes to achieve this vision by providing sustainable effective healthcare services backed by modern technology, high grade equipment, cost-effective diagnostic and treatment services and evidence-based medical practice at our rural communities through our well trained and highly resourceful friendly staff. The recruitment policy of TRF is for well trained, trainable, experienced, friendly and highly motivated healthcare personnel in all its facilities,” she said. Dr. Bolaji Obadeyi, representing the Chairman of the Lagos State Primary Health Care Board, Prof Akin Osibogun, stated that primary healthcare is the touchpoint where effective healthcare reaches the smallest units of the society through the health posts, health centres and comprehensive health centres. The mission is to provide universal coverage and access to qualitative, effective and efficient healthcare in all 329 primary health centres in the state, Obadeyi said. “The administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has made significant investments in the health system and primary healthcare in particular. Recently, three purpose-built and fully equipped maternal and child health centres were commissioned in the state. I congratulate the Commissioner for Health that these are happening during his tenure. Although we are making progress, there is more work to be done. There is a need for more health facilities in hard-to-reach areas and an imperative to equip existing PHCs with appropriate medical technology. “There is a funding gap, which is huge and cannot be bridged by government alone. There is a pressing need for public private collaboration not only for establishing new facilities but also managing existing PHCs. The participation of the private sector in funding and providing healthcare services brings several benefits; we can leverage available funding investments to meet financing gaps. More than 70 per cent health spending in Nigeria comes from individuals and households. There has to be a more inclusive and equitable way of financing the healthcare healthcare in our communities,” Obadeyi said. A medical director, Hemeson Edwin, said: “All we are trying to do is bridge the gap between the government and the community. For now, everything we did here is from personal funding with no grant or loan from anyone, but then we hope and pray what is being done here today will bring in other investors and also philanthropists to come and assist.”