  Bauchi State Governor Bala Mohammed said the wrong thing at the wrong time. In the middle of mounting tension across the country caused by the herder-farmer crisis, particularly public unease over violent actions by armed herdsmen, the governor defended herders who carry guns. According to Mohammed, “Because the Fulani man is practising the tradition of pastoralism, he has been exposed to the vagaries of the forest, cattle rustlers who carry guns, kill him and take away his commonwealth, which is the cows.”  This premise to back his position that herders carry guns for self-defence is tendentious. The Fulani herdsman, Mohammed said, “has no option than to carry an AK47 because the society and the government are not protecting him. What is his fault? It’s the fault of the government and the people.” The governor’s rationalisation is ridiculous. It is unsurprising that his speech on February 11, during the Press Week of the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in Bauchi State, sparked a public outrage. The crucial point is that herders who carry guns do so illegally. His argument that herdsmen carry guns for personal protection doesn’t mean that their possession of guns is lawful.  If they are unlawfully armed, there is no redeeming justification. The herder-farmer crisis is compounded by gun-carrying herders who have been accused of fuelling insecurity.  Indeed, there are allegations that armed herdsmen are involved in the increasing cases of kidnapping and banditry. The governor should be aware of these well-publicised dimensions of the problem.  His defence of gun possession by herdsmen suggests a defence of criminality. Firearms in the wrong hands are a cause for concern.  It is noteworthy that the Senate wants more severe sanctions for anyone caught with an illegal firearm, believing that would help to stop gun-related criminal activities in the country. The Senate is deliberating on a bill titled ‘The Firearms Act CAP F28 LFN 2004 (amendment) Bill, 2021’ sponsored by Senator Uba Sani representing Kaduna Central. However, beyond amending the law to curb the proliferation of illegal firearms towards making the country safe, there is the important question of enforcement.  How effectively is the extant law on illegal firearms enforced?  The problem of herders who illegally carry guns shows ineffective enforcement. It is unacceptable that Governor Mohammed blames herders’ resort to self-help on alleged failure of the federal authorities on security.  If everyone carried illegal firearms like armed herders, allegedly for self-defence, that would be anarchic. Also, his claim that “Nobody owns any forest,” in defence of herders living in the forests, is absurd and provocative, because the forests are under authorities. Efforts by the governor and his media aide to clarify the insensitive speech, arguing that it was misconstrued, only heightened the absurdity.  Mohammed said his reference to AK47 was “a figure of speech” to show that the Fulani herdsman “has the inalienable right to protect himself.” “Why wouldn’t the Fulani man protect himself? And if he carries a gun in order to protect himself, it may not be a legal carriage, it may be legal. He may also register and carry it to protect himself,” the governor said during an interview on Channels Television’s Sunrise Daily. This shows that in the time between his initial speech and the TV interview, Mohammed failed to grasp that the office of governor demands more wisdom. On both occasions, he did not speak with a sense of gubernatorial responsibility, and seemed not to care if his words worsened the crisis. Tragically, violent conflicts between mainly Fulani herders and farmers from other ethnic groups are getting out of control, usually with the farmers on the receiving end.  The authorities should urgently find a solution to the problem. Governor Mohammed’s defence of armed herders is part of the problem. People in power should not escalate the volatile situation with insensitive remarks. 