The Federal Executive Council (FEC) has approved the establishment of 20 private universities across the country. It also okayed N35 billion for the building of power stations by the Nigerian Export Processing Zone Authority (NEPZA) in Calabar and Kano processing zones. Education Minister Adamu Adamu announced this while addressing State House Correspondents after Wednesday’s virtual FEC meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja. Adamu said the approved universities would get their provisional licences from the National Universities Commission (NUC) to enable operate for the next three years during which they would be monitored and their performance evaluated. The approved universities are: Topfaith University, Mkpatak, Akwa Ibom State; Thomas Adewumi University, Oko-Irese, Kwara State; Maranathan University, Mgbidi, Imo State; Ave Maria University, Piyanko, Nasarawa State; and Al-Istiqama University, Sumaila, Kano State. Also approved are: Mudiame University, Irrua, Edo State; Havilla University, Nde-Ikom, Cross River State; Claretian University of Nigeria, Nekede, Imo State; NOK University, Kachia, Kaduna State; and Karl-Kumm University, Vom, Plateau State. Others are: James Hope University, Lagos, Lagos State; Maryam Abacha American University of Nigeria, Kano, Kano State; Capital City University, Kano, Kano State; Ahman Pategi University, Pategi, Kwara State; and University of Offa, Offa, Kwara State. Others are: Mewar University, Masaka, Nasarawa State; Edusoko University, Bida, Niger State; Philomath University, Kuje, Abuja; Khadija University, Majia, Jigawa State and Anan University, Kwall, Plateau State. Nine of the private universities are located in the Northcentral, three in the Southsouth, two in the Southeast, five in the Northwest and one in the Southwest. Industry, Trade and Investment Minister Niyi Adebayo said the power stations contract, awarded to Messers Mutual Commitment Nigeria Limited, would be jointly funded by the government and the company that won it at 25 per cent to 75 per cent. The minister said the contract sum is N35,411,119,159.47, adding that the contractor would finance 75 per cent of the project, which is N26,558,339,337.10, while the NEPZA would finance 25 per cent at N8,852,779,792.37. He said council approved a payback period of 10 years of the contractor’s portion. Adebayo said on completion after 11 months, the plant would be operated by the contractor for five years during which they would build local capacity to take over the running of the plant. Mines and Steel Development Minister Olamilekan Adegbite said Council approved the categorisation of Aluminum Smelting Company of Nigeria (ALSCON) in Ikot Abasi, Akwa Ibom State, as a power-producing and strategic company. With the approval, the minister said the production of aluminum will start in Nigeria. Also, Council approved N783,521,275, inclusive of 7.5 per cent Value Added Tax (VAT), for the award of contract for the procurement of two hydrographic survey boats for the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) by Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi to Messers First Index Project and Services Limited. Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed, who addressed reporters on behalf of Amaechi, said the contract has a six-month completion period. Mohammed, who also spoke on behalf of Aviation Minister Hadi Serika, said: “Council approved the contract for the design, supply and installation of PTZ Long Range Tarmac Camera Surveillance System at the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos, and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. “And it approved the contract for a mobile surveillance system with remote controlled licensed for sober installed in the back of a Mercedes Benz Splinter Van 524 in favour of Messers Bruce Lee Pro Project, which is exclusive Nigeria and Africa representatives of the original equipment manufacturers, Messers Datcom Systems Integrated Limited Posers of Slovenia. “The total sum of the contract is N1,278,594,250. This is in order to upgrade and provide security and safety for the Nigeria Airport Authority, especially to avoid incidence on the air site and runway,” he said.