The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has reiterated its commitment to supporting companies, especially small and medium enterprises (SMEs) with amenable funding opportunities. At a webinar hosted by the NSE on “Capital Raising for SMEs through the Stock Exchange”, the Exchange and industry stakeholders were unanimous on the importance of adequate funding for SMEs, which play catalytic roles in national economic growth and development. Divisional Head, Listings Business, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Olumide Bolumole, said the NSE recognises the SMEs as critical agents of economic development and transformation in Nigeria. He said the NSE will continue to support the growth and development of small businesses in Nigeria, as demonstrated by its efforts including the latest webinar. The webinar was hosted in collaboration with various trade groups and chambers of commerce in the Northern region of the country. It was headlined by the President, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Hajia Saratu Aliyu. “The traditional role of the Exchange as a platform for capital formation and liquidity holds good promise for businesses. Despite the impact of COVID-19, the NSE functioned to facilitate needed financing with over N2.5 trillion in capital raised by governments and corporates in 2020 across various asset classes,” Bolumole said. He outlined that the Exchange in January 2020 launched the NSE Growth Board designed to support companies in their growth phase and this notably caters to SMEs. According to him, as access to capital is a key challenge faced by companies active in various sectors of the economy, the NSE continues to provide alternative funding opportunities to catalyse business growth. Aliyu commended the NSE for organising the webinar and including the NACCIMA noting that it reflected recognition of the role played by the chamber of commerce in promoting the growth and competitiveness of private enterprise in Nigeria. She expressed optimism that such collaborative efforts by the NSE and other key stakeholders will hopefully spur greater interest in the activities at the NSE by the private sector, as it is a conscious effort to give credence to SMEs which are the building blocks of the Nigerian economy. Team Lead, Growth Segment, Primary Markets, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Mr. Olanrewaju Odufuwa also spoke on the value proposition of the NSE Growth Board as a viable option for capital raising, especially for SMEs. He assured that the NSE will continue to deliver on its commitment to narrow the undesirable gap in SMEs ability to access right-sized capital and facilitate the flow of sustainable resources to spur the growth of SMEs. It would be recalled that the NSE launched the Growth Board in 2020. The board now features four companies namely McNichols Plc, Chellarams Plc, The Initiates Plc and Living Trust Mortgage Bank Plc. The Growth Board Index has also been created and Growth Board companies have been included in the All Share Index (ASI). 