By Bassey Anthony, Uyo The Akwa Ibom State Government has threatened to sack teachers under its employ caught in acts of truancy and academic laxity. Chairman State Secondary Education Board( SSEB) Dr. Ekaette Ebong Okon, who issued the threat at the weekend, noted that secondary school teachers posted to rural areas in the state have not been living up to their responsibilities. She said reports indicate they abscond from their duty posts for one year to engage in farming and trading activities while the government continues to pay them monthly salaries. ” We have to pursue teachers to do their work. I am not afraid to tell you that most people who take up government jobs as teachers refuse to do their work. ” They don’t go to school. They prefer to be posted to rural areas and hide there. “They become traders in the market. Some of them don’t go to school for 3 to 6 months yet they are receiving salaries.” Although she did not mention the schools involved, she confirmed that some teachers do not go to school for one year but stay at home to receive salaries. ” Having gone round schools in the state for inspection, we discovered teachers who have not gone to school for years. ” Therefore, it is not going to be business as usual. We have improved on school monitoring. ” In the State Secondary Education Board, all members have been divided into groups for supervision and monitoring of schools across the three zones in the State to check teachers and students excesses that dangerous to learning. “The Board members can pay unscheduled visits to schools at least twice every week.” She said teachers found wanting in the discharge of duties would be sacked while others would be punished in line with Civil Service rules. ” We would put such teachers under query and other disciplinary actions including stopping their salaries. We would also demote school Heads who can not control teachers and deployed them back to Education Authority for their inactions. “When we discovered that the principal is not competent to control teachers under him, nothing stops us from demoting you. “You must deliver on the job you are paid for. If the job is not good for you simply quit,” she warned.