The country’s season of tribalism — of ethnic, occupational, geographical, ideological, religious differences — seems to be getting more complicated by the day. In the last few weeks, traditional and social media have been awash with stories about inter-ethnic violence, otherwise referred to in popular discourse as farmers-herdsmen violence. Recently, two stories of violence broke in Ondo and Osun states; one between people referred to as illegal miners in Owo local government; and the second about two communities in Osun: Erin-Osun (Irepodun local government) warring against Ilobu (Orolu local government). It has been reported that the Ondo State Security Agency Network (Amotekun) and other regional security organizations stationed in the state arrested suspected illegal gold miners, in forested areas of Owo local government.   The suspects had been apprehended by men of the Ondo Amotekun, over their illegal mining activities in the state. It was also reported that the arrested men: Shuaibu Yahaya, Habbi Usman, Kabiru Waheed, Mohammed Nurudeen, Mohammed Sulaman, Ali Mustapha, Ismaila Wahab, Musa Zeehed, Gabbar Musa, Sule Adamu Abba Suleman, Usman Kebiru, Yahaya Danladi and Usman Ali Zekeri, who were handed over to the police for further investigation and prosecusion, were not herdsmen but workers for an unidentified miner. In Osun, members of Erin-Osun and Ilobu were reported to have engaged in violent attacks, resulting in injuries and property damage against each other.  The crisis was over boundary disputes between the two local governments that house both towns. Before the conflict festered further, the governor of the state imposed a curfew, to prevent further injury, loss of lives and property. Fortunately, these two developments are unlike many stories about farmers-herdsmen conflicts, kidnapping, and banditry, currently raging in many parts of the country; they have not involved inter-ethnic or inter-religious violence. The Ondo arrest is about citizens involved in illegal mining while the Osun inter-community strife is about boundary dispute. But one thing the two developments have in common is the promptness of government intervention, in what could have festered if each event had been left to disappear by itself, by security agents. We find the cooperation between Amotekun and the Nigeria Police on arrest of illegal gold miners in Owo commendable. Similarly, we commend the governor of Osun for his quick intervention, by imposing a curfew to prevent the state from a replay of Ife-Modakeke crisis. It is conceivable that today’s farmers-herders crisis across the country would have been different, had the Federal Government that controls all security forces in the country, responded to such aberrations with more alertness and speed. That Amotekun has made visible efforts to tackle illegal gold mining, earlier in Osun and now Ondo, is a positive development to cheer. That would appear contrary to the federal paralysis on similar matters in many parts of the country.