 As the All Progressives Congress (APC) party registration and revalidation exercise are ongoing in Abia State, a party stalwart Mark Ugorji has said only APC will take Abia out of the woods in 2023. He, therefore, urged the party faithful to go the extra mile in their membership drive and ensure that more people embrace the APC in the state. He also advised old members to remain steadfast and work for the progress and the success of the party in Abia State. The pleas were made by the Olokoro-born APC chieftain Chief Mark Ugorji while addressing members of Abia State APC Working Committee led by Mr Donatus Nwankpa who visited him at his Okwu Olokoro country home. Receiving members of the executive of APC Working Committee, Hon. Ugorji thanked members of the Executive for the visit, promising that his love for the APC and its progress and success will never wane. He expressed his happiness over the manner the Committee is piloting the affairs of the party in Abia State. He said: “I commend the Nwankpa-led State Executive of the APC Working Committee for their purposeful, dynamic, and pragmatic leadership. I am also impressed by your level of commitment and determination in ensuring that APC is repositioned in the state to enable it to regain lost grounds in the state.” Continuing, he said: “The APC, as it stands, has all it takes to wrestle power from the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Abia State. That the APC must take over Abia State in 2023 is a task that must be accomplished. With this at the back of our minds, I enjoin all party faithful to continue to act as members of one family.” Ugorji pledged to continue in his commitment to ensure the growth and success of the APC in the state. He urged stakeholders to put aside their differences and work for the interest of Abia APC, especially this period of revalidation and registration. A former bigwig of Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ikire, Irewole local government area of Osun State Col. Olayiwola Falabi says the best thing that has ever happened to All Progressives Congress (APC) is the membership revalidation and registration exercise. Col Falabi stated this today shortly after his membership registration at  unit 3,ward 4, Oke-Ola, Ikire in Irewole local government area of the state. According to Falabi the membership registration exercise now authenticate further his membership of APC and those of his followers in Irewole local government area of the state. He said the ongoing membership registration exercise is more reasonable when people called it revalidation exercise. Falabi maintained that with the present arrangements, APC and SDP alliance and coalition have again been concretized the more. Speaking in the samevain the immediate Irewole local government chairman Prince Aderemi Abass who accompanied Col. Falabi to the ward 4, unit 3, Oke-Ola, Ikire, where the event took place, described the exercise as a right step in a right direction. Prince Aderemi Abass said the APC membership registration exercise is not a wasteful venture as been agitated in some quarters, urged other members that are yet to register to do so in their own interest. 