Stakeholders of the Abia State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the weekend intensified their mobilisation efforts in the ongoing party registration and revalidation exercise, vowing to increase the party’s membership strength to at least one million. Led by a senior chieftain of the party and former gubernatorial candidate, Chief Ikechi Emenike, the stakeholders numbering over 1,000 set their target at a meeting at Emenike’s country home in Okpuala Umukabia, Umuahia North Local Government Area. The stakeholders, beaming with enthusiasm, unanimously agreed to make good their intention of growing the party to a position of unassailable strength in Abia State ahead of the next general elections. Emenike, in his address, urged the stakeholders to be bold in marketing APC in Abia as the ruling party has recorded a lot of achievements they should be proud of as party members, citing the unprecedented infrastructural development in the Southeast zone. “This is the time you have to mobilise everybody, even your enemies to register and join the progressive family of APC,” he said, adding “we’re here to encourage people to register in order to shore up the party’s strength. The development economist and publisher, who has stuck with President Muhammadu Buhari through thick and thin, explained the stakeholders, comprising four representatives from each ward and five from each local government area, represent the “original Buhari people” in Abia. He noted the latter day converts into APC have been warmly welcomed by the original members, who have maintained their loyalty to Mr President ever before he was eventually elected Nigeria’s president after several attempts. Emenike reiterated the resolve of APC to take control of Abia State “peacefully and overwhelmingly” come 2023, adding that it is a divine project that would be accomplished. He enjoined the stakeholders to go back to their various wards and local government areas to bring new members into the party, members of rival parties and youths from the age of 18. The party chieftain urged all genuine members of APC in Abia State to put aside their differences, interests, ambitions, and channel their energies and resources to the ongoing party registration and revalidation exercise and ensure that a resounding success is recorded in Abia. He urged party stakeholders not to listen to unsavoury statements and propaganda from rival parties but they should rather push hard to meet their target of growing the membership strength of Abia APC to upwards of one million. “If we register an impressive number of members, PDP would start packing out of Abia government house before 2023,” he said. Members of the APC Registration and Revalidation Committee for Abia led by their chairman, Ambassador Bala Mairiga, were on hand at the meeting to encourage the stakeholders to put party interest first and work for the success of the exercise. He said though “APC is the biggest party in Africa,” the intention of the party leadership is to make it bigger; hence the ongoing registration and revalidation exercise, which has created the opportunity for new members to join the ruling party. “We encourage everybody to register, man or woman, even PDP members who want to come over,” he said, adding that he remained hopeful that at the end of the exercise, Abia would have the highest number of APC members. “We want to flush PDP out of Abia and install APC in 2023 election,” he said, pointing out that this would be achieved if APC members come together and work with the unity of purpose.” 