The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has canvased electronic voting and electronic transmission of results from poling units in the 2023 general elections. The party said electronic voting has become imperative since the “worrisome magic” that happens between the polling units and collation centres remained a great drawback to the electoral system. The position was canvassed during the inauguration on Thursday of the PDP constitution review and electoral reform committee chaired by a former Senate Deputy President, Ike Ekweremadu. Speaking during the inauguration, Ekweremadu said manipulation of figures and falsification of results remained the most corrosive problems that erode the confidence of the electorate during elections. According to him, vote manipulation and falsification of results had been responsible for the orgy of violence that bedevils elections in the country. Ekweremadu said: “If you transmit results electronically and directly from polling units and also uploaded on INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) sites as they come, the electorate and candidates will be able to monitor the votes from anywhere and see that their votes count, transparently. “But it has become imperative to further entrench the use of technology in our elections by not only providing for electronic voting, among several others, but also by providing for the compulsory transmission of results from the polling units. “Therefore, I enjoin our great party, the media, Civil Society Organisations and all lovers of democracy to rally support for these reforms and also feel free to send in their suggestions to this Committee to make our electoral system more credible and transparent”. The lawmaker observed that the weaknesses in the existing structure and the Constitution have never been as pronounced as they are today. “Some of us forewarned that feeding bottle federalism would only continue to increase our appetite for wealth sharing and guzzling, kill our propensity to create wealth and make us poorer. “It is regrettable to say that the chicken has come home to roost. Today, various levels of government even borrow to pay salaries and service recurrent expenditures,” he added. He also harped on the needs for state police to ensure the security of lives and property, staying however that the political class appeared not to be ready for it. “With the right political will, the amendments to the Constitution to achieve a decentralised police and secure lives and property can be achieved within 10 days,” Ekweremadu added. PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus called on the leadership of the National Assembly to do the right thing that will engender peace and security in the country before, during and after elections.