Zamfara Governor Bello Mohammed has assured of his administration’s commitment to bringing lasting peace in the state. The Governor made this known while receiving three repentant bandits who surrendered two Ak-47 rifles and some ammunition at a mini ceremony at the Government House, Gusau. The repentant bandits, who operated around Bakura Local government area, said they decided to embrace the Zamfara peace and reconciliation process to lay down their arms out of their free will and for peace to reign in the state. Governor Muhammad said his administration is determined to bringing lasting peace in the state through genuine reconciliation and disarmament for the purpose of having a more peaceful state where everyone can live without any fear of being attacked. He said only dialogue can resolve the insecurity situation bedeviling the state and the country at large and the return of lasting peace. Muhammad stated that no war or crisis ends through the use of force but peace. He also appealed to the people of the state to assist his government in sustaining the peace so far achieved in the ongoing fight against banditry and other criminalities in the state. He further commended the security agencies in the state for carrying out their work professionally and assured them of his continued support and cooperation at all times. Muhammad added that security is the responsibility of all well- meaning citizens that requires collective approach and urged people to avoid any act of injustice to one another as doing so causes many people to subscribe to criminality. The Governor attributed the proliferation of arms as the major causes of banditry in Nigeria which necessitated his administration to give disarmament more attention in order to reduce the free movement of arms and ammunition to the barest minimum in the state and the country. Commissioner for Security and Home Affairs, Abubakar Dauran, said the repentant bandits accepted to peace offer following the constant calls and appeals from the state government under the leadership of Matawalle. Receiving the surrendered arms, Zamfara Commissioner of Police Abutu Yaro said the peace, reconciliation and disarmament has been recording a lot of successes as the state enjoys relative peace in all parts of the state. He explained his Command will continue to use kinetic and non- kinetic method in the fight against banditry and other criminalities in the state. Leader of the three repentant bandits, Amadu Katare, said they made the decision to embrace the peace process as a result of the way and manner the Governor is handling the process with total sincerity and commitment. . Katare explained he was forced to join banditry following the extra judicial killing of his parents, children and wives by the local vigilante. He appealed to governments to protect the lives and properties of the Fulani because they are being killed innocently on daily basis in the forests.