Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has congratulated Mrs. Aisha Buhari, the wife of President Muhammadu Buhari, on her 50th birthday celebration. He said Mrs. Buhari, a cosmetologist and a beauty therapist, who turns 50 today, has touched the lives of millions of Nigerians, especially women and children, since the assumption of her husband as the President in May 2015. Governor Sanwo-Olu in a statement signed yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Gboyega Akosile, described the First Lady as a courageous and an amiable woman. He said she is kind-hearted and a strong pillar of support for President Buhari. Said he: “On behalf of the good people of Lagos State and my adorable wife, Ibijoke, I heartily congratulate the First Lady, Mrs. Aisha Buhari, on the occasion of her 50th birthday celebration. “Our First Lady attaining the age of 50 in grace, elegance and good health is worth celebrating. Over the years, you have shown your passion for the needy in our country and as a women’s rights activist and child rights advocate, you are a major critic against child marriage. “As an advocate of women’s and children’s rights, your campaign for young girls to get primary and secondary school education before getting married has yielded positive results. “Your passion for women and children made you establish a pet project, ‘Future Assured’, an initiative to continue your advocacy work for the health and well-being of women and children through community mobilisation and health promotion. This programme without doubt has impacted positively on millions of people directly and indirectly. “On the political turf, your ideas and contributions on national issues are of good use. You have displayed courage and bravery on many occasions to show your passion for a better Nigeria. “On this landmark occasion of your golden jubilee celebration, I pray that God will continue to grant you good health to enable you render more service to humanity.” Wife of Osun State Governor, Mrs. Kafayat Oyetola, yesterday congratulated Mrs Buhari for turning 50. In a statement, Mrs Oyetola said as a women rights activist and girl-child education advocate, the President’s wife lent her voice to the voiceless and the under-privileged women and girls in the society. She added: “Over the years, you have put the welfare of Nigerian children and women at the fore. “Being a staunch critic of child marriage and violence against women, you are a role model to many women across the world.”