 Who is the authentic caretaker chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State? A chieftain, Saheed Popoola, said Alhaji Bashiru Bolarinwa is still the chairman, stressing that he was never removed by the national caretaker committee, led Yobe State Governor Mai Mala Buni. But, another chieftain, Raheem Adedoyin, objected to the claim, saying that Bolarinwa had been sacked by a letter from the national leadership. However, the two chieftains who spoke on a television programme,  agreed that all hands should be on deck to restore peace. Popoola said the crisis between Governor AbdulRasak AbdulRahman and Bolarinwa had escalated, following the position taken by the governor that the chairman should vacate his seat. He also alleged that the thugs who disrupted last week’s stakeholders’ meeting in Ilorin, the state capital, were instigated by the governor. Popoola rejected the argument that the national caretaker committee had sacked Bolarinwa, clarifying that the Northcentral leadership meeting never asked him to step down as state caretaker chairman. He said the onus is on the governor to respect the wish of majority of party members who want Bolarinwa to continue in office. Popoola said contrary to insinuations by the governor’s camp, Bolarinwa enjoyed the confidence of members of the Kwara caretaker  committee. But, Adedoyin said the raging crisis is between Bolarinwa and members of his executive committee. He declared that the former deputy chairman, Alhaji Sanmori, had succeeded Bolarinwa as chairman. He alleged that the executive committee write a petition to the national caretaker committee, which later removed him. Adedoyin, a former commissioner, also said there is no crisis between the governor and Minister of Information and Culture Alhaji Layiwola Mohammed. He acknowledged that Kwara APC is bleeding, adding that the hemarourge should be stopped by the triumph of reason. To Adedoyin, the crisis in the chapter is about party supremacy, urging stakeholders to embrace the reality and forge unity. He said the chapter is enveloped in conflict instead of savouring dividends of democracy that should be attracted to the state through the synergy of the chief of staff, it’s two ministers and federal legislators. He said the crisis will not affect the chance of the party in future elections. Adedoyin added: “The governor is performing. He is doing the tight thing. If he is doing the right thing, there is no way the party can lose the next elections.” 