China is one of the most technologically advanced countries in the world and this means they have explored some of the best technology innovations. China is said to be driving technological innovations in emerging areas, which include the finance sector. People in China have gotten familiar with digital payments even if other developing countries seem to just be catching up in recent years. For years, they have moved around shopping digitally with WePay or AliPay or with a Smartphone App. So, it’s not much of a surprise to hear about the China cryptocurrency, as China is now the frontrunner in developing a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC). This digital currency is referred to as China’s Digital Yuan or the Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DC/EP) and has so far been projected as the most advanced of the several CBDC initiatives developed around the world. China has always been at the top of its game with digital payments but in the past few years, the Chinese government has managed to crack down the use of bitcoin, ether, and other coins. In September 2017, Chinese regulatory authorities were reported to have imposed a ban on initial coin offerings (ICO) and termed it illegal. Despite their moves so far on cryptocurrency, they seem to have encouraged other blockchain applications and services. The government emphasized the difference they see between cryptocurrency and blockchain users and informed organizations in the blockchain technology sector to pay close attention to these differences. Regardless, people in China still trade cryptocurrencies but do so by using foreign exchanges. Could they have left the blockchain technology to reign in China due to what they intend to do with it for the China digital currency? That may be the case as their recent moves have affirmed that. China seems to be racing to a completely cashless society and according to Reuters, a commentary published by the country’s central bank said: “China needs to become the first nation to issue a digital currency in its push to internationalize the yuan and reduce its dependence on the global dollar payment system”. It’s becoming a competition among nations. This digital Yuan may threaten other cryptocurrencies, considering how much impact china has on the tech sector at large. When China made reports in 2017 on banning ICOs and shutting down local exchanges, the price of bitcoin reportedly dropped. However, bitcoin is also making huge global moves regardless and there’s no telling what exactly to expect in the long run. There are several digital currency solution providers in China such as the Yuan Pay Group. These platforms have been created to cater to people and the governments in China to take advantage of well-structured digitized payment solutions. The Chinese government is moving faster than ever to fully implement these changes and make their digital currency available to everyone. Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DC/EP) has been under development for more than five years and it’s only a matter of time before it is fully implemented into the economy.