The Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) has raised the alarm over alleged military invasion and occupation of Orlu, Imo State and some parts of the Southeast. The Chairman, Southeast Zone, Comrade Aloysius Attah in a statement on Wednesday described the recent developments in the zone was a time bomb tickling to explode with serious consequences and negative implications. He regretted that the silence of the governors in the zone was not only condemnable but a proof of disconnect between them and the people. The statement partly read, “The militarization of Igbo land when no part of the zone is at war either with itself or their neighbours has long term consequences which if not nipped in the bud now will most likely swallow many with its attendant casualties. “The owning up of Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State of his tacit approval for such unwarranted military operation is a clear sign of a leader who doesn’t feel the pulse of his people to know their feelings and needs. “It also smacks of a foisted leader who came to deal with his people instead of leading them and attending to their welfare. Since this unfortunate military operation, several casualties have been recorded while the people whose places have been invaded with military hardware, weapons and men have been traumatized on daily basis. “We therefore say no to further military occupation in Orlu and other parts of the southeast. No more killings and terrifying the people with military jets and armaments. “The constitutional roles of the military as enshrined in the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria sections 217-220 has not changed. Enough of all these breaches! “We call for the unconditional release of the paraded suspects arrested by the military while government should commence immediate confidence building approaches and rehabilitation of the traumatized people of the affected areas. “We also condemn the recent resort to organized crime, burning of police stations, killing of police personnel and carting away police rifles and armoury in some parts of southeast. This trend if left unchecked portends grave danger to the society and the citizenry. “Many of our youths are taking the wrong way and serious concerted efforts must be made to recover, rehabilitate and engage them into meaningful causes. “Our Governors and political leaders must rise up to their responsibilities knowing again for the umpteenth time that power belongs to the people. The same people have endured for so long and may be forced to revolt someday when the pushing comes to shoving.”