The British Government has given a seal of approval for more foreign investments in Lagos State, as plans get underway for the take-off of the first waste to energy plant in the state. Deputy British High Commissioner in Nigeria Mr. Ben Llewellyn Jones gave the official nod when he spoke at Igando refuse dumpsite after a guided tour of facilities of West African ENRG, alongside state officials led by the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello. He said: “Although some people think about Nigeria and investments and look the other way, we say ‘look this way’. We will help you and it is a real opportunity here as it is being demonstrated today and even opportunities to grow beyond even what is being achieved now which is so fantastic. “It is absolutely outstanding what is being achieved, using British technology, finance and real great Nigerian drive and expertise to create something special that is really going to grow and grow,” the diplomat added. He expressed his concerns about issues such as climate change, pollution, blocking of drainage with plastics and other wastes, but hailed West African ENRG waste conversion facility for its work so far. Bello, welcoming the team, said the quest of West African ENRG to move from waste to wealth to establish the first waste to energy facility speaks volume about the conducive business atmosphere in Lagos. Bello, who was with the Permanent Secretary, Environmental Services, Mrs. Belinda Odeneye and Lagos State Waste Management Agency (LAWMA) Managing Director, Ibrahim Odumboni, said West African ENRG came to Lagos in 2014, had its waste conversion plant unveiled by the then Governor Babatunde Fashola in 2015, adding: “The company now plans to set up a waste to energy plant.” “There were some intervals of difficulties we have now successfully. Now, we have been able to restore all that they started with. They have also improved on a lot of things. You must have observed during the inspection today a lot of conversion processes from waste to plastics, rubber, cans and bottles,” Bello said. He said from the brief and visual clips on the proposed waste to energy project presented by West African ENRG, it is clear that if the organisation gets more enablement, it will make further progress in waste conversion. “Lagos has always been a Mecca of investments. What we just need to do is to make sure that infrastructural developments are accelerated and substantial progress is being made in that regard. We have the roads, water and other infrastructural facilities ready,” he said. While taking the guests round, the CEO West African ENRG, Paul O’Callaghan, said his organisation plans to invest about 125 to 150 million Dollars to build a 25 megawatts waste to energy facility that will process 2.5 tonnes of waste daily. “At the moment, it takes three to four hours in the dry season to tip waste at the open landfill site, unlike the wet season that takes as much as 24 hours. We are committing to under 30 minutes and aiming for 15 minutes turnaround time,” Paul said. He said the new project means the PSP will move from houses to the waste-to-energy facility and within 15 minutes will be back on the streets collecting wastes, thus creating better economy for the PSP and a quicker and cleaner Lagos State. He expressed readiness to convert Olusosun dumpsite to a waste to energy facility that would be built to British standard in terms of emission control if closed down, adding that it would take approximately 20 months to complete after groundbreaking. Odumboni expressed confidence in the firm and its plans to convert waste to wealth. He said: “We want to have the first waste to energy plant in Lagos, before the end of the year. So, following today’s visit, we are in discussion to be able to give them a letter of intent, with the possibility of signing a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) as soon as possible to begin a step towards waste to energy for Lagos State.”    