Leading international money transfer provider Small World Financial Services (Small World), has signed a partnership agrement with Ecobank – the leading Pan-African banking group, based in Lomé, Togo. The agreement brings the strengths and assets of both organisations to offer money transfer services to Africans in the diaspora. This is an exciting development for both organisations as Small World can continue to grow its global customer base as well as its 250,000 pick-up locations, while Ecobank, with its footprint across 33 African countries can further expand its remittance reach within African communities across Europe and other parts of the world. Small World customers will be able to access the Ecobank Africa -wide network in three ways: Direct transfer to Bank accounts, mobile wallet; and cash pick up at any Ecobank location. This partnership will further financial inclusion in Africa as Ecobank will make available the Ecobank Xpress Account (a mobile-based bank account developed for the unbanked and under-banked) for the recipients of remittances sent by Small World Financial Services’ customers. Chief Executive and founder Small World, Nick Day, said: “We are delighted to be forging a partnership with Ecobank. It is a leading bank in Africa with over 50,000 locations in the region which means our global customers get access to even more ways to send money home to African countries. Importantly, Ecobank shares our commitment in delivering great customer service alongside providing fast, affordable and reliable transfers.” Ecobank Group Consumer Banking Head, Nana Araba Abban, added: “We’re proud to offer seamless payments across our vast borderless network in Africa. At Ecobank, we value partnerships, such as this, that enable Africans in the Diaspora to remit money affordably and conveniently. This provides a win-win partnership as Ecobank can offer banking services to Africans wherever they are on the globe.”Ecobank shares Small World’s commitment of making financial services seamless, convenient, and interoperable across Africa.”  