The Federal Executive Council (FEC), on Wednesday, mourned the deaths of two former federal ministers; Prince Tony Momoh and Alhaji Alfa Wali. Just before the Council started the week’s virtual meeting, presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari, members of the Cabinet observed a minute silence in honour of the departed former ministers. The President had, while condoling with the Momoh family, said “his brand of loyalty is very rare in the politics of today. I will greatly miss him.” Buhari had also recalled that as chairman, Media and Publicity of the All Nigeria People’s Party (ANPP) Campaign Organisation in the 2003 and 2007 elections, Momoh “contributed in no small measure to the growth and strengthening of the organisations.” Buhari also noted that Late Momoh, who was one-time Chairman of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), contributions led to the eventual formation of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Momoh was a veteran journalist and politician who was Nigeria’s Minister of Information and Culture during the military regime of General Ibrahim Babangida. He died on Monday, February 1, 2021, at the age of 82 years. Alhaji Wali, a prominent Kano State indigene and former Minister of Agriculture, died on Monday, January 25th, 2021. He also served as Permanent Secretary in many ministries, including the Ministry of Defence. Buhari had while commiserating with the Wali family, the government and people of Kano State, urged them to take comfort in the legacy of kindness he Wali behind. Meanwhile, the Vice-President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN); Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha; Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari; and the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (Rtd.), as well as seven ministers physically attended the meeting. The ministers included those of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami; Mines and Steel Development, Olamilekan Adegbite; and Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi. Others are Ministers of Industry, Trade and Investment, Otunba Niyi Adebayo; Education, Adamu Adamu; and that of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika. The Head of Service of the Federation, Dr. Folasade Yemi-Esan, and other ministers participated virtually from there various offices in Abuja.