The entire staff and Board of Strategic Communications Advisory Firm, A’Lime Media Limited, have joined family and friends to mourn the death of the company’s founder and practice director, Emilia Asim Ita. Family sources revealed that Emilia,who also co-founded the Future Awards Africa,died on Friday, 29th of January 2021, after a successful appendicitis surgery. Expressing his grief and of staff members, Lead, Operations, Engagements and Client Services, A’LimeMedia Limited, Runor Agbroko, said: “We are devastated and heartbroken to have lost our Founder and Practice Director who greatly impacted us and everyone that came her way. “However,we are immensely grateful for all that Emilia achieved in her brief stay on earth where she dedicated her life in service to humanity, showing an unrelenting commitment to making a genuine difference in the lives of people. “The massive outpouring of love and show of support from clients, friends and industry stakeholders attest to the multitude of lives that have been impacted through her friendship, leadership and lifestyle in extreme goodness and positive energy,” Runor added.
Lead, Publishing and Editorial, A’Lime Media Limited, Emmanuel Adesanya, described Emilia as a rare gem that is hard to come by. “Emilia had exceptional qualities that endeared almost everyone to her. For someone who achieved so much, her level of humility, was exemplary and it is difficult to fill the void that her death has created. “Emilia left behind a robust organisation that will keep her vision alive and we are resolved to build greatly on her outstanding legacies as a company” Emmanuel assured. Until her death, Emilia was Founder and Practice Director, for A’Lime Media Limited​. As a promising adult, Emilia obtained her BSC and MSC degrees in Mass Communication from the University of Lagos in 2008.
In the last 16years, Emilia has worked in all facets of the Integrated Marketing Communication gamut alongside youth development and specialized communication and has completed various training programmes. Emilia taught and consulted on Development Communications, Sustainability, Corporate Social Responsibility, Environmental & Social Risk Management, Corporate Reporting, Advocacy & Policy Influencing, Corporate Governance, Grant Writing, and Executive Coaching amongst many others.