 The Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry (LCCI) has called for greater roles for Africa. It praised the appointment of Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the Director-General of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). The LCCI urged the WTO to note that since its formation in 1995, Africa has been in a disadvantaged position in world trade. In a statement, LCCI’s Director-General, Dr Muda Yusuf said Okonjo-Iweala got the job when the global trading system is faced with numerous challenges, including supply chain disruptions precipitated by the coronavirus pandemic, rising protectionism and unilateralism, growing economic nationalism, imposition of trade restrictions covering substantial amount of international trade, as well as trust and credibility concerns among members. He said: “Africa has peculiar challenges in the global trade arena. The continent is deeply integrated into the global supply chain and this underscores the low participation level of African economies in international trade.” Yusuf lamented that Nigeria’s share of the global trade is even more insignificant. According to him, our export structure is still dependent on crude oil, which accounts for about 50 per cent of government revenue and 90 per cent of foreign exchange earnings with Nigeria’s non-oil exports  largely primary commodities with little or zero value addition. Also, LCCI’s President, Mrs Toki Mabogunje congratulated Dr. Okonjo­Iweala on her new job. She said the well-deserved appointment was received by the LCCI with excitement. She commended her pedigree, impeccable credentials, intellectual depth, and robust experience. According to her, this is a trail-blazing appointment. Not only is she the first African but the first woman to occupy the exalted position in WTO. She said: “As Finance Minister, she demonstrated an extraordinary courage and commitment to reforms in the promotion of transparency and accountability, in the management of public finance amid overwhelming odds. She will, no doubt, bring these sterling qualities to bear on this position. The WTO is one of the oldest multilateral global institutions with a strategic objective of promoting free and fair trade globally. Quoting the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD),  he stated that Africa’s trade with the global community between 2015 and 2017 stood at an average of $760.1 billion, compared with Asia ($6.8 trillion), America ($5.1 trillion) and Europe ($4.1trillion). These numbers, according to him, indicate that Africa is not a major player in global trade. As such, it is very pertinent for African economies to build capacity within the continent to take advantage of the opportunities in global trade, he added.   