The United States Consulate, Lagos, on Wednesday inaugurated an Education USA Advisory Centre in Ibadan to provide opportunities for Nigerian students to study in America. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the opening of the centre was performed by Mr. Stephen Ibelli, the Public Affairs Officer, United States Consulate and Mr. Olasunkanmi Olaleye, Oyo State Commissioner for Education, at American Corner in Ibadan. Ibelli said: “We are here today in Ibadan working with the commissioner for Education on promoting education and studying in USA. “While stating that there were more than 14,000 Nigerians studying in America, he said the quality and high standard of American education would assist them in helping their country with wonderful skills and knowledge. Ibelli said the centre would advise and help students to understand the US education process so that they could apply to American universities. Olaleye expressed appreciation to the US government for bringing the opportunity to Ibadan, saying it was the first out of the additional four service centres in Nigeria. “It is going to be an education advisory service centre for students in Oyo State and the entire Southwest who may want to study in universities in America.”A lot of our students have been denied visa because they didn’t know what to do. “So this will be the first point of call for every student who wants to travel to US and that is the first advantage that we have here. They don’t have to go to Lagos again; they can do it here. “When they have all the information and equip themselves with it, they can now apply for their visa in Lagos or Abuja. “Another thing is that this will give us the opportunity to benefit from the American government’s educational programmes, particularly in terms of getting scholarships from their universities, especially for our straight A’s students wanting to go to the university straight from secondary school. “Even those who may want to proceed for post-graduate studies too can benefit from scholarships in American universities,” he said.Mrs. Chinenye Uwadileke, Education USA Adviser, US Consulate-General, Lagos, said the opportunities attached with education in US could not be over-emphasised.”I help students navigate