Former Chief Executive Officer, Union Bank Plc. Mrs. Funke Osibodu, has urged youths in Lagos State to actively participate in the Lagos Economic Summit, Ehingbeti, that will hold from February 16 to 18. Mrs. Osibodu, who was the Chairperson of the Private Committee at the inaugural Ehingbeti Summit in 2000, said the achievement made by Lagos in the last two decades showed the positive influence Ehingbeti has had on the general outlook of the state. “We now have roads linking some of the remote parts of the state to the Central Business Districts. This singular action, which was one of the major deliberations in the early days of Ehingbeti, has opened up commercial activities in those corridors and eased intra-city commuting,” she said. According to her, aside from finding these roads in Alimosho, Ikotun, Iyana Paja and other areas, the heaps of garbage that once littered our streets are almost becoming non-existent. “At least, when you drive around Lagos these days, you find women and men sweeping and cleaning the streets. This was unlike what the situation was then, even though it is not where we wanted to be yet,” she added. In appraisal of the situation, she said that things have really changed. “A lot of planning, sacrifice and mental investment went into creating Ehingbeti, the private-public sector collaboration structure that now drives the socio-economic and infrastructural advancement of Lagos State. “Several late-night meetings, presentations and discussions created the structure. Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who was the governor and his cabinet, with several private sector leaders put in a whole lot into creating the process,” enthused Osibodu. “Looking back, I will say it has been 20 years of success for Ehingbeti. However, the next 20 years will only be successful if our youths get more involved in the socio-economic and infrastructural planning of the state. It is important for them to get actively involved in Ehingbeti and other socio-economic planning activities because the society that will evolve then is more for them. They should step forward and customise it for themselves. We have created a solid platform for them to build on.”