To ensure economic growth and promote youth inclusiveness in regional development in the Niger Delta, there is a need to invest in Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) to create employment and ensure global competitiveness. This was a position canvassed at the maiden edition of the Niger Delta Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises Summit 2021 at the Aztech Event Centre, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. Speaking at the event, the Convener of the Summit and Chairman Mosilo Group,who is also the Founder of Nigerian Young Professionals Forum (NYPF) and Niger Delta Young Professionals, Mr. Moses Siasia noted that the greatest contributory factor to the growth in Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is a collection of the committed efforts from young people, including youths of the Niger Delta, who are resilient and passionate about building industries and promoting economic prosperity but are most often neglected and denied support by government and relevant agencies. Siasia noted youths have been at the forefront of pioneering growth and innovations in technology, agriculture, entertainment, and sports which have brought in revenues and boosted the image of the country. He said the efforts of youths have provided a good international advantage for Nigeria through participation in sports, music, and entertainment as well talent contribution in the areas of medicine, education, engineering, and other aspects of global competitiveness and development. He, however, regretted that there has not been any concerted effort to harness and grow the potentials of the youths. Siasia advocated for establishment of a Niger Delta Entrepreneurship Hub, a platform that will bridge the gap currently existing and train, equip and engage teeming Niger Delta youths, thereby creating sustainable livelihood opportunities for them. According to him, other Initiatives under the Niger Delta Entrepreneurship Hub will include implementation of a workable Niger Delta Entrepreneurship, Dev Fund, which will give life wire to only serious MSME with a genuine need for equipment purchase, expansion, export, technology acquisition, and packaging and to ensure a workable Engagement/ Youth Development Policy, backed by the law of Niger Delta State Houses of Assembly. “This will enable us to institutionalise proper access to opportunities both at the state and federal level,” he said. The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Content Development and Monitory Board (NCDMB), Engr. Simbi Wabote, noted there is an emerging global economic order which the youths should brace up and be a part of its evolution. He said: “We need to continue with the effort to grow the MSME by challenging young people to engage strategically, to strive, and to compete in the new world economic order”. He noted that energy transition has become an immediate reality for which everyone interested in economic development should be mindful, especially the youths of the Niger Delta. Wabote went further to address five fundamental issues that he said were critical to various MSME interventionist efforts. He said there is a need to acknowledge the steady shift from oil to sustainable energy, noting the MSME is the engine room of the economy, which is why there is a need to address the numerous challenges facing them. He noted that there have been several interventions by the present administration, which are geared towards enabling the growth of small businesses, including the ease of doing business policy and the other programs such as TraderMoni, and others meant to enable MSME. He highlighted the NCDMB special interventions on MSME growth to include the deployment of partway to stimulate growth in the areas of enterprise development, funding, and human capital development. Interim administrator of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Mr. Efiong Akwa, called for greater investment in MSMEs as a way to create sustainable jobs and to boost the economy of the region. He said the NDDC is undergoing a crucial transformation by way of the ongoing forensic audit, however, that the agency will continue to support the growth of businesses in the region.