The Court of Appeal in Abuja has upheld the disqualification of Chuwuma Francis Ibezim as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the last by-election in Imo North Senatorial District. A three-man panel of the Court of Appeal, in a unanimous judgment yesterday, upheld the December 4, 2020 judgment by Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, to the effect that Ibezim submitted false information about his age and academic qualification to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), and was therefore not qualified to contest the by-election held on December 5, 2020. Justice Stephen Adah read the panel’s unanimous judgment and resolved the two issues identified for determination against the appellant, saying that the finding of the trial Federal High Court was unassailable to warrant any interference by the Court of Appeal. The court found that the appellant (Ibezim) violated Section 66(1)(i) of the Constitution by presenting forged certificate to INEC. The court held that Ibezim was not qualified to contest the election. It also held that the suit was not statute barred, having been filed 11 days after the occurrence of the cause of action, thereby falling within the 14 days prescribed for the filing of a pre-election case under Section 285(9) of the Constitution (4th Alteration). The court warned that a candidate who wants to supply information to INEC in any general election “must be diligent and strictly faultless in respect of the entries made thereof; the arrangement of the name of an individual must be seen as a serious venture. “The candidate must be diligent in doing that. If the name of a person is misspelt or is mis-arranged, it tells a lie about his name… if the name are written out of tune or out of order, the name will be manifesting names of the person other than the person claiming it.” The court proceeded to dismiss the appeal by Ibezim, affirmed the judgment of the trial court and declined to award cost. The judgment was in the appeal marked: CA/A/1085/2020 filed by Ibezim against the judgment of the Federal High Court, Abuja. Other members of the panel of the Court of Appeal that decided the appeal were Justices Abubakar Yahaya (who led) and Uchechukwu Onyemenam. Justice Ekwo had, in the December 4, 2020 judgment in the suit, marked: FHC/ABJ/CS/1229/2020 filed by Asomugha Tony Elebeke, found that the WASC certificate Ibezim submitted to his party, which the APC in turn handed to INEC, contained different and irreconcilable names – Ibezim Chukwuma Frank and Ibezim Francis Chukwuma. The judge said: “There is something wrong with these results. The defence of the 1st defendant per the averments in paragraphs 26, 27, 28 and 29 of his counter-affidavit has not explained the variations in the three respective result sheets, neither have the said averments debunked the fact that Exhibits A26, 27 and 28 were submitted to the 3rd defendant by the 2nd defendant or that the certified true copies of these exhibits were not obtained from the 3rd defendant. “The 1st defendant, having not taken any step to controvert the case of plaintiff concerning the falsity of Exhibits A26, A27 and A28, has therefore allowed the case of the plaintiff to remain uncontroverted. “I therefore find that Exhibits A26, A27 and A28 submitted are not authentic results and are self-contradictory. Therefore, they are false in all material particular and I so hold. I resolve issue one in favour of the plaintiff. The judge found that Ibezim failed to prove that the various names in his credentials are one and the same. Justice Ekwo faulted Ibezim’s claim that it was his elder brother – Emmanuel Ibezim – who signed the declaration of age he submitted, noting that the signatures in the age declaration document and other documents he (Ibezim) admitted signing look the same. “I find that the allegation that the 1st defendant signed the statutory declaration of age for himself (Exhibit A25) as the declarant/deponent, but purported to do so as his elder brother, Emmanuel Ibezim, is established with uncontroverted evidence in this case, ” the judge said. Justice Ekwo also faulted the affidavit and newspaper publications Ibezim submitted in support of his claim that the names were all his. “Again, I do not think that the 1st defendant can use affidavit to correct the names. It is common sense to state that the certificates were not issued by the court but the institutions authorised to issue them. “If there is any error on any academic certificate, it is the institution that issued it that has the power to correct the error not the High Court Registry. It is in this regard that I find that Exhibit SF16 which is the affidavit of conciliation of name is bereft of probative value and I so hold. “Now that I have found that the information contained in the affidavit and other documents submitted by the 1st defendant to the 2nd and 3rd defendants is false, I enter judgment as follows: * A declaration is hereby made that the 1st defendant is not qualified/eligible for nomination to contest Imo North Senatorial bye-election, having made false statements/declarations in the affidavit and documents he submitted to the 3rd defendant for the purpose of contesting Imo North Senatorial bye-election. *An order of injunction is hereby made restraining the 3rd defendant from accepting the nomination of the 1st defendant as the 2nd defendant’s candidate for Imo North Senatorial bye-election. “This means that this court has issued an order disqualifying the 1st defendant from contesting the Imo North Senatorial bye-election.” Justice Ekwo rebuked INEC for the way it went about defending Ibezim in the case, querying its impartiality. “I must rebuke the 3rd defendant (INEC) for obvious partisanship in this case. It is not in the place of the 3rd defendant to work so hard like a paid labourer to defend the 1st defendant. “By the name of the 3rd defendant, it is an independent being. It must never allow itself to be tied to the apron strings of any person natural or artificial. Even though the labour of the 3rd defendant in this ended in vain, such vigour merely to defend a party in a case questions the impartiality of the 3rd defendant, and I will say no more.”