The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), Seme command has said it arrested 15 suspects in connection with smuggled goods intercepted by officials of the command. The intercepted items were said to be worth over N788million. The items included 7,667 50kg bags of foreign parboiled rice, three 50kg bags of sugar, 1,080,875 litres of petrol, 127 units of smuggled vehicles, 1,514 cartons of frozen poultry products, 646 packets of hard drugs, 166 parcels of cannabis sativa and 31,868 general merchandise goods. Spokesman Hussain Abdullahi said the suspects were arrested last year, some of whom released on administrative bail while others were being tried in the courts. “The above landmark achievements can be attributed to the deliberate policies adopted by the Command, ably supported by the management of the Service under stewardship of Col. Hameed Ali rtd, appreciable coopration by sister security agencies and unwavering synergy  with the host communities,” he said. The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) yesterday also said that in less than one year, it intercepted at least 200 containers of fake and substandard pharmaceuticals that were intended to be cleared at the ports and borders. It noted that this was the result of the revitalisation of the Clean Report of Inspection and Analysis (CRIA) scheme which was set up to establish the quality and safety of regulated products before they are shipped from China and India to Nigeria. The scheme also prevented the export of over 40 pharmaceutical and food products that failed laboratory analysis into Nigeria. The Agency said these products would have been consumed by Nigerians with adverse health implications. The Director General of NAFDAC, Prof. Mojisola Adeyeye, gave the warning in Abuja at a virtual sensitization workshop organized by the Agency for stakeholders in the Export and Import Trade activities at the nation’s ports which included National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Mine, and Agriculture NACCIMA, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria MAN, Nigeria Customs Service, Standard Organisation of Nigeria SON and Multinationals amongst others.