The number of bitcoin users grew to 63 million in 2020 and as the value continues to increase, the demand also increases. More people are beginning to embrace cryptocurrency and be a part of the trend. However, beyond the trend, everyone must understand what they are getting into. If you’re just getting started with bitcoin, here are some important questions you must ask before you make a major move. It’s important to know why you have chosen to follow this part. Is it because of the trend? Is it the fear of missing out? Is it for business purposes? Or do you just love the idea of investing in a digital currency? Knowing why you have chosen to buy bitcoin would go a long way in the numerous decisions you’ll have to make later. It will also guide you on your journey and help you know if you should invest or trade bitcoin and for how long. For example, if you’re looking to create a long-term additional source of income, you may choose to invest in bitcoin. If on the other hand, you prefer short-term gains, you could consider day trading. Before you buy your first bitcoin, you must first understand how it works. This includes the basics of what bitcoin is all about and how you can buy and store it. Bitcoin is a highly volatile asset and you must tread with caution especially if you’re just starting. If you do not know this, you are likely to buy more bitcoins than you should and possibly lose them. The common rule of investing is to never invest more than you’re willing to let go. Your emergency savings should not be invested into bitcoin. There are several bitcoin exchanges available today, including the Immediate Bitcoin app. Choose a reputed and reliable app with the necessary features that will make your bitcoin trading and investing journey smooth. You can also get a safe and secure wallet to store your bitcoin. Bitcoin wallets come in different types such as software, hardware, desktop, or mobiles, and wallet privacy is important. Most exchanges already offer wallets and you may want to consider this when choosing, especially if you don’t want to use different apps. Now that you have bought some bitcoins, where can you use them? Knowing where you can use them will put a lot more things about owning bitcoins into perspective for you. Bitcoin can now be used to pay for goods and services, depending on where you’re buying from. As more businesses and brands incorporate bitcoin as part of their payment methods, there will be more options to spend your coins. You can also send bitcoin to other people within your country and across borders. It is easier, faster, and cheaper compared to the traditional bank method. Bitcoin has come a long way since its launch and there’s much more to expect in the coming years. However, if you’re considering buying bitcoin, you must understand the questions and answers in this article.