Most women around the globe desire to have their braids looking beautiful and long-lasting. In a bid to actualise these, they have tried out several methods. To many ladies, it is not easy visiting the salon and setting out several hours just to get your braids beautifully and properly done only to carry it for a few days then notice it’s already looking old. Aside the long hours ladies get to put into making their braids, they also expend a couple of amount in the process with the hope of having something on that will last for a good length of time before considering another. You don’t have to bug your head any further. If you follow through these rules, you are assured of a permanent solution. Rule 1: You must have a head net on every night before going to bed. Note also that, it’s of an additional advantage to cover up with a shower cap before having a bath. This is to ensure that water doesn’t get trapped in your hair. As that could make your braids develop an unpleasant smell in a short while. Rule 2: Try as much as possible not to scratch your scalp rigorously with your braids on. It’s better to get an object specially for that. We have them being sold in the markets. They are usually made of plastic so it doesn’t cause any form of injury on your scalp while you’re scratching. But if you can’t get one from the market, you definitely can improvise. Search out a plastic object that isn’t with sharp edges to help calm your scalp when the need arises. Rule 3: Ensure you apply hair mouse all over your braids once in a week and follow up with a nice oil or hair cream. Note: Avoid the daily application of hair cream as this will cause your braids to attract a lot of dust and also make your scalp even more prone to itching which is something you must avoid at all cost. Rule 4: This should be done immediately after rule number 3. You will notice that after like a week, little tiny hairs become evident atop your braids. Get someone to assist in trimming them off. You can also carry out this task all by yourself as it’s actually not a herculean one. Rule 5: Avoid having to leave your hair net on all day. Most ladies are tempted to do so especially during weekends. Endeavour to get the net off your head and allow air into your scalp after all the house chores are done and you’ve had your bath.  Even if you aren’t probably going out that day, it’s important that you allow your hair and scalp catch some air too. Don’t leave it covered up all day. Rule 6: Don’t be tempted to wash your hair while your braids are still on. If you notice it has attracted dirts, all you need to do is get a little amount of apple cider vinegar in water. Dip a cotton wool in it and use same to clean your scalp. If you don’t have that handy, you can make use of methylated spirit. It’ll take care of the dirts trapped around the base of your hair. But washing with your braids on will leave your hair even more tangled around the base, which could lead to excessive hair loss when you finally decide to take off your braids. And I bet you do not want that.