The Ekiti State Government said it had commenced a thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding alleged lock up of pupils of one private school in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital over non-payment of tax. Officials of the state Revenue Service had allegedly sealed off a private Nursery and Primary School and prevented pupils from leaving for their different homes after closing hours. A video clip, which went viral on social media platforms, on Thursday, gave a pictorial evidence of how the main gate of the school located at Basiri area of Ado Ekiti was sealed off with children left inside the school till dusk after they had closed at 3.30pm. One of the parents of the affected pupils was seen in the viral video clamouring for help in retrieving his child and had to wait at the gate till evening before it was forcefully opened. One of the parents, who spoke in the video, said it was sad the pupils could not leave the school up till very late hours on Wednesday. She said: “Parents who came could not take their kids home because the gate was locked. Till the time that video was recorded, no God, no water for the kids. “Imagine making these children to go through this kind of harrowing experience”. But, the government in a statement by Information Commissioner, Akin Omole, denied the pupils were locked up and assaulted. The statement reads: “The attention of the Government of Ekiti State has been drawn to a viral video alleging that enforcement officers of the Ekiti State Internal Revenue Service sealed off a private school, with children inside. “The circumstances surrounding this event are being investigated and a comprehensive statement will be issued once concluded. “At this material time, the referenced school has been visited and the state government can confirm that it is untrue that children are being held. “Without prejudice to the outcome of the investigation which will be made public very soon, the government assures the public that it is totally unacceptable for children to be maltreated in any way in Ekiti State, and government would not condone such.”