The Presidential Task Force (PTF) on COVID-19 Pandemic has warned inbound international travellers to be wary of obtaining fake PCR test results as such will attract strict sanctions, including imprisonment. National Incident Manager of the PTF Dr. Mukhtar Muhammad, who gave the warning during the task force’s media briefing in Abuja on Monday revealed that the PTF had discovered that syndicates are now issuing fake PCR results to travellers in some foreign countries. He, however, advised Nigerians travelling back into the country to ensure to take real tests, obtain original results as the penalty for presenting a fake result would see defaulters being quarantined on arrival and made to bear the full cost, after which they are likely to be prosecuted, fined or jailed. “We intend to apply the full force of the law over such violators, which include fines and imprisonment. Our aim is not to witch-hunt or punish anyone, but just to ensure people travel safely and when they return to the country that they do not constitute danger to their loved ones and their community. “The PTF is aware of the report of syndicates at some international airports outside Nigeria, who specialise in providing fake results to innocent Nigerians, who are travelling back home. “While investigating the matter and working on its relevant authorities, including the countries in which these syndicates operate to make sure that these guys are nipped in the bud, I will like to reiterate that it is the responsibility of any passenger returning to Nigeria, to ensure that they are tested before they start returning. You cannot be given a negative result when your samples have not be taken; please understand this and comply. “It is important to note that on arrival here, if you have a fake result, you will be quarantined in any of our facilities and you will bear the expenses of the facility, feeding and the lab test and after that, you are also liable to prosecution. “Still on travel protocol, we received reports of technical challenges experienced by people returning to the country. We have set up a backup manual process and communicated same to all relevant stakeholders, including the airlines, Ministry of Health and other embassies.”