The National Assembly sacked two Information and Communication Technology (ICT) firms due to breach of trust, The Nation has learnt. The firms were said to have been engaged in 2018 to carry out an “Internet Bandwidth Connectivity Upgrade Project” within the National Assembly, according to an audit report sighted by our reporter in Abuja. This happened as a non-governmental organisation (NGO) accused the indicted firms of orchestrating a campaign of calumny against the Clerk to the National Assembly, Ojo Olatunde Amos. A group, under the auspices of Equity and Transparency Development Initiative, had accused the CNA of “aiding espionage” and influencing award of ICT contract to a company in which he allegedly had vested interest. In a petition, the body urged the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to investigate its claims against the CNA. The NGO’s petition followed the formal disengagement of the indicted consultancy firms by the National Assembly. The report revealed that out of the three ICT firms engaged by the National Assembly to upgrade its internet bandwidth, only one was found to have fully satisfied its contractual obligations. The audit report also revealed that the other two firms, now disengaged due to their alleged failure to live up to the terms of the award, were found to have delivered far less internet bandwidth than what was paid for by the National Assembly. According to the report, it was required of the three vendors to supply internet services directly to the National Assembly Data Centre from a Tier-1 Service Provider in accordance with their service provisioning engagement terms. But the report indicated that two of the vendors sourced their services from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) licensed Tier-1 Service Providers, while internet services from the third firm was not sourced from a Tier-1 Service Provider.It stated that while an Autonomous System Number (ASN) registration was primarily to ensure that the National Assembly network was autonomous from service provider’s control as a unique identification number, the following anomalies were discovered: “The supposedly Autonomous System Number assigned to National Assembly (a government entity) was actually registered to a private company by one of the vendors.”