Internet Service Provider (ISP) AFR-IX has established its major Point of Presence (PoP) in Rack Centre, West Africa’s carrier neutral Tier III data centre. Founder/Chief Executive, Mr Norman Albi, said: “We needed a top-notch carrier neutral data centre facility for our services and connectivity solutions. Rack Centre satisfied our requirements for providing world-class Tier III certified data centre and data centre interconnection to our clients, especially in the West Africa subregion. “We offer an international high quality and personalised internet and data services to corporates and telecoms in the African continent and our extensive  pan African network covered with terrestrial and submarine cables makes AFR-IX one of the leading telecom operating service providers in Africa, and the most reliable and largest metro-ethernet network with multiprotocol label switching (MPLS).” Managing Director of Rack Centre, Dr Ayotunde Coker,  said the firm welcomes “AFR-IX to the array of local and global clients hosting in Rack Centre carrier neutral data centre. We will do our utmost as we do with all ourclients to deliver outstanding services for AFR-IX to serve its customers in Africa and beyond. “Since inception in 2013, Rack Centre has maintained a 100 per cent uptime and offers its customers, open access and uncapped interconnect capacities. Its non-affiliation with any telecoms carrier or ISPs unlocks access to multiple connectivity providers- over 40 carriers, ISPs and content distribution networks to choose from”. AFR-IX telecom group ranked  number 344 in the Financial Times 1000 and recognised in the 2020 annual list of Europe’s fastest growing companies. Albi said the recognition had helped the company build trust in the global markets, especially in Africa. Rack Centre recently announced a $100 million expansion plan, as part of the $250million that Actis, the UK based equity firm set aside for data centre investments in Africa. Actis recently took a majority stake in Rack Centre. The investment, Dr Coker explained has immensely impacted and reinforced Rack Centre’s global brand and enabled its rapid expansion to realise the market potential for high quality data centres in the region.     