Suspected pirates have abducted six speedboats passengers on the Okpoama/Odioma and Nembe/Brass waterways of Bayelsa State. It was gathered that the abductions occurred simultaneously on Tuesday. It was also gathered that a chief identified simply as Walter, was reportedly kidnapped around the fishing port in Dasaba while Inerikuma Moses aka Holy Moses was abducted in the Okpoama creeks. Also, Alabo Elei, another victim, was reportedly kidnapped on his way from Nembe. The rampant abduction of people and passengers by  pirates have paralysed marine transportation in the Nembe and Brass areas of the state. Maritime workers in the areas have suspended their operations, a development that has left boat passengers stranded. Apart from the six persons abducted on Tuesday, some others have been held hostage by pirates in the last one week. Commissioner of Police Mike Okoli, has ordered immediate manhunt for the kidnappers that attacked speedboats and abducted passengers on the Okpoma/Odioma  on February 9, 2021. About seven persons were reportedly kidnapped along the Sapele/Oghara axis of the East-West Road in Delta State on Tuesday. The victims where traveling to Warri. Some of the victims were said to be students of the Delta State Polytechnic, Oghara. Sources claim that the suspected kidnappers demanded  N4 million. This is coming in the wake of the release of a boutique owner, Immaculate Ojo, who was kidnapped at a failed portion in the Erho-Abraka Road, Ethiope East council area of the state, on Sunday. Police confirmed the incident yesterday evening. “Some people were taken into the bush on their way from Sapele to Warri, but it was not clear if they are students or not,” spokesperson, spokesperson Onome Onovwakpoyeya said. In Yobe, three   officials of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) have been abducted by suspected Boko Haram terrorists. The three officers, according to sources were kidnapped by the insurgents in an attack  yesterday on Geidam town. Some of the residents who spoke to our correspondent said the insurgents burnt an ambulance belonging to General Hospital Geidam and broke into a shop but no casualty was recorded during the attack. Police spokesman Dungus Abdulkarim confirmed the attack on Geidam town. “My men on the ground informed me that the attack was repelled by Army ground troop with Airforce support. The information I got was that there was no casualty in the attack,” he said. Police in Oyo State have arrested 11 suspected kidnappers in the Ibarapa area of the state. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the alleged kidnappers were among 35 suspects paraded by the command on Wednesday in Ibadan. Commissioner of Police in the state, Ngozi Onadeko, told newsmen in Ibadan that the kidnappers invaded the Subawah Petrol Station in Igboora on January 2. Onadeko said that weapons used by the suspects in attacking the petrol station included AK 49 rifles and cutlasses among others. “In the course of the attack, the kidnappers shot sporadically in different directions and in the process, two young girls, identified as Babatunde Omowumi and Toriola Kudirat, were hit by stray bullets and died on the spot. “The bandits later abducted one Alhaja Sherifat Adisa, owner of the filling station and took her into the bush where they brutally murdered her. “The three deceased were later deposited at the morgue by Police operatives from Igboora Division. “Upon the conclusion of the preliminary investigation, the case was transferred to the monitoring unit for more investigation,” Onadeko said.