Rapists will now be imprisoned for life in Bayelsa State if Governor Douye Diri assents to a Bill passed on Wednesday by the state House of Assembly. The state’s lawmakers passed the Violence Against Persons Prohibition (VAPP) Bill aimed at prohibiting all forms of violence against persons and providing maximum protection and effective remedies for victims. The bill stipulates that perpetrators of rape who are above 14 years old are to get life imprisonment to serve as deterrent to others. Speaker of the House, Abraham Ngobere, who presided over the sitting, commended members, civil society groups and non-governmental organisations for their contributions to the success of the Bill Ngobere blamed the COVID-19 pandemic for the delay in the passage of the bill. He said the bill, when assented to by Governor Douye Diri, would address the issue of violence against all persons in the state. He stated: “I appreciate you all for the support and particularly the committee that handled this bill for a job well done, as we swore to an oath to provide quality legislation to our people.” The copy of the passed bill made available to journalists provides that an offender who is less than 14 years will be liable to a maximum of 14 years imprisonment. The bill also stipulates that depriving a person of his or her right(s) except through a court order is an offence in law, and a court may also award compensation to a victim as may be necessary in the circumstances. The bill further provides that “a person who willfully causes or inflicts physical injury on another person by weapon, substance or object commits an offence and is liable to a term of imprisonment not less than two years, not exceeding seven years or a fine not less than N300,000.” In his remarks, the sponsor of the bill and member representing Ekeremor Constituency 1, Tare Porri, expressed satisfaction with the passage of the bill, noting that sexual violence had been bedevilling the society. He said: “We are aware that rape is a terrible issue that is affecting our environment.  The VAPP law will not only bring an end to issue of rape, it will also bring  an end to the issue of electoral violence. It will also bring an end to spousal battering. This law will also bring succour for victims of sexual violence. “I can assure Bayelsans that the law if eventually assented to by Governor Douye Diri will address the issue of sexual violence in Bayelsa State.The punishment for rape is life imprisonment and I know that nobody will like to risk his or her life.”