Residents of Alakuko, a Lagos-Ogun border community have been enveloped with fear following resumed cult violence. It was gathered that the community has not known peace since Wednesday after rival cult groups went berserk from what began as a street fight. Sources said the hoodlums had since carried their violence to Dalemo, Moshalashi and other nearby bus stops in Alakuko where they looted shops and allegedly set a gas station ablaze. A resident, who spoke to The Nation, alleged that at least two persons were killed but could not provide names or details of the deceased. According to her, residents have been afraid to go about their businesses since the violence started on Wednesday, adding that all the distress calls to the police have not been responded to. “We have not known peace since Wednesday night that this madness started. We heard they are One Million Boys and that they have been engaged in street Street with rival cults. “They have been going about breaking shops and looting items. They even burnt a filling station. The whole place is in chaos. ” I am just praying this doesn’t become like that of the lockdown period where they moved from house to house robbing people,” she said. Similarly, other residents of the area took to social media to lament the incident, sending SOS messages to the official accounts of the police and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. One of the residents wrote: “Alakuko, Moshalashi boundary btw Lagos and Ogun, Nuren Yusuf drive, etc have become a den of tugs. Every day they cause mayhem, destroy properties and injured people. We need government’s intervention as soon as possible.” They urged the authorities to act fast before the issue got out of hand, wondering why no steps had been taken since the violence broke out. “It’s about 36 hours that Alakuko, in Lagos West has been under security threats from opposing street gangs, yet no official statement from @jidesanwoolu @followlasg. This is an incident that recorded death, and several SMEs made to lose valuables. Too bad” lamented one Omoniyi. Contacted, spokesman for the Police Command, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said he was not aware of the violence but will make findings and revert. He was however yet to do so at the time of this report.