A Federal High Court in Abuja has ordered that A Commercial Director of the Process and Industrial Developments Limited (P&ID) Virgin Island, Muhammed Kuchazi be remanded in the custody of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Justice Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo, who gave the order on Monday, said Kuchazi is to remain with the EFCC until Thursday when his bail application would be heard. Kuchazi was arraigned before the court on Monday, along with his company – Kore Holdings Limited – on an eight-count charge bothering on failure to comply with the regulations of the Special Control Unit against Money Laundering (SCUML) as stipulated by the Money Laundering Prohibition Act. A count in the charge reads: “That you Kore Holdings Limited, being a Designated Non-Financial Institution; Muhammed Kuchazi, being a Director of and signatory to the bank account of Kore Holdings Limited, sometimes in May 2014, in Abuja, within the Abuja Judicial Division of the Federal High Court, failed to comply with the requirements of submitting, to the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, a declaration of the activities of Kore Holdings Limited contrary to Section 16(1) (f) read together with section 5(1) (a) (ii) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (as amended) and you thereby committed an offence punishable under section 16 (2)(b) of the same Act”. Kuchazi pleaded not guilty when the charge was read to him, while a plea of no-guilty was entered for his company. On September 19, 2019, Kuchazi represented P&ID, Virgin Island at criminal proceedings before Justice Inyang Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja in which the company and its Nigeria affiliate, P&ID, Nigeria Ltd were convicted on an 11-count charge brought against them by the EFCC. Justice Ekwo, upon convicting both firms, wound them up and ordered the forfeiture of the assets and properties. to the Nigerian government. On Monday, after Kuchazi and his firm pleaded to the charge, EFCC’s lawyer, Bala Sanga said Kuchazi entered into an agreement with P&ID that 3 percent of the proceeds of the project to be executed would be remitted to him and his company. “It means that if the judgment against Nigeria stands Kuchazi would get about $300 million,” Sanga said. Kuchazi who looked frail and unwell at the proceedings on Monday was ordered to be remanded in EFCC’s custody pending the hearing of his bail application. Justice Giwa-Ogubanjo adjourned till February 4 for the hearing of the bail application and April 27 for trial.