BUA Cement Plc grew net profit by 16.3 per cent to N70.5 billion in 2020 as sales rose by 19 per cent to N209 billion. Unaudited report and accounts of BUA Cement for the year ended December 31, 2020 showed that Nigeria’s second largest cement company recorded growths across key performance indicators. Gross profit rose by 16 per cent to N95.4 billion in 2020 as against N82.4 billion in 2019. The company increased its net revenues by 19 per cent to N209 billion, with sales volumes up 13 per cent by about 600,000 tons to 5.10 million tons in 2020. Operating profits increased to N82.5 billion while profit after tax rose from N60.6 billion in 20219 to N70.5 billion in 2020. The company stated that the report further consolidated its position as one of Nigeria’s most profitable companies – a position it is expected to strengthen further with the commissioning of its new three million metric tonnes Sokoto Cement Plant in 2021 and the addition of three new lines of 9.0 million metric tonnes total capacity in Adamawa, Edo and Sokoto States by 2023 for which it recently signed an agreement with Sinoma CBMI. The new plants are expected to bring BUA Cement’s total capacity to 20 million metric tonnes yearly upon completion. The company indicated that its 2020 full year unaudited results evidenced its focus on efficiency, a strong management team, excellent cost management measures and newer, technologically advanced plants. Managing Director, BUA Cement Plc, Yusuf Binji, said  the company’s exceptional performance in the 2020 financial year was a reflection of the continued value and strength of the BUA Cement brand and product offerings. According to him, the results also attested to the excellent implementation of the company’s business continuity plan, which ensured that BUA Cement  withstood the impact of the pandemic throughout last year. In a recent statement, Binji noted that despite the prevailing economic conditions in 2020, BUA Cement remained quite optimistic about the future because it offers opportunity to further evolve its business model and accelerated its development. “We will continue to push to new markets aided by a focused distribution strategy,” Binji said. He pointed out that BUA Cement had last year entered strategic alliances for the supply of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) at its Kalambaina Plant, Sokoto State, and for the management of its mining operations, noting that with these deliberate and strategic choices amongst other cost management efforts, it is expected that BUA Cement will continue to combine development and innovation into its offerings and activities to drive efficiency, reduce operating costs and maximize profits. In an interview, Chairman, BUA Cement, Abdul Samad Rabiu said despite the strides made in the industry in the past few years, there was still room for immense growth. According to him, Nigeria with its population of about 200 million people was still  underserved by the cement industry with current consumption levels at about 130 kilogrammes per head compared to smaller African countries with consumption levels at about 180kilogrammes per head. He said Nigeria’s cement consumption is expected to increase to about 200 kilogrammes per head in coming years which is one of the reasons BUA Cement is ramping up its investments in new plants to be able to meet this potential demand as well as take advantage of regional export opportunities through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) agreement which came into effect in 2021. BUA Cement is the second largest manufacturing and cement company listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The company operates four plants in Edo and Sokoto states with its key markets in the Southeast, Northwest and Northeast. The company recently completed Nigeria’s largest corporate bond offering ever of N115 billion which was oversubscribed to the tune of N137.82 billion.