Two lovers identified as Emmanuel Okikechukwu Ochiotu and Amaka Okafor, have reportedly committed suicide in their home located in Enerhen, Uvwie council area of Delta state. The Nation learnt that the incident happened early Thursday morning. An empty bottle of a pesticide was discovered at the scene of the incident, indicating that two deceased may have ingested the substance. While details that led to their committing suicide remain a mystery, Ochiotu had in a Facebook post at about 1:50am, claimed he had been depressed for some time. He stressed that not even money could give one “peace of mind,” urging humans to be grateful to God for sleeping and waking up “peacefully” and also strive to make others happy. The deceased who tagged the girlfriend in the post, further apologized to his loved ones for the “abominable act”. “I won’t believe that I’ll one day type a suicide epistle like this. I’ve been battling with depression for a while now. No one knows what I’ve been going through. Nothing beats peace of mind and that I haven’t had in a while. “I once thought when there is money everything is fine and all problems are solved. Buh have come to understand that money can never buy peace of mind. U sleep and wake up peacefully. It’s a privilege that you ought to be grateful to God for, because is not ur right. So be grateful. “Don’t live your life for yourself alone, try to put a smile on someone’s face no matter how small. So many people battle depression secretly that nobody cares to know about. Nothing matters so much to humanity than for someone to be happy when he/she hears your name. Be the reason why someone is smiling today. “It’s a pity I’ve to leave this world this way. To all my family members, friends loved ones and well-wishers that I may have disappointed by this abominable act of mine, I sincerely apologise. “It’s very easy to say suicide isn’t an option. Buh I do not wish my enemy to go through what I’m going through now. We’ll all meet to part no more. Rest in peace Emmanuel Okikechukwu Evans Ochiotu,” the Facebook post read. The post which has over 500 comments as at 5pm on Friday, saw Facebook users describing the deceased as a “lively” young man. Meanwhile, the Delta State Police Command, through the acting Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Edafe Bright, confirmed the incident in an SMS to Saturday Nation.