 In the ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE, Fulham will go in the hunt again for more vital points against West Ham United today at the Craven Cottage after their 2-0 home loss to Leicester City at the midweek. Ola Aina will hope to get his 21st  game of the season in all competitions for the Cottagers while Ademola Lookman (19 games in all competitions) and Tosin Adarabioyo (18 matches in all competitions) have been regular for the Scott Parker led Cottagers who are still troubled by relegation worries. At the Old Trafford Stadium, Alex Iwobi’s Everton will eye another victory against Manchester United as a follow up to their win at Leeds United midweek. Iwobi who played his 18th  league game of the season for the Toffees at the Elland Road was substituted in the 87th  minute of the game. Semi Ajayi was again on the losing side with West Brom at the Bramall Lane in their midweek tie with Sheffield United and he and the Baggies will face Tottenham tomorrow as they seek another important three points to help their cause for EPL survival at the end of the season. The Molineux Stadium will welcome a tough fixture involving Wolves and Leicester City tomorrow. Wilfred Ndidi is expected to return to training same tomorrow after spending over 10 days on the treatment table and the game with Wolves may be coming too soon for him. But Kelechi Iheanacho got his first league goal of the season on Wednesday in their 2-0 away win at Fulham. He also got a rare 90 minutes under his belt in his 20th game of the season in all competitions for the Foxes. In the SPANISH LA LIGA, Samuel Chukwueze who has not kicked a football for Villarreal since January 18th   due to injury is still unavailable for the Yellow Submarines as they trade tackles with Elche today. He played 22 games with two goals in all competitions for Villarreal before the injury. Meanwhile, Kelechi Nwakali has got his wish to seek a loan move away from SD Huesca for more playing time. He has been loaned to La Liga SmartBank side, Alcorcon for the rest of the season while Ramon Azeez will not be involved in Granada’s remaining games of the current La Liga Santander season after being loaned out to Cartegena also in the lower league. ITALIAN SERIE A also has interesting fixtures that will involve Nigerian players as  Victor Osimhen and SS Napoli will travel to face Genoa today with their sights on a return to winning ways. Simy Nwankwo and Crotone suffered an humiliating 3-0 home loss to Genoa last weekend to further cement their place in the bottom of the table.  They have tougher duel as they visit Guiseppe Meazza Stadium as guests of AC Milan tomorrow. Simy with seven goals from 20 league games will be heavily relied upon by the Rossoblu for goals at the San Siro. In the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA, Emmanuel Dennis was the hero and villain for FC Cologne who exited the DFB Pokal in the Round of 16 after penalty shootouts loss to a lower league side, Jahn Regensburg on Wednesday. Dennis scored the Billy Goats’ second goal in the 22nd minute (his debut goal for the club) and had the chance to wrap up the game with his sides’ third goal through a 78th -minute spot-kick but he fluffed it.