Four members of the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Enquiry and Restitution for Victims of SARS related abuses and the Lekki Toll Gate incident on Saturday alleged that the Lekki Concession Company (LCC) withheld critical information from forensic experts probing the plaza for evidence of shootings. The four are: Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Mr Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, representing the Civil Society, Ms. Patience Udoh representing the Civil Society, Rinu Oduala and Temitope Majekodunmi, representing #EndSARS protesters. They made their allegation in their minority report opposing the panel chairman’s decision to allow the LCC regain possession of the plaza. They claimed that LCC, which operates the toll plaza, denied the experts access to their servers and failed to provide them with information on who ordered the extraction of CCTV footage; date and time of extraction of the footage from the CCTV; the method used for the extraction, among others. They presented their report after panel chair, Justice Doris Okuwobi, on behalf of four other members read the lead report granting LCC full access to the plaza. The ruling by Oduala and Majekodunmi, reads: “We’d like to remind the public this panel was set up on our 5 For 5 demands during the nationwide protests against police brutality. So any decision without considering the opinions of the Youth Reps reflected in the rulings will be in violation of Rules setting up this Panel… “We understand from the Forensic Report submitted by the expert employed by the panel, LCC management has, despite requests, failed to provide information, which include access to servers; who ordered the extraction of CCTV footage; date & time of extraction of the footage from the CCTV; method used for the extraction as well as such other information which may be useful for purposes of the forensic examination & report. “None of these have been provided by LCC and so it is impossible to conclude that investigations are over. It is therefore imperative that the Lekki Toll Gate management should not be allowed to repossess the toll gate until full investigations are concluded. “This is especially important as victims of the Lekki Toll incident are yet to be heard and the public is still in the dark on the full details of the Incidence.”