Former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Publicity Secretary Chief Olisa Metuh on Wednesding  said his ordeal in the hands of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in Kuje Prison, Abuja, is unforgettable He likened it to being a victim of armed robbery, wherein the thief violates the wife of the man of the house just because he has a gun. He spoke at the PDP secretariat in Awka, Anambra State when he was received by party faithful at a grand reception for him. The former spokesman said he was grateful to God for saving him from the jaws of death. Metuh said: “I have been to the lowest, deepest end of the valley. I have wrestled with the demons. “I wrestled with the devils. The Almighty God has saved me. For that, I commit the rest of my life to the service of God and the people. “It is not easy. It is just like being in your house and an armed robber comes to your house, takes away all your earnings, beats you up, violates your wife, deals with your children and you can’t do anything because he has the gun. “When we have power, we should know how to use it because there is God in heaven. At the end of the day, all of us will die.” He, however, thanked some chieftains for standing by him during his trying moment. Some of the chieftains, according to him, were now governorship aspirants, like Dr Obiora Okonkwo, Chief Chris Azubogu, Mr Valentine Ozigbo, Ugochukwu Enyioha and others. For the state chairman of the party, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu, the party was happy to receive their leader, hale and hearty. He said Metuh passed through an unprecedented political prosecution for no justifiable reason. The Court of Appeal, Abuja Division, last December, nullified the seven-year jail sentence handed Metuh. The court held that Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court in Abuja was biased in handling the case of the former PDP spokesman. Metuh, who held sway under the Goodluck Jonathan administration, was prosecuted by the EFCC, alongside his company, Destra Investment, on a seven-count charge of diversion of illegal monies received from Sambo Dasuki, an ex-National Security Adviser. The former spokesman was also accused of transacting with the sum of $2 million without going through a financial institution, in violation of a provision of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act.