The Chairman Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor Mai Mala Buni on Monday brokered a truce between the two warring factions of the party in Zamfara State. The party has been polarised along two factions led by immediate past State Governor, Abulraziz Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa. The crisis in the party cost it all the electable offices in the state except the Presidency in the 2019 general elections to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Emerging from a reconciliation meeting that lasted for about three hours, the leaders of the two factions resolved to work together for the interest of the people of the state and that of the party. Addressing newsmen after the meeting held at the National Secretariat of the party in Abuja, Buni said peace has finally returned to the party in the state. “As you can see today, we are able to achieve reconciliation of our stakeholders in Zamfara State and by extension is the reconciliation of the entire Zamfara APC as a family. “With this, we have achieved a milestone as Caretaker Committee of this great party, our primary mandate being reconciliation of our members across the country and rebuilding and repositioning of this party at all levels.” Attesting to their resolve to work together, former Governor Yari said the two groups have admitted their mistakes and agreed to correct them by coming together, adding that the unity in the party was paramount for its success in future political endeavors. “We have built this party from zero level to where we are and Zamfara has ever remained ANPP- APC State and what led to that success is our coming together. So that togetherness is what we’re working to achieve in the future and this is the starting point. “This is not symbolic, it’s real that we understand all of us are human beings bound to make mistakes and that mistakes can be corrected so that we can come together to achieve a target and go and bring back our party to limelight in the State and also to maintain in the centre. ‘’A lot of things have been said but the most important thing is we are together and this is the beginning and what happened in the past will never repeat itself.’’ Marafa also expressed that their past mistakes would serve as a source of strength to rebuild APC not just in Zamfara but for the entire North West Zone as well as the country for future political contests. “I received a call from my friend and leader, the Governor of Yobe State to come and attend a meeting. Despite the short notice, I felt anybody that calls you for reconciliation meeting, he or she calls you to goodness and I attended because of that reason and I’m very happy with the robust decisions or discussions rather that we had in the office. “So, today marks the very beginning in the chapter of APC in Zamfara State and I hope, given the assurances that I heard from various speakers during the meeting that at the end of the tunnel we would see light,” he stated. 