The Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL) has expressed dismay over what it described as an unfortunate statement credited to former Imo state governor, Rochas Okorocha that the State Governor Hope Uzodimma “is chasing shadows.” Speaking to newsmen Monday in Owerri, the President-General of the coalition, Good luck Ibem said such a statement coming from an ex-governor to a serving governor was unfortunate. According to Ibem; “We would have ignored Okorocha hoping that he is bereft of fact, but because of his glaring prejudice for the state government, we deem it necessary to respond to his baseless assertion to save the public from being misinformed. “Such unguided statement is not just geared towards casting aspersions on the Imo state government matchless commitments to good governance, but a conscious attempt to insult the good people of Imo.” He further added; “Okorocha should be told in plain language that despite the fact that politics is a leveler in the country, water still finds its course. The Executive Governor of Imo State, His Excellency, Senator Hope Uzodinma has grown past the type of crude and local politics Okorocha wants to engage him in. “For 8 solid years, Okorocha held sway as governor, the only project he did for Imo People is to mould Peoples status in all the nooks and crannies of the state. Only an idle governor who does know the demands of his office will embark on such a fruitless spending spree when there are so many bad roads seeking attention. “Uzodinma has done much for Ndi-Imo and they are very happy with him. The governor has constructed so many quality roads, some completed and some near completion. The governor is the first to pay minimum wage to Imo workers despite the lean resources available to the state. Within one year in office, the governor has achieved what Okorocha could not achieve for 8 years in office. “The thing Okorocha come into the office to do was to convert state own properties, schools, and other public properties to his personal property. Who is chasing shadows here, if not Owelle Rochas Okorocha? “We commend Governor Hope Uzodinma who is a man of integrity and impeccable character for recovering the Eastern Palm University, EPU. Such bold move by the governor is a clear testament that he means well for the people and he is determined to abide by the oath which he took the day he was sworn in as governor.”