Despite the COVID-19 scare in town, it didn’t stop the family of billionaire businessman, Dr.  Bolu Akin-Olugbade, from giving him a simple but classy burial ceremony. For many people, he was a wealthy and stylish man who was in love with Rolls-Royce limousines but he was more than that he was devoted to his three children – Badenrele, Babatunde and Dademu Speaking about his father, Badenrele, said from an early age, he learnt that pleasing his father meant showing an interest in academics. He said: “At a tender age, my father began making his case for why I should pursue a career in Law. To be honest, it did not take much convincing because I wholeheartedly looked up to my dad. To follow in his footsteps, as well as those of my grandfathers’ was an easy decision. He shepherded each of his sons into worthwhile careers and spared no expense on our education. “Truth be told, my dad was obsessed with premium cars, but that obsession paled in comparison to his love and obsession for his family. I can guarantee that if given a choice between spending a day, driving around Lagos, Abeokuta, London or Los Angeles in one of his luxury vehicles, or spending a quiet day bonding with his immediate family, the choice would be family every time. He cherished his moments with us. “Conversations between us were intimate with no fear of any topic being off the table. Dad was so open and willing to bond with his sons as a friend that I would sometimes get caught off-guard by the casual nature with which he would display his unique point of view on any subject matter regardless of the topic.” While admitting that people would remember his father for his many accomplishments, loving heart, lending hand, boisterous personality, eternal optimism, and sense of style, Dademu said he meant different things to them. According to him, he was an available father, a loving husband to their mother and a patriotic Nigerian. He added: “It is comforting for me to witness the impact you had on so many lives across family, business, friends, and community. This is an accomplishment only few can attest to achieving. You were my protector, my mentor, my source of inspiration and you possessed an astute understanding of your son and you took the extra time to guide me through life.” For Babatunde, his father was his number one role model and inspiration. He recalled that growing up, whenever he was asked what he wanted to be, he would proudly answer “I want to be a successful man and leader like my father because of how much of an influential figure he is in Nigeria!” He noted: “This goal has never changed, constantly driving me to work as hard as I can in any endeavor I take on. With your unwavering belief in me and wise words, I have gone through life with the confidence that I can handle any challenge that comes my way, no matter how difficult as long as I focus, believe that I can achieve my objective with all my heart, and put in the required effort. “I deeply cherish the many things that I got from you. I gained my handsome looks, deep voice, humble personality to talk to people from all social classes, interest in history (particularly of Nigeria and Owu Kingdom), intellect, creativity, humor, entrepreneurial spirit, financial discipline, love for music, dancing, cartoons (especially the Flintstones) and superheroes like your favorite The Hulk, thirst for knowledge, curiosity, spirituality, and above all, the honor of being named after your idol, the great statesman and Balogun of Owu Kingdom, Chief Ohu Babatunde Akin-Olugbade.”