Ebonyi State Police Command has arrested two students of the State University for allegedly defrauding unsuspecting members of the public using point of sale machine (POS). The two suspects Amadi Chibuike ‘m’ age 20yrs and Onuha Emeka ‘m’ age 20yrs who are both first year students of Ebonyi State University (EBSU) allegedly defrauded two persons of a total sum of N4.4 million. Police spokesman in the state, Loveth Odah in a statement said the duo used a POS machine belonging to Access bank to defraud their victims. She said the victims Mrs. Lillian Anigbogwu was defrauded of N3m while the second victim, Mr. Alimogwo Chinedu Franklin lost the sum of N1.4 million to the duo. Mrs. Odah said the duo were arrested following investigation by the police at Ishieke Market in Ebonyi local government area of the State. “Ebonyi State Police Command has uncovered a new system used by fraudsters to dispossess innocent citizens of their hard earned money through dubious means. “The syndicates migrate from one state to the other with the same method to defraud the unsuspecting victims after getting personal information, such as account numbers through stolen phones or sim cards. “This method works only with Access Bank Point Of Service, popularly known as (POS) machine after the syndicate has succeeded in getting the victim’s account number. The POS- Operator will generate a code through the process for easy withdrawal of the victim’s fund,” Odah said. She said the suspects confessed to the crime. According to her, they revealed that they are both working for one Victor Adogu ‘m’ age about 22 years, who is a POS Operator at the Institute for Management and Technology (IMT) Enugu State. “The suspects further added that they joined the syndicate in December, 2020 with a share of 10% of every amount defrauded from victims,” she said. The spokesperson further noted that the suspects have been handed over to the Economic and Financial Crime Commission, EFCC, Enugu zonal office, for further investigation and prosecution. She further urged the public to refrain from revealing their personal information, particularly Biometric Identification Number (BVN), National Identification Number (NIN), or account number to anyone. She also urged them not to store such sensitive information on their Phones or Sim card in order not to fall victim of fraudsters. The spokesperson also appealed to members of the public to continue to cooperate with the police by providing credible and timely information on activities of criminal elements in the State.