The fear of the COVID-19 virus in Nigerians was again allayed on Thursday as the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, unveiled an indigenous drug for the cure and prevention of the viral infection. The drug named Verozil, which is available in capsules, blisters packs and liquid, was certified by the body regulating sales and use of drugs in Nigeria, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). Verozil, which was launched alongside other three indigenous drugs, was researched and produced by Yem-Kem International Group and Ooni Ojaja Global Outreach. It will be distributed by Organic Remedies. Oba Adeyeye, who spoke at the launch at the banquet hall, Ooni’s palace, Ile-Ife, said it was a great day and privilege to unveil the indigenous medicines, noting that their potencies have been tested and proven by government and other bodies. His words: “Today is a great day for in the history of this great nation. I give kudos to the Minister of Health, NAFDAC DG and the Presidency for the success of these products. “I want to announce to the whole world that there is a new phase in traditional medicine research that will be berth soon with the introduction of an Executive Bill, which is at the second reading at the National Assembly, on herbal product research. We are also launching bitter leaf, a very powerful product and now it is in gelatin form to be consumed easily by people and it was produced in Nigeria. “As the world is celebrating their COVID-19 vaccine, we are here to unveil and celebrate our own indigenous medicine.” Prominent herbal medicine practitioner and founder and Chief Executive Officer, Yem-Kem International Nigeria Limited, Akintunde Ayeni, said the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi phoned him during the COVID-19 and inquired from him what he was doing in respect of the deadly virus. He said Oba Adeyeye sent him some recipes that they could use in making indigenous medicine to fight COVID-19, which he studied and gave birth to the medicines that were been launched. Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on Job Creation and Youth Employment in the Office of the Vice President of Nigeria, Afolabi Imoukhuede, in his goodwill messages, said COVID-19 has brought to fore the importance of immunity.