The growth of cryptocurrency over the years has been significant and now more than ever before, more people are interested in investing and trading bitcoin. After bitcoin was launched as the first crypto in 2009, there have since been thousands more launched and cryptocurrency has become popular in the entire world. As technology continues to advance, there‘s more room for cryptocurrency to thrive in this day and age. More countries are beginning to embrace digital payments and encourage cashless policy. Compared to the traditional currencies by central banks, bitcoin is decentralized and makes transactions easier, faster, and cheaper. Is bitcoin gradually changing the world? This article seeks to highlight the major ways in which the growth of bitcoin in these past few years might just be changing the world. Bitcoin can be used for many things other than simply buying and selling goods and services as we do with traditional currencies. You can invest or trade bitcoin to make a profit and it can also be used illegally. Considering that it is a decentralized currency, transactions can’t be traced back to who initiated or received them, which makes it easy to be used on black markets. There have been speculations of bitcoin being used to purchase illegal drugs and for gambling. This is one of the reasons why it is still illegal in some countries to trade bitcoin. However, with the recent growth in bitcoin’s value which has aided in its popularity, there’s more to expect. Countries are becoming more inclusive of cryptocurrencies due to the many advantages it offers. Although illegal activities via the use of bitcoin cannot be completely controlled, most governments now have regulations in place. The growth of bitcoin in the last few years is remarkable, so much that tech giants started investing in it. Twitter, for example, has been actively driving the growth of bitcoin, as the CEO Jack Dorsey often talks about it. In October 2020, Square, which is also owned by Dorsey, invested up to $50 million in bitcoin. PayPal has also announced integrating cryptocurrency into their platform to be available for users to buy, hold, and sell bitcoin and other digital coins. The founders of Skype and Intercom recently made their support for bitcoin public. In 2018, Jaan Tallinn, the co-founder of Skype, donated about $434,000 worth of Ethereum to a UK-based artificial intelligence company and also donated about $316,000 worth of Bitcoin to the same Faculty in 2020. Other tech giants that have spoken well of bitcoin and also invested in it include Google, Facebook, Telegram, Microsoft, Dell, Dish, Expedia, and Overstock, among others. The adoption of bitcoin is rapidly improving, as more people continue to see the benefits it offers compared to the traditional currency. There are now improved apps such as the Bitcoin Equaliser app that makes it easier to buy and sell bitcoin and to hold your coins for a period until it gains profits. More businesses and brands are also beginning to incorporate it into their system as a payment method. The future of bitcoin looks promising.