As of November 2020, there are about 22,000 YouTube channels out there having over 1 million subscribers. Less than 15 Nigerian Youtube channels have over 1miilion subscribers. Nigerian seeking first class entertainment need not worry as many have subscribed directly to their favourite entertainers on Youtube and they get alerted immediately when a new video is uploaded on their channel. The most followed channels in Nigerian are the musical artists followed by the comedians and others Mark Angel comedy channel is best known for its unique comedy skits on YouTube, often featuring child comedians such as Emmanuella; Samuel (age 10) and Success Madubuike (age 6 as of 2020). It was the first African comedy channel to reach one million subscribers. Mark angel is the most followed entertainment YouTube channel in Nigeria with 7.25M subscribers. David Adedeji Adeleke, popularly known as Davido, is a Nigerian-American singer, songwriter, contemporary artist and a record producer. He is one of the biggest and most influential artists in Africa. He is the second most followed entertainment channel on YouTube with 2.28 million subscribers. Chinedu Okoli better known with his stage name Flavour N’abania or simply Flavour, is a singer, songwriter and multi-instrumentalist. He began his musical career as a drummer for a local church. Flavour is popularly known across the world for his hit song “Nwa Baby (Ashawo Remix)”. He is currently signed to 2nite Entertainment. He is the 3rd most followed YouTube Channel with 1.84million subscribers. Comedian, Samuel Oluwafemi Asubiojo, simply known as SamSpedy, opted to be a comedian at the expense of his medical certificate. The comedian, who studied Medicine at Zaporozhye State Medical University, Ukraine, derives satisfaction in putting smiles on faces with his comedy skits. SamSpedy’s journey as a comedian started in 2014 following a dream he had. He is the 4th most followed YouTube Channel with 1.82 million subscribers Damini Ebunoluwa Ogulu, known professionally as Burna Boy, is a singer, songwriter, rapper and dancer. He is one of the biggest and most successful African artists. He currently has 1.7 million people subscribed to his YouTube channel Yemi Eberechi Alade is an Afropop singer, songwriter, actress and activist. She won the Peak Talent Show in 2009 after which she got signed to Effyzzie Music Group and had a hit with her single “Johnny” in 2014. Since then, Yemi has gained prominence in the music industry following the releases of her albums King of Queens and Mama Africa. She was the first female Artist in Africa to hit one million followers on YouTube. She currently has 1.66 million Subscribers Augustine Miles Kelechi popularly known as Tekno, is a singer and songwriter. Tekno Miles was first signed under K-Money Entertainment. His first single “Holiday”, was released under the imprint with featured vocals from Davido. It was positively accepted and gained massive airplay. Tekno boasts of 1.66 million subscribers on YouTube Ayodeji Ibrahim Balogun, known professionally as Wizkid and sometimes stylized as starboy, is a singer and songwriter. One of Africa’s biggest artists, Wizkid is the most decorated African artist internationally and one of the most revolutionary Afro-pop artists of the modern era. He has 1.61 million YouTube subscribers P-Square is the defunct music duo consisting twin brothers, Peter Okoye and Paul Okoye. They produced and released their albums through Square Records. In December 2011, they signed a record deal with Akon’s Konvict Muzik label. In May 2012, P-Square signed a record distribution deal with Universal Music Group. On 25 September 2017, numerous media outlets reported the group disbanded. Prior to this report, the duo disbanded in 2016, supposedly over a disagreement about the role of their manager. Even after their separation, the group’s YouTube channel continues to gain subscribers daily. P-Square channel currently has 1.57m subscribers Osinachi Kalu Okoro Egbu, known professionally as Sinach, is a gospel singer, songwriter and senior worship leader at Loveworld. She is the first singer-songwriter to top the Billboard Christian Songwriter chart for 12 weeks in a row. She currently has 1.49 million YouTube subscribers.