Bandits and criminals have killed many people, kidnapped some others and stole livestock in attacks on communities in Kaduna and Niger states. In the last 48 hours – no fewer than 18 people were killed by the bandits in Kaduna. The attacks took place in four local government councils in Kaduna and Niger states. The two states have been under consistent attacks in the last two months –  resulting also in the razing of many houses. In Tuesday’s Boko Haram attack on Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, no fewer than 10 people were killed and about 50 injured. The attacks in Niger State took place in Lapai and Shiroro local government councils. The military said it neutralised dozens of bandits in Kaduna. During the attack on Anaba, Barinje, Kwarten Rigasa, Kwarten Waziri and Kwarten Shaku in Igabi and Chikun local government areas, many people were abducted. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed  the attacks and the casualty figure in a statement, said many houses and barns were razed in Anaba, while about 20 cows were rustled and a number of poultry looted. He said the attacks were launched on soft targets. Aruwan said: “Security agencies reported a sequence of attacks by armed bandits. “According to the reports, Anaba village in Igabi local government area was attacked, with seven residents killed. They are: Ali Musa, Isa Sharehu, Tijjani Isa, Auwalu Shehu, Hashim Abdullahi, Hassan Saidu and Umar Rilwanu. “Many of the houses in the community were burnt down, along with storehouses and barns. About 20 cows were rustled and a number of poultry slaughtered and carted away. “Also, Barinje village in Chikun local government area was attacked, with eight persons killed. These are: Sunday Gwamna, Lawal Jizo, Salha Barau, Sabo Barau, Umaru Barau, Muhammadu Dan Azumi, Zailani Dogara and Jikan Gambo. “Some residents were abducted, and cattle rustled during the attack. An unspecified number of injured victims are receiving treatment in the hospital. “The attacks on these soft targets at Anaba and Barinje villages followed the killing of several armed bandits via targeted air operations. “Air platforms had earlier conducted armed reconnaissance around Anaba village. The crew observed houses on fire and locals migrating to nearby settlements. Some motorbikes were observed with suspicious movements underneath some trees; probing shots were fired at these. “Herds of cattle were spotted with bandits at Malul Forest and were engaged accordingly. “Also, air platforms conducted armed reconnaissance over some affected locations. Kawuri, Chikun, Godani, Kusasu, Godani Station, Kwafe, Kuduru, Irina, Chikwale, Kudame, Kwakwau, Beni, Akilbu, Polewire, Rijana, Rugu, Olam farms and adjoining areas were covered. “Bandits in large numbers on motorcycles were sighted on a track leading to Kankomi. They were trailed and engaged by the crew, with scores seen neutralized afterwards. “Similarly, following intelligence of bandits converging on forests in between Maidaro/Damari general area of Giwa/Birnin Gwari LGAs, armed reconnaissance was conducted over the locations, in conjunction with ground troops who conducted cordon-and-search operations in the area.” The statement added: “Regrettably, armed bandits attacked the loosely connected  communities of Kwarten Rigasa, Kwarten Waziri and Kwarten Shaku in Igabi local government area. “The bandits reportedly emerged from the Buruku area, and raided the villages in a cattle rustling operation. In the process, one Danjuma Isa from neighboring Ungwan Kanti village was killed, as he made his way on foot to Kwarten Rigasa. “Similarly, armed bandits invaded Sanhu Makera village, Birnin Yero and killed one Yakubu Abdullahi, a farmer in the village. “In another incident, unknown assailants killed one Maryam Lash Tahir in unusual circumstances, at the Ministerial Pilot Housing Estate, Millennium City, Chikun local government area. “Governor Nasir El-Rufai noted the reports with sadness, and sent condolences to the families of all those killed in these attacks, while offering prayers for the repose of their souls. He also wished the injured a quick recovery.” Many people were injured and one abducted in a bandit attacks in Ebbo and Madaka communities in Niger state. A business man was abducted in Ebbo. Residents said the gunmen attacked the community around 10pm on Tuesday night, shooting sporadically. They shot two villagers who are now receiving treatment in the the hospital in Lapai. The kidnapped victim, Sule Isah, owns a shop where he sells telephone handsets. Some students of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU), Lapai said they noticed some gun-wielding men entering the town on Monday evening. They said they promptly alerted the police. In Madaka community in Shiroro local government area, the gunmen came in the early hours when the villagers were about going to the farm.