 The Presidency has said Transparency International’s (TI’s) recent Corruption Perception Index report is not an indictment of President Muhmmadu Buhari or his administration. It said the report rather indicted some Nigerians in their diverse dispositions towards acts of malfeasance. The Senior Special Assistant to President Buhari on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, stated this on Monday when he appeared on Channels Television’s breakfast programme, “Sunrise Daily”. TI’s 2020 Corruption Perception Index report had placed Nigeria as the second most corrupt country in West Africa, falling to number 149. Reacting to the report on the live television programme, Shehu said: “I’ll tell you that this one by TI is not a judgment on Buhari or his administration or its war against corruption. I will tell you that this one is judgment on Nigerians. This is because if you look at the indices they used at arriving at these conclusions, they used eight indices, six of which showed Nigeria as being more or less Nigeria in the same position. “The two that they dwelled on, that caused this backslide, are essentially Nigerian problems. They’re talking about the political culture of this country, vote-buying, thuggery. Is it Buhari that is a thug? We’re not doing thuggery. “And when they talk about the Justice sector, they are talking about perceived corruption in the Judiciary. These perceptions are essentially not correct. “Yes, there are issues in that sector, but so many changes are going on in that sector. Wouldn’t it have been nice if they acknowledged it so that you encourage those judicial officers that are upright and then the system gets getting better?” Also, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, said the Buhari administration would not tamper with the independence of the media. Adesina spoke on Monday on Arise TV programme, “The Morning Show”, monitored by The Nation. Reacting to the question that the Buhari government had allegedly tampered with media freedom, especially with the shutting down of an online news platform, Peoples Gazette, Adesina said: “…This government never clamped down on the media. It has never done so, and will never do so. This government will never tamper with the independence of the media and freedom of the press. “Peoples Gazette is a paper that lies everyday. It has lied against me and has lied against several people. So, why should we bother ourselves against a platform that is full of lies?” The presidential spokesman also refuted claims that appointments under President Buhari were skewed to favour the North. He said: “Perception at times is not the totality of reality. For instance, the belief is that most IG of police come from a certain part of the country in the past 20 years. But somebody did put the right information out just last week which I saw online… “In the past 20 years, we have had 11 IGPs. Six came from the South and five from the North. Yet, you would hear people say all IGPs are from the North.” He added: “…I saw another analysis over the weekend: Chief of Defence Staff, Chief of Naval Staff, Chief of Air Staff, in the past 20 years. Do you know that majority of them have all been from the South? These things are available online, and you would still hear people say that all service chiefs are from the North. “It is a perception that is not quite correct. A lot of people who have believed it need to unbelieve this.” “It is not particularly our duty to begin to try and correct; ours is to put out the correct information. Two years ago, we did a chronicle of all appointments made by the Buhari administration in 2015, it happened that Ogun State had the highest number of appointments, followed by some Southern states. Even Kastina State, where the President comes from, is one of the lowest state in the number of appointments. And we hear people’s perception say there are skewed appointments, that the North is favoured. We have released the facts and figures…”  