Former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has expressed sadness over the transition of Akirun of Ikirun, Oba AbdulRauf Olawale Adedeji 11. He commiserated with the family, friends and associates of the late monarch and the people of ancient Ikirunland over the transition. In a condolence message by his Media Office, on Friday, Tinubu described Oba Adedeji as visionary and progressive. He said: “I’m deeply saddened by the sudden transition of Akirun of Ikirun, Oba AbdulRauf Olawale Adedeji 11. “Akirun is a notable traditional ruler in Osun State. His reign brought significant attention, peace, and development to Ikirun and his people. “As a royal father, he was visionary and progressive. Oba Adedeji was a a partner who believes in our cause. “I commiserate with his family including the first son who is the state’s Commissioner for Innovation, Science and Technology, Hon. Babatunde Olawale, friends and associates of the late monarch and the people of ancient Ikirun town. “May Allah comfort them at this moment and give them the strength and fortitude to live through this transition. “I also mourn with Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and members of the state Council of Traditional Rulers over the loss of an eminent citizen of the state. “I pray that Almighty Allah forgive the shortcomings of the late monarch, reward his good deeds and grant him Aljanah Firdaus.” In his condolence message to the first son of the monarch and Commissioner for Innovation, Science and Technology, Babatunde Olawale, other members of his immediate family and the people of Ikirun, Governor Oyetola stated that the late traditional ruler was a respected father and a huge supporter of his administration. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Ismail Omipidan, Oyetola expressed sadness over the transition of the monarch stating that, “We will miss him for his wise counsel, wisdom and courage. Baba will also be long remembered for his impacts, achievements and outstanding legacies. I pray Allah to forgive his shortcomings, admit him into Al Jannah Firdaus and comfort his family and loved ones at this difficult period.” Also, the Traditional Council of Obas, Osun State, suspended its meeting to mourn the deceased monarch. As he was laid to rest on Friday, February 5, Ikirun Community, headquarters of the Ifelodun Local Government Area of Osun State stood still as residents thronged the palace pay their last respects to the departed monarch. Oba Adedeji was reportedly ill, for days, before his health worsened. He died around 11 pm in a health facility, in Osogbo, the state capital, on Wednesday, February 3. He was 78 years old. The monarch, who ascended the throne in 1991, reigned for 30 years.