Students of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Ondo State have decried the security situation in the country, following the attack on their colleagues by herdsmen. However,they have called on school authorities and  government  in particular to find a way to get  rid of them, reports SAMUEL AGBELUSI (AAUA).  Saturday, January 23, 2021, was a terrible day for students of Adekunle Ajasin University,  Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State and the entire community when a Dangote Cement Company trailer conveying tons of cement, lost control and rammed into shops beside the university gate and  crushed students and several  residents to death at least. As a result of the accident, students of AAUA came together immediately to protest the bad roads in the state. This  also prompted the management of the institution to shut the school till further notice.  Attack on AAUA students returning from burial in Ondo It was gathered that herdsmen  attacked a convoy of  students of  AAUA when returning from the burial of  their former Students’ Union Government President, the late  Samuel Adesomoju popularly known as Sampraise.The burial held on January 25 in his hometown in Okitipupa, Ondo State. Adesomoju had died on Saturday, January 23 alongside other students as a result of the Dangote trailer accident. CAMPUSLIFE learnt  that  the herdsmen kidnapped two travellers, a man and a woman in the students convoy as the remaining students were able to fight their way through. One of the students who was on the entourage that went for Adesomoju’s burial, said the herdsmen blocked movement on the road they passed through around Ondo Town.  He said: “We went to the hometown of our former SUG President Samuel Adesomoju who died in the trailer accident. He  was a 500-Level Law student.  It was when we were returning that the herdsmen attacked us in Ondo town. Luckily, we were able to fight our way through but the herdsmen attacked and kidnapped two travellers in our convoy who were not students. The herdsmen fired several shots at vehicles and damaged one of them.We did not get back to campus until around 12 am.” Some former students of  AAUA who witnessed the attack were: Ademuyiwa Opeyemi, Temitope Eyinla, Adebowale Temitope, Kenneth Iloba, Oluwatosin Akinyele  and others.They were returning to their base in Akure the following day when the  incident happened. According to Ademuyiwa Opeyemi, one of the ex-students of the institution,they were saved through divine intervention. “It was only God who  saved us from those deadly animals called Fulani herdsmen,” he said. Another former student, Adebowale Temitope said:  “How I escaped is what  I cannot really understand, but I give glory  to the Almighty God.” However, following the attack,students have urged government not to treat the issue of security with kid gloves particularly as it involves students and other residents. Bolanle Esther, a 300-Level student of the Department of  Business Administration in AAUA  said:  “With  the current security challenges we are facing in the state and south west generally, I really hope the union leaders will take proactive steps on the safety and security of  students. The issue of Fulani herdsmen should be the priority of government at all levels.” Another student of AAUA, Anuoluwapo Ruth, a 200-Level student of Chemistry  said: “I can’t believe we were asked to go home during this period especially a time like this when we have  serious challenges facing  the school. The Fulani herdsmen attack and other issues should be addressed by  the management urgently for students to be able to  have hitch-free learning.” A 200-Level student of University of Ibadan, Michael Adegunwa, said: “In the  first place, Fulani herdsmen should not have been allowed to occupy our roads not to talk of being in possession of firearms. If the government does not do something urgently about it, then we are in for serious trouble.” For David Udoji a 300-Level Engineering student of University of Benin(UNIBEN), governors in Southwest should put measures in place to secure their region and put an end to the issue of herdsmen. He  noted that government should prioritise security of all citizens, adding it is high time an action was taken on the issue. “The herdsmen should be called to order. Attacking students is uncalled for. In saner climes, cattle are not allowed to roam the highway. Government should prioritise security before the situation gets worse,” he said. Tunde Adeniyi, a 300-Level Mass Communication student of  Ekiti State University (EKSU) noted that the issue of security in the country at large has become worrisome,hence, government should look into it and stop herders from roaming the highway. He said: “We are in serious trouble in this country. For herders to attack innocent citizens and students,then the security situation  of the country has degenerated and has become increasingly worrisome. We can only urge government to fashion out measures to curb the herders.” Student Union President of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, Obagunwa Oluwasegun  said:  “The union is taking every little step towards the  safety  and security of  lives in  the university community and as such we are meeting the management to  let them know our plight. What really happened to our students at the hands of the Fulani herdsmen shows we are no longer safe in this country. I really want to urge all the students to remain calm as we take every diplomatic measures to make sure we reach a consensus on behalf of students and everyone.” The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) Joint Campus Committee Ondo axis also condemned the attack in a statement released by the  Chairman  Akinteye Babatunde He said: “What  happened shows that the current government does not value student lives. This came barely 24 hours after an unfortunate incident occured in the university community and we are yet to get over it. The government must work hand in hand with the management of the institution to address the current situation and work towards improving the welfare of  students.” However, governors from Southwest met in Akure, the Ondo State capital, to discuss  insecurity in the region especially as it relates to the heinous killings and abductions by the suspected Fulani herdsmen. The governors had decried the insecurity situation which necessitated their decision to ban open grazing by herdsmen in the region.