The supremacy clash between the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) and the Joint Health Workers Union of Nigeria (JOHESU) took a new turn on Sunday. NMA accused JOHESU of envy and asked the members of the health workers union to go to medical school, if they want to be recognised as medical practitioners. NMA described the outburst of some JOHESU members on the proposed repeal and reenactment of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) Bill, and four other bills, before the National Assembly, as paranoid and borne out of envy. JOHESU National Chairman, Comrade Biobelemoye Josiah, had urged the National Assembly to step down the MDCN bill to forestall a fresh crisis in the health sector. According to him, the document is not in the country’s interest. He alleged that its main objective was to increase the oppression and discrimination of the MDCN over other health workers. But, the NMA urged the Senate Committee on Health of the National Assembly (NASS) to disregard JOHESU. It said the bill is intended to further strengthen the MDCN in regulating the medical and dental professions and does not seek to regulate any other healthcare professions. The association stressed that it has never had issues with holders of PhDs, Doctor of Veterinary Medicine or any other similar degrees, which give them legitimate grounds to use the title ‘doctor’. NMA President, Prof. Innocent Ujah, at a briefing in Abuja, said the bill only seeks to protect the public from quacks, crooks and charlatans who claim to be medical doctors. The Senate, on February 1, held a Public Hearing on the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (Repeal and Re-enactment) Bill and four others. NMA said the effort of the Senate is “timely, appropriate, and necessary to bring the regulation of Medicine and Dentistry in Nigeria up to date concerning advancements and developments in healthcare nationally and internationally.” It added: “The Nigerian Medical Association wholeheartedly welcomes the Bill. “Nigerian Medical Association is happy that the Bill seeks to reinforce the perpetuity of the Medical and Dental Council by making it immune to frequent and unnecessary disruptions through dissolution each time there is a change of government. “The Bill also makes it easier for the Medical and Dental Practitioners’ Disciplinary Tribunal to try cases of professional misconduct against doctors in a timelier manner. “It also provides more realistic sanctions against doctors who are found guilty by the Disciplinary Tribunal. “Doctors practice Medicine and do not seek to practice pharmacy, medical laboratory science, radiography or any other professions and occupations of persons who are not qualified to be registered as medical practitioners or dental surgeons. “We appeal to the general public and the National Assembly to ignore the dying voice of the paranoiac JOHESU who have sustained their attacks on Nigerian doctors purely out of jealousy and envy, to get through the backdoor what they could not achieve while in school. “I wish to appeal to governments and good spirited individuals to advise members of JOHESU and their cohort to go to medical school to read medicine or forever leave doctors and the medical profession alone. I am a Vice-Chancellor, and I can admit them if they are qualified.”