 The Lagos State Government has raised the alarm over the fraudulent sale of government land by land grabbers, known as Omooniles. Permanent Secretary, Land Bureau, Bode Agoro at a stakeholders’ forum yesterday, lamented the activities of these dubious elements in some parts of Lagos, especially in Ibeju-Lekki, Eti-Osa and even Kosofe local government areas. He said: “These land grabbers have taken their game to a new level as they have the audacity to erect signposts bearing Lagos State Government logo and excision application file numbers in their desperate attempt to deceive prospective buyers into believing that sales of such lands are genuine transactions and have government backing.” Agoro regretted that such illegality had put his Bureau under pressure He warned that the government is set to stem the tide and bring sanity into land transactions.  He said the government is committed to entrenching a culture of excellence that ensures prompt and efficient service delivery anchored on the most current technology. He pledged that the Bureau will double its efforts to confront all circumstances that may undermine transparency and integrity in the process of accessing land for either residential or commercial purposes. Furthermore, he stressed that government is more than ever committed to addressing the ‘omonile’ syndrome, as it has “become a big monster plaguing investment in real estate development in the State.” More worrisome, Agoro said, is that the most of the faces behind the acts are supposed leaders in the communities affected. He however, assured that culprits will be apprehended and made to face the full wrath of the law, reminding the public that the amended law on land grabbing has no option of fine but rather a minimum of 10 years imprisonment. The Surveyor General, Olutomi Ajose Sangowawa explained that unscrupulous people are taking advantage of unsuspecting public to sell them dummies and defraud them. He advised the public to do their search with the necessary agencies of government before committing their hard earned money. It will be recalled that in 1972 the Lagos State Government excised about7, 300 acres of land in the present State Secretariat, Agidingbi, Isheri, Ogudu and Omole for strategic reasons. Others are between Mile 2 and international border with Republic of Benin, Maroko up to head Bridge to Epe and lkorodu. 