There appears to be no solution in sight to the lingering Kwara All Progressives Congress (APC) as Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq at the weekend warned those causing disaffection in the party risk suspension. Mallam Abdulrazaq revealed that APC leadership in the state would on Monday take decisive actions on the ‘dissidents,’ who he alleged, have been hatching series of plots from Abuja to halt the APC membership registration through needless litigations. The Governor spoke in Ilorin, the state capital at the 2021 empowerment programme of the Senator representing Kwara Central in the National Assembly, Dr Ibrahim Yahaya Oloriegbe. The Governor warned the aggrieved groups, which have been waging war against his administration should either retrace their steps or quit the party. He added that APC would no longer tolerate their ‘pull him down’ attitude. AbdulRazaq urged members of the ruling party to troop out en mass for the revalidation of membership. He told the gathering that security had been beefed up across the state ahead of the exercise so as to prevent possible hijack and also forestall breakdown of law and order. While thanking the Kwara Central legislator for his quality representation in the National Assembly, the Governor assured that his government would consolidate on the achievements made in line with the change mantra of the ruling party. “We want to call on our members and others who are interested in our party to troop out in large numbers for the APC membership registration scheduled to commence from Tuesday this week. Adequate security arrangement had been provided. So, you need not entertaining fear about your security. “It has come to our notice that some people were hatching series of plots from Abuja to stop APC membership registration. “They went to court to challenge the process when it has already begun. This was designed to frustrate the exercise but we are unperturbed. “However, we need to sound a note of warning that those fanning ember of disaffection in our party risk suspension. The APC leadership will take decisive action on them on Monday so that our people can have rest of mind. “From our own end, we can assure you again that there is no cause for alarm. Our members and those interested in the party should go to their polling unit from Tuesday and register,” AbdulRazaq said.