 Sustainable economic developments have continued to elude Anambra State in critical areas, owing to inequitable and nonstrategic allocation of its resources by succeeding administrations, Reverend Godwin Chukwuma Okonkwo has said. Okonkwo, who retired from the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) as the Managing Director, NNPC Capital, argued that the state would have been better developed, if past administrations had been strategic in the application of the its resources. A native of Ekwulobia in Aguata Local Government Area, Okonkwo said he would contest the next governorship election and promised to ensure accountable and judicious management of the state’s human and material resources. Okonkwo, who spoke in Abuja, shortly after his endorsement by a grassroot political group – the National Democratic Mandate Group (NDMG) – at its first National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting promised to disclose his political party in due course. Though it was learnt that the technocrat is believed by many to be the anointed candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) but, others have said he plans to contest on the platform of Young Progressives Party (YPP) against Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, but Anambrarians may not have long to guess as he is said to have concluded plans to announce his candidacy and platform officially in the next few days. Okonkwo said: “If things were going on as expected, people like us will not bother to contest elections. But, because we know that Anambra State is not where it should be today and with my experience and expertise we want to help put things in order. “So that the resources that we are getting today would be judiciously used, whereby robust economic planning tools and godly integrity would be deployed in the management of the human and material resources of Anambra State.” Okonkwo, who promised to dwell on his manifesto, assured that, as against the practice by past administrations in the state, he would conduct Local Government election as stipulated by the constitution. He added: “I can assure you that when godly integrity is brought into the management of the state’s human and material resources, all areas would be touched. If the resources of Anambra State are strategically deployed there will be sustainable economic growth, increase in foreign investors, the youths will be empowered and crime would reduce. “If the youths are engaged with the provision of employment that allows them to meet their basic needs, crime rates would reduce. “One of the first things I will do when I assume office is to conduct Local Government elections. Why is it difficult to conduct Local Government elections in Anambra State? “Conduct elections and let the allocations that are due to that tier of government go to them. You should lead by example. When the people that you are leading see that you are showing good example, they will fall in line. “Why most people fail is that they were not organised before they got into office. “What you do is to identify and prioritise the work programme, create an economic plan with an experienced team, set timelines, take them in stages and you will make an impact. When people see what you are doing, they will bear you witness. “You don’t try to do everything at the same time, because you will end up not achieving much, even if you spend all the resources at your disposal,” Okonkwo said. He cautioned electorate in the state to desist from the practice of trading their votes for immediate gratification that would hunt them later. “The people of Anambra should not apply short-term solution to a long-term problem. They should not collect rice and eat now and continue to live under bad governance. They should not collect N5000 and mortgage the future of their children.” “They should go out there, think and be responsible for the action they take during voting, because the action they take would have years of repercussion,” Okonkwo said. NDMG’s National Chairman, Ambassador Isaac Udeh said his group’s national leadership unanimously agreed to adopt Okonkwo as its sole candidate and members shall work for in the Anambra State governorship election. On what informed the group’s decision, Udeh said Okonkwo is known to NDMG as an accountable and trustworthy individual. “He (Okonkwo) is not just a Christian, he is a good Christian. We know his antecedents when he worked in the NNPC before he retired honourably. He is a trustworthy man, who is driven by accountability and fear of God in all he does,” Udeh said.    