There are some couples who always seem to have the near to perfect sexual relationship and then, there are others who have a really hard time staying contented in their relationship because the sexual side of the story is almost nothing to write about. One of the principal secrets a couple need to know is the recipe for perfect romance and sex. And it needs just two ingredients, unconditional love and wild sexual passion. When it comes to wild passion, couples are advised by sex therapist not to ignore the clitoris. The clitoris when well-handled gives both husband and wife the best of sexual pleasure. The clitoris, often described as a small penis is actually the female version of the penis. Although it is much smaller than the penis, it has exactly the same number of nerve endings like the penis. The clitoris is actually really big; it is behind the labia and surrounds the vagina. The visible parts of a clitoris are the hood; the frenulum, where the skin of the inner lips meet at the glans; the clitoral opening to the vagina; the hymen; the fourchette; the perineum and the urethra. The woman’s vulva which is a fatty layer of skin mostly covered by pubic hair surrounds and protects the clitoris. The clitoris is the key to sexual pleasure for most women and unless it is touched or stroked directly most females would not be able to have an orgasm. Just as a husband gets most but not all of his sexual pleasure from his penis, the wife gets most but not all of her sexual pleasure from her clitoris. A few women, however, dislike direct contact. The clitoris is harder to find than the penis because it is hidden under a hood and it is also a delicate organ and must be handled as such. The clitoris swells slightly during arousal, and then retracts under the clitoral hood as arousal continues and the clitoris becomes hypersensitive. This means when a female is feeling sexy her clitoris fills with blood and swells up. The outside part doubles in size (like the size of a large pea) and feels hard. It is packed with nerve endings (it has around 8,000 nerve endings. This is twice as many as the end of the penis and is very, very sensitive. This is why lots of married couples like to touch it lightly at first during foreplay. Many husbands sometimes misinterpret the “disappearing clitoris” as a sign of diminishing arousal in their wives; in fact it is the exact opposite. The shaft of the clitoris runs up under the hood for cover and protection when extremely aroused. This hood covers the clitoris, protecting it from excessive stimulation. Some husbands sometimes think they need to retract the hood to get to the clitoris when manually or orally stimulating their wives, but this is unnecessary. At best it can only result in over stimulation that borders on pain. Dried secretions known as smegma can collect under the hood, causing pain during sex.  A man knows that a wrong sort of touch to his penis will not only fail to give him pleasure but may cause intense pain. However, many men fail to realize that a rough touch to the clitoris can also cause pain to the woman. The reason most men make inadequate lovers is that they do not know where the clitoris is, nor do they understand the importance of this organ and how to stimulate it. Now, for better sex, couples must know how to handle this organ and its environs. Firstly, it’s important that the clitoris is gentle stimulated by gently squeezing it at the initial stage of sexual contact. When the husband gentle squeezes these folds of skin between his fingers, he’ll immediately feel the pressure it puts on his wife’s clitoris in her facial expression that virtually says ‘it feels really good.’ Meanwhile, keep the folds of skin firmly between your fingers, start to move your hand from side-to-side or even up and down. Doing this will feel much, much better! Remember that different people have different preferences, so make sure to play around with this technique and experiment with squeezing different areas until you find what she prefers. Feather Light touch: This next clitoral stimulation tip is really easy and kind of the opposite of the previous one. With ‘The Squeeze style’ you may be using some form of pressure but ‘Feather Light’ is completely the opposite of this. When using ‘Feather Light’, you are going to be applying an absolute minimum of pressure, almost to the point where it will feel more like soft vibrations. To get set up, make your wife lays down on her back and rub and small amount of lube or saliva on her clitoris. Next, you are going to bring your finger to the side of her clitoris so that it’s just about touching it. It should feel like a feather is touching the side of it. You shouldn’t have your finger covering her entire organ. Instead it should be just touching the side of it. All you need to do is simply move your finger up and down, while keeping in contact with the side of her clitoris. You will only be moving your finger a few millimetres up and down. So, you will hardly be moving it at all. In fact it will feel more like gentle vibrations more than anything else. While doing this, you will notice the tension building up in her as she may start desiring more pressure. When you continue with this you would have developed a very good hard on and before you know it both of you are experiencing good climaxing sex. I love to conclude by asking if you are worried about your sexual health condition. Are you are experiencing a non-existing libido, or mid-life sexual crisis, or loss of erection, or premature ejaculation, or erectile dysfunction, or weak erection? Is it that you just can’t stay long in sex as desired, or you are experiencing problem with sperm cells, shrinking penis or general genital issues? You are not far from total freedom, just email of give me a call. This article will continue next week but make sure you read this piece with your spouse. Which is the most pleasurable zone in the penis of the man? Many men consider the underside of the glans (head) of the penis and the underside of the shaft to be most sensitive to sexual pleasure. Researchers asked 81 healthy men to rate the erotic sensitivity of different areas of their bodies, including not only the penis but also zones such as the scrotum, nipples, and neck. The underside of the glans and underside of the shaft had the highest sensitivity rating for a significant majority of men, followed by the upper side of the glans, left and right sides of the glans, sides of the penis, upper side of the shaft, and foreskin I am newly-wedded. Please what are the non-failing habits that I can adopt to have the best sex life? To avoid getting into a sexual rut a few years after the marriage observing the followings will help tremendously. First, make sure you always make specific sexual requests of your partner. Do not just drop subtle hints and hope your partner will eventually guess what it is you want, ask for what you want. To help ensure your partner doesn’t feel threatened or bossed around, try talking about sex outside of the bedroom. That way, there’s no immediate pressure placed on him to perform. Once you feel more comfortable expressing your specific desires in broad daylight, you can start to express them when the lights go down by turning them into sexy talk. Don’t interrogate the female orgasm. One of the most common complaints we hear from women is that they just can’t climax. Unfortunately, stressing out about it simply exacerbates the problem. The second a woman starts worrying about whether or not she’s going to reach orgasm is the second she can kiss that orgasm goodbye. In other words, a woman who is struggling to climax might try ignoring her orgasm. Instead of focusing on the orgasm, she – and her partner – can focus on her body instead. What does it feel like when he does that? Why does being in this position feel so different? Where does it feel different? Do I like it? The woman should be as descriptive as possible in the answers — not just “that feels nice,” but “when his/your stubble scratches my thighs there it makes the surface of the skin feel cool and tingly.” A woman can do this in her own head, or she can do it out loud with her partner – he will certainly benefit from the answers! Just do it. It sounds wrong, we know, but for the sake of your relationship, you should vow to have sex sometimes even when you don’t feel like it (that goes for women and men alike). You don’t always have to wait until you’re “in the mood.” In fact, having sex can – and often does – change your mood, from turned off to turned on, from annoyed to endeared, from stressed to relaxed I pass sperm any time I am passing out urine. What can I do? There is a problem with your urethra or the base of your prostrate. The best solution is for you to see your family doctor.