The Vice Chancellor, Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Prof. Kolawole Salako, has advised students to shun violence while demanding for better  welfare. The VC gave this advice while addressing some students who wanted commercial buses’ operators to reduce their fares. The President, FUNAAB Students Union (FUNAABSU), Michael Oloyede, led students to protest  the 100 per cent hike in fares of buses and taxis to and fro the campus and other neighbouring communities. At a meeting attended by private transport operators and student- leaders, Salako noted that transport operators and students were partners in progress, adding that they needed one another for academic and economic progress. He, however, called for a peaceful resolution of the matter to enable the full take-off of academic activities on campus. A cab driver, Mr. Gbolahan Ekundayo,said the increase in fares was necessitated by hike in prices of fuel and students’ absence from the university. He, however, confirmed that the issue had been resolved and a new price regime was in place. On his part,  a bus driver, Mr. Iseoluwa Owolabi, said the fare increase was borne out of the need to break-even by the operators. He said they would manage the prices negotiated by the student-leaders because they see the students as their own children. A 400-Level student in the Department of Mathematics, College of Physical Sciences (COLPHYS),  Dorcas Ijeh, called for better understanding by bus drivers. She described the new prices as  reasonable, considerate and fair to both parties. She added that the Coronavirus pandemic had affected prices of goods and services globally. A 500-Level student in the Department of Water Resources and Agrometereology, College of Environmental Resources Management (COLERM), Akeem Salaudeen, who said the new prices were welcome, noted that looking for a balance of N10 for a N40 trip and N30 for a N70 trip may hinder smooth implementation of the agreement. He, however, called for the participation of more private transport operators on campus and the deployment of FUNAAB Bureau of Transportation (FUNAABOT) buses as part of measures to ease the transportation challenges.