 Osun Government has called on the state’s residents, especially those with traits of sickness, to go for COVID-19 test as the number of coronavirus cases is increasing. Commissioner for Health Dr. Rafius Isamotu and the state COVID-19 Incident Management Officer, Prof. Peter Olaitan, stated this on Monday in Osogbo. Isamotu said it was necessary for residents to submit themselves for test due to the rising cases of coronavirus in the state, which was becoming alarming and needed to be controlled. He called on the people to take responsibility to protect themselves and others against the spread of the virus, especially the new United Kingdom (UK) strain of the virus. “As at this morning (Monday), we have a number of 1,516 coronavirus cases recorded in the state and 32 deaths. “It is, however, unfortunate that some folks still don’t believe COVID-19 exist,” said Isamotu. He warned that people should know that COVID-19 is real and known to have killed many people. “We want our people to help us to stop the spread of the virus by masking up and following the COVID-19 guidelines and protocols. “It is frustrating that the people are not complying with wearing of face masks. We are not alarmists but the deadly UK strain was found in Ede, at the Africa Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID). “What this means is that the more deadly UK COVID-19 strain is now in Osun. The people of the state have to stick to the guidelines and always put on their face masks to prevent the spread,” he said. Olaitan, who is also the Chief Medical Director of Osun University Teaching Hospital, said people should always wear their face masks, keep to handwashing and avoid mass gathering, especially religious gatherings. He warned that the new UK strain of the coronavirus was more damaging, deadlier, spread faster, had more spikes and could easily penetrate the blood. The state government expressed its readiness to lockdown residents if the state keeps on recording the deadly B117 strain of COVID-19. It expressed worries over the discovery of the five new strain of COVID-19. Isamontu, while featuring on a radio station, Rave FM in Osogbo during a talk show, Frank Talk, said: “It is worrisome that barely five days that the PTF announced the cases of deadly B117 strain of COVID-19, out of 25 people that were tested, five of them had the UK strain of the virus. “It is not the wish of the government to lock down its residents but the priority of any responsible government is to keep citizens safe. With the discovery of the deadly B117 strain of COVID-19 in the state, if the state records increase in the cases of the virus and we see that our people are not conscious of safety protocols, then we have no option than to lockdown to forestall community spread.”