Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) has changed his strategy for meeting the yearnings of the people of Ondo State as he took the oath of office for a second term of four years Wednesday. He said the new strategy christened REDEEMED, was necessitated by the dynamics that changed the landscape during his first term in office. The new strategy, he said, would cater for the key areas necessary to accelerate the development of the state. Akeredolu disclosed this in his inauguration speech at the International Culture and Event Centre, Akure after he and his deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, were sworn in by the Chief Judge of the state Justice A. A. Akeredolu. He explained REDEEMED to mean Rural and agricultural development, Educational advancement and human capital development, Development through massive infrastructure and Efficient service delivery and policy implementation. Others are Effective healthcare and social welfare services, Maintenance of law and order for adequate security, Energy, mining and sustainable industries as well as Digital revolution and entrepreneurship. A strategy christened JMPPR guided his administration in the last four years. Governor Akeredolu singled out insecurity, saying it has become more encompassing than it used to be. He added that paucity of funds also militated against the quest to actualize many lofty objectives which his administration conceived to ameliorate the deplorable conditions under which the people live. The governor also emphasized that COVID-19 pandemic disrupted all projections, including revenue generation to execute ambitious projects conceived for the benefit of the people. Promising not to depart from the redemptive and restorative promise, Governor Akeredolu said he would proceed with keener enthusiasm to justify the renewal of his mandate to serve the people. He said various sectors such as education, health, agriculture and infrastructure received attention across the three senatorial districts in his first term in office. He said: “Our administration is determined to make our state safe for residents and visitors alike. We have had our share of security challenges since assumption of office. We have been able to confront these problems headlong. “Amotekun has done very well in its short time of existence. It has been able to work within the law establishing it. Its operations and successes recorded justify its establishment. We have instructed the commander to recruit more capable hands. “We will not depart from the trodden path which has earned us affection and deep reverence from the citizenry. We shall continue, with more vigour, to justify the trust earned by our administration. The second term, for us, is not a time for relaxation. We are not under any illusion that it will be easy. We are, however, ready to proceed on the journey with renewed enthusiasm and vigour. “The COVID-19 pandemic has had a deleterious effect on global economy. Things may get worse. Loss of jobs has been on a frightening scale. Production of goods and services has plummeted. Our national economy is in recession. Ingenuity, resourcefulness, courage and hard work will be the needed virtues for survival in the days ahead.” He thanked President Mohammadu Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other party leaders including Chief Odigie Oyewunmi, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as well as fellow governors for their support during the election. In attendance were Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, his Osun State counterpart Adegboyega Oyetola, Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos) Dapo Abiodun (Ogun) and Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti). Also, at the event were the APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; former Interim National Chairman Chief Bisi Akande; former Ogun State Governor Sen. Ibikunle Amosun; former Senate President Ken Nnamani; new APC chieftain in Osun State Sen. Iyiola Omisore and former National Vice Chairman (Southwest), APC Chief Pius Akinyelure. Members of the National Assembly from Ondo State were led by Sen. Ajayi Borrofice while members of the Ondo State House of Assembly were led to the event by Speaker David Oleyelogun. Traditional rulers were led by the Chairman, Ondo State Council of Obas and Chiefs, Oba Frederick Akinruntan who is the Olugbo of Ugbo.