There’s been a lot of noise lately about the bitcoin price and the number of users continues to increase. 2021 holds so much for bitcoin and many people are eager to see how it unfolds, considering the significant growth that was observed in 2020. Bitcoin reading involves buying at a low price and selling when the price is high and the difference between both prices gives you your profit. If you are considering trading bitcoin in 2021, here’s a quick guide to help you. The first step to trading is to choose an exchange that allows you to buy and sell bitcoin. Many bitcoin exchanges exist, such as the Bitqs trading app, but you must learn to choose a good exchange that offers great features. General things to look out for include the security and reputation of the app. You can also consider the transaction fees, level of anonymity, payment methods, and user-friendliness. Your choice of exchange can shape your bitcoin trading experience, in the long run, so you have to choose wisely. Since you will be trading and taking advantage of the price movement, you must get familiar with the key things that move the price. Some of the things that move the price include the Supply and Demand, The Press, Integration, and Key Events. With the way bitcoin is designed, the supply is meant to decrease every four years via a process known as halving. And with the recent turnout of events, bitcoin demand has significantly increased. Reduced supply of bitcoin and an increase in demand would likely tilt the price towards the positive side. The bitcoin market is highly volatile and unpredictable but if you understand what moves the price, it can help you trade more deliberately and also lower your risks. There are different trading styles and strategies used today, such as Day Trading, Trend Trading, Bitcoin Hedging, and the HODL Strategy. Day trading requires buying bitcoins and selling them on the same day. Day traders often tend to stare at their screens all day to make a profit every chance they get. Trend trading means the trader follows the current trend in the bitcoin market. This means if the price is trending upwards, trend traders enter into a long position or enter a short position when an asset is trending downwards. Bitcoin hedging is usually used when you’re concerned that the market is against you. You can hold a short position and record a profit on it while you leave the long position to be at loss. The HODL strategy involves buying and holding your bitcoin without selling and watching it increase or decrease based on the price movement. After learning the basics of bitcoin trading, choosing an exchange, and selecting a strategy to work with, it’s time to trade. Being a professional trader requires time, effort, determination, and constant learning. You might experience some losses along the line but there will also be profitable days that can cover up for the loss.