The Presidency on Monday urged the police to publish the list of herdsmen undergoing criminal trial. President Muhammadu Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Mr Garba Shehu said “thousands” were undergoing prosecution for offences related to the conflict between herders and farmers. Garba, who spoke during a Channels TV broadcast, absolved President Buhari of complicity in the crisis. He said: “We are not following up stories as media, otherwise, if you know the thousands of people… and I hope the headquarters of the police will take responsibility and publish the full list of Fulani herders who are undergoing trials in various states particularly in Benue State. “Trials are going on, convictions are being made and the president cannot be complicit; it is very uncharitable. The president cannot be complicit in the kinds of things being said of him. “The president is more than concerned of the ongoing situation and he is fully conscious of the fact that it is the responsibility of his government to work with Nigerians to secure lives and stop the ongoing crisis whether they are kidnapping or the new line of ethnic violence. He condemns it and he does not support it”. Garba urged community leaders to work with the president and security agencies to check the problem. “Community leaders — local and traditional — must work with the president. To say the president is doing nothing is because there is impunity. Impunity is in the country because there are big men, VIPs,” he said. “The country’s military as we speak are overstretched because they are active in at least 34 of the 36 states including the FCT.” Also, the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Muhammed Adamu yesterday launched a security action plan code-named ‘Operation Puff Adder II’ to battle banditry, kidnappings, armed robbery and other violent crimes. Adamu said the special operation, which will be intelligence-led and community-driven, will be executed in sustained in collaboration with the Armed Forces, the intelligence community and other sister security agencies. A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, said: “It is aimed at re-dominating and reclaiming the public space from criminals that are bent on threatening the internal security order across the country and bringing them to book. “The IGP, during the flag-off of the Special Operation at the Force Headquarters, Abuja, noted that Operation Puff Adder II is an initiative of the Force conceived from a deliberate and critical evaluation of the pattern and trend of crimes in the country. “With the Special Operation, there shall be a massive and well-planned deployment of both human and other operational assets of the Force to reinforce and consolidate on the successes and achievements of Operation Puff Adder I, launched by the IGP in April 2019. “The IGP further noted that the flag-off is the first phase of the operation targeted at the full restoration of peace and security in the Northwest and Northcentral geopolitical zones of the country.” He explained that the operation is aimed at dislodging bandits from their current operational spaces and denying them space to regroup in other parts of the country. Mba added: “It will also ensure that all arrested bandits and their collaborators are brought to book. In the long run, it is expected that the operation shall be replicated across other states of the Federation to deal with the security challenges inherent in those states.” He said the IGP while assuring the Police operatives of adequate welfare provisions during the mission, charged them to be civil with law-abiding citizens but firm and ruthless with criminal elements who may want to threaten the safety of citizens in their Areas of Responsibilities”.