Justice Chigozie Igwe of the Rivers State High Court sitting in Port Harcourt has sentenced the killer of Jumia delivery agent Chukwuma Eleje to death either by hanging or firing squad. Sodienyem Mbatumukeke killed Eleje, 37, in Port Harcourt about four years ago when the latter delivered an ordered iPhone to Mbatumukeke’s house. His remains were later found in a septic tank in the house. Mbatumukeke and one Excel Destiny were charged for the murder of the victim. Delivering the judgement on Monday, the court discharged and acquitted Destiny but found Mbatumukeke guilty as charged. Justice Igwe described Mbatumukeke as a hardened criminal that deserves no mercy, adding that he was not remorseful. He said, “You are convicted for the murder of the Jumia delivery agent on March 25, 2017 and sentenced to die by hanging. You are to be tied hands and legs and hanged on your neck until you die, or by firing squad and may your sin be on your head.” Justice Igwe announced. Reacting to newsmen after the judgment, Director of Public Prosecution (DPP) Ibiene Ibano who prosecuted the trial on behalf of the state expressed satisfaction with the judgment, noting that it will serve as a deterrent to such killers. Asked how he got into the case, Destiny said, “I do tattoo for a living, all the tattoos on the Sodienyem’s body were drawn by me. I came to his house that faithful day to do my normal home service work, before I got myself into this mess.” He said he was about to raise the alarm on seeing a pool of blood when Mbatumukeke rushed at him with a gun and told him to shut up. “He then directed me to begin to clean up the mess with him, and I did amid fear and panting,” he said. Wife of the deceased, Blessing, who was in court with her three children, expressed gratitude to God, on the outcome of the case. “I am grateful to God, the state, the court for how the case has ended, although my husband is no more, but the law has taken its course on the killer of my husband by this judgement today.” The convict’s defence said they will appeal the judgment.