 As the registration and revalidation of membership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) continues the Igbo in Lagos and other parts of Nigeria have been urged to join the party. Chief Solomon Chukwu made the call during a chat with reporters, shortly after his inauguration as Enyiwarauzo Ndigbo 1 of Lagos State by the Igbo Community, Christian Nwachukwu. The event, which attracted prominent Igbo sons and daughters, took place at the Lagos State Igbo Community Centre on Nwachukwu Drive, Okota in Isolo Local Council Development Area of Lagos State. Chukwu said: “Currently, registration and revalidation of membership of the APC is going on. I, therefore, advise Ndigbo to join the APC so that they would be able to become relevant in the scheme of things in Lagos State and Nigeria.” stressing that the APC was the party to beat as “there is no other party with the kind of relevance the APC has.” The business mogul noted that the Igbo have played second fiddle for so long in the opposition parties for as long as Nigerian politics has been. “We cannot continue to complain of being marginalised when we remain members of parties that are in opposition to the ruling party at the state and federal levels. “We must join the ruling part en masse and anytime it is the turn of Ndigbo to produce the president, we would be in a good position to do that. “The APC registration has started. I appeal to all Igbo in Lagos to register with APC. The APC is no longer a tribal or regional or sectional party. It is a national party and presently the biggest party in Nigeria. That is why it was able to win the presidency. Please, embrace the APC. Go to your wards and polling booths and be registered. “If you become a member of the APC, you have a voice in the affairs of the party and society. Whenever you are not comfortable with the running of the government and you want to correct any abnormality, you do that well when you are inside and not when you are outside. I am pleading with my brothers and sisters to avail themselves of the present opportunity to register and become members of the APC,” he said. On Igbo presidency, Chukwu said it is tenable. What Ndigbo need to do is to present the best they have to vie for the position of president of the land, even as he added that the Igbo must remain united and focused in their quest. They, he said, should join the ruling party which he described as a moving train that has enough space to accommodate everyone. “You cannot lay claim to any subject matter when you are a non-member of the group that will decide who takes what. Again, you cannot criticise any wrongdoing from outside an entity. You have to be part of that entity for you to have a voice and be part of those who will decide who takes what. You can only be inside for you to pour scorn on any anomaly. That is why I advise every Igbo man in Lagos State and anywhere in Nigeria to join the APC” Chukwu said. Pleading with Ndigbo in Lagos to identify with the party in power, Chief Chukwu noted that “Lagos State is a noble host that accommodates all well-meaning people. The state is a microcosm of Nigeria because members of every ethnic group in the country are resident here without being discriminated against. The state provides opportunities for those with genuine cause to excel. That is why we as Ndigbo should join hands in lifting the state that has been benevolent enough to provide forward-looking opportunities for those who are not indigenous to it to blossom. He praised the former Governor of the state, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu for his foresight in evolving a policy that “gives almost equal opportunities to the Yoruba and non-Yoruba and to ensure peaceful co-existence among the diverse nations in the state. “If the Jagaban of Africa and Asiwaju of Nigerian politics and National Leader of the APC Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu could provide level playing ground for everybody, irrespective of their ethnic, political, religious, and cultural inclinations, to flourish and cohabit peacefully in Lagos State, if he has such an opportunity at the national level, he would do well in uniting Nigeria.” He also praised the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly Mudashiru Obasa who he referred to as his boss and friend for providing quality leadership in the lawmaking processes of the House, even as he said “given his tested and trusted qualities, I have no doubt that if he gets a higher calling, he would excel.” On the chieftaincy title given to him by the Igbo Community in Lagos, Enyiwarauzo Ndigbo said he was appreciative to the Igbo Community led by Eze Nwachukwu for the honour done to him. He said: “Though this is not the first time I have been honoured with a chieftaincy title, the one by Eze Ndigbo of Lagos State is unique because the entire Ndigbo in Lagos State recognised him. To him, the honour is a push for him to do more for humanity because, to whom much is given, much is expected. It is a call to duty. It is a title to do more work.” Continuing, he said: “My major thrust is to ensure that Ndigbo embrace the host, the Yoruba not just as a people but also as partners in progress. The Igbo say ebe onye bi k’onawachi (where one has as an abode, is where one mends).” On his philanthropic schemes he said: “I am a trained environmentalist. I encourage anybody to do the best he or she can in order to succeed in life because nobody can develop your land except you. I am helping Nigerians to be gainfully employed and have a dignified means of livelihood.” Earlier, Eze Nwachukwu had said “the title (Enyiwarauzo) was special for him because of his hard work and commitment to the socio-economic and political development of Ndigbo in Lagos State in particular and in Igbo land in general. “Enyiwarauzo is brilliant, intelligent, hardworking and committed to the cause of Ndigbo in Lagos State. He has been promoting social and political interactions and promoting the government’s policies and programmes. He helps people in a tremendous way by organising empowerment programmes for people in Agege Local Government Area and beyond. That is why we honoured him, even as we urge him to do more for humanity.” 