The country’s secret security service has a responsibility to go after criminals and killers on the prowl across the country, leaders of Christian and Islamic religions said on Wednesday. According to them the Department of State Service (DSS) should collaborate with other security outfits, rather than always raising the red flag on impending security breaches. The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) and the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), spoke in separate interviews after the backdrop of another security alert issued on Wednesday by the DSS that some “persons and groups” were planning to cause religious and ethnic crises across the country. The agency last month equally raised  the alarm that some persons working with external forces were plotting to cause religious mayhem in Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Kano, Sokoto, Kaduna, Plateau, and the five Southeast states of Anambra, Abia, Imo, Enugu, and Ebonyi. Rev. Bayo Oladeji, the spokesman for CAN President, Rev. Sam Ayokunle, said: “Whenever the DSS raises any alarm over the security of the country, ordinarily, one should take them seriously because of the fact that their primary responsibility includes but not limited to intelligence gathering. “We recall that the agency raised a similar alarm recently. But how many suspects have been arrested, detained and arraigned in connection with the last ones? “Are they not aware that people are being kidnapped on the highways and in their residences without any arrest? We wonder whether those shedding innocent blood and those who are kidnapping for ransom are spirit? “CAN, therefore, calls on those who are responsible for the security of lives and properties of the people to wake up to their constitutional responsibilities. “The primary responsibility of every responsible government is the protection of lives and property of its citizens. Our governments have not been able to do that.  Sometimes, some suspects are paraded before the cameras but their prosecution remains unknown. This doesn’t speak well of us as a nation. “Terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and other criminals are not invincible and until they are apprehended and successfully prosecuted, people will no longer have respect for those who are in charge of the security.” CAN also accused the Federal Government of politicising security, citing the controversy trailing the tenure of Inspector-General of Police Mohammed Adamu as an example. It asked: “Is that good for the country when we all know the aftermath of prolonging the tenure of the immediate past Service Chiefs. Our government should stop politicising our security. “Things are becoming increasingly complicated daily. Criminals are operating as if our security agencies are on holiday. “We have been calling for a complete overhaul of the security architecture in vain. May we be  delivered from  criminals who are now operating with impunity.” The Head of Media and Communication of NSCIA, headed by Sultan of Sokoto Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar, Aselemi Ibrahim, said:” We call on the security apparatus, especially the DSS to fish out these enemies of the state and deal with them according to the law. This is because it is only when criminal elements are punished that we can effectively give potency to deterrence.” Ibrahim added that the Islamic group would  continue to advocate  respect for the religious beliefs of all and  peaceful coexistence in Nigeria. He said: “We sincerely believe that we are greater together. The Council will like to use this medium to applaud the majority of Nigerians for their tenacity in the defence of the unity and diversity of the country. ”We cannot leave security matters to security agencies alone. If you see something, say something.” The DSS on Wednesday in a statement said the objective  of the promoters of the latest  plot  was to inflame the embers of tribal and religious discords through “inciting, unguarded and divisive statements.” The statement by its  Public Relations Officer,  Dr Peter Afunanya,  warned those behind the plot to desist or face the wrath of the law. It reads: “The Department of State Services (DSS) hereby reminds the public of its earlier warnings about plans by persons and groups to exploit some fault lines to cause ethno-religious violence in parts of the country. “Latest developments indicate desperate efforts by these groups to subvert public order.  In this regard, they have continued to resort to inciting, unguarded and divisive statements and acts. The objective is to pit citizens against one another in order to apparently inflame the embers of tribal and religious discords. “For the umpteenth time, the Service strongly warns these elements to desist forthwith from their (planned) nefarious acts or face the full wraths of the law.  However, the DSS will, in collaboration with other security and law enforcement agencies, take necessary steps to ensure the safety of lives and property of the citizenry. “ But Plateau state Commissioner of Police Edward Egbuka dismissed any threat or plot to incite religious violence in the state. Egbuka said “as far as l am concerned in Plateau, no such thing. “we are still trying to manage herders/farmers conflict, which is the challenge. And, to some extent, kidnapping is what we are trying to curb. We cannot rule out pockets of problems here and there. As such, I am close to the DSS in the state. Outgoing Kano State Commissioner of Police, Habu Sani, said security agencies are working harmoniously together to forestall any outbreak of violence. Sani, who is among the commissioners of police newly promoted to the rank of Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of police, said so far, “Kano is calm and peaceful.”