 Those who claim that a federal law banning open grazing, if enacted, as proposed by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, will be unlawful, miss the target. In their confusion they conflate a law banning open grazing with the right of herdsmen like every other Nigerian, to trek from Bayelsa to Sokoto, as long as they don’t trespass on private property or commit any crime on their way. Furthermore, they want to confound our reasoning that the right to live in any part of Nigeria is the same thing with a right to practice your trade at the detriment of the rights of other persons in any part of the country. They give the unreasonable impression that because a Nigerian has a right to live in any part of the country, such a person can go into the precincts of the Bauchi State government house, for instance, to set up a spare parts shop. In their malice-laden endeavour to deceive, they give the impression that whereas there is a constitutionally guaranteed fundamental right to move freely from one part of the country to another, there are no constitutional guaranteed right to privately own properties, protected by laws of the state from intrusion and interference by other fellow citizens. To show how deceitful the proponents of these fallacies are, one of them, Governor Bala Mohammed, of Bauchi State, lied that his Fulani kinsmen who are herders are entitled to carry AK-47 to defend themselves, because governments have failed to provide them security, and consequently that the farms owned by the kinsmen of Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State, can be trampled upon and destroyed by the herders without consequences. In an address in Abuja, last week, Bala denigrated the constitution he swore to uphold with his barefaced lies, even as some persons clapped for him. Of course, there are many misguided public officials all over the place, who will neither study the laws of the country nor consult those who have studied it, even when they answer lawmakers. The chairman of the Senate Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Senator Ajibola Basiru, Osun Central, displayed such ignorance when he said: “If a law was made as proposed by the governor (of Kano), it would not only be unconstitutional, but also go contrary to the part of the constitution which stipulates that Nigerians, irrespective of state of birth or nativity, had right to freedom of movement.” They pretend they are not aware that there are legitimate laws and regulations undergirding the practice of trade and business, in every part of the country. Because they are desperate to please the powers-that-be, they pretend that the rearing of cattle cannot be regulated, just like every other private business, even when that trade is being practised in a manner constituting danger to public health. Such a mind-set as displayed by Ajibola is what is plaguing the officialdom in Nigeria at the highest level. It is the reason the presidency are quiet when a governor lies on a national television that citizens whose business interest are endangered are entitled to carry guns, but it will be unlawful for a state to arm its security men to protect the citizens of the state. For the purpose of emphasis, the freedom of movement does not include the right to defiantly walk across a private lawns, talk less of eating the grasses on the lawn. Last week, the private residence of revered Noble Laureate Professor Wole Soyinka, was trespassed upon by headless herdsmen. To show that the herdsmen even know that their right of movement does not include a right to trespass, they ran away when they were confronted for their unlawful conduct. The 1999 constitution (as amended) in the much misinterpreted section 41(1) provides: “Every citizen of Nigeria is entitled to move freely throughout Nigeria and to reside in any part thereof, and no citizen of Nigeria shall be expelled from Nigeria or refused entry hereof or exit there from.” There is clearly nothing in the above provision that arrogates the right to turn such movement into a tumultuous hurricane leaving in its wake destruction of other people’s property. If the constitutional guarantee of freedom of movement extends to the right to traverse private properties and to conduct business in any place, then a Church organisation can go into the compound owned by a Muslim society and set up a church, or vice versa. The same constitution in section 43 provides that: “Subject to the provision of this constitution, every citizen of Nigeria shall have the right to acquire and own immovable property.” It provides further down in section 44(1) “No moveable property or any interest in an immovable property shall be taken possession of compulsorily and no right over or interest in any such property shall be acquired compulsorily in any part of Nigeria except in the manner and for the purpose prescribed by a law”. All the listed derogations in sub-sections (a) to (m) of section 44 do not include a forceful acquisition of such immovable property by private citizens for the purpose of fostering private business of feeding cows or through the exaction of armed banditry with AK 47 rifles. Yet, Governor Bala and his ilk, who probably own those destructive cows, and prefer the archaic culture which foster their hegemony over their less fortunate kinsmen, would push such lies in the name of Fulani interest. But they forget that if the right to traverse the country with cattle and guns are constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights, then there would be no need for rights to private properties, state and national boundary. Indeed, if Governor Bala is sincere, then that large expanse of land he acquired in Abuja, while he was minister of federal capital should be forfeited to herdsmen. I am sure that if someone should set up a car wash in any part of that land which he acquired for himself and his erstwhile principal President Goodluck Jonathan, he would readily sue for trespass, yet he argues herdsmen to enter into other people’s family compound, farms and forest reserves recklessly, and have their cattle feast on crops and grasses as it suits them. Of note, trespass was defined in the English case of Entick v Carrington (1765) 95 ER 807 at 817 as “every invasion of private property, be it ever so minute is a trespass though there be no damage.” If not that our country is degenerating to swaths of lawless fiefdom; and if the judicial system is up and active, successful actions in trespass, with award of humongous exemplary damages, would have curtailed the madness promoted by the likes of Governor Bala Mohammed.