A 28-year-old man, Chukwuemeka Obijofa, has explained the reasons why he allegedly killed his wife and 4-year- old son in Ofufe Nza village in Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State. The suspect was arrested last month after attacking the wife, Chisom and his child, Amanda on their heads with a shovel. He was said to have wounded a vigilante man who attempted to rescue the victims with the same object. Obijofa, who was paraded on Saturday at the Police headquarters in Amawbia, together with other suspects, confessed he killed the wife over infidelity. He said the wife had confessed to him that the only son they had was not from him, adding that his anger grew the day he returned home to see her with two strange men. He said, “I opened my eyes in the police station and found out that I’m responsible for killing my wife and my son. I killed her out of anger after I found out that she’s been cheating on me for long. I didn’t believe it because of the level of love and trust I have for her. “I came back from work and found out that the food they have was not enough for them. I stepped out to collect money from a client so I can get something for them. “But when I came back later, I discovered she wasn’t alone at home. She was with two men that I don’t know. When I tried to enquire who they were, she asked me to keep quiet that she would explain later. She later took me to the room for explanations. “Before I could come out, the guys have left without informing us. I became angrier. My wife was trying to calm me down but I couldn’t bear it due to the level of love and trust I have for her.” The suspect, a carpenter who claimed to have lived peacefully with the late wife since five years of marriage, said the Indian hemp he took shortly after to pacify his anger, rather triggered it. “As I was about to leave, I told her that I’m leaving the house for her and her boyfriends who she’s preferred and more comfortable with. “I went straight to where I took some hemp to calm myself and feel relieved. But unexpectedly, I found out that the hemp even made it worse that I lost my conscience. I couldn’t behave like a human being again. “It became obvious to me that another demon or extraordinary spirit has possessed me. Besides, nobody was around to control me. I didn’t know what else that happened till I opened my eyes to find out that I’ve killed my wife,” he added. Expressing remorse over his actions, Obijofa who claimed to be an ordained evangelist, said he was warned by his pastor against the consequences of such vices, just as he warned youths to steer clear of contraband products, especially hard drugs. “I was ordained in 2012 as an evangelist. If I pray, it comes to pass. But when I began to fall out from God’s mercy, my pastor warned me that a day is coming when I’ll face the consequences. He said his God didn’t want me to pay the supreme price. “But I couldn’t believe it until today I’m giving this message to those it has not happened to. Please, whatever government declared contraband, especially hard drugs, please steer clear from them. It has a way of impacting another spirit in you,” he added.