 A graduate of Accounting from Benue State University Makurdi, Bernard Deri, who has been suffering from swollen neck, on Monday cried out for help. Deri, 43, hails from Katsina Ala local government area, Benue State. He said he has been battling with the disease for about two years, moving from one hospital to another. Deri lost his father, a Warrant Officer II (WO2) of the Nigerian Army, in June 2017. His mother died earlier in 1990 when he was in primary school. A former salesman, Deri lost his job to his health challenge. “Another employment opportunity came the other time and I was invited for interview, but given my condition, I couldn’t attend the interview,” the orphan said. When doctors diagnosed him at the Benue State University Teaching Hospital, they discovered Liposarcoma Cancer, after a soft tissue biopsy was done. Preparatory tests were carried out and he was placed on Chemotherapy -the treatment of Cancer by Cytotoxic and other drugs. But the treatment was stopped when he could not afford medical charges. It was gathered the hospital demanded N1.850 million for Chemotherapy, Radiology and Surgery. “I couldn’t afford the money,” he said. “It is said, ‘a problem shared is a problem solved,’ so today I decided to seek public help to enable me treat this disease; it is beginning to overwhelm me.” Deri has a Lipomatous tumor growing daily, pressing on his neck and surrounding nerves and muscles. Multiple matted Lymph modes and Hypoechoic mass in the Parotid gland are causing deep pains in his neck bones and headache. He said his eyes are also beginning to swell up and affect his faculty of seeing. He is calling on the general public to assist him, especially his local government council chairman, Alfred Atera, State House of Assembly members representing Katsina Ala east and west, Jonathan Agbidyeh and Jacob Orban, Sankera Federal House of Representatives member, Richard Gbande, Senator Gabriel Suswam representing Benue Zone A and Governor Samuel Ortom. He can be reached directly on 08066502469.