Winners have emerged in Vantage Migration‘s all-expense paid trip to Benin Republic. They emerged after a rigorous process that started with following CEO of the educational company helping university graduates to gain admission and scholarship abroad, Dr Linda Iheme, on her social media pages. The contest for the trip, a Carousel design Challenge, which should contain details about Dr. Linda Iheme and Vantage Migration, was announced in January 2021 and had thousands of applicants across Facebook and Instagram. At the end of the contest, seven people got to the final stage and Nwodo Joy Chiamaka emerged the winner of the contest. The winners expressed joy as they spoke with The Nation. Elated Joy, who had not travelled outside Nigeria before now, revealed winning the trip to Benin Republic after contesting severally for other contests by Vantage Migration (Rwanda and Dubai all expenses paid trip), was a big one for her. Nwodo Joy Chiamaka, who is popularly known as Joy Sandra on Facebook and on Instagram, was born to the family of Hon. Peter Chinwuba Nwodo, From Amurri in Nkanu West LGA. She said: “I couldn’t have asked for better life, growing up with my parents and siblings was fabulous, I saw the world change at a tremendous rate, so many discoveries, many inventions, population boom to natural calamities, from sleeping under a fan or natural breeze to a cozy split A.C.” “I love sports so well that I always want to participate in all the sports activities in my Primary and Secondary schools, my dad was loved by many in our locality.”
O how she got to know about Vantage Migration, she said: “I got to know about Vantage Migration and Allied Consult through Instagram. One evening I decided to open my Instagram, I saw a live session of Dr. Linda Iheme (the CEO and Founder of Vantage migration) and Omoni Oboli (the Popular Nigerian actress.) “They were talking about Vantage migration and the great things they do in helping people to secure admission and scholarship abroad. And I saw how Dr. Linda was laughing throughout the live session, they said a lot of things that caught my attention like helping students to get study loans, getting a low tuition school, admission and scholarship to study abroad. The amazing thing is that you will be trained to do all these things yourself without any AGENT. Immediately, I started following her on Facebook and on Instagram and of course I fell for Dr. Linda’s Smile.” Speaking about how she emerged the winner, she revealed that she made sure she obeyed the rules guiding the challenge, which in-turn, got her a lot of engagements. “When I was announced the winner, my body (inside and out), was so hot, I had to go out of my gate to receive fresh air. My body was shaking with tears of Joy rolling down my chest” she said. Nwodo said even though she has been telling people about Vantage Migration even before now, it has made it more easier spreading the good news about Vantage Migration and many of her friends now believe her. She said: “Winning made it easier for me to tell people about Vantage Migration. I can boldly share with someone the good news about Vantage Migration. In fact, recently I noticed two of my friends became top fans already.” “I am looking forward to the positive exposure this trip will bring my way, I would love to travel to the US and Canada before the end of 2021, and have my Master’s degree in Canada. I urge everyone struggling to study abroad not to stop chasing that beautiful dream, source for the right information, take actions, back it up with prayers, don’t ever get discouraged by anything, God doesn’t disappoint. And finally, Follow @Dr. LindaIheme on Facebook and on Instagram.” The second person picked for the trip, Assumpta Echezonachi Onyejiaku, emerged through another contest. She expressed delight being selected, saying she was happy to be the second person for the trip. Assumpta a native of Awo Idemili, Orsu LGA in Imo state, is the third born of five. She said she had travel experiences and believes the trip to Benin will expose her positively and her business as she gets to meet new people outside her comfort zone. When asked who are celebrity crushes are, she said: “Dr. Linda Iheme is my female celebrity crush, she brings out all shades of positivity and gives back to humanity, while Chief Pete Edochie, MON is my male celebrity crush and is considered one of Africa’s most talented actors, His philanthropist ideas are top notch and also he has this skill of impacting to the young and upcoming.“ Assumpta advised those who wish to study abroad to used the expertise of Dr Linda Iheme and Vantage Migration, she said “To those who wish to study to any country of choice, be it UK, US, CANADA, POLAND e.t.c, Vantage Migration and Allied consult is the right plug for you. Aside the Master Hack Class, I will advise that you go subscribe to Dr. Linda iheme TV youtube channel, where she uploads free videos filled with the right information on how to start your study abroad journey, and also attend her free webinar www.bit.ly/admissionhackswebinar Follow Dr. Linda Iheme on Facebook and @Drlinda iheme on Instagram.”