Some hoodlums have stabbed two men in Warri, Delta State. One of the victims is a brother to the late chief priest of Igbudu community in Warri South council area of Delta State. The Nation learnt that the incident occurred around 3pm on Saturday, causing panic at the popular Igbudu Market. A community source said one of the victims of the attack, Ufuoma Kelly, is an elder brother to the chief priest, Victor Alero, who was stabbed to death last October. The Nation reported that the chief priest was stabbed to death for impregnating a Muslim lady. It was not clear what led to the renewed attack, but the community source claimed it was unprovoked. Kelly and a colleague, identified simply as Okpako, were reportedly stabbed in the back as they as they sold trading tickets in the market. “There was an attack yesterday again. People were in the market. Ufoma Kelly, elder brother to the late chief priest that was murdered on October 1, was stabbed in the back. Then one Okpako who is a community worker was also stabbed in the head and back. “The thing is becoming alarming. Nobody can even tell what caused this attack. Even the soldiers that came were surprised. They were like, you people (Igbudu community) should leave this thing for us to handle. “Normally, in the morning, they go round. There are people assigned to collect money from the traders, so at the end of the day, people are paid to clean the place. They went around to collect that money. In the course of collecting the money, these boys just came out and attacked them. It was like an ambush.” Police spokesperson DSP Onome Onovwakpoyeya confirmed the attack, but noted that the community refused to give up information on who was injured or who inflicted the injury. A male student of Delta State Polytechnic, Oghara, Ethiope West council area has been murdered by hoodlums. The incident happened Saturday evening, reportedly on campus grounds. There are speculations that it may be cult-related. Onovwakpoyeya confirmed the incident. “The report is that the girlfriend of deceased said she and her boyfriend went to settle scores with one lecturer somewhere and as they were coming out of the place, about four people now dragged the boyfriend into the bush. “She was the one that ran to the police to report,” Onovwakpoyeya said.