It is the symbol of the Lorient renewal. Scorer five times in the last five matches of FC Lorient, Terem Moffi is the great architect of the return of the Merlus in the race to cement their place in Ligue 1. A player with a career as atypical as he is supersonic, the Nigerian striker is gradually starting to find its marks.  Terem Moffi arrived for eight million euros excluding bonus from KV Kortrijk, the Nigerian is one of the very good surprises since the recovery. Up to asserting himself as one of the men of renewal on the Lorient side. And the least we can say is that Moffi’s trajectory is atypical to say the least.  Beginnings in the street and in the midfield Before becoming a promising striker, Terem Moffi made his ranges in midfield. Used to street football until his pre-adolescence, the native of Calabar evolved until he was 12 years old at the heart of the game. Too lazy, the young Nigerian quickly swings in front. With the pressure of the father as a bonus. “He said to me: ‘you can’t play like that, you have to be aggressive and you have to be aggressive’. At the training center in my city, the coach also said: ‘If you don’t work, you won’t play ‘. And after a while, he felt that I was made to evolve in front”, he confided to the Belgian magazine Sport / Foot Magazine, a year ago. It was not until his last year in youth that he finally stabilized at number 9, during his year in England. ” At school, my coach convinced me that I was a sprinter and he made me the fastest player in the club, ” he continued.  Emerging globetrotter At only 21, Terem Moffi has had four professional clubs. Left at 17 from his native Nigeria, the striker first put his bags in England where he finished his studies at the Buckswood Football Academy, as he explained to our colleagues from Ouest-France. ” I managed to enter a school in England at the age of 17, thanks to football. I chose this life, I wanted to succeed in football. In life, you don’t have to  stay in your comfort zone but you have to look for things. Take risks. ” Daring is in any case part of the young player’s DNA. Illustration just a few months after his arrival on the Old Continent, when he joined FK Kauno Žalgiris, in Lithuanian D1, before joining the neighbour of FK Riteriai. Between the two clubs, it is mainly visa problems that will keep Moffi away from the field. Eighteen long months of waiting spent between Nigeria and South Africa (lack of Lithuanian embassy in Lagos) which will not prevent him from slamming 20 goals in 31 matches for his return with the Baltic club, between the summer 2018 and January 2019. His performance then caught the eye of Kortrijk, which attracted the player to Belgium in January 2020. Despite the cessation of the championship because of the coronavirus pandemic, Moffi took the time to mark the spirits and observers with 5 goals in 9 Jupiler League matches. Before Lorient sniffs the big deal.  Surgical efficiency While the club still have high hopes for Adrian Grbić, the club’s most expensive rookie, Terem Moffi did not wait to get noticed. Scorer and passer for his first in the league, in Reims, the Nigerian has yet gone through a great period of famine. Before putting on the heating blue just before the end of the year holidays. Scorer in his last five outings in Ligue 1, the native of Calabar has erased players like Majeed Waris and Kévin Gameiro from the shelves, who had scored in four consecutive matches, from the Hake’s guestbook, just that. More than an offensive weapon, Terem Moffi nonetheless remains a player of almost absolute efficiency, especially since his arrival in France. Because the Nigerian is simply a born scorer and hits the mark every time he comes face to face with goal. With six goals scored on the eight shots he has on target, the former Kortrijk player has confirmed all the promises made since his rise, wherever he has played. In the Jupiler League, he was already turning to a goal scored every 116 minutes.  Family’s legacy If the young Terem shines, it is also thanks to his family heritage. At the Moffi, the round ball is more than an institution and the whole family lives to the rhythm of leather. Above all, the father, Leo, is a former professional player in the country. Goalkeeper, he notably wore the colours of his hometown club, Calabar Rovers, El Kanemi Warriors, but especially those of Enugu Rangers, seven-time champion of Nigeria. It is also in the latter that “papa Moffi” rubbed shoulders with a certain Jay-Jay Okocha, one of Terem’s models. Close to Alex Iwobi Passed by the University of Nigeria in parallel with his professional career, Leo Moffi also met Chuka Iwobi, father of Alex, with whom he notably competed in the local university championship. The two patriarchs have become very close and in the end, the current Everton player and the Merlus striker have grown up together. And as fate never ends, Alex Iwobi is neither more nor less than Jay-Jay Okocha’s nephew.  Between Okocha and Osimhen Athletic, fast, sharp and efficient when catching balls, Terem Moffi pulled out the extent of his palette during his last outings. His goal against the Parisians is the illustration. Provisions that recall some former Nigerian players, some of whom have passed through France, and from which the player does not fail to draw inspiration, as he explains to Ouest-France. ” I grew up watching Jay-Jay Okocha, Obafemi Martins, Nwankwo Kanu, then Victor Osimhen play. I watch him play a lot, we played together, he’s a real role model. I’m also a big fan of Robin Van. Persie. It was the best, for me. ” The powerful Nigerian has also never hidden his admiration for another center forward, rather successful in recent seasons, the Belgian Romelu Lukaku. It is also with the former Anderlecht player that comparisons have been going well since Moffi’s arrival in Europe.  Darling of Drogba There is yet another center forward who greatly influenced the native of Calabar, and not the least. Raised in a family fan of Chelsea, especially his mother, Terem Moffi grew up to the rhythm of the exploits of the London club and in particular those of Didier Drogba. ” When we know that Drogba went through the French D2, we say to ourselves: why not me? It’s possible. We put that in mind, we keep thinking about it and we work hard, ”  he explained  to the Belgian weekly Sport  Foot Magazine, last winter.A few weeks ago, Moffi caught the eye of Jean-Louis Gasset. Even if the Girondins had disposed of the Bretons, the Bordeaux coach had not failed to highlight the performance of the young center forward just after the meeting. ” Tonight we saw a 20 year old kid juggling us. ” Ardently desired during the last summer transfer window by Christophe Pélissier who never fails to underline ” his power, his technique and his agility in the face of goal .” Moffi has been shining since Christmas. In short, an ideal gift for the FCL who will need his attacker for his rescue operation.