Faced with limited housing supply, the Managing Director, Tetramanor Nigeria Limited, Mr. John Beecroft has stressed the need for stakeholders in the sector to focus on provision of one million homes yearly, to reduce the shortfall. He stated this at the grand opening of TM Meadows, a residential housing project located in Ebute-Metta. The commissioning featured the handing over of keys to the subscribers of the project. TM Meadows consists of 37-units of two and three-bedroom apartments and four-bedroom maisonettes. Other features include maid’s room, extensive parking lots, ‘reverse osmosis’ treated water supply, spacious garden and playground, 24 hours security, closed circuit television, backup power transformer, and supermarket. The N1.4 billion project, which started two years ago, is a mixed purpose development that includes both residential and commercial spaces and is strategically located five minutes from the Third Mainland Bridge. He observed that developers would have to keep providing the basic infrastructures for housing projects, which will invariably impact on cost of housing delivery as expectations that government would provide the basic infrastructure have failed over time. Speaking on TM Meadows, Beecroft said, “Out of the 37 units, 34 have already been sold! And this is well understood when you consider that despite the adverse economic environment, we went all out to provide real quality spaces, with special features such as a jogging path, Gym, Mini Basket Court, Italian electrical and sanitary fittings, and high quality wooden GQ doors.” The firm, he noted was no exception to the impact of the global health crisis, increase in the exchange rate, prices of building materials and the #EndSARS protest, which prompted shutting down of the site and caused a delay of about six months to deliver the N1.4b project. He said, “We provide light; the paving on the road was done by us, water, and power supply, as well as pay for security. Most of our building materials are imported; the price of cement went from N2, 300 to N3, 500, iron rod increased by about 20 percent, POP went up by over 100 percent, the cost of doors also increased by 100 percent. The cost of labour didn’t increase that much but material costs are the main thing in any building project. We had to increase prices a bit, but couldn’t cut down on quality.” Commissioning the project, the Chief Executive Officer, TW Construction Limited, Otunba Tomori Williams, said the project would further reduce the housing shortfalls in the country.