 The arguments surrounding the purchase of one million doses of vaccine, by the BUA Group of Companies for the Nigerian public, has again shown how very careless some Nigerians can be over human lives, given the effects of the pandemic globally. That there is even a debate surrounding what is obviously a show of magnanimity by the management of the company, to save lives, would make any sane human cringe in disgust. BUA has been part of the Nigerian private sector pandemic alliance, the Coalition Against COVID-19 (CACOVID), that has been struggling to manage the different adverse impacts of coronavirus.  So, ordinarily, to have have gone ahead to purchase the one million doses of AstraZaneca vaccine, with a promise to buy more, should be as laudable as it is encouraging to other companies, to come to the aid of Nigerians, in procuring the vaccines that the whole world is embracing to save humanity. The big caveat, however, is BUA’s solo act, which tends to be truncating CACOVID’s tradition of playing as a collective, a style that has made the alliance  grander and much more impactful. Inasmuch as we must commend BUA for coming out with near-instant cash, since according to the company Nigeria risked losing out of that vaccine deal without immediate payment, that commendable piece of corporate charity ought to have been better managed with its alliance partners, such that BUA doesn’t expose itself to accusation of stealing solo glory. But the other CACOVID partners too ought to have been much more nuanced and circumspect.  It is no use giving the public the impression that CACOVID, that has done so much in so little time, is under avoidable strain, no thanks to needless personality clashes.  It is such an unnecessary controversy, at a crucial juncture, where the focus ought to be purchasing vaccines to checkmate COVID-19, once and for all, so that the Nigerian economy and people can have their lives back. So, while we commend BUA for its timely initiative, and call on it to walk its talk on the remaining four million vaccine doses it has pledged, we recommend even more that it rededicates itself to the common CACOVID goals, so that more distances are covered. The bad blood, issuing from the present controversy, just wouldn’t do.  It is unbelievable that those cross with BUA appear to be insinuating the vaccine it ordered might not be safe.  That is pettiness taken too far, and it is likely to lower public confidence in CACOVID’s noble vaccine intervention. Besides, those criticisms as not well thought out;  and they reek of crass insensitivity to the plight of Nigerians.  The technology is well established to determine the safety or otherwise of vaccines, without resorting to base whispering campaigns. Those behind these whispering campaigns must also realize that Nigeria, with the largest population in Africa, is at a very big risk, with little help in sight; since most developed countries are focusing on their citizens first, before extending help to any other country.  These critics should realize time is of essence, in the race against time, to checkmate COVID-19. That is why the BUA one million doses should be appreciated, regardless of the controversies swirling around it.  This initial effort would go a long way.  As CACOVID revs up its vaccine intervention, the prospect of vaccinating millions of Nigerians, and ridding our people of COVID-19 infection, would become brighter. Indeed CACOVID, must forge a vibrant public-private-participation (PPP) partnership with the government, in vaccine intervention: in procurement and actual vaccination. Though it is the government’s responsibility to offer the dominant push, that it has organized private sector support would go a long way. That way, Nigerians won’t be bare of protection, even with many nations of the world playing vaccine nationalism and regionalism. So, let the BUA move signal the first move, in a CACOVID-powered mass vaccination of Nigerians against coronavirus. The earlier this plan is put in place, the lesser the possibility of Nigerians facing travel bans, for non-COVID-19 vaccination.