Adamawa Governor Ahmadu Fintiri has said the Rural Electrification Agency (REA) 30kWp solar hybrid mini grid mini grid project, which he commissioned in Mbela-Lagaje Mayo Belwa Local Government will improve the livelihoods of residents. He expressed gratitude to the Buhari led federal government for commissioning a rural electrification project in the state. The Governor said the gesture will stimulate residents to explore a number of entrepreneurial possibilities. REA, in a statement in Abuja quoted him as saying: “For me, this is what true equity feels like; when the government at the center ensures that development impact is evident in the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. ” I will encourage the people of Mayo Belwa to optimize the use of this new infrastructure as well as collectively leverage on possible investment opportunities. “Electricity enlivens the socioeconomic activities in communities such as these. Therefore, the importance of providing adequate and reliable electricity in Nigerian communities cannot be overemphasised. “It is important to point out that, the industrious people of these communities are expected to witness growth in business and productivity with this clean, safe and reliable electricity while ensuring good education for school children and security in the community at night”. REA’s Managing Director, Ahmad Salihijo Ahmed, said the Federal Government is poised to ensure deployment of equitable electricity to rural dwellers across every nook and cranny of Nigeria. His words: “Powering this community is another testament of the impact of REA’s off-grid solutions. I’m delighted that with this intervention, Mbela-Lagaje will witness upgrade in its socioeconomic status. “I also strongly believe just as we have seen in other communities where these interventions have been deployed, that the quality of lives will be improved and both the young and the old will have the opportunity to explore the possibilities derived from clean, safe and reliable electricity.” Chairman Senate Committee on Power Gabriel Suswam noted that at the 9th Assembly, electricity access is Central in the most of the sessions. Represented by the senator representing Adamawa central, Aishatu Ahmed Binani, Suswam said: “with a deep understanding of the pivotal role of electricity access to national development, we have continuously steered developmental actions around the deployment of electricity infrastructure across the nation.” Chairman, Mayo Belwa local government, Gershon Kasuwa and the district head of Mayo Belwa, Ardo Bamanga Dalil, respectively commended the Federal Government for citing the project in the local government. They urged the people to appreciate the gesture by being law abiding and make efficient use of the power project to enhance their standard of living.