The growth of bitcoin in 2020 was remarkable, as the BTC price started the year with $7,200 and grew to $19,131. The number of wallet users rose from 45 million in 2019 to a total of 63 million in 2020, which shows that there’s an increase in demand for bitcoin now more than ever before. The market cap also reached an all-time high and has grown over 400 billion U.S. dollars. With these statistics and the significant growth of bitcoin recently, what is there to expect in
2021? Bitcoin has always been a highly volatile asset and that would continue even in 2021. It’s a decentralized currency that is not tied to any monetary policy or the economy, which means it can appreciate or depreciate over time without any valid explanation. While the events in the past few months might have suggested bitcoin to be a trusted cryptocurrency that guarantees returns, no one should get carried away. Bitcoin is still a volatile asset and will continue to be even this year. Factors that determine the bitcoin price include Supply and Demand, Mining Cost. Competing Cryptocurrencies, The Press, Regulations that govern the sale, and more. When Bitcoin was first launched, many people had doubts about it. Today, the case is different as bitcoin is constantly being adopted into several platforms and mediums. Tech giants are beginning to invest in bitcoin, as they see a future in it. Just recently PayPal announced that users can now buy, sell and hold select Cryptocurrencies directly through their PayPal accounts. Square also invested up to $50M in bitcoin. As more prominent companies and individuals in the tech and finance sectors continue to talk about bitcoin, the demand will increase and it will be accepted even more amongst many. As bitcoin continues to grow, the governments of many nations are watching and there is never a better time than now for them to compete. Bitcoin is gradually taking over the payment sector and central banks won’t sit and watch it happen. China is a perfect example of a country taking active steps. Towards the end of 2020, they announced their digital Yuan currency and in 2021, they are likely to move closer to launching this currency that also uses blockchain technology. This might affect the demand for bitcoin in the long run and other countries might begin to take a cue from China’s success. Whether or not 2021 will be a massive year for bitcoin depends on a lot of factors. For the most part, bitcoin is unpredictable and no one can tell exactly which way it would go but can only make predictions. However, with the recent technological advancement we’ve had, there’s more to expect. There are now high-tech bitcoin exchanges and wallets such as the Bitcoin Future app, which makes trading and investing bitcoin easier for everyone. With this, more people are inclined to owning some bitcoin, no matter how little. In the long run, we’d see what 2021 holds.