 It was meant to assist operators in the acquisition of maritime assets, although they are expected to pay back within a reasonable period. However, 17 years after the idea was floated and approved, the Cabotage Vessel Financing Fund (CVFF), painfully, remains inaccessible, thereby defeating its objective. However, late last year, the Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh said raised the hope of players in the sector when he announced at a virtual meeting with the Shipowners Association of Nigeria (SOAN) that the Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, had approved the disbursement of the fund. He said: “Only the details are being discussed with a view to avoiding former mistakes and ensuring effective and efficient utilisation of the fund. We have also submitted proposals to the minister to seek fiscal and monetary incentives for our shipowners.” Since then, nothing has been heard from NIMASA.  The CVFF  The CVFF is not government, or  free money. It was created by the Coastal and Inland Shipping Act, 2003, popularly known as Cabotage Act, which states: “There shall be paid into the Fund, a surcharge of two per cent of the contract sum performed by any vessel engaged in the coastal trade; monies generated under this Act, including the tariffs, fines and fees for licences and waivers; such further sums accruable to the fund by way of interests paid on and repayment of the principal sums of any loan granted from the Fund.” Also, there are primary lending institutions (PLIs), that is commercial banks, accredited to handled the CVFF. They contribute 50 per cent of the CVFF. They are Fidelity Bank, Skye Bank (now Polaris Bank), Sterling Bank, and Diamond Bank (now Access Bank).  Manager of the fund  The fund is not managed by NIMASA as many seem to erroneously believe. The PLIs  do, while NIMASA provides fund administration and corporate governance.The Federal Ministry of Transportation is the third party to the CVFF, while the obligor (i.e. an applicant that has accessed the fund) the fourth. Schedule 44 of Part VIII of the Act states: “The fund shall be collected by the National Maritime Authority (NIMASA) and deposited in commercial banks and administered under guideline that shall be proposed by the Minister and approved by the National Assembly.” Beneficiaries  According to Schedule 45 of the Cabotage Act, “the beneficiaries of the fund shall be Nigerians and shipping companies owned by Nigerians … for “the development of shipyard/maritime infrastructure to facilitate vessel construction, repairs and maintenance,” as well as “other shipping auxiliary projects relating to the development of local tonnage capacity and shipyards”.  How much can a ship owner get from the CVFF?  A ship owner can get about $25 million and shall have a maximum of seven years’ payback.The CVFF is to be disbursed on a single-digit interest rate of 5.6 percent, 0.25 percent processing fee, according to NIMASA.  Qualifications for accessing CVFF  Not all indigenous shipping service providers that are trading on Nigeria’s cabotage area will get the loan. The law, which establishes the fund, also states recommendations for accessing it. Firms wanting to access the CVFF loan must have been paying cabotage dues of two percent surcharge, licence and waiver fees. The company will have contracts with international oil firms. Also, the firm must have positive cash flow and bankable feasibility reports which shall be verified by NIMASA and the PLIs, among others. Indigenous shipping firms seeking to borrow from the CVFF are also expected to comply with the Cabotage Act and the CVFF guidelines, including domiciliation of company’s account with PLI of their choice. They shall provide full condition survey report on vessel to be procured, (for vessels) and legal mortgage on vessel to be procured. A maritime lawyer, Dr Dipo Alaka, said the CVFF scheme was created in 2004. “Since then, indigenous ship owners have been longing to benefit from the fund after several unfulfilled promises by the successive administrations,’’ he said. Alaka said the CVFF fund needed to be disbursed and urged NIMASA to do so before the end of the second quarter of this year. ”The fund, an off-shoot of Cabotage regime, was set up to empower indigenous ship owners, increase their tonnage, enhance their capacity to compete in coastal trade and generate employment. More important is that the fund is the two per cent contributions of ship owners deducted from the value of their contracts under the Cabotage regime. “But it is sad that almost 17 years after, no single dollar has been disbursed from the fund and the endless promises keep coming as if some people somewhere are benefiting from the non-disbursement of the fund,” Alaka said. An analyst, Mr Kehinde Adeleke urged NIMASA to disburse the fund and create enabling environment for the private sector to invest in the industry to achieve the objective of developing the nation’s blue economy and boost the revenue of the Federal Government.