 The Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Idris Maje Wase, has expressed delight over Federal Government’s gestures to his constituency. He said the All Progressive Congress (APC) government has been carrying his people along. The Deputy Speaker, who expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari and the leadership of National Assembly for ensuring that democratic dividends get to the masses, said the number of Federal Government projects being executed in his constituency is commendable. He said the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) neglected his people. According to him,  his constituency has received more federal government presence under APC than any other administration since the return of democracy. The Speaker, who spoke on phone while responding to allegations of non- performance, abandonment and neglect by his constituents, debunked the allegations, describing them as baseless and unfounded. He said the allegations lacked credibility. Wase, who represents Wase Constituency, is in the eyes of the storm as his Wase Constituency allegedly accused him of total neglect and abyssal performance. It was gathered that APC members and those of the opposition party in Wase are complaining  that they have been sidelined and abandoned by their representative. The protesters accused Wase of not supporting his people in terms of  easing their suffering. They cited bad  road network connecting Wase and the surrounding communities in Lamba Wakkat District, including Wase metropolis, the council’s headquarter. A political leader,  Dahiru Dauda, said: “To my understanding and the information available to us, the member representing us could only tar two streets, while roads in neighbouring Duwei, Kumbur, Salwai to Wase are all tarred and primary schools in Kadarko district have been renovated.” Dauda explained that the people of Wase accused the Deputy Speaker of total negligence and abandonment of his constituency, in spite of the overwhelming support they gave to him to represent them at the lower chamber in the National Assembly. He said: “Wase, one of the most vulnerable and rural communities in Plateau state, is yearning for road networks to link them with other communities in the state.” The Deputy Speaker said the tremendous development taking place in Wase Federal Constituency, “is something’ else. I have proving to all my destractors in Wase wrong with the overwhelming support and projects going on.” Wase said: “As a middle political leader, I have done enough by introducing meaningful projects and programmes in North-Central to stimulate growth and development to attract investors which is still ongoing.” Wase refuted that he never flagged-off Angwan Rimi road construction but introduced many ongoing roads network in Plateau state which is close to completion in the state. 