Activities at the Federal University of Technology Owerri (FUTO) have been grounded as the indefinite strike embarked upon by non–teaching staff in the universities entered its second day on Tuesday. The strike follows the federal government’s handling of the Integrated Personnel and Payroll Information System, sharing formula of the N40 billion earned academic allowances and non-payment of arrears of the new minimum wage. When The Nation visited the institution on Tuesday, the gates to the university’s Senate Building were under locks and keys. Also, various units in the university, such as exams and records, Bursary, registry, estate and works, Library, ICT, physical planning, FUTO staff schools and even security were locked. Though, some students were writing exams, our correspondent further learnt that those living in school hostels, were not finding it easy, as there were no workers to pump water and give them electricity. The monitoring team of the Joint Action Committee (JAC), comprising the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities, (SSANU) and the Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions (NASU), of FUTO led by JAC and SSANU chairman, Comrade Uchenna Nwokeji described the compliance with the strike action as total. He however regretted that the strike action would mean “our children returning home from school after nearly one year of staying at home as a result of Covid-19”. Nwokeji said, “This strike is going well in FUTO. As you can see, the Senate Building is shut. FUTO is in support of this strike wholeheartedly. There is no water in the hostels because our people are not working. “However, we are pained that this is going to affect our children again. We don’t want our children to remain at home. But we can’t help it because most of our union members have not been paid for months because of the IPPIS challenge. “We plead with the federal government to have mercy and give our union our earned allowance, pay us minimum wage arrears and sort out the IPPIS challenge as well as fulfill the 2009 agreement.” While expressing optimism over a speedy resolution of the issues, Nwokeji insisted that the strike action was not in any way targeted at fighting FUTO management.