The Senate on Wednesday confirmed the nomination of Ahmed Lawan Kuru for reappointment as the Managing Director of the Asset Management Corporate of Nigeria (AMCON). The Upper Chamber also approved the reappointed of Eberechukwu Uneze and Aminu Ismail as Executive Directors of AMCON. The approval of the Senate followed the presentation of the report of the Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other financial Institutions by its Chairman, Senator Uba Sani (Kaduna Central) during plenary. Sani, in his presentation, said the nominees were found to have performed  creditably during screening. He, therefore, recommended that the nominees be confirmed for appointment. The Senators approved the recommendations of the committee when they were put to voice vote by the Senate President Ahmad Lawan. Lawan noted that the nominees had performed and urged them to perform better during this their last and final tenure. Similarly, the upper chamber also approved the nomination of Bello Hassan and Mustapha Mohammed Ibrahim for appointment as the Managing Director and Executive Director of the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC). This followed the report of the Chairman, Senate Committee on Banking, Insurance and other financial Institutions, Senator Sani. Senator Sani, in his report, recommended that the two nominees be confirmed for appointment for the offices by the Senate based on their performance at screening.   Senators approved that the nominees be confirmed for appointment when Senate President Ahmad Lawan put the recommendations in the report to voice vote. Also on Wednesday the Senate President Lawan referred President Muhammadu Buhari’s request for the appointment of new Service Chiefs and that of ex-Service Chiefs for appointment as envoys to the relevant committees for screening. The new Service Chiefs before the Senate for confirmation are Chief of Defence Staff, Major-General Leo Irabor, Chief of Army Staff, Major-General Ibrahim Attahiru, Chief of Naval Staff, Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo and Chief of Air Staff, Air-Vice Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao. The ex-Service Chiefs being considered for appointment as ambassadors are Major-General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin (rtd), Major-General Tukur  Buratai (rtd), Rear Admiral Ibok-Ete Ekwe Ibas (rtd), Air Vice Marshal Sadique Abubakar (rtd) and Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Usman (rtd). 