Gunmen have wreaked havoc in Rivers, Ebonyi and Anambra states, killing no fewer than eight persons. The hoodlums, who killed five people in Rivers State and three others in Anambra, also attacked a police station in Ebonyi State where they set a building and four vehicles ablaze. The killings in Rivers State followed an invasion of Zor-Sogho community in Khana Local Government Area. It was learnt that the hoodlums, who stormed the community, shot heavily and in the process gunned down five people while injuring others. A source said that the bandits carried out the operation at about 10 pm on Thursday. He said that the development unsettled the community, adding that many residents fled into the bush out of fear. The Ogoni Development Initiative (OYDI) condemned the killing of the victims, describing it as barbaric. The National Coordinator, OYDI, Imeabe Saviour Oscar, attributed the incident to cultism, saying that youths in Ogoni were still hiding under such illegal confraternity to perpetrate heinous crimes. He said: “We are shocked that at a time we are preaching peace, some misguided youths would still carry guns to kill innocent people. “It is not a good report at all. For us, the peace of our communities is paramount. “We advise our youths to shun violence and embrace peace or get ready to face the wrath of the law. “We are also using this medium to call on the government, the security agencies to investigate this matter to ensure this kind of act does not repeat. “We want those behind this incident to be fished out and prosecuted so we can have peace in our communities.” But the police in the state said the matter had not been reported to them. In Anambra State, gunmen stormed a church in Azia, Ihiala Local Government Area, killing a man and two others. The man, identified as Ken Ekwesianya, was murdered alongside his wife and daughter on Thursday night. The Public Relations Officer of Anambra State Police Command, Mohammed Haruna, who confirmed the incident yesterday, said investigations were ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident. “Investigation is ongoing to unravel the circumstances surrounding the incident and effort is being intensified in order to arrest perpetrators of the dastardly act and bring them to justice,” he said. Unidentified hoodlums also on Thursday attacked the Onicha Divisional Police Headquarters in Isu, a community in Ebonyi State. The hoodlums, it was gathered, struck around 3:25 pm. They allegedly set ablaze one of the buildings in the station and four patrol vans. The police spokesperson in the state, Loveth Odah, confirmed the incident. She said the attackers were believed to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). Odah said one police officer sustained machete cut injuries from the attack. She said: “Today being 4/02/2021 at about 0325hrs, hoodlums suspected to be members of the Proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) attacked Onicha Divisional Headquarters, Isu in Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, set ablaze the left wing of the Division and four (4) patrol vehicles. “This followed threats by the proscribed group who are alleging that the police were protecting the herdsmen who they accused of being responsible for the killing of one of their members, Nwite Njoku ‘m’”. “One policeman sustained machete cut injuries during the attack and he is responding to treatment in the hospital. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police Ebonyi State, CP Aliyu Garba took on the spot assessment tour of the area and met with the stakeholders in the community to seek ways with the community in carrying out the investigation on the matter.” “The CP, while assuring the general public, particularly the residents of the state of his commitment to the protection of lives and properties, urges all to remain law-abiding as normalcy has totally returned to the Area.” Spokesman of IPOB, Emma Powerful, could not be reached for comments.