As part of its contribution to the development of real estate in Nigeria and engender wealth creation, Purple Group has launched ‘Purple Living’. Purple Living is aimed at addressing the over 18million housing deficit in the country and create wealth and to deliver over 1,000 homes in first quarter. Speaking at the Nigeria Real Estate Market Outlook meeting in Lagos, Purple Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Laide Agboola, said the firm aims to provide Nigerians the opportunity to own affordable homes in  Maryland and Lekki with flexible payment plans. According to him, homes are an   essential and that the ongoing   COVID-19 pandemic has facilitated a reality where more white collar workers and entrepreneurs are spending more time at home. This has brought about the need to invest in new  homes   or   secure   their   savings in real estate investments   over other financial instruments. He said they were working to create homeownership and facilitate realestate investment while preserving the ultra-modern standard of living. He said: “With the rising cost of rents in a cosmopolitan city like Lagos, structured payments have also been created, which will offer maximum customer satisfaction and unbeatable long-term returns on investment. With Purple Living, investors have the  opportunity to make   fortunes   from   their   property   investment. Essentially, discerning   investors  could   generate huge returns  from  their investment in property as well as to create a portfolio of property investment with a view to building wealth.” He stated further that their initiative is to eradicate all the challenges of owning a house in different highbrow locations around Lagos and spread real estate opportunities to property lovers in a very subtle and convenient way. He pointed out that his firm is focused on providing top facility management and services while developing more properties that fit into future smart-cities. Developments are to follow an urban village model, mixed-use assets where residences are in close proximity to essential and entertainment facilities. Purple will help transform the landscapes of urban communities and place Nigeria at the forefront of development in Africa,” stated. He said the Purple Living comes fully serviced with proximityto   commercial  cities  and other   communal social amenities.