The Executive Secretary of Nigerian Christian Pilgrim Commission (NCPC), Rev. Dr. Yakubu Pam, has identified dialogue and community policing as the major solutions to solve the lingering clashes between farmers and herders. Rev Pam, who spoke to reporters in a chat, after the closing ceremony of the Ministers Conference of Network of Gospel Ministers in Northern Nigeria (NOGMINN), at the Assemblies of God Church, Hwolshe, Jos, Plateau State, reasoned that using arms and force alone, can no longer bring lasting peace between farmers and herders. He insisted that the federal government should identify leaders of the two groups, bring them to a roundtable and trash out the issues. According to him, community policing strategy is germane in bringing lasting solutions to the consistent clash between farmers and herders. He said the federal government should, “make quick intervention by visiting those who are immediately affected negatively, the communities where people were killed. By so doing, you are identifying with them. Pam, who is the northern CAN Chairman, also urged the government to provide employment opportunities for the youths, adding that it is one of the best ways to tackle the clashes. “I am happy with what the Commissioner of Police is doing here in Jos. But we’re holding dialogue with all of them. You may not use guns and other things in solving some of this issues but dialogue can go a long way. It is very, very important to discuss with them. This is no longer a matter of using arms. Dialogue is the best method in calming the situation,” he said. He also said: “I am in support of community police. It is what we are looking for to make sure that the community policing is being promoted in our communities. “More to that, let the masses support the police by giving relevant information to the police and other security authorities, and also be vigilant. Be vigilant in such a way that the community can be effective and they can do it very well. “What we require is prayer; and we should be on alert in security business. We shouldn’t leave it to only the authorities. We should also be patient because this time, it looks like everybody is doing his own business. And the government should rise up to the occasion too.”