The General Overseer, Omega Fire Ministries International, Apostle Johnson Suleman, has gone to court, demanding N5billion as damages from Pastor Mike David who recently accused him of interfering in his marriage. Suleman, in a suit filed at the Lagos State High Court, Ikeja accuses David of “conspiracy to blackmail and defamation of character.” His lawyer, Osa Director, in a statement,  said David was expelled from the ministry in  2018 for “acts inimical to the body of Christ,” and has since “been attempting to blackmail Apostle Suleman.” He said: “It has come to our knowledge that one Mike David has purportedly filed a law suit against our client, Apostle Johnson Suleman and seeking two billion naira as damages for alleged interference in his marriage which has since been dissolved a few years ago. “We are yet to be served with any court process. However, our client has refrained from joining issues with the said Mike David as his utterances are mere hallucinations. “For the record, Mike David was a pastor in our client”s church but expelled since 2018 for acts inimical to the body of Christ. He has for the past six years been attempting to blackmail Apostle Suleman. “He constantly threatened and boasted that he has materials in his possession to embarrass Apostle Suleman with and his recent video allegations is one of such materials and tools of blackmail. “In short, he has been boasting that he will bring down Apostle Suleman and Omega Fire Ministries down, of which our client has audio and video evidence to expose his threats and blackmail. “The matter was reported to the Nigerian Police Force. Consequently, the Inspector General of Police has approached the Federal High Court in Abuja in suit No: FHC/ABJ/CS/115/2021 seeking the arrest and detention of the said Mike David. “Also, Apostle Suleman is instituting a law suit against Mike David at the Lagos State High Court in Ikeja seeking Five Billion Naira damages for conspiracy to blackmail and defamation of character. As believers in the rule of law and judiciary, we hope justice will be served and clearly so at the end of the day.” David recently accused Apostle Suleman of hypnotising and committing adultery with his wife, Pastor Faith Edeko, who now supervises the Utako, Abuja branch of the church. David has filed his own suit against Apostle Suleman, and the church for N2billion, for allegedly meddling in his marriage. He also sent a petition to the Inspector General of Police alleging threat to his life. David is seeking an order of perpetual injunction restricting Apostle Suleman, the church and their agents from having access or relating with his wife and three children. He is also seeking “an award of punitive and exemplary damages in the sum of N2billion against the defendant for unlawful interference with the claimant’s contract of marriage and the cost of N2 million being the cost of prosecuting this action before this honourable court.” Suleman and Pastor Edeko have denied David’s allegations.