 The Federal Government economic diversification policy is all-encompassing, aimed at alleviating poverty, and create prosperity for Nigerians, the Director- General (DG), National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) Kashifu Inuwa, said yesterday. Inuwa said the policy was targeted at designing a high- value market chain for our local production. The DG made the remarks at the National Centre for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (NCAIR), Wuye, Abuja when he received a delegation from the Federal University of Technology, Minna led by its Vice Chancellor, Prof. Abdullahi Bala. He explained that technological ecosystem comprises  the Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs), which grow lineally and the Innovative Driven Enterprises (IDE’s) which grow exponentially, have a broader market, adding that innovation is the best mechanism in creating prosperity. According to him, most of the developed and wealthy nations do not depend on their natural resources but on creative innovations. He said it was heart-warming that the university is seeking more collaboration, which he described as strategic in sustaining a digital economy. He added that such efforts would prepare the students for the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and boost Industrialisation to move the country forward. He said the creation of an ICT hub for universities in  the geo-political zones, which included the Federal University of Technology, Minna was in line with the NCAIR’s mandate of collaborating with universities in empowering youths. “Graduates are unemployable these days because all they know is theory and we always need additional training upon employment but exposing them to these technology advancements will broaden their knowledge and give them the opportunity to conceptualise their ideas,” he said.   The NITDA boss stated that minimal capital is needed to be a part of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, and that is the purpose of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Centre, to devise ways in which fundamental technology can be used to solve problems and create prosperity. Prof Bala said that the purpose of the visit was to thank the Agency for its intervention in providing IT Hub for the university, adding that the visit was to leverage on the cordial relationship between the Agency and the university in exploring more collaborative opportunities for productive interactions in research, innovation and development in emerging technologies. He assured the DG that the university has scaled its capacity to further collaborate and complement the efforts of NITDA by creating an International Centre for Emerging Technology, an initiative which he believes, in collaboration with the NCAIR will focus on areas of  Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, Capacity Building, Research and Development. 