 Right from its inception in 2015, the President Muhammadu Buhari administration has demonstrated its determination to diversify the economy and particularly break the unhealthy dependence on petroleum revenue by investing heavily in the agricultural sector. Thus, apart from strengthening pre-existing agricultural support schemes which it inherited, such as the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme (ACGS) and the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme (CACS), it introduced new initiatives to enhance agricultural productivity as well as self-reliance. These include the Agricultural Small and Medium Enterprises Loan for SMEs and Agricultural Businesses without Collateral (AGSMEIS), the Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP) intervention for Agriculture, the Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme (AADS) Loan as well as the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Fund (MSMEDF). Most of these initiatives target strengthening small holder farming businesses, which constitute the mainstay of Nigeria’s agriculture, especially in the wake of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic. Despite these massive interventions, however, the country remains substantially import-dependent for food and the agricultural sector continues to perform below par in terms of its revenue generating capacity to the national coffers. While this can be attributed significantly to the large scale violence in food producing areas of the country that has devastated and destabilised farms and communities, the Federal Government last week took a major step that, if diligently implemented, will address what is perhaps the weakest link in the sector and give a further boost to agricultural productivity in Nigeria. According to the Executive Secretary of the National Agricultural Land Development Authority (NALDA), Mr. Paul Ikonne, the government is set to engage 30,000 graduates to be deployed across the country as agricultural extension workers who will provide technical and strategic support to farmers. To be engaged under the National Young Farmers Scheme, these graduates “will be trained intensively for two weeks on soil sample collection and soil tests as well as other agricultural extension services”. Before the advent of petroleum relegated agriculture to the backwaters of the Nigerian economy, agricultural extension services constituted a key backbone of a hitherto vibrant sector. As the link between government, research institutes and farmers, agricultural extension officers helped to update farmers with latest techniques, methods and information to boost their efficiency, effectiveness and productivity. These extension services, particularly in the 1970s and early 1980s were, however, mostly funded by the World Bank through the Agricultural Development Programmes (ADPs). The revival of agricultural extension services as planned by government is surely the way to go to breathe new life into an ailing sector. But then, it is not enough for government simply to employ agricultural extension field workers. Efforts should also be made to address challenges that militated against the effectiveness of agricultural extension services in the past. Critical among these was poor funding leading to the unavailability of input materials necessary to support farmers, dearth of skills acquisition and demonstration centres as well as kits and low morale of extension workers. Experts have identified a wide gap in extension agent-to-farm ratio in Nigeria. It is thus important that government has an accurate data of farms and farmers in order to have a scientific basis for determining the number of extension agents required and how to deploy them. Again, will these agricultural agents be ad-hoc staff or will they be integrated into the federal and state civil services? This is an area where clarity is required. It is noteworthy and commendable that the government plans to subsidise the amount to be paid by farmers for the extension services such that only N500 will be required to be paid for any sample collected for soil testing. No less significant is the job generation potential of this initiative. This is especially as the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Sabo Nanono, has revealed that 20 young Nigerian farmers have been empowered with a takeoff grant of N30 million sourced through the Bank of Agriculture as seed capital to establish small holder agribusineses.  All these initiatives will go a long way in boosting agriculture if faithfully implemented, if past mistakes are corrected and if the government is able to improve on the security situation.