The Oodua People’s Congress Reformed (OPC-R) has called for unity among the Yoruba in the fight against insecurity in the southwest zone. In a statement issued yesterday, in Lagos, by its President, Oludare Adesope, the group noted that it had urged the federal government to contain the attacks on Yoruba communities by herdsmen. The statement read in part: “We have given series of warnings concerning our intention to take action if President Muhammadu Buhari fails to secure lives and property from herdsmen. ”It is not a thing of joy for a married woman or woman of marriageable age to be kidnapped and raped by strangers. Many were molested and left with everlasting trauma while many were not alive to tell the story and the president is not doing anything about it. ”I commend the courage of Sunday Adeyemo known as Igboho and I instructed my members to go all out and assist him when the issue of Igangan came up, which they did by trooping out in large numbers. Since then, our ears are closer to the ground for information about where these criminals are hiding, we won’t relent until we rid our territory of these common criminals.” Meanwhile, the President of the Gbenga Akinwande Foundation, Gbenga Akinwande, has advised Ogun State governor, Dapo Abiodun, to find solutions to the herdsmen attacks and killings in Ogun State. Akinwande stated this in a letter to Governor Abiodun in the aftermath of two separate involving herdsmen and soldiers’ brutalization and attacks of residents of the state at Ubeku village in Yewa north LGA and Oru  community in Ago-Iwoye over the weekend respectively. Akinwande noted, “Every Ogun indigene is particularly irked that this level of lawlessness happened under your leadership when you are doing all to secure the Gateway state. Such action carried out by the herdsmen and soldiers did undermine your authority as the governor of our dear state, particularly under a constitutional democracy like ours in Nigeria.” Akinwande stated that those uniformed men, in the case of Ubeku village might not be real soldiers. This, according to him calls for serious concern that the residents of Ogun state are in imminent danger, if such act goes unpunished. According to Akinwande, “The issue of herdsmen attacks and killings in Yewaland in particular has been going on now for a while, and it is prolonged because law enforcement agencies have failed to take any concrete action to stem the tide. There are extant laws to apprehend or curb the activities of these killers’ herdsmen and prosecute perpetrators. Failure to take urgent action to curb the activities of these killers’ herdsmen might lead to grave insecurity and instability prevalent in the north western part of the country at the moment, considering the fact we are a border state”. He advised the governor to take urgent action now to roll back the trend and restore peace and tranquility in earnest.