The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has announced the commencement of ‘Campaign 6232’. This is an activity to raise public awareness for the toll-free number ‘6232’ recently introduced by the Agency, for public enquiries through its 24-7 Connect Centre. The campaign will use different means of communication to raise awareness of Nigerians on how to reach NCDC, with questions relating to infectious disease prevention, detection and control. Following an increasing need for Nigerians to communicate with the agency as part of the COVID-19 response, NCDC expanded its connect centre capacity in 2020. With support from the National Communication Commission, a shortcode 6232 has also been introduced. Over the last one year, NCDC has been leading Nigeria’s public health response to the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. Under the leadership of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, the Agency is working closely with the Federal Ministry of Health, relevant government institutions, national and international partners to improve its ability to respond to Nigerians in a timely and comfortable way. Speaking on the campaign, the NCDC Director-General, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu reassured Nigerians of NCDC’s commitment to deliver on the institution’s mandate. “We are constantly developing and implementing innovative measures to make NCDC accessible to every Nigerian regardless of socio-economic status. We urge members of the public to use the ‘6232’ toll free number responsibly. Please support this campaign by sharing this information with your friends, family and colleagues,” he said. As of 14th February 2021, over 100 million cases of COVID-19 have been recorded globally, with almost 150,000 confirmed cases and 1,753 deaths reported in Nigeria. In response to the consistent high number of COVID-19 cases reported across the country, NCDC continues to intensify its communication efforts to keep Nigerians informed on measures to reduce their risk of infection and limit transmission.