 The Federal Government yesterday enjoined states and the Organised Private Sector (OPS) to key into the establishment of information and communication technology (ICT) innovation and entrepreneurship parks to address unemployment and other social challenges in Nigeria. Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami made the call at the ground breaking ceremony of the National Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre, Abuja. He said this has become necessary to complement the present administration’s resolve to diversify National Economy and generate employment and wealth for the country. “I invite state governments, the Organised Private Sector, foreign multinational companies and high net-worth individuals to follow this example of the Federal Government and develop ICT innovation and entrepreneurship parks according to minimum standards NITDA will set, popularise and promote,” Pantami said. He noted that the economic challenges facing Nigeria provide opportunities for the people to embrace digital platforms for self empowerment. “Mr President approved the building of this Centre on  November 11 2020, during the Federal Executive Council meeting. “Prior to that, I made a detailed presentation to council on the project and successfully answered around 22 questions in the robust debate that followed the presentation. “The idea received overwhelming support of the Federal Executive Council because of the huge positive impact it can have on the lives of Nigerians, ” Pantami said.  According to him, digital innovation and entrepreneurship are globally recognized as two prerequisites for achieving an indigenous Digital Economy.  “As such, a successful digital innovation and entrepreneurship programme will support us in the development of our digital economy and this is exactly want this Centre aims to achieve,” Pantami said.  He said the growth of the sector resulted in an increased contribution of ICT to Nigeria’s GDP at a value of 17.83 per cent in second quarter 2020, adding that broadband penetration also peaked at 45 per cent in November last year.