Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Friday swore in 18 Permanent Secretaries, consisting of 10 females and eight males. Speaking during the swearing-in ceremony at the Lagos House, Ikeja, Sanwo-Olu urged them to put their ideas to work, toward achieving a Greater Lagos. He congratulated the 18 new Permanent Secretaries, commending them for the contributions they had made to the progress of Lagos State, especially the delivery of excellent Public Service. According to him, their role as Permanent Secretaries is crucial to the success of the administration. “You are the drivers of this administration’s T.H.E.M.E.S agenda in our ministries, departments, and agencies, which is why your appointment is purely merit-based. “With this government’s commitment to excellent service delivery, we have no choice but to painstakingly appoint only permanent secretaries who share our vision, mission, and drive. “The role of permanent secretaries in the success of any administration cannot be over-emphasised. “Your various ministries serve as the engine room of our developmental agenda for Lagos State.” Earlier, the Head of Service, Mr. Hakeem Muri-Okunola, commended the screening committee for a job well done. The new Permanent Secretaries and their portfolios include Dr. Akinwunmi Mustafa (Pry Health Board), Oyeyemi Ayoola (Finance), Oluwakemi George (SDG), Temitope Hundogan (Audit Service Commision), Abiola Kosegbe (Physical Planning), and Abiodun Onayele (Establishment and Training). Others are Adenike Adedoyin Ajayi (Tourism Arts and Culture), Ajose Sangowanwa (Surveyor General), Olusola Oduguwa (Central Internal Audit), Adeboye Olajide (Tutor Gen Dist IV), Toyin Machado-Onanuga (TESCOM), Tajudeen Gaji (Special Duties), and Kamar Olowoshago (Transport). Also among them are Olayinka Fashola Simon (Science and Tech), Mojisola Daba (Local Govt Serv Com), Tolani Oshodi (Cabinet Office), Waheed Kasali (Office of the Special Adviser Education) and Sholabomi Shasore (Energy). In his vote of assurance, Dr Akinwunmi Mustafa on behalf of the permanent secretaries thanked Gov. Sanwo-Olu for the confidence he had in them.