Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has frowned at recurring killings in some villages of Bassa Local Government Council. He, therefore, has urged security agencies to do everything possible to put a stop to the situation. The Nation reports that gunmen in the early hours of yesterday invaded two villages in Kwall District of Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State and killed four youths. National President of the Irigwe Development Association (IDA) Mr Robbert Ashi, who confirmed the incident, said three young people were ambushed by suspected herdsmen and killed between Jebbu Bassa and Rikwechongu village on Sunday evening. While reacting to the recent killing of four people following attacks on some villages in Kwall District of the Local Government, Lalong said the development was worrisome and intolerable. The Governor, who had directed the Peace Building Agency to visit the area and get to the root of the killings, said the situation must be brought under control immediately to prevent further degeneration. He said: “I want all those involved in these crimes to be arrested and made to face the full weight of the law. “While this is going on, the machinery for dialogue, reconciliation and confidence-building should be vigorously pursued by the Peace Building Agency with the support of the newly constituted Inter-faith Council. “We will not tolerate any act that takes us back to the dark days of violence and destruction.” While commiserating with the families of those killed, the Governor said all citizens must be security-conscious and avoid any conduct that will jeopardise peaceful co-existence in the area. In a related development, the Executive Secretary, Nigeria Christian Pilgrim Commission, Rev. Yakubu Pam has condemned the attack on the Bassa people, which claimed four lives at the early hours of yesterday. Pam, who met with the natives of Bassa Local Government Area of Plateau State and the Fulani leaders over the recent attack in the LGA, during a meeting which was held at the Police Officers Mess in Jos, Plateau State yesterday condemned such an act. Rev. Pam said he condemned the attack on the people of Bassa and pleaded with the residents to embrace peace and shun acts of violence. He said he would rather love to speak about the growth and development of Plateau, rather than witnessing this ugly situation. The Executive Secretary also said the crisis in Plateau State began in 2001 and ever since, the government and himself have been working hard to restore peace back to the state. He also said the battle has always been a circle of revenge as no party has been crowned a winner. He added that the attacks have now shifted to the local government areas at the outskirts of the state, but the recent meetings with the farmers, herders and traditional leaders in the local government areas has helped to reduce the attacks. The Commissioner of Police, Plateau State Command, Edward Chuka said he is disappointed with the attack on the people of Bassa yesterday, despite the meetings and discussion with the stakeholders of the local government areas and Fulani leaders after they promised to live in peace. He also said innocent people going about their daily activities are always victims of these attacks. He stressed that the only way to resolve conflict is through dialogue between both parties because people are different hence the need to find a common ground. He added that the dialogue should be sincere without an ulterior motive.