 In the ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE, Burnley failed to pick the maximum points at home to Ola Aina inspired Fulham on Wednesday in a rearranged fixture played at the Turf Moor. They have another home tie against relegation-haunted West Brom which pays the wages of Super Eagles defender, Semi Ajayi, today. The Baggies are 12 points adrift of safety as they are placed 19th  with 13 points. It will no doubt be a tough duel for Ajayi, and his teammates considering their precarious position. Fulham’s Ola Aina bagged his second goal of the season against Burnley on Wednesday and he has told his teammates to have a positive mind-set despite their position on the table as they welcome Sheffield United to the Craven Cottage today. They will no doubt have their sights firmly on the three points at stake and then prays that Newcastle United slips up at Manchester United tomorrow. Nigeria duo of Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi played different roles to help Leicester City to a morale-boosting 3-1 home win over Liverpool to remain third on the table with 46 points from 24 matches. Ndidi was named in the EPL Team of the Week for his virtuoso display at the King Power Stadium last weekend while Iheanacho was an unused substitute in the same encounter. After negotiating tough Europa League Round of 32 tie against Peter Olayinka’s Slavia Prague on Thursday, The Foxes will visit Aston Villa at the Villa Park tomorrow with the hope of consolidating on their recent impressive form. In the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA, Emmanuel Dennis and Cologne will be eyeing another win when they host Stuttgart today. They have been on an upward curve since the arrival of the Nigerian in the last transfer window. Dennis is supported by Toluwase Arokodare and Nigeria eligible, Kingsley Ehizibue who form the trio at the Billy Goats. Freiburg will host Taiwo Awoniyi’s Union Berlin today in another league tie. Awoniyi with five goals in the Bundesliga was recently rated as being among the Best 12 strikers in Germany and the tie with Freiburg should spur him on to add to his goals tally having gone on goals drought in the past seven games. His last goal was on January 2nd this year in their 2-0 away win at Werder Bremen. They have won only one of those seven games thereafter. Kevin Akpoguma is nearing his comeback from a hamstring injury but Hoffenheim will have to still do without him when they host Werder Bremen tomorrow.