 For stakeholders in the maritime sector, the empowerment of the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) through the Nigerian Port Process Manual (NPPM) is a right step in the right direction. It is a very good initiative because it is a weapon for the fight against corruption and making the port efficient as the Federal Government looks towards improving the sector’s contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The manual is a collation of some processes extracted from the Standard Operating Procedures of Stakeholders in the sector to improve operations, service timelines, efficiency and accountability in the port, address vulnerabilities in the port system, and create an enabling environment for port users, operators and other stakeholders. With the appointment, the Council is saddled with overseeing ports operations, coordinating the implementation of the manual and ensuring strict compliance with the government rules in making the ports competitive and attractive for business. The NSC’s appointment, stakeholders agreed, would improve the anti-corruption ranking of the country before the international community. The Council, it was learnt, has also been empowered to sanction any agency, service providers and users of shipping services for non-compliance. Praising the NPPM, a former President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Prince Olayiwola Shittu, said: “It shows that the Federal Government is stringently and decisively moving against corrupt practices at the ports and promoting the ease of doing business.’’ The manual includes: Dry bulk storage and handling, liquid bulk storage and transfer (loading/unloading), Non-bulk chemical storage and handling, port cargo handling equipment and rail truck operations engines,  oversight of terminal operators activities, management of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated, general operations that can impact negatively on  neighbouring areas and the environment. Speaking at a stakeholders meeting in Abuja, the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said his ministry was ready to support the Council to ensure compliance, enforcement and implementation of NPPM to reduce corruption in the sector. The minister described the Process Manual as one of the key indicators for the implementation of Executive Order 1 aimed at promoting transparency and efficiency in the business environment. He added that the implementation of the ports access manual would complement the modernisation of critical transport infrastructure introduced by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to boost port operations. He said: “The maritime sector offers the best alternative for economic diversification as it has the potential for employment, investments, and as an outlet for the facilitation and strengthening of Nigeria’s international trade. Nigeria’s Shippers Council (NSC) is to drive the process and implementation of the Process Manual. “However, I urge regulatory authorities, operational agencies, service providers, users of shipping services and other stakeholders to support and comply with the government’s directives and the provisions of the NPPM. Power given to NSC by the government include: “The NSC being the lead agency for the implementation of the manual, shall coordinate the implementation of the manual and ensure strict compliance with the rules. NSC also reserves the right to handout sanctions to any agency, service providers and users of shipping services for noncompliance as provided under its economic regulatory mandate. “The Ministry shall lend its support to the NSC in ensuring compliance with the Manual by stakeholders, not only in the implementation of the manual but in other areas such as enforcement.’’ Shippers Council calls for collaboration  The Executive Secretary, NSC, Mr Hassan Bello, told The Nation: “We need the support and collaboration of regulatory agencies, service providers and consumers of shipping services on the implementation of NPPM. “The NSC does not see the appointment as conferring any superiority over other regulatory agencies or stakeholders but consider it as an act of service towards achieving government desire of eradicating corruption at the port to promote ease of doing business in the transportation industry in Nigeria.’’ It would be recalled that the Federal Government had last December appointed the NSC as the lead agency for the implementation of the NPPM. At its launch at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said its implementation will improve the anti-corruption ranking of the country before the international community. He said: “An effective successful systemic intervention in the port sector will rapidly change the narrative, the perception and the ranking of Nigeria in the CPI. The Process Manual on Port Operations is expected to be one of the key indicators for the effective implementation of Executive Order 01 issued essentially to promote transparency and efficiency in the business environment, and designed to facilitate the ease of doing business. “The Process Manual is a step-by-step trajectory of processes at the ports. It outlines the actors and timelines for each process; it guides the user by highlighting all required documentation, payments, timelines and the responsible agencies. It equally guides the port operators by detailing the implementation sequence and provides clarity on the time required for each process.”