Activities of killer-herders are still generating ripples in Oyo and Kwara states. The fear in Oyo is over likely reprisal from herders who were displaced from Igangan. The arrival in Kwara of fleeing herders has created panic in many communities. The Oyo State Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) deployed 150 personnel of its Counter Terrorist Unit (CTU) in crisis areas. It followed rising insecurity in the Ibarapa zone of the state involving farmers and herders. Oyo State council chairmen also met on Tuesday to map out ways to address the security threats. The meeting was a follow up to  another parley between Governor Seyi Makinde and stakeholders in Igboora in Ibarapa North. At the emergency security meeting on Tuesday were state officials, traditional and religious leaders, community leaders, prominent individuals, representatives of security agencies, among others. Makinde said the state government had turned the heat on kidnappers and criminals in Ibarapa and Oke-Ogun axis of the state, adding that they would be routed. To allay fears in Kwara State over the influx of suspected criminal herdsmen driven away from neighbouring states, the Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Bagega, met with traditional rulers. He told them there was no cause for alarm. Top traditional rulers, including Magajis, Alangwas, Ardos, Jowuro and Bororos met with the police chief to discuss the security concerns. Bagega emphasised the need for all hands to be on deck to towards finding a solution. He called for collaboration among all stakeholders in the communities, including resident Fulanis, to fish out the criminal elements in their midst. Bagega called for information on the movement of suspicious and strange people around them. The police chief reiterated his determination to dispense his duty with fear of God and to uphold justice at all times. He advised traditional rulers not to abdicate their responsibility as the leaders of their communities to the youths. The Ololla of Olla in Ifelodun Local Government Area, Prof Billy Olajide, spoke on the need for drastic measures to douse the anxiety caused by the activities of herders. He called for more logistics to be given to the police to enable them to perform optimally. The Alangwas of Lanwa, Jebba and Sadu areas spoke on his efforts at making the Fulani conform with all the peaceful engagements with their hosts. He promised to ensure that there will be no breakdown of peace in the area. The Seriki Fulani Ajase promised that the Fulani will continue to be lawful. He said they would join hands with the host communities to fish out “the defiantly inclined Fulanis among them.”