Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday registered as a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun State. The Vice President, who hails from the Gateway State, has been voting in Lagos in successive general elections. The membership registration and revalidation in Ogun State was flagged off by the Vice President at his country home in Ward 1, Unit 3, Egunrege in Ikenne, Ikenne Local Government. Governor Dapo Abiodun and former Governor Segun Osoba also validated their party membership.  While the governor was registered at Ward 3, Polling Unit 1, Iperu-Remo, also in Ikenne local government, Osoba revalidated his membership at Sodubi Primary School, Ward 7, Polling Booth 3 in Obafemi/Owode local government. Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos), Abduhhahi Sule (Nasarawa), Kauode Fayemi (Ekiti), Badaru Abubakar (Jigawa) and Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi) also flagged off the exercise in their respective states, urging party members to maintain peace and harmony.  Osinbajo, accompanied by Niger State Governor and the National Chairman of the APC Registration and Revalidation Committee, Abubakar Sanni Bello, was received at the Mayflower Secondary School, Ikenne by Abiodun, Osoba, the Southwest Team Leader of the Committee, Senator Lawan Shuaib, and other top members of the party. The VP’s membership was revalidated by the ward chairman, Segun Awomuti. Osinbajo expressed happiness about the revalidation, noting that the exercise will enable the party to identify and reach out to members and focus on their welfare. Noting that Nigeria is in challenging times, he said APC is the best party to resolve the problems. On security, Osinbajo said: “We must speed up and strengthen the community policing structures. “States must continually train, educate and formalize their local security structures so that they complement the Federal law enforcement agencies. “Policing must be a collective effort, from the Local Government to the State Government, and up to the Federal Government. “We must ensure the prosecution of all those who have been arrested for kidnapping, banditry. There must be evidence that justice is being done. This is achievable by stronger collaboration between the police, States Ministries of Justice and the Federal Ministry of Justice.” Senator Shuaib said the exercise was to establish that the ward is the power base of APC. Governor Sanni Bello said since 2014 when the party held a similar exercise, it had lost some members and gained more members, hence, the imperative of the exercise. There was a massive turnout of members in Kwara State across the 16 local government areas. The exercise was peaceful in Ilorin, the state capital, and other councils. There was calm at Alapa/Onire/Odegiwa Ward 001 Polling Unit where over 143 party members had been registered and revalidated as at 3:15 pm. The registration officer at the unit, Jimoh Tunde Idiagbon, said the situation has been very peaceful. Governor Sanwo-Olu revalidated his membership at his Ward (Ward E3), also known as “Premier Ward”, St. Stephen School Compound, Adeniji Adele Okepopo area, Lagos Island. He said the exercise was designed to further strengthen APC toward becoming Africa’s largest political platform. Governor Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe State said the controversy trailing the registration/validation in other states will not happen in the state because members are one family. Speaking at the flag-off of the exercise, he said there will be no discrimination because “our number is our strength. There was drama in Babura, the hometown of Governor Badaru Abubakar as beggars swarmed him, asking for alms during the exercise. The governor was accompanied by his deputy, Alhaji Umar Namadi; Acting chairman of caretaker committee, Alhaji Muhammed Umar Dikkuma; Chairman, Jigawa State APC Membership Registration and Validation Committee, Alhaji Ibrahim Umar Dawakiji, and members of the House of Assembly, commissioners and other aides. The governor said the exercise was free and open to members and intending party members. Nasarawa State Governor Sule flagged-off the exercise with a vow to make the state a one-party state. He revalidated his membership card at his polling unit in Gudi Station of Akwanga Local Government Area. Sule expressed optimism that the APC would after exercise have no opposition in the state. The Minister for Special Duties and Inter-governmental Affairs, Senator George Akume, flagged off the exercise in his home town, Wannune, Tarka Local Government Area of Benue state He urged party faithful to be law-abiding during the exercise. The Chairman of the Registration and Revalidation Committee in Oyo State, Abubakar Bwari, said the party embarked on the exercise to tackle what he described as membership fraud. Ekiti State Kayode Fayemi said the exercise, which is being undertaken to broaden the party’s support base ahead of future elections, is not only constitutional but also conform with the extant provisions of the party’s legal framework. The governor, while revalidating his membership at his Ogilolo Ward 11, Unit 09, Isan-Ekiti in Oye Council Area, said the Governor Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee had not violated any provision of the party’s constitution. Fayemi said: “I believe in Article 9 of the legal framework, which stipulates that the party register must be updated every six months. So, if this is being done in total compliance with the party’s constitution, I don’t think there is anything wrong in it. “Baba Akande is not saying don’t register. He revalidated his membership when the party visited him in Ila Orangun. All he said was that he would like our party to do things in a manner that we would earn the credibility of our entire membership. And I believe that’s what the caretaker committee has directed those sent to conduct this exercise to do. He explained that the ruling APC national leadership had put in place a well-robust mechanism to prevent leaders and groups within the party from seizing control of the process. Fayemi added:” No one must be left out. We don’t want to deprive anybody of registration. We want everybody who belongs to this party to register and revalidate their membership. “We want others who don’t belong to come and join us. It is an open house. It is not a close house and we want everybody here.” The governor said the exercise won’t end by getting the database of the members alone but also work hard to register itself in the minds of Nigerians by making life abundant for them. “I commend the national committee sent to Ekiti for doing a yeoman’s job. I have sent them morale-boosting messages. Now, I have registered and everything went well. I do not doubt that the exercise will be a huge success. “The membership revalidation and registration exercise is an opportunity for us to get a reliable database about our members and beyond that, we have tried to register APC in the minds of the people.” Kebbi State Governor and Chairman Progressive Governor’s Forum Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, has revalidated his membership at the Nasarawa 2 Ward, Polling Unit, Rumfar Garkar Mai Alelu, Code 006, in Birnin Kebbi. He urged party stalwarts to emulate President Buhari who patiently travelled to his hometown, Daura, Katsina State, penultimate week and revalidated his APC membership. The Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami(SAN) revalidated his membership in Birnin Kebbi. The Minister was issued with a new APC membership card at Filin Mariya Polling Unit, Nasarawa1, Birnin-Kebbi, Local Government Area. Malami said the exercise required collective efforts, adding that it will foster unity and internal democracy in the party.