The Chief Executive Officer & Lead Consultant of Hybrid Group, Dapo Omolade, has urged the Federal Government to enforce laws law that will help Nigerians keep safe at all levels in their daily activities. This, he said, will lead to reduced loss of lives and property. He said loss of lives and property will continue in the country until relevant laws are enacted and enforced to help Nigerians keep safe. The health and safety expert also urged the National Assembly to come up with right legal instrument to make safety a way of life. “As a matter of fact, safety is leadership responsibility. Federal government should implement and enforce safety laws in the country to reduce loss of lives and properties. “Our government should take responsibility for the safety of the citizens. COVID-19 has done damage to lots of families across the world, and this is to let Nigerians understand the importance of Safety in their lives. COVID-19 has exposed every individual. “The House Assembly must rise up, especially at this COVID-19 period. They need to help us make laws that will make Nigerians appreciate the place of safety in their daily activities. It’s not punishing people but to make it a way of life. “ Having partnered Lagos State Electricity Board (LSEB) for improved safety and health guidelines that will promote standard operational procedures, Omolade said other states should follow the good step of Lagos in ensuring their residents benefit from safety. “I think the Federal government needs to step up their games in being responsible for the safety of the citizens, at any work level, reducing the cost of property lost and accidents in the country. He continued: “I am excited with what Lagos State government is doing in some agencies. They allowed safety to work and we have been able to prove that they are on the right path in the State. “This is a general philosophy that everybody should embrace; of course, we have been part of Lagos State Safety Commission right from time. “And that’s why we are seeing some agencies from Lagos State writing to us to partner with them and help them to develop their safety system.”