About six public tertiary institutions in Lagos state have benefited from a free wifi being facilitated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila as part of his efforts at improving the standard of education in the state. 10 public secondary schools across Suru Lere 1 Federal constituency of Lagos state are also benefiting from the construction of ICT centres for smart learning and code programming in, while an ICT centre is also being built for the Yaba College of Technology courtecy of the Speaker. Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Public Affairs, Lanre Lasisi said in statement in Abuja that the free wifi was part of Gbajabiamila’s way of giving back to society, with a view to building a stronger education sector. The six benefiting public tertiary institutions are University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka Campus; Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo; Lagos State Polytechnic, Ikorodu Campus; Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Ijanikin; Michael Otedola College of Education (MOCOPED), Epe, and the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH). Lasisi said that the free wifi a the Lagos State University, Ojo, was launched for public use on behalf of the Speaker by the immediate past Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun, adding that “With the launch, LASU students can now access the free WiFi at the Babatunde Fashola Senate Building, the Faculty of Sciences, the Faculty of Arts, the Faculty of Education, the Faculty of Law, the Faculty of Social Sciences, LASU FM, the School of Communications and the ICT Center and some areas nearby”. He said further that students of the University of Lagos can access the free wifi at the Faculty of Education, the Faculty of Social Sciences and the School of Management Sciences, while students of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu Campus, can access the free WiFi at the School of Technology, the ICT Centre, the School of Engineering, the School of Architecture, the School of Management and Business Studies, the Library complex, the Skills Acquisitions Center, the Activity Centre, the School of Environmental Studies and the School of Pure and Applied Sciences. Similarly, he said that students of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Ijanikin should access the free WiFi at the school Library, the School of Sciences, the School of Education, the Administrative Block, the School of Vocational and Technical Education, the Staff Club, the Gardens within the school premises, the Sports Centre, the School of Arts and Social Sciences and the Arabic Language Department. Lasisi also said that the free WiFi is available at the at the ICT building, the school clinic, the science floor, the Millennium Office, the College Library, the UI Directorate, the Directorate of Professional Diploma in Education, the Biology Laboratory, the Science Secretariat, the School of Languages, the Bursary, the Administrative Block, the School of Arts and Social Studies and the Department of Cultural and Creative Arts for students of MOCOPED. He disclosed that students of the Yaba Collece of Technology will soon access the free wifi as work is currently ongoing at the college as well as the construction of ICT centre for 10 public secondary schools in his constituency. The benefiting schools are Onitolo Senior High School; Government College, Eric Moore; Gbaja Boys Senior High School; Ajigbeda Secondary School; Community Grammar School; Ansarudeen High School, Falolu; Iponri Estate High School; Surulere Girls Secondary School, Empire, and Progressive Secondary School, Mba, off Adeniran Ogunsanya.