 The Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Mohammed Adamu on Monday ordered the full enforcement of the COVID-19 Health Protection Regulations 2021 signed into law by President Muhammadu Buhari, last Tuesday. The order was to Assistant IGPs in the 17 zonal commands and their constituent Commissioners of Police (CPs) in the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. According to a statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, CP Frank Mba, they are to ensure full compliance with the Regulations in their respective Areas of Responsibilities (AoR). The statement reads: “The IGP gave the order to the Strategic Police Managers following the directives by the President as contained in the Coronavirus Disease (COVID-19) Health Protection Regulations 2021 which mandates the Nigeria Police Force and other agencies of government mentioned therein to ensure full enforcement of the Regulations in public places – places of worship, workplace and schools, banks, public transport vehicles, hostels, boarding houses, detention centres, etc – and general restrictions on gatherings as well as the use of face masks. “The IGP, while noting that the uncertainty and risks engendered by the advent of the COVID-19 pandemic have placed additional responsibilities on the general public, calls on citizens to voluntarily comply with the provisions of the Regulations for the safety of all. “The IGP further cautions officers enforcing the Regulations to show tact, compassion, and empathy with the citizens. He reiterates that the officers must be firm and professional and at the same time remain polite, civil and respect the fundamental rights of the citizens.” The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) lamented that some faith leaders were teaching that COVID-19 is non-existent and could not harm Christians. CAN President, His Eminence, Rev. Samson Ayokunle, described this as “reckless confidence”, noting that Christians were known to have died of the virus. Ayokunle, who spoke in Abuja, during a sensitisation meeting on COVID-19 vaccine introduction for Christian leaders and scholars, by the National Primary Health Development Agency (NPHCDA), advised them not to take the Grace of God for granted. He urged the federal and states government to enforce compliance with safety protocols to halt the virus’ spread. While urging the public to observe the non-pharmaceutical interventions of properly wearing face masks, hand washing/sanitising, and practising social distancing, CAN also urged religious leaders to show responsibility by teaching their congregations about the dangers of the virus. He said, “Covid-19 would have been more deadly if not for the mercies of God, especially for Nigeria and Africa, with issues in its health infrastructure. We would have been like Sodom and Gomorrah. “All covid-19 protocols ought to be obeyed for our good and the good of our world. Kudos to the Presidential Task Force (PTF) for their activities and collaborating with us since the beginning of the outbreak. “We should not be myopic and allow this virus to cut short our dream. It is not good to show reckless confidence by some faith leaders that COVID-19 is not existent and not for Christians. We have seen Christians die from the virus. If you love your congregations you will teach them about the strains. Other countries with better health infrastructure are suffering. We should not take the Grace of God for granted.” Ayokunle thanked the President for ordering the enforcement law. He said: “This is one of the ways we are getting it right because Nigerians have become recalcitrant. People disobey safety protocols perpetually, thereby transmitting the disease to others. “Signing the law is not what is more important, but enforcing it. Enforcement has to be drastic and tough. “The PTF, Federal Government, and State Governments have to cooperate to enforce, especially in the unorganized markets which have become dangerous.” He explained that as part of his role, he had visited churches without notice, adding that “Most churches are adhering to the protocols. They have temperature checks, water, and soap, sanitisers and are practising social distancing. According to him, the government should focus on airports, which “have started relapsing again.”  