Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s wife, Ibijoke, has urged pupils to be agent of change. She spoke on Wednesday in Ikeja at the launch of Environmental Bees Club. Mrs. Sanwo-Olu said pupils should become agents of positive change in the environment. She added that there was need for sustainable environmental education with the involvement of students. The governor’s wife noted: “This can only serve as a panacea for the yearnings for a greener environment through attitudinal and self-monitoring approach.” Said she: “Nowadays, the environment has more issues with humanity’s footprints almost everywhere with changes in the natural world having greater consequences such as climate change, famine, pollution of all forms, indiscriminate dumping of refuse, which stares us in the face daily. “With the formal launch, students who are hope of future are updated and equipped with the skills and information to transform the environment into a greener one for the benefits of all.” Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources Mr. Tunji Bello said making the young ones environment champions heralds a new approach to environmental management. He said the launching of Environmental Bees Club is a milestone made possible by the support of Governor Sanwo-Olu and his wife, adding that it marked a new dimension to complete eradication of environmental nuisances that stared all in the face and achievable through the practical demonstration of actions required, while involving children in ecosystem value sustainability. Bello recalled that the original concept started as Schools Environmental Advocacy Programme and took off in 2005 during the tenure of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu as the governor, with the New Era Foundation as its main facilitator with the objective of inculcating sound environmental practices in the minds of students so that they can serve as a vehicle of change to the larger society. The Permanent Secretary, Office of Environmental Services, Mrs. Belinda Odeneye, said care for the environment could be achieved through knowledge acquisition, attitudinal change and development of individuals capable of taking actions on environmental issues towards achieving a sustainable environment. She said a lot could be manufactured from non-bio-degradable materials such as plastics, nylon, and used tyres, adding that this could be achieved through recycling as well as reusing. The Environmental Bees Club and training manual for handlers of the club was unveiled by Mrs. Sanwo-Olu, assisted by the wife of the deputy governor, commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources and other dignitaries. Awards were presented to students and pupils who distinguished themselves in the essay competition and to environmental ambassadors.