The Chief of the Naval Staff (CNS) Rear Admiral Awwal Zubairu Gambo has ordered all operational units and commands to intensify ongoing onslaught against criminality in the country’s maritime domain. He gave the charge during his maiden meeting with Principal Staff Officers (PSOs), Flag Officers Commanding (FOC) and commanders of autonomous units at the Naval Headquarters where he set the tone for his administration. Admiral Gambo who clearly stated his vision for the NN, said the service under his command would “leverage on all factors of national location, technology, training, teamwork and synergy to re-energise the Nigerian Navy and enhance her as a well-motivated and ready naval force in the discharge of her Constitutional mandate and other assigned tasks in fulfillment of national security objectives.” To achieve this vision, the CNS said his administration would focus on some key drivers like personnel welfare for enhanced patriotism, integrity, productivity, innovation, commitment and dedication. “It will also focus on human capacity development through result-oriented training for enhanced professionalism and as well strengthening logistics support and maintenance capabilities to sustain equipment serviceability and platform availability. “As part of the key drivers, the Nigerian Navy under the leadership of Rear Admiral AZ Gambo will reinforce the culture of self-sufficiency through sustained investment in R&D and prudent management of resources, promote inter-Service cooperation and forge strategic partnerships with MDAs, credible maritime stakeholders as well as collaboration engagements with international partners. “Furthermore, the service will promote and sustain the Nigerian Navy core values of integrity, professionalism and teamwork,” said a statement by Director of Naval Information (DINFO) Commodore Suleman Dahun. According to Dahun, the CNS stated his commitment to immediate positive transformation in the nation’s security especially in the maritime domain, urging all hands to be on deck. He added; “The CNS also stressed that he has zero tolerance for indiscipline and criminal activities. In this regard, the established policies and measures to sanction identified Nigerian Navy personnel that collude with economic saboteurs, drug traffickers/barons, bandits, kidnappers and armed robbers shall be overhauled and strengthened. “Related to this, the CNS was quick to warn personnel to avoid any act capable of tarnishing the image of the NN. According to him, such acts would be met with heavy sanctions to act as deterrence to others. “On the other hand, Nigerian Navy personnel that exhibit high integrity and positive attributes that portray the NN in good light shall be rewarded handsomely. The CNS added that his administration shall place a premium on human capacity development through higher training and education. “Importantly, the CNS directed for all ongoing operations in the Nigerian Navy to check piracy, sea robbery, Crude Oil Theft and illegal refining of petroleum products to continue in earnest. He particularly rejected the resurging incidents of piracy and sea robbery within Nigerian waters. “He therefore directed all operations commanders to sustain aggressive clearance operations to make suspected militants, cults and pirate camps non-conducive for any nefarious activities to thrive. “Rear Admiral Gambo also used the forum to assure that the Nigerian Navy shall give the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic the seriousness it deserves. He called on all Nigerian Navy personnel to remain safe and adhere to all relevant Nigerian Navy and national protocols. He equally promised to take issues of personnel welfare seriously. The CNS said, “we must understand that the ‘man’ remains the most critical and important factor in military operations.” In line with all these and Mr. President’s mandate, the CNS highlighted his immediate plan that he intends to actualize within the first 90 days in office. While doing that, the CNS called for complete loyalty from all subordinate commanders.”