 Dr. (Mrs) Doyin Abiola, who clocked 75 on February 1, easily ranks among the most accomplished members of her generation. Although in paying tribute to this outstanding woman, reference is often made that she was the first woman to edit a daily Nigerian newspaper and also the first female Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief of a national newspaper, we choose to celebrate her, on this occasion, as a human being of great intellect, strong character, prodigious industry, immense managerial skill, and uncommon determination, as well as commitment, to whatever cause she believes in. She readily stands out, with distinction, among members of her generation, irrespective of gender. That she obtained a first degree in English and Drama from the University of Ibadan in 1969 is a testimony to her academic brilliance. After a stint working as a reporter with the Daily Sketch newspaper, between 1969 and 1970, the then Doyin Aboaba, still thirsty for knowledge,, left for the United States where she obtained a Masters degree in Journalism, from the University of Wisconsin. On her return to Nigeria, she was offered the position of Features Writer at the Daily Times, then Nigeria’s leading newspaper, and she rose to become the newspaper’s Features Editor. As she put it in an interview with mass communication scholar, Richard Ikibie: “Luckily, the ever resourceful CEO of Daily Times, the late Alhaji Babatunde Jose, recruited me for Daily Times; after an interesting interview by an editorial panel comprising the then editor of Daily Times and others, all male.  I was predictably offered the post of Woman Editor, which I declined. But the offer was renewed and I became a features writer in the features department”. It is obvious that she did not want to be pigeon-holed or circumscribed in her journalism career because of her gender. That kind of decision, at that time in a male- dominated industry, certainly required guts and courage. After serving as Features Editor of Daily Times between 1972 and 1975, Mrs. Abiola was off once again to the United States, in quest of further academic laurels. She obtained a PhD in communications and political science, from New York University. On her reasons for leaving Daily Times for further studies abroad, Mrs. Abiola told Richard Ikiebe: ”It was an action predicated on principle. I joined Daily Times as an independent newspaper. Alhaji Jose’s removal was, to me, unfair. He made Daily Times what it was then. Granted, they should have curbed his powers, but they did not have to throw the baby away with the bath water…So I was in a state of flux and then decided to go on a sabbatical to pursue a doctorate degree”. A woman of grit and principle, ready to follow her convictions, no matter the cost! On her return to Nigeria, Mrs. Abiola was deployed to the Daily Times Editorial Board, where she worked briefly until she was appointed pioneer editor of the then newly established National Concord newspaper. In 1986, she was promoted Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief of the Concord newspaper titles. Her astute management of human and material resources at the company as well as her professional and intellectual leadership no doubt played a crucial role in the rapid expansion of the newspaper, which at a point became the highest circulating newspaper in the country. Her tenure as Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief also coincided with the National Concord’s Publisher, her husband, Chief MKO Abiola, contesting for the country’s presidency and winning convincingly, although the election was cruelly annulled by the military regime of General Ibrahim Babangida. It was a most difficult period for the media, particularly the National Concord. But Mrs. Abiola showed grit and sterling leadership in that turbulent time and refused to betray either her loyalty to her husband or her fidelity to the core values of an independent and free press, even under a ruthless dictatorship. Mrs. Abiola’s spirit remained unbroken, even after Chief Abiola had died in mysterious circumstances in detention; and practically all his businesses paralyzed by the military. Mrs Abiola, who was granted the Eisenhower Fellowship to undertake a tour of the United States in 1986,was conferred with the Lifetime Achievement Award of the Diamond Awards for Media Excellence (DAME) during its 24th ceremony. We wish this great woman happy birthday and many more fulfilled years on earth.