The 400-Level students of the Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) have produced hand sanitisers to ensure regular precautionary measures are taken within and outside the campus. This followed the directive of the  management  that  students should resume with hand sanitisers for personal  safety. “Each student is advised to come along with enough hand sanitisers that will permit him to sanitise his/her hands as regularly as possible,” the management said in a statement. Class Representative of the department, Muttaka Umar, said it was necessary for them to render their own contribution to the university to fight the coronavirus pandemic. “After resumption, we thought it was very important to give our own contribution to the students. We produced these hand sanitisers  to prevent the  spread of the coronavirus,”  he said. He confirmed the quality and the efficacy of the hand sanitisers, saying the procedures for production was in line with the World Health Organisation (WHO) guidelines. “In the course of production, we used the standard and recommended hand sanitiser formula of World Health Organisation (WHO) to form aqueous hand sanitisers,” he noted. Dean of Students’Affairs, UDUS, Prof. Aminu Mode, lauded them for being innovative. He said: “This  is really commendable. We (the management) really appreciate whatever contribution anyone brings whether students or not.” Olympus Adebanjo, an education expert, while praising the students , said  any type of education  not translating into providing solutions is a waste. He urged  students to be more creative and innovative by translating their skills into something beneficial. “This is why I always  appreciate the few students that defy the odds by arming themselves with knowledge and skills  absent in our education. Even if there are known formulas for local hand sanitisers here and there, it is important to encourage the drive to engage in productive entrepreneurship at an early stage,” he said. However, UDUS students have applauded  the initiative, stressing  that it was  worthy of emulation. AbdulQodir Abdulazeez, a 200-Level student of Sociology  said it would motivate others in the institution to contribute to its  development. “First, I have to praise  the efforts of Pharmaceutical Sciences students for their efforts. This innovation serves as a motivation for the entire students of UDUS to bring new development to our prestigious university,” he said. He, therefore, advised the school  to support the  students and urged them  to continue to promote  the school with innovative ideas.” “It is advisable for  management to support these students at all costs and ensure that this hand sanitiser is purchased at a cheaper rate by students, academic and non-academic staff   to enhance  further production. Also, I urge the students to continue to  contribute  to the  development of our institution,” he added.