A disquiet grew in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State on Sunday, with angry reactions to a video in which a man claimed that some villages at Ayete, Ibarapa have been sacked by herders. The video, which surfaced on social media, accused the police and Governor Seyi Makinde of keeping quiet while villagers were being killed by herdsmen and a remnant fled for their lives. The video claimed that the traditional ruler of Ayete had cried out to the government many times, to no avail. A man in the video said Makinde would make state broadcast and issue statement the moment the villagers made move to defend themselves and their land, which might result in the killing of herders. The issue was made popular when the video was uploaded on the PDP WhatsApp group set up by the party’s state Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, with members of the group commenting. Makinde is said to be in the WhatsApp group. Reading some of the comments, the governor reacted in anger, wondering why every claim by just anybody should be treated to attract government’s reaction and attention. He said Olatunji needed mature people who could make meaningful contributions on the platform. In anger, he exited the group. But his decision has stirred controversy among party members, leaders and other residents of the state such that it has become the subject of discussion in other popular Whatsapp groups in the state. In other WhatsApp groups, PDP members and members of other parties, as well as non-politicians have been discussing the appropriateness of Makinde’s action. While many faulted him, positing that he could not manage his temperament and that he could not accommodate other people’s views, some said he was right to do so because social media platforms were full of fake news, illogical arguments and unsubstantiated claims. The discussions are still on. The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Makinde, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, has warned against false security alarm in the form of fake audio and video posts on social media. Adisa, in a statement in Ibadan yesterday, warned the citizens against raising false alarm on the security situation in Ibarapa land and parts of Oke-Ogun zone. He equally warned purveyors of fake information to desist from such act, so as not to plunge the state into crisis.