Rivers Governor Nyesom Wike has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of deepening ethnic, religious and socio-economic crises instead of finding solutions to them. The Governor said the next President of the country would spend his tenure fixing the problems created by the ruling party. Wike said since the APC took over the centre in 2015, everything holding the country together had collapsed alleging the ruling party also politicised security. The Governor spoke during the official presentation of the letter of nomination to him for the 2020 Extra-Ordinary Personality of the Year Award by the management of Silverbird Group at the Government House, Port Harcourt, on Wednesday. Wike, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said despite the glaring insecurity, religious and ethnic, officials of the Federal Government had continued to live denial that Nigeria was more united and secure than ever. The Governor maintained that whoever became President in 2023 would spend his entire reign trying to resolve the various socio-economic crisis caused by the present administration. Wike expressed his appreciation on behalf of the government and people of the state to the management of Silverbird for the recognition. But he said it was disturbing that the Nigerian Media had failed in their responsibility to hold the present administration accountable for failure to provide much-desired good governance. “The problem in Nigeria which I have always said is that the press, the media is part of our headache. The media have lost their voice. I remember when Goodluck Jonathan was the President, it was as if the media wants to pull down the whole of Nigeria,” he said. The Governor noted that the inability of the media to scrutinise those in authority was partly responsible for the lack of accountability by those in office. For instance, he said the President promised to fight corruption and bring to book, persons he accused of killing the economy but such persons were ironically members of his political party and freed from prosecution. He said his administration would continue to deliver developmental projects and improve the wellbeing of Rivers State people, particularly, pensioners, till the very last day of his tenure.