A graduate of Sociology from the University of Lagos, Tolulope Oke also read Dramatic Arts at the Obafemi Awolowo University, (OAU), Ile Ife. She speaks on her new movie, its focus, and importance to the audience as well as the impact of COVID 19 on the industry. Cookie Spot is a story and it is a reflection of life. I believe in hope and I tried to project life and it possibilities. It draws inspiration from a carwash that can turn into a big business. The lady gets help from a woman where she is working to establish her business. She wants a good life for her mother and herself which the mother rejected due to the untold story she doesn’t reveal to her daughter about her father. Women should not be overwhelmed with challenges. They should believe they can make it despite all odds. I believe every woman has a staying power that should confront every challenge and overcome. I want every woman out there to have a positive spirit which will definitely make them overcome in life. There is a need for women to support one another. Young women should see the bigger picture of whatever they are doing. Possibilities are endless in life. Whatever you are doing, you should not give up. You can always be a better person wherever you are. You should learn to survive in a way that will add value to others. The movie will be showing on TV, online, cables and cinema. To reach all and sundry, there is a strategic focus to adopt the cinema as there is the cinema culture in Nigerians. Covid-19 has slowed everything down. Life, I believe, has been altered by the pandemic. People have been looking at how to cope with post-covid. Digital channels have come to stay to promote products and services. For movies, people are health conscious about what they do. Now you see standby doctors on a film set to ensure the environment is safe for everyone. The benefit of this is that everyone focuses on their health status more. It is a good development for the industry which shows we are more conscious of our environment. It means anyone who is not physically fit should not participate in movie production. It shows the producer will take responsibility. It means we pay attention to everything that matters. It puts Nollywood in a good light. There is more to bringing people on set. We should be conscious of or health as it is important. We should be concerned about the health status of the crew. COVID has made it mandatory to focus on basic things that are often overlooked. The focus of the industry is to release good and quality content. There are digital channels for the readymade market. When quality movies are provided, it showcases our professional expertise and projects the nation’s image. It is important to focus on professional expertise and develop techniques in movie production. The technical part of our movie is also getting better, in terms of sub-editing, music background and post-production. I want to showcase myself as a very detailed producer and actor. I also want to let the audience especially the younger ones know that there are opportunities around them. They need to identify such opportunities and deploy creativity to promote themselves. It is also to promote entrepreneurship. It also tells the youth audience that success takes perseverance. It also teaches hope. I want the younger generations to believe in their potentials and have their potentials. Success is a destination, not a journey. I also want to add value to society and at the end of the day, it is a win-win situation for all. Cookie spot is also a story that promotes family values. Cookie spot also focuses on women helping one another. Women should identify potentials in others and help them. Women should see themselves as pillars of support for one another. Support for a woman is a support for other generations.