 The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) order to financial institutions, to shut down all bank accounts associated with cryptocurrency trading platforms, has sent shock waves across the financial services industry. Such has been the torrent of comments, since the February 5 directive: the apex bank ripples with ‘bad faith’; is stifling innovations; is killing promising indigenous start-ups; is slamming the doors on foreign investments. The reactions, somewhat hyper-charged, are clearly understandable. Nigeria, in the last five years, is said to have traded 60, 215 bitcoins, valued at more than US$ 566 million — the second largest volume in the world, coming only after the United States. Not only does it lead other countries like China, Canada and South Africa, it is indisputably the financial trading platform of choice, among its young, restless, tech-savvy,  fin-tech players. That lobby exploded in a vicious anti-CBN put down: the apex bank is not only light years behind in embracing innovation, it appears unable to appreciate that innovations are, by their very nature, disruptive. In all, the CBN’s attempt to explain the measure, in the context of its earlier warning in 2017 to Nigerians to keep off cryptocurrency, is clearly drowned in the din. Yet, the CBN’s latest position bears re-stating, if only to appreciate the very issues at the heart of the rather drastic measure. First, the CBN says that the directive became necessary to protect Nigerians, including its youths, from the risks inherent in crypto asset transactions. Second, that cryptocurrencies ”are largely speculative, anonymous and untraceable, they are increasingly being used for money laundering, terrorism financing and other criminal activities”. Third, that crypto assets, being highly volatile, pose a great threat to small retail and unsophisticated investors, who stand to lose a lot. And finally, that entities – ranging from central banks, international financial institutions, distinguished investors and economists – have also warned against its use, given what they perceive as ”significant risks that transacting in cryptocurrencies portend: risk of loss of investments, money laundering, terrorism financing, illicit fund flows and criminal activities.” To begin with, few even among the horde accusing the apex bank of regulatory highhandedness, would deny the primacy of the CBN’s role in ensuring monetary stability; and ultimately order, in the nation’s financial market. As to whether the CBN has the structure to track the activities of a class of supranational players, whose driving force is anonymity, obscurity, and camouflage, the answer would seem obvious, by the CBN’s calibrated measure: It does not. In fact, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), only in the wake of the ban, stated that it was “engaged with the CBN; and agreed to work together to further analyse, and better understand, the identified risks, to ensure that appropriate and adequate mitigants are put in place, should such securities be allowed in the future.” In the meantime, it says it ”will continue to monitor developments in the digital asset space, and further engage all critical stakeholders, with a view to creating a regulatory structure that enhances economic development, while promoting a safe, innovative and transparent capital market”. That seems to us the way to go. In the meantime, the implication is that the local two regulators are simply not there yet. It, therefore, stands to reason that the CBN could not have been expected to do nothing until things go awry, when by its own admission, grave dangers loom ahead. Aside merely giving the CBN the benefit of the doubt, this newspaper would even argue that the apex bank’s position is unassailable.