The Convener of Raising Girls Ambition (RAGA) Conference, Dr Adepeju Oti, has appealed to relevant stakeholders including parents, teachers, corporate organisations and government to consider placing a higher priority on more pressing issues affecting the girl-child. Oti, who is also the founder of a non-governmental organisation, Global Youth Leadership and Girl-child Foundation (GYLGF), said if the government and relevant stakeholders would place half of the kind of supports being given to entertainment shows to education, the future of the youths would be more secured. She made the appeal at the post-RAGA conference awards ceremony and press conference at the Oyo State Ministry of Education in Ibadan. Speaking on the impact of the annual conference, the RAGA convener said over 2000 girls have been positively influenced in the last six years that the effort had started. RAGA is an annual conference organised by GYLGF in partnership with Lead City University, Ibadan. According to Oti, GYLGF envisions a society where the potentials of youth and girl-child are fully developed, supported to become socially responsible and able to lead self and contribute meaningfully to society. She disclosed about 50 girls have participated in the RAGA global mentorship programme, with 25 mentors from different nationalities, while three girls are on secondary school and university scholarships. Oti called for support of the government and relevant ministry and agencies to ensure that every girl attains the highest level of education and reaches her optimum potential, adding that every youth should be gainfully employed and or able to create employment. She said the NGO is also supporting the government in its responsibilities and needs the authorities to cooperate more with her. Oti said: “It is appalling for society to place a priority on entertainment shows when there are more pressing issues like girl-child education begging for attention. “The result is the incessant rape cases and money consciousness in society today. The ‘omoluabi’ concept, in Yoruba parlance, we used to cherish is ebbing out. We need to make a detour in order to raise a generation that is sound.” The highpoint of the brief event is the award of cash prizes to winners of secondary schools’ debate, quiz, creative arts, and essay competitions. She added in 2020, the GYLGF awarded $10,000 grant sponsored by Rachel Chanel Clarke Globalization Program, USA to a winning female-led business proposal. The grant was won by Olubukola Kupoluyi-Bakare of Moov Nigeria. Speaking at the ceremony, one of the mentees, Kimberley Dirisu of Lead City High School, said she had been attending RAGA with her seniors for years, learning new things with RAGA inspiring her to improve herself and those around her. While appreciating the work done by GYLGF, founder of the IITA Women’s Group, Mrs Charlotte Sanginga who was represented by Ms Margaret Olaoluwa charged recipients of the awards to make the foundation proud through diligence and believing in themselves. Oyo Commissioner for Education, Olasunkanmi Olaleye was represented at the event by the permanent secretary, Mrs Atere Aminat.