Organised Labour has called for more participation of Nigerian workers in politics. It said the country needed solution-oriented leaders. President of the National Union of Food Beverage and Tobacco Employees (NUFBTE), Lateef Idowu Oyelekan, and his counterpart in the National Union of Textile Garment and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria (NUTGTWN), John Adaji, stated this in Lagos while extolling the virtues of Chairman, House Committee on Tertiary Education and Services, Suleiman Goro. They said Goro has been a good representative of Nigerian workers at the National Assembly. Oyelekan, who is also vice-president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), described the lawmaker from Kano as one of the best political leaders in Nigeria, as he has proved himself through innumerable works. He said: “I still believe that there is hope in Nigeria. God has blessed our country with so many mineral resources, but the problem is to find good leaders to harness these resources. “Aminu has proved himself, he has empowered so many people in his constituency through many programmes. “We’ve got the news of his so many exploits and we are not surprised because he is a labour man, whereas so many people up there do not want to identify with the masses. “If we have identified people doing well, we have to support such to lead and it won’t be out of place for us to recommend him for the governorship or even President because it is a call to serve and we know that he will deliver,” he said. The NLC vice-president said labour could only succeed in providing good leadership for the country by workers’ full participation in politics and supporting those already identified among them. “If we identify anybody, we should all put hands together to push him up. The question should not be how much wealth you have acquired, but how many lives touched.” Goro, who is serving his third term in the House of Representatives, said that some people have misconceptions that activism is mediocre, but such misconceptions have since been proved untrue. He said if given the opportunity to govern Kano in 2023, it would only be a further call to serve in the higher dispensation.