The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Imo State has accused the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) of devising dubious schemes to hoodwink and lure the unsuspecting public to register with their party in its ongoing membership registration and revalidation exercise. The PDP also accused the ruling party of being desperate to procure members at all cost with false claims. In a statement issued by the state publicity secretary of the PDP, Ogubundu Nwadike on Friday, the opposition party said, “Part of their shameful strategy, having been convinced that the people have rejected them nationwide due to its failure in all indices of governance, is to induce and deceive the good people of the state with such blatant lies as, ‘there is ongoing census exercise, INEC registration and empowerment programs.” The APC is also desperate to procure members at all cost with such false claims as, “the exercise will be used for the payment of unemployment benefits, sharing of proceeds from Abacha loot, and crediting of accounts of Nigerians under federal government’s empowerment programs’. “These are all blatant lies! Absolute falsehood! APC are known liars!” The PDP, therefore, called on the people of the state especially its members not to be deceived because “There is no census going on in Nigeria or Imo State. INEC is not conducting any registration exercise anywhere. There are no empowerment benefit plans. There are no plans to credit bank accounts of Nigerians. “Registration in a political party is not by force. There is freedom of choice and association. PDP members and indeed the general public in Imo State should not succumb to any pressure or force by anybody to register with APC against their wishes. “APC is hereby warned to desist from using falsehood and propaganda to force citizens to register with it. The party cannot force itself on the people.” Reacting to the allegations, the Director General of the Imo APC new media, Cajethan Duke, accused PDP in the state of being ‘frustrated’. Duke said, “PDP in Imo state is frustrated. Imo people are too enlightened and educated to be deceived to register with us. PDP is crying because many of their members are joining us in APC. Governor Hope Uzodinma has made APC in Imo state and in the South East zone very attractive. That’s why we have a lot of people joining our party. It has nothing to do with the imaginary inducement.”