  There are basically two types of revolutions. These are the political (bloody, violent) and industrial (scientific, peaceful) revolutions. The Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary, defines revolution as: 1) an attempt by a large number of people, to change the government of a country, especially by violent action; 2) a great change in conditions, ways of working, beliefs, etc., that affects a large number of people. These definitions are for the political and the industrial revolutions, respectively. The English Revolution (1640-1688) and the French Revolution (1789-1799) were both bloody. The political revolution always comes before the industrial revolution. There is probably no industrialised nation on earth today which did not experience the bloody revolution. One may quickly ask: can a nation avoid the bloody political revolution? Before answering this question, let us learn more about the famous English and French political revolutions. All the nations in modern Western Europe were part of the ancient Gaul which was harnessed into the Roman Empire in 55 B. C. In 406 A. D. when most of the islands of England had been part of the Roman empire for over 400 years, the Vandals, Burgundians and Germanic tribes broke up the western part of the Empire (Brooke, 1968).  From that point on, the islands were exposed to barbarian attacks from Ireland, Scotland and Germanic tribes. The various kingdoms in the island metamorphosed into a nation in the tenth century. In the middle ages (450-1450), institutions and corporate life flourished and grew while the individual was held of little account in Europe (Trevelyan, 1948). Feudalism was the characteristic institution of Europe in the Middle Ages. It implied a fixed and legal subordination of certain classes of society to certain others, so as to obtain a civilized order. The economic system was based on agriculture and manorial system. The lords of the manors forced serfs to work for them without pay. The serfs at that time were not considered freemen (Trevelyan, 1948). As the situation in England degenerated, there arose three parties to the struggle for power: the king, Charles I (1625-1649) and his supporters, the parliament (representing the people) and the army (Trevelyan, 1948). The first part of the civil war that characterized the English Revolution was fought 1642-1646. The second phase of the war was fought in 1648. The military headed by General Cromwell, tired of the bloodshed, branded the king, “Charles Stuart, the Man of Blood,” and seized power in December 1648. The military tried the king for treason January 20-27, 1649, found him guilty and executed him on January 30, 1649. The military ruled Britain for 10 years; Cromwell died 1658. General Monk,” the practical man,” was able to disband the army, and restore the monarchy, parliament and the rule of law without bloodshed. Charles II became the king of Britain in 1660. The conflict between the executive and the parliament continued after the Restoration. The conflict was settled by the innovation of 1688 in which the executive was made subject to the nation and the law. Britain achieved the first modern industrial revolution in the period 1770-1850 (Gregg, 1971), almost two centuries later. The industrial revolution was not an event but a process. France up to early in the 18th century was composed of a number of provinces which had come under the king at different times. The provinces which had different customs, taxes, privileges and laws were loosely tied to the Monarchy (Bradley, 1932; Chamberlin, 1967; and Petit-Dutallis, 1966). The provinces at one time possessed local parliaments which managed their affairs and also sent representatives to the general assembly called State General which was summoned by the king as he felt necessary. By ancient customs, French people were divided into three classes called Estates or Orders. They were: Clergy, Noble and the Third Estate. The first two were the privileged classes. All European kings including Louis XVI (1774-1792) of France, believed that God alone placed them on their thrones and they were only responsible to God. The critical point was reached when France was virtually bankrupt due to corruption and wars. The king alone bounded by custom, could not increase taxes without summoning the State General. King Louis XVI therefore summoned the National Assembly in January 1789, to help him save the government from bankruptcy.  The representatives of the common man exerted their majority power, having read the enlightenment books and took control of the proceedings in the National Assembly. The French Revolution followed. The unemployed and hungry were many and determined to resist perceived oppression. The peasants in the rural areas plundered and burnt a large number of the privileged few. The king was guillotined on January 21, 1793 after he attempted escape. One group after the other took control and guillotined the other. The bloodletting continued for 10 years.  Prevalent poverty remained in France till far into the 20th century. In my opinion, the Nigerian revolution has begun. Mass unemployment, poverty, violence, other evils have been with us for decades. Most importantly, Nigeria has expanding educational systems which have educated many millions of citizens who know that there is a lot of injustice and corruption in the nation. No one can stop it. I suggest that government focus on achieving rapid industrialization. Yes, Nigeria can achieve industrial revolution without experiencing the bloody political revolution. How? All human beings are born as crying babies. It is through learning that the baby acquires the capabilities to talk before speaking a language.  All babies who could not babble grow up to be dumb-adults. All other knowledge, skills and capabilities (KSCs) are acquired through learning. Learning (education, training, employment and research) is therefore the primary basis for creating wealth and building a nation. To speak a language, one must acquire a minimum vocabulary and syntax of the language. The more the effort put into learning, the higher is the rate of progress, the shorter is the time needed to achieve a given level of progress. The learning people are appreciating assets (AAs), because they appreciate in intrinsic values with learning intensity and time. Quantitative analyses of this statement produced an equation (a model) which suggested that mobilizing all the citizens of a nation enables it to achieve industrialisation or speak the science and technology language in a few decades. Japan mobilized all her citizens for learning 1886-1905, 20 years, and achieved industrialization. China mobilized all her citizens for learning in 1949 and achieved industrialisation in the early 1980s, about 30 years; China is a world power today. Nigeria must mobilize all her citizens for learning and industrialisation NOW, to ensure that the Nigerian Revolution is scientific, prompt and peaceful. 