Okonjo-Iweala’s WTO feat is ode to personal merit and national pride. But the Bretton-Woods 
orthodoxy, in which she is steeped, is hardly an elixir for Nigeria and other developing economies  It is hardly disputable that her outstanding personal attributes are largely responsible for the appointment of Nigeria’s Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the new Director-General of the 159-member World Trade Organization (WTO).  The range of the global consensus that supported her candidacy clearly attests to that fact. A product of some of the world’s most reputable academic institutions, including Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Okonjo-Iweala has solid scholarly grounding in development economics. Her 25-year  meritorious career as a development economist at the World Bank, where she rose to become Managing Director, Operations, between 2007 and 2011, also helped considerably to project Okonjo-Iweala on the global economic arena as well as enhance her profile and perceived suitability for her new assignment. That she served at various times on the boards of prestigious corporate organizations including Standard Chartered Bank, Twitter, Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization as well as African Risk Capacity, among others, further underscores the respect and international credibility that Mrs. Okonjo-Iweala enjoys. Her two-term tenure as Nigeria’s Minister of Finance, between 2003 and 2006, in the Olusegun Obasanjo administration, and from 2011-p to 2015 during the Goodluck Jonathan Presidency, also no doubt significantly enriched her resume. Yet, her choice for the WTO position can be attributed neither to the quality of governance in her country over the years (including during her two stints as Nigeria’s Finance minister) or the strength of the Nigerian economy, particularly given her generous endowment in natural, mineral and human resources. Here, then, is a paradox of Dr Okonjo-Iweala’s WTO triumph. She had the opportunity of serving as Nigeria’s Minister of Finance for seven years in this political dispensation. Yet, under her watch and despite her academic credentials and career pedigree, the Nigerian economy continued along its weak, dependent and unhealthy trajectory. As a result of the rebasing of Nigeria’s GDP in 2013, from about $270 billion to $510 billion, during her tenure as minister, the country became the largest economy in Africa and 26th largest in the world.   But this initiative was largely perceived as artificial, as the country’s economy remained oil-dependent, agriculture-weak and manufacturing and industry-fragile.  Besides, power supply was epileptic, social services inefficient and inadequate, infrastructure decrepit while the level of poverty deepened. In developmental parlance, therefore, the Okonjo-Iweala rebasing was, at best, growth without development; at worst, statistical distraction from the atrophying real sector of agriculture (where Nigeria should naturally have comparative advantage) and power-powered manufacturing (which holds the ace for mass employment, which can trigger real growth, human development and eventual mass prosperity). Okonjo-Iweala’s critics contend that her unbending adherence to free market, neo-liberal economic orthodoxies advocated by International Financial Institutions like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and World Bank made it difficult for the government to think out of the box and come up with creative policy initiatives, that could help unleash the country’s enormous but trapped economic potential. We agree. The debt relief obtained by Nigeria from the Paris Club in June, 2005, under Dr Okonjo-Iweala’s watch as Finance minister, is regarded by her admirers as her most important accomplishment. Under the unprecedented deal, Nigeria and the Paris Club agreed on the $18 billion debt relief package. While Nigeria paid a lump sum of $12 billion of its Paris Club debt, the Paris Club wrote off $18 billion of the over $30 billion debt. President Obasanjo and Dr Okonjo-Iweala enthused that the money that would have gone into servicing the debt would be channelled to addressing challenges in such areas as education, health and the provision of infrastructure. Unfortunately, no significant impact was made in this regard despite the debt relief. In an insightful Policy Brief Report on Nigeria’s Paris Club debt relief deal published in August 2005, the prestigious Brookings Institution in Washington noted that as at 1985, when Nigeria’s debt servicing problems began, the government’s total debt to all creditors amounted to $19 billion. It pointed out that, since then, the government had paid creditors more than $35 billion while it had borrowed less than $15 billion. Despite this, the government’s outstanding debt at the end of 2014 had grown to $36 billion. Asking, “How is this possible?” the Brookings report states that “The short answer is compound interest; the long answer is that Nigeria’s Paris Club creditors opted – for political reasons – not to restructure their claims on Nigeria in 1992 when Nigeria’s commercial creditors agreed to do so. The ballooning of Nigeria’s debt relates directly and exclusively to this policy choice by creditors”. Of Nigeria’s external debt of $36 billion at the end of 2004, over $30 billion was owed to the Paris Club as a result of the latter’s refusal to follow the example of the commercial creditors, which in 1991-1992 had agreed on a 60% debt reduction deal with Nigeria, that considerably reduced the country’s debt obligation to them. Considerations such as this, in our view, should have persuaded the Obasanjo administration to take a less weak and pliant position in its negotiations with the Paris Club. If Dr Okonjo-Iweala’s tenure as DG of the WTO is to be beneficial to developing countries, she would have to exhibit a fundamentally different ideological disposition and philosophical outlook than she has in her career trajectory thus far. One critique of the current international trade order, for instance, is that there is a divergence between the ‘free trade rhetoric’ of the developed countries of the North and their protectionism against Africa and the South. This is evident, for instance, in the agriculture sector in which high tariffs on agricultural products by advanced countries hurt farmers in developing countries. Again, the point has been made that, in their developmental phase, many developed countries utilised some degree of tariff protection to protect their infant industries and develop new ones. Yet, extant world trade rules deny developing countries this kind of much needed protection. Also, without some measure of tariff protection in the short term, it will be difficult for developing countries, that specialise in primary produce, to diversify into other sectors. There has also been the advocacy for greater transparency in mediating trade negotiations, particularly between developed and developing countries, as well as the need to strengthen the conditions that facilitate technological transfer among countries, especially by reforming the rules governing intellectual property rights. These are some of the issues that will challenge Dr Okonjo-Iweala’s abilities and define her tenure. Most Nigerians are understandably elated by her appointment. This is no doubt of some diplomatic and, perhaps, psychological value. The first true step, as she has articulated, is to tackle equity in Covid-19 vaccine distribution as the big nations privilege nationalism over humanism in deploying it. Nigeria, like other developing nations, are at the back of the line. But a Nigerian at the head of the WTO will not on its own help create a dynamic, productive, resilient and prosperous Nigerian economy. There is no alternative, in the final analysis, to strong leadership, improved governance structures, enhanced transparency and accountability, as well as imaginative and bold policies in Nigeria that can enhance the competitiveness of the country in the global economy. Still, we congratulate and wish Dr Okonjo-Iweala a successful tenure.