 Leicester City welcomed the return of Super Eagles midfielder, Wilfred Ndidi to their fold on Wednesday in their fifth-round FA Cup 1-0 triumph over Brighton. The Nigerian lasted 62 minutes in his first game since he got injured last month against Everton. He will be pivotal as the Foxes face Liverpool at lunchtime today in an ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE tie with their sights on moving to the second spot before Manchester United (who occupy that position with two points better), visit West Brom tomorrow. His compatriot and teammate at Leicester, Kelechi Iheanacho has turned the corner and has shown head coach, Brendan Rodgers that he could still be relied on. He should make matchday squad against the league’s reigning champions after his last gasp header sent the Foxes to the quarter-finals of the FA Cup on Wednesday against Brighton. He has scored two goals in his last three games for Leicester City. At the Hawthorns, Semi Ajayi and West Brom continue their league survival battle when they host Manchester United tomorrow. They lost to Tottenham the last time out and another negative result against the Red Devils pushes them further to the drop zone. At the Goodison Park, Everton will trade tackles with Fulham in a tie that could see about six Nigerians in action. Alex Iwobi plays for the Toffees and was crucial in the two successive positive results Everton recorded against Manchester United and Tottenham last weekend and on Wednesday in the league and FA Cup respectively. Tosin Adarabioyo, Ademola Lookman and Joshua Onomah are Englishmen with Nigeria heritage while Ola Aina and Josh Maja are Super Eagles players. They are all players of Fulham. Maja had his debut for the Cottagers in their goalless draw with West Ham last weekend while Adarabioyo and Lookman lasted the entire duration of the game. But Aina was surprisingly benched in the tie. They should give Everton a run for their money tomorrow. Meanwhile, Ramon Azeez dropped to the LA LIGA SMARTBANK for more game opportunities with Cartegena where he is on loan from Granada. He played the final 23 minutes plus additional time as Cartegena beat Real Oviedo 2-0 to move away from the relegation zone. It was not the type of debut Kelechi Nwakali hoped for with Alcorcon on Monday after they lost 2-0 at Ponferradina with the Nigerian playing the opening 62 minutes before he was substituted. It was his first league game since November last year while still at SD Huesca. Alcorcon are at the bottom of the Segunda.