Adamawa United players have sent a Save Our Soul (SOS) to the Governor of the State, Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri to come to their aid over the inhuman treatment they are subjected to as professional players of the state-owned team. The players who spoke on condition of anonymity left for their league tie with Jigawa Golden Stars from Yola to Kaduna in the early hours of yesterday, the same day they were billed to face the team after they were cash-strapped. The players also complained that they are still paid with the same salary structure they received while still in the Nigeria National League (NNL) with the highest earner collecting N80,000 while some members of the squad receive as little as N50,000. This is against the welfare package instituted by the League Management Company (LMC) which stipulates that the least paid NPFL player should receive N150,000. “We have been dying in silence and we want the State Governor, Ahmadu Fintiri to come to our aid. We have practically been eating from hand to mouth and it is not helping us as professional players. “This is our second season in the NPFL and the money we receive as salary is nothing to write home about. Presently, we are still paid the same salary that we collected in the lower league,” one of the players offered to explain. “The highest earner in Adamawa United is receiving N80,000 before December last year while we have some players whose salary is N50,000 at the same period but from December last year, our salary has been slashed and we now receive half of it. “Things have become unbearable for us as breadwinners because the money we receive can’t even be enough for us or our family members whom we know it is our right to support them. “We will like the LMC to investigate the matter and strive to ensure that we are paid what is legitimately ours. We are tired of suffering in silence.” NationSport learnt that the daily allowance of the players has been slashed from N5,000 per day to N1,000. Efforts to get Adamawa State Commissioner for Sports, Sanusi Farouk who oversees the day-to-day running of the club proved abortive as his phones were switched off.