The police came under more attack on Wednesday in Anambra State. At least one police officer was killed in an attack at Nkpologwu in Aguata. A source said four officers were feared killed in the attack, but this could not be confirmed. The assailants carted away their rifles. Also on Wednesday, gunmen attacked a bullion van on the Benin/Asaba Expressway, killing one policeman and injuring two. These followed the killing of a policeman during an attack on a police station in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, on Tuesday. The Nkpologwu incident occurred at a checkpoint in the community. The hoodlums set ablaze the slain officers’ patrol van. Police spokesman Mohammed Haruna did not respond to calls. The new police commissioner’s number was also “not available”. But a police officer confirmed the attack and said the number could be up to four as against one as reported by an online medium. The Benin/Asaba Expressway incident was said to have been carried out by bandits who came out of the bushes upon sighting the bullion van. They shot until the van and the escorts stopped. A source said the gunmen robbed the van, while a female bus passenger was killed by a stray bullet during an exchange of gunfire. Acting police spokesman, Bright Edafe, identified the slain policeman as Inspector Ogar Sunday. Eight suspects have been arrested in connection with Tuesday’s attack on Abayi Police Station, Aba, Abia State. The suspects were apprehended in the state, and weapons seized from them. About 200 gunmen attacked the station, killing two officials and burning down a part of the facility. Force spokesman Frank Mba said in a statement: “The Police in Abia State Command successfully neutralised four attackers, arrested eight persons and recovered arms and ammunition from hoodlums who carried out an unprovoked attack on Abayi Police Station, Aba in Osisioma Ngwa LGA of Abia State in the early hours of 23rd February 2021. “The hoodlums, numbering about 200 armed with AK47 rifles and machetes, invaded the station and set part of it ablaze with the aid of petrol bombs and other explosives. “Following the attack, two officers, an Assistant Superintendent of Police, ASP Vincent Gonze and Sergeant Emmanuel Okoronkwo unfortunately paid the supreme price. “The Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, commiserates with the family and friends of the deceased officers.” Also yesterday, a town union vice-chairman in Enugu was shot dead by gunmen. Samuel Ani, second in command of the Oruku community in the Nkanu East council area, was killed in his home. It happened two months after the traditional ruler, Emmanuel Chiediebere Mbah was also killed in the community. Oruku, one of the troubled communities in Nkanu East Local Government Area of Enugu State, has been engulfed in a crisis since December last year when Mbah was shot and killed by gunmen suspected to be policemen from Force Headquarters Abuja. The monarch was shot while addressing members of his community during their annual meeting on December 26, 2020. His murder, in which some members of the community were fingered, sparked off a chain of crisis leading to the burning of over 77 houses and the only market in the community.