 Of all the most intriguing views on the dramatic replacements of service chiefs, ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo’s perception is probably the most curious and critical. He had sneered at those celebrating the replacements, suggesting that not only were the old security chiefs not impactful, there was no basis to hope that the new ones would be significantly different or better. He would comment in three to six months time, he said, an indication that the former president had lost confidence completely in the ability of President Muhammadu Buhari to govern. All the former president’s views about the old and new security chiefs were reported last week, and while those views were skewering eneough, they were not completely or even tonally different from the reservations and hesitations many have expressed about the president’s plan to generally revamp his security architecture. The clumsy and dramatic replacement of the departed service chiefs, not to say their being shunted into more internationally recognizable positions, agrees with the suspicion that the president lost control of his administration a long time ago. As Chief Obasanjo observed, it took the president about five years to replace his highly denigrated service chiefs. There is nothing to justify that lethargy. There is indeed nothing in theory and practice to justify that pawky caution. The only probable justification would be that powerful forces and individuals had captured the government, run rings round it, and led it by the nose. There was the whimsical act of determining just how the old service chiefs would exit, some of it besmirched by semantic inappropriateness.  Then there was the rather insignificant detail of who should approve or disapprove the appointment of the new service chiefs. But overall, everything points to the fact that somebody or a group of people, other than the president, is in control. By now, the country must have reconciled itself to that dual mandate. That dual mandate will not shift until 2023. Even the most optimistic reading of the replacement of the old service chiefs points to the fact that they were far more in control of this administration than they talked or acted. Their control will now diminish, but the forces that propelled them into office in 2015, the forces that kept them relevant for so long and has now transmuted them into an angelic consortium are irresistible, unbeatable and incontrovertible. Every theorist in the land has attempted to decipher the dynamics of the forces inspiring and hoodwinking the Buhari presidency, but even for them, old wizards at manipulation as they are, the chicaneries that they have constantly unleashed have proved befuddling. Measures and countermeasures are bombarding one another in the Buhari presidency; the replacement of the service chiefs is simply one more manifestation of that lack of order and precision. Chief Obasanjo was therefore right to be perplexed by how many years it took the president to change his service chiefs, and how seemingly uninspiring the replacements have seemed. But even an old warhorse like him could never guess the mythical transmutation that the Buhari presidency had prepared for the replaced service chiefs. There have been some suggestions that the transmutation of the old service chiefs is to shield them from censure or prosecution. It is unlikely. While there may be elements of both, it is more likely that having hugged the limelight for so long, the old service chiefs became loth to now fade into the horizon. From all indications, they will continue to be in the limelight, enjoy exposure, and sneer at the public until 2023. But nothing will make them go out of public glare before the end of this administration. They will cavort in all the administration’s munificence; they will romp in all its glory; and they will mock the helplessness of the public and any other agitated critic. Indeed, Chief Obasanjo seems to experience that helplessness and hopelessness about the capacity or lack of it being continuously demonstrated in the Buhari presidency. By now, he himself must have realized how misshapen the Nigerian presidency is, how he was largely to blame for the gargoyle that it became, and how considerably worse things might still decline without any hope that it could ever get better. There is nothing else Chief Obasanjo will say to either shock the presidency or animate the public concerning the turn of events and the abominable direction governance has taken in Nigeria. But there are a few other things that Chief Obasanjo has said about President Buhari that should elicit some concern. Previously, he had submitted that the president lacked capacity in certain areas, particularly the economy and possibly foreign policy. It is curious that the former president never talked about President Buhari’s democratic credentials. But now, Chief Obasanjo has almost completely dismissed President Buhari’s entire capacity to lead. Here is how Chief Obasanjo put it inelegantly: “I thought I knew President Buhari because he worked with me. But I used to ask people, is it that I have not read him well or read him adequately or is it that he has changed from the Buhari that I used to know? I am not subscribing to the people who say we have a new Buhari from Sudan and all that nonsense. I know what I believed was his limitations and I have written about it – he wasn’t strong in economics, not all of us are strong in anything but you need to have sufficient knowledge of it for you to direct the affairs. He wasn’t particularly too strong in foreign affairs but I thought he was strong enough in the military. From his performance in his first outing as head of state, I thought he would also do well in fighting corruption. I did not know the nepotistic tendencies of President Buhari; maybe because he was not exposed to that sort of situation when he worked with me. With what I have seen now, I believe that maybe he will be thinking of a legacy. Maybe he will also learn from what has happened in recent times.” No dismissiveness can be so effective and so complete. Adding to the administration’s ignominy the obvious lack of capacity in tackling insecurity and particularly banditry in the Northwest appears to Chief Obasanjo the perfect culmination of his disdain for President Buhari’s style of leadership. Chief Obasanjo may never agree, but when he and many of his colleagues presided over military governments in Nigeria, they deployed the wrong tools, styles and tactics, to nurture and promote top military officers into undeserved administrative positions. For decades, the military sowed the wind, now they are reaping the whirlwind. It is not only President Buhari’s incapacity that has exemplified the failings and weaknesses of past Nigerian military officers; even the all-knowing Chief Obasanjo himself is an embarrassing emblem of the total dysfunctionality that coursed through former military regimes in Nigeria. For all their actions and policies and blusters, most of the officers were actually mediocre. They lacked the vision, they lacked the depth, and they even lacked the enlightened altruism needed to position their country for greatness, regardless of their own personal failings. Nobody expected them to be perfect, but they were expected to see beyond the ordinary, act beyond the ordinary and move the society beyond the extraordinary. President Buhari’s current failures merely exemplify and accentuate the past failures of his former military colleagues. Napoleon Bonaparte was a man of like passion. Sometimes vain, sometimes ephemeral, and sometimes given to hubris and other forms of excesses; but he had uncommon perceptive powers in addition to being a military genius which his Nigerian imitators can only dream of. According to Napoleon, “the only way to lead people is to show them a future: a leader is a dealer in hope”. The problem with Nigerian leaders, including Chief Obasanjo and President Buhari, is that they have no conception of a future for Nigeria and have no pretence to deal in hope, any hope whatsoever. They come into the presidency completely vacant and for ought anybody knows, will leave it vacant. That was the lot of Chief Obasanjo. That is now the abominable lot of President Buhari, a man so peculiarly gifted by nature and history to make remarkable impact on Nigeria, but cannot even muster the capacity to engagingly sack service chiefs, or after taking that fateful step, keep them mutely disgraced where circumstances had deservedly coaxed them. As this column observed last week, the policy and generational contexts of the Buhari presidency made it impossible for any appointee to flourish. The contexts are too hostile to allow anybody flourish. Chief Obasanjo may be right to fear that even the new service chiefs will find the needed elbow room to flourish, assuming they have the depth and boldness to be so engaging. The Nigerian presidency, as currently constituted, is a mishmash of feverish and seething intrigues. There are too many powerful contending forces and factors. None of them is ennobling, none of them is inspiring, and none of those forces will take Nigeria to a higher ground. The forces have the entire country emasculated. To therefore expect that the new appointees, whether they are service chiefs or otherwise, will suddenly find the wings to fly, is chasing a chimera. Indeed as this column wondered last week, are the new service chiefs not a pig in a poke bargain? Since 2015, no one had been in control of the Buhari presidency in the nationalistic and altruistic sense of the word. There were attempts to create some form of control at a point, but nature and circumstances upended the equation. Now the situation is far worse. There are political and military merchants, policy wonks, and all sorts of brain trusts angling for influence and domination. Some of them are individuals, governors, legislators, and some of them are just plain, inspired marabouts. They have all contributed to the hysteria, demagoguery and confusion that have encased Nigerian leadership. There will be no extrication before 2023. Chief Obasanjo spoke well, but no one must ever absolve him of general blame for the morass that has overtaken the country. He has read President Buhari well again; but it is a tragedy that he is only reading him so well after he had had the tremendous opportunity to make or mar his career in his subordinate years. But, more tragically, even, is the fact that Chief Obasanjo became, unknown to himself, subconsciously an integral part of the disaster that the country is managing today. Neither he, nor president Buhari, nor yet the forces that have emasculated the presidency, can determine exactly how the future will bode. Nigeria will simply take its chances in the months ahead. The presidency can continue to sugarcoat dismissals, freely insinuate ethnic agenda into national politics, and characterize political intrigues as new political dynamics; but all in all, the sordid picture cannot be truly erased that the country is in far more inglorious trouble than it realizes.   Should former president Olusegun Obasanjo be asked to comment on the three-month extension granted Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mohammed Adamu, to continue in office he would be more corrosive in his opinion than he was on the replaced service chiefs. The former president has for the past few years been characteristically impatient with and dismissive of the President Buhari administration. He took his impatience to a fever pitch before the last election, but nothing came out of it. Nigerian politics and voters had become so inured to reality that in their minds no electoral misfortune could affect President Buhari. So, whatever Chief Obasanjo said or did before the last election was bound to bounce, and indeed, bounced off. There is nothing he is saying now about the replaced service chiefs or even the extended tenure of the IGP that will cut any ice anywhere. But if he is given half the chance, he will say many nasty things. And he will be fully justified. If the country is angry with the Police Affairs Minister, Mohammed Dingyadi’s rationalization of the extension of the IGP’s tenure, it can be better imagined how livid Chief Obasanjo would be. Hear Mr Dingyadi: “Mr President has decided that the present IGP, Mohammed Adamu, will continue to serve as the IG for the next three months, to allow for a robust and efficient process of appointing a new IG. This is not unconnected to the desire of Mr President to not only have a smooth handover, but to also ensure that the right officer is appointed into that position. Mr President is extending by three months to allow him get into the process of allowing a new one.” One word spoiled the entire presentation of the police affairs minister: ‘robust’. What was the Buhari administration doing months and possibly years before Mr Adamu’s tenure ended that it could not summon the robustness and efficiency to prepare for and anticipate the future? The incontrovertible fact is that, in defending the indefensible, the administration simply needed an excuse for shoddiness and aggravation of public feelings. Their problem was not robustness; they neither had it nor heard of it. Their problem was not efficiency; it is alien to them. Their main problem is that they have totally so immersed themselves in shocking intrigues and disdainful power plays to care too much about anything regarding  the future and glory of Nigeria. They do not need anybody to comment on this. Their conscience should indict them. After the three-month extension, there will still be no inspiring appointment. But there will be a manifestation of the nature and direction of intrigues permeating the administration. It is unlikely that a glorious hypothetical appointee will emerge from the shadows, for that will not be in character with this administration. If such a glorious character were to emerge, however, as pointed out in the essay above, the general context of the Buhari administration will negate any fine attribute which any bold policymaker can bring, and reinforce every horrifying vice that every groveling public officer can summon. Meanwhile, let Mr Adamu enjoy his plum extension; after all he does not seem to enjoy as much concession as the immediate past security chiefs. But at least the gravy has moved round. Mr Adamu is not left in the cold. It remains to be seen, howver, just how many more public officials will be remunerated at the expense of a groaning and tormented nation racked by weakening economy, failing politics and ceaseless bloodletting.