A Chief Magistrate Court II sitting in Awka, Anambra state has arraigned a claimant to the traditional stool of Isiagu ancient kingdom, in Awka South Local Government Area of the State, Igwe Frederick Nwajiagu on a case with charge number: MAW/525C/2019; between the Commissioner of Police and HRH Igwe Frederick Nwajiagu. Nwajiagu was standing trial on a four count charge bordering on impersonation and false claims. When the matter came up on Monday, counsel to the defendant, Mrs. Francisca Ezenagu, presented a medical report, informing the court that her client could not be in court occasioned by High Blood Pressure she suffered. She prayed the court to give her client time to recover to enable him stand trial. The presiding Chief Magistrate, His Worship, Mike Anyadiegwu, ordered the defense counsel to file the medical report on her client’s case file for proper documentation. He adjourned the matter to March 1, 15 and 22 for hearing. Earlier, the prosecuting counsel, Mr. Anayo Nwano, told the court that the defendant, Nwajiagu, had sometime in the month of June, 2019, at Isiagu, within the Awka South Magisterial District, not being a traditional ruler, did hold himself out as the Igwe of Isiagu, thereby, committed an offence punishable under Section 19(a) of the Traditional Rulers Law Cap 42 of Anambra State of Nigeria, 2007. “That you, HRH Igwe Frederick Nwajiagu, not being recognized as traditional ruler of Isiagu, did address yourself in writing as Igwe; the traditional ruler of Isiagu community, thereby, committed an offence punishable under Section 19(e) of the Traditional Rulers Law Cap 42 of the Anambra State of Nigeria, 2007. “That you, in the same period, place and within the Awka South Magisterial District, did continue to parade yourself as Igwe in a manner likely to cause a breach of the peace of the people of Isiagu community; thereby, committed an offence punishable under Section 247(d) of the Criminal Code Cap 36, Vol. II Revised Laws of Anambra State of Nigeria, 1991, as amended,” he added.