 Would the immediate past service chiefs be Nigerian ambassadors? This is one issue that has continued to generate so much controversy in informed circles. Soon, the National Assembly is expected to return its verdict, on the suitability of the men, as representatives of Nigeria, in countries yet to be announced. It would appear that the four men, General Gabriel Olonisakin, Lt. General Tukur Buratai, Air Marshal Siddique Abubakar and Vice Admiral Ibok-Ette Ibas, appear having a good laugh at those who sneered at them; and asked that they be removed from office. The campaign had lasted more than two years since the service chiefs, who were appointed in 2015, were expected to have statutorily ended their military career. At the time, it did not matter whether they had performed well or poorly. It was simply statutory. It was what they signed for and they were supposed to have prepared for it. The matter was made worse because the country was getting more insecure by the day; if not the minute. From the concerns over insurgency, when former President Goodluck Jonathan exited the stage, the whole country has been engulfed by the fire of one kind of war or the other. The North East, especially Borno, is still very unsafe and the refugee camps keep brimming. The North West, from Kaduna to Katsina, Zamfara and even Sokoto, some bandits have made life unbearable for the people. Many die daily, dragged out of the peace of their homes and slaughtered in the open. The military failed to guarantee peace under their command. Kidnapping became the order of the day in all parts of the country, while highway robbery has staged a return in many parts of the country. That was why the campaign to sweep them out of office gained traction, as the people’s representatives in the legislature and concerned state governors, kept pointing attention to the carnage, emphasising that the commanders had become bereft of fresh ideas and should be replaced. In addition, the next layers of officers were becoming frustrated as they could not attain the point of fulfilment. When eventually the service chiefs were pulled out and replaced by other experienced officers, the least expected of the Commander-in-Chief was to show disdain for the public by appointing them ambassadors. They were expected to have gone home, give thanks to God for granting them the grace to climb to the highest point of their career and take stock of their professional life; probably write books on what happened on the battle front that the public did not see. It should be noted that the diplomatic world is the turf of some professionals. Hence the need to have a number of career ambassadors. A group of experts had earlier advised the President that non-career ambassadors should not be more than 25. The first tranche of nominees had already exceeded that recommendation. The addition of the erstwhile service chiefs shows a disdain for professional advice. The government has no reason to frustrate diplomats who had been waiting to climb the ladder to the last rung by bringing in men who failed in their last tour of duty. We call on the ninth Senate to reject this indefensible nomination. The lawmakers were elected to accede to the voice of the people and show that the legislature is an independent arm of government. Thus far, many people have said the national lawmakers have presented the Assembly as an appendage of the Executive, not a separate arm of government. The people do not want General Olonisakin and co, who had enjoyed extended tenure, to block others who are more deserving of the appointment. They should be allowed to go home and tend to their duties as fathers and grandfathers. Even though they were not the first officers to be appointed ambassadors, having been preceded in such role by the likes of Brig-Gen. George Kurubo who was the first Chief of Air Staff, Brig- Gen. Babafemi Ogundipe, a former deputy to General Ironsi and Brig-Gen Oluwole Rotimi, who was a gentleman governor of the Western State, this set do not fit the bill.