Factors affecting purposeful research in Nigeria in particular include scarcity of research facilities, inadequate research funds, scarcity of information base, lack of maintenance culture on the facilities and incompetent or poorly matched people working in sensitive maintenance positions. To meet the world standard best practices in the area of research and development, refurbishing and maintenance of laboratory equipment must be treated as utmost priority. It is a dictum that science can be fun and dangerous and at the same time, if you do not have a proper knowledge on how to use the chemicals/reagents and laboratory instruments/equipment properly. As expected, one can come across all sorts of damage, hence the need to know your laboratory equipment/instruments at all levels of education and research although being curious is a good thing, one need to have the requisite knowledge about the laboratory instruments before using them. At all levels from secondary education to tertiary and specialised research institutions, laboratory equipment are generally costly, therefore repairs and refurbishing prolongs the life span of the equipment, saving the managers the expenses of new purchases. The Director, Federal Science Equipment Centre (FSEC), Ijanikin, Lagos, Mr Ismaila Yekini, discussing “Laboratory Refurbishing and Maintenance Culture’’, at a recent workshop for staff of the institution, deeply examined the basic issues. Yekini, an engineer, says sub-standard laboratories/poor infrastructural management and fabrication (inventing and recording or reporting results) should be urgently addressed. Falsification (altering research processes or reporting false or wrong results, plagiarism, lack of proper research ethics, insecurity, poor technological advancement, are also factors. While stressing the importance of equipment at the seminar, held at the Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Kwara State, he said science stands out distinctively from other subjects because of its nature of validating things through experiments. “It is through scientific instruments or equipment that experiments and observations are carried out. Scientific instruments are a set of tools, kits, apparatus and devices which are designed for certain purposes. “These instruments include devices like microscope, Bunsen burner, Test tube, Thermometer, beaker, etc. They are used in various fields such as medical, production, educational and research.’’ From the foregoing, educational laboratory equipment offer students the opportunity of learning science through hands-on experiences thereby enhances their analytical skills. This equipment helps the students to be more competitive and help them achieve their goals through higher levels of education and thinking order. Laboratory scientific instruments make the environment of interactive learning possible. Science is a discipline where conventional classroom teaching is not enough and it becomes effective only when teachings are accompanied by creating experiments and deducing conclusions from the experiments. According to surveys, providing a good lab facility with necessary lab equipment also make the teachers contribute better supports for their students. If the teachers are well supplied with sufficient equipment, it will enable them to effectively convey their teachings through hands-on experiments. Instead of just demonstrating, the students will be allowed to have the opportunity of conducting and deriving proofs through practical experiments. With teacher’s greater contribution and better supervision, the learning environment becomes an ideal workshop for creating better students with better results. Yekini says a laboratory is a facility that provides controlled conditions in which scientific or technological research, experiments and measurements may be performed. Laboratory services are provided in a variety of settings: Physician’s offices, clinics, hospitals, schools and colleges, and regional national referral centres and research institutions. Laboratory can be grouped into: Analytical and Quality laboratories; Bio-Safety, Clean Rooms, Clinical and Medical, Incubation, Production and Research and Development (R&D). On laboratory care and maintenance, in order for equipment to work, one needs to properly care for and maintain it as well. Proper maintenance and care will sustain the longevity of your laboratory equipment. He notes that since laboratory equipment generally takes up a large chunk of the budget, good maintenance contributes to cost cutting measures, by lowering the chances of premature repurchases and replacement. In addition, routine maintenance ensures that lab equipment is safe for use through highlighting and repair of faulty equipment parts and as such, developing standard operating procedures for all lab equipment should involve preparing documentation on specific equipment outlining the repairs and maintenance undertaken. Others are outlining a preventive maintenance programme for each equipment by training both technical and managerial staff on proper use and care of lab equipment. This, he says, could be achieved through Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for Maintenance of lab equipment. The SOPs are a must for all complex lab equipment. This ensures that the correct use and maintenance of the equipment is integrated within routine work. It should include the title and description of the content/scope of the SOP, definitions of all abbreviations used and an outline of the personnel responsible for the equipment or involved in its use, including their qualifications and training requirements. Yekini states that there should be regular training of both technical and managerial staff and not a one-off activity. It should be with additional courses given when new equipment or improved models are bought. The initial induction training should be elaborate with an expert-guided discussion and demonstration, while follow-up training can be done in-house to refresh the staff technique, he advises. On non-maintenance culture, the FSEC boss says abandonment of good laboratory and equipment among others are so numerous to the extent that a non-issue or no problem gradually becomes a huge problem. He notes that Nigeria is included among the poorest countries of the world due to infrastructure insufficiency which laboratory equipment forms part of it. Yekini says Nigerians find it difficult to maintain their own property and see public facilities as government property which does not belong to anybody. Many public facilities put in place mainly to give benefits to the people are left to decay without any positive actions from the people to encourage the sustainability of the property. Consequently, public facilities do not live up to its life span due to lack of maintenance. Other major challenges are high frequency of equipment breakdown, delay time to service, lack of spare parts, equipment disposal and replacement and power supply. In an era when the Federal Government is promoting skills acquisition which is stunted by the Corona Virus Disease (COVID-19) pandemic it demands from Nigerians that a lot of research be conducted in search of measures to contain the diseases ravaging the world. It is, therefore, only good that all collaborate to ensure that the nation’s laboratories at all levels are made to function optimally by training and re-training of staff. It is also important that infrastructure such as buildings are rewired, that there is close supervision of staff, service contract for equipment are followed up and provision of generators, solar panels and inverters for optimal performance and for result-oriented works. Yekini recommended that there was the need for maintenance culture which encompasses provision for adequate care of the hard earned equipment, and infrastructure which have not gained ground in the consciousness of resource managers in the country over the years. He says these actions in myriad of ways have resulted to a colossal waste of scarce resources. “Just as every pad-lock has a special key and enzymes are specific in operation, so also every problem has its unique solution. “In Nigeria, the losses and poor research can be annihilated if and only in the award of contracts, there is the need to opt for quality and durable equipment. “Besides, it is imperative that yearly maintenance cost covering the life span of the equipment be included. “Others are that funds provided for maintenance should strictly be left for that. This implies avoiding any form of diversion of fund and corruption,’’ he says. He adds: “The National Orientation Agency should design regular enlightenment campaign so as to properly educate Nigerians on the essence and benefit of maintenance culture. “Maintenance Department that is well equipped and funded should be domiciled in every Faculty of the University and the heads be held responsible for any equipment that is allowed to waste when its life span has not expired. “Development fees paid by undergraduate students should be used adequately and properly accounted for by schools management. It is disheartening that after such payments you see students not provided with necessary facilities for experiments. “An independent Maintenance Enforcement Commission (IMEC) should be established to oversee the role of maintenance departments to curtail fraud.’’   