Ondo State Chief Judge Justice Olanrewaju Akeredolu is yet to make official comments over claims by Mr. Olupelumi Fagboyegun that she influenced his being detained illegally. Fagboyegun, in a viral video, said he is the half-brother of Justice Akeredolu and that he was arrested for forcefully gaining entry into his father’s house after living abroad for many years. He said he had been on remand for the past three years without trial due to the influence of Justice Akeredolu.In the video, he described Ondo State judiciary as a place difficult to get justice and urged President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene. He said: “The Honourable Chief Justice of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I am calling you to please rescue me from the hands of the Ondo State Judiciary that is being run like a family affair that if you don’t know anybody, you cannot get justice. ”I have been living abroad for the past 30 years. I came on holiday to Nigeria to my father’s house because I share the same father with the Chief Judge of Ondo State. I was arrested at my father’s house. I was locked up and charged with forceful entry into my father’s house. ”Even if I am convicted of this crime, it only carries one year prison penalty, but I have been in open remand for the past three years. This case has been going on for the past three years because the Chief Judge is using her power to influence the judicial system. I have been unable to get justice. They have changed judges five times, they have re-arraigned me five times, they have changed their charges five times. Up till today that I am talking to you, the case is still pending. Please come and rescue me. ”Ondo State Government cannot help me because the government is a family business. I implore President Buhari to rescue me from the hands of this woman. I want to go back to my family. I want to go back to my children. I am a single parent. This woman has been keeping me here for the past three years for coming to my father’s house. Please help me. I want to go back to my family. ”Efforts to reach Justice Akeredolu or any close family member were unsuccessful.Governor Akeredolu in his Twitter handle said he has instructed the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Sir Charles Titiloye, to investigate the allegation. He promised to ensure a thorough, fair and transparent investigation.Titiloye said the Department of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has been ordered to begin investigation into the allegation made against Justice Akeredolu. He denied being aware of what he described as a criminal case since he assumed office last November. Titiloye gave the DPP 24 hours to report back to him, saying Governor Akeredolu is determined to preserve the integrity of the judiciary and ensure that it remains the last hope of the common man.