Governor Dapo Abiodun has handed down a stern warning to perpetrators of violence in Owode-Ketu, Eegua, Igan-Alade and Igbogila areas of the state, saying that his administration would leave no stone unturned in curtailing the activities of brigands in the state. Abiodun also deployed a special task force comprising the Nigeria Police and other security agencies, including the State Security Service and local vigilante groups, with representatives of other stakeholder entities in the crisis-prone areas of Yewa-North, Imeko-Afon and Yewa South Council Areas of the state. Governor Abiodun also directed that investigation into the matter be sped up and concluded so that indicted persons could be charged to court and prosecuted in the interest of justice. In a release on Thursday by Kunle Somorin, the Governor’s Chief Press Secretary, he noted that the areas have witnessed criminal assaults and killings, leading to the closure of schools, public institutions and business facilities in recent times. He recalled that the state government had earlier set up an investigation team to investigate and bring to book, all the persons involved in the herders/farmers conflicts in the state. Governor Abiodun commiserated with the families of the deceased and also expressed sympathy to those who lost their farmlands as well as cows during the unfortunate crisis. He said: “The government will leave no stone unturned in checking the activities of brigands and criminals in this state. Ogun cannot be defined by crimes and criminalities. Ogun does not have any haven – safe or unsafe – for killers, bandits, insurgents or cultists. “We shall spare no action, including ruthless ones, to bring peace, public order into every hamlet, town and city in the Gateway State. “The provisions of the Constitution and the moral authority confer on the government the right to protect the lives and properties of the people. This is sacrosanct and shall not be compromised under Governor Dapo Abiodun’s watch. “Our first priority in Ogun is the safety of lives and property of everyone and we will not compromise on that. “We will not condone any act of criminality in the state, no matter who is involved. “The police and other security agencies have been directed to go after the perpetrators of these acts and bring them to book. “We will not allow anybody to disrupt the peace in Ogun and anyone who tries to test our resolve to maintain peace in our state will have himself or herself to blame.”