 The Federal Government is to establish artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) clusters in the country’s six geopolitical zones. This is part of efforts to revive and grow the economy for sustainable development through the mining sector. The clusters will be for selected minerals for effective harmonisation of their exploitation to derive revenue for government. Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uchechukwu Ogah stated this in Calabar during the handing and taking over ceremony of the landed property donated by the Cross River State Government for the establishment of ASM processing clusters for the Southsouth zone. Head, Press and Public Relations department for the Ministry, Etore Thomas made this known in a statement. According to her, Ogah  said the development of artisanal and small-scale mineral processing plant cluster project is an initiative of the FG in response to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world. The Minister added that the Ministry is focusing on artisanal and small-scale mining activities as it constitutes over 90 per cent of the mining industry in Nigeria. She stated, “In continuing effort to revive and grow the economy for sustainable development through the Mining Sector, the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development has embarked on the development of Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining (ASM) Clusters for selected minerals in the Six Geopolitical Zones for effective harmonization of their exploitation to derive the right revenue for government. “The Minister of State, Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Uchechukwu Sampson Ogah, disclosed this during the handing and taking over ceremony of landed property donated by the Cross River State Government for the establishment of Artisanal and Small-Scale processing clusters for the South-South Zone in Calabar. “He revealed that the development of Artisanal and Small-Scale Mineral Processing Plant cluster project is an initiative of the Federal Government in swift response to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that has ravaged the world. He added that in order to curtail the devastating effect of the pandemic on the means of livelihood of Nigerians, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the implementation of the Nigeria Economic Sustainability Plan which entails the development of Artisanal and Small-Scale Mineral Processing clusters for the development and harnessing of revenue from the Mineral sector. “Speaking further, Dr Ogah stated that the Ministry is focusing on artisanal and small-scale mining activities as it constitutes over 90% of the mining industry in Nigeria. Saying, the development of the clusters would seek to agglomerate Artisanal and Small-Scale miners, customers and other stakeholders, based on geographical proximity which will promote efficiency, increased specialization in minerals exploitation and marketing to generate desired revenue, job and wealth creation. “He disclosed that the Federal Government choice of Cross River State for the siting of the cluster for for Barite Value Chain development was based on the fact that the State is endowed with large commercial deposits of the minerals. Adding that the criteria for selection was based on availability of raw materials. “The Hon. Minister thanked the State Government for its speedy response to the Ministry’s request for providing and handing over the title deeds of the land. “In his remarks, the Governor of Cross River State, Benedict Ayade who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Prof. Ivara Esu, disclosed that the State readily approved the 5 hectares requested for by the Ministry for the cluster project as it would be a major centre of activity for barite artisanal and small-scale miners in the South-South Zone. “He stated that the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) of land for the project would be ready for collection very soon. “Prof Esu commended the Ministers for their fairness and magnanimity for choosing Cross River State as home for the barite cluster project and  enjoined the Ministry to ensure the immediate take off of the project.”