 The death of Nigel Henry, the longest serving expatriate lecturer of Classics at Nigeria’s premier, the University of Ibadan (UI), has stirred renewed interests  in Classics, as a field of study in our tertiary institutions.  Mr. Henry had spent more than four decades teaching students in the various sub-disciplines of Classics: Greek and Latin lexis and grammar; Greek and Roman history and literature. His long period of service at UI is evidence of his thorough grasp of Classics, as an academic discipline. We regret the death of this rare intellectual that has contributed in no small way to scholarship in his adopted country. It must have taken a deep sense of commitment and love for Classics for him to have spent decades, nurturing and grooming students at UI, perhaps the only university in Nigeria that still offers Classics, and its sub-divisions, as a field of study. Classics, as a field of study by Nigerians, was made popular by iconic jurists, like Justice Chukwudifu Oputa, cerebral politicians and seasoned lawyers, like Chief Bola Ige, SAN, and ethical corporate gurus, like Deacon Gamaliel Onosode, all of blessed memory. The current governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, was incidentally a student of the late Nigel. While we mourn the dead, we feel it is apposite for Nigerian tertiary institutions to begin to expand their academic areas of study, to include very historically relevant fields like Classics and other fields of humanities, dipped in historical and philosophical values, as universal as they are relevant to all human development. Classics is the study of the antiquity of the Western world, and its immediate neighbours, like Persians (modern-day Iran) in Asia Minor, especially as they rumbled the war, savoured the peace and tested, to the limit, the politics and diplomacy of their era.  The main menu, of course, was very often associated with the study of ancient Greek and Roman literature in their original languages.   Sometimes, the curriculum incorporates Greco-Roman philosophy, history and even archeology, as secondary subjects. For a very long time, the West had touted Classics as valid proof of Western Civilization — and superiority — and is therefore considered very elitist; thus fueling some White Supremacist tendencies and convictions, pushing theirs as the global master culture and civilization. This is not surprising, given that the word itself derives from the Latin word ‘Classicus’ which means ‘belonging to the highest class of citizens”; and that the Western culture is powered by the written text, in contrast to the rich oral tradition, that pivoted the African civilization. However, with the passage of time, Classics and its ancillary academic fields began to lose their academic allure, given the seeming discriminatory relevance they were seen to have. In fact, Dan-el Padilla Peralta, a black Dominican historian of Rome and lecturer at Princeton in the United States, recently wrote in the New York Times his thoughts  that “Classicists should knock Ancient Greece and Rome off their pedestal – even if that means destroying their discipline.” His grouse?  That classical justifications of the evils in history, like slavery, race science,  colonialism, Nazism, White Supremacy and other 20th century fascisms, have been wrong.  He believes that Classics is complicit in systemic injustice over many millennials. He actually  feels the discipline has no — and should have no — future. He describes the field as “equal parts vampire and cannibal.” In the Nigerian academic field, Classics seem to have influenced the writings of many of the country’s literary giants. Nobel Laureate WoleSoyinka did so, in The Bachae of the Euripides, his Death and the King’s Horseman,; late Ola Rotimi in The Gods are not to Blame, a Yoruba cultural adaptation of the original Greek tragedy, Oedipus Rex.  The late J.P Clark also wove his own story through ‘The Ozidi Saga’, about the hero Ozidi in his native Ijaw, an Odysseus-like foray into the Ijaw past. Even though we can see some validity to Padilla’s points, we still believe no field of study is evil in itself. Knowledge, innovations and history would always propel human progress. We feel that racist actions are human machinations, and can be reviewed and corrected. We, therefore, urge our education authorities, especially those at the tertiary level, to  begin to enlarge the field of studies to include a broader template, rooted in African culture, history and literature, given the new realities in our world. The fixation on core courses like medicine, law and businesses, though put the immediate bread on the table, hardly propels the development we seek; since cultural imperialism, at the core of Western global domination, only makes Africans a caricature of others.  To compete in the world, Africans must re-discover themselves, and impose their original essence, on global cultures. There must, therefore, be a total overhaul of the system to make sure African human capital is so developed in ways to meet the 21st century challenges, of essential African development.  Re-jigging Classics, to make it Africa-centric, would go a long way in that self rediscovery. That is why the  field of Classics must not die with Nigel Henry. Those he trained should take up the challenge.