Famous actress Tonto Dikeh popularly known as ‘King Tonto’, ‘Mummy King’ or ‘Tontolet’ on Wednesday surprised her son, King Andre Dikeh with an astonishing gift which has set many tongues wagging. Tonto Dikeh has over the years shown an enviable degree of special care for her only son, King Andre Dikeh. The actress, who divorced her husband, Olakunle Churchill, has since then played the dual role in the life of her precious son. She calls herself ‘mama d papa’. Tonto Dikeh accused her ex-husband of having an extramarital affair with his then PA in 2017, Rosy Meurer. Tonto parted ways with Churchill in 2017 just two years after their wedding in 2015 over allegations of domestic abuse and extra-marital affairs. On her son’s first birthday, she penned an emotional tribute to him. Stating how grateful and immensely blessed she is to have him, she promised to always be his cheerleader all through life and ending it with how much she loves him. That was the day she officially revealed the face of her dearest son to the world. Also, her ex-husband got a brand new 2017 GMC SUV truck in celebration of the son’s first birthday. Over the course of King Andre’s five-year-sojourn, she has consistently celebrated his birthday with lavish photoshoots, breath-taking cakes of diverse cartoon super heroes and as usual, emotional notes reiterating his importance in her life, the unending love she possesses for him and not forgetting the sweet names calling. This year, in celebration of his birthday, Tonto Dikeh bought him a real life star! She purchased one out of the over 300billion stars up in the sky for her juicy man (as she fondly calls him) and named it after him. According to the popular actress: “This year, I thought hard on what to give my baby as a signature 5year birthday gift. I mean, he has everything I could ever dream of for any kid: As I closed my eyes one night, all I could see were stars. Then the gift came to me. I saw it; I virtualized it, fascinated about it then surfed the net for it. I found/contacted an amazing company who help individuals PURCHASE/REGISTER/NAME A REAL LIFE STAR BOOM I BOUGHT MY BABY A STAR I MEAN A REAL LIFE STAR UP IN THE SKY #AM PROUD TO SAY I BOUGHT MY BABY THE WORLD”@kingandre_dikeh @kingandredikehfoundation This mind-boggling gift to her son has left thousands of people totally astonished. She also posted a picture of her son holding his ‘STAR CERTIFICATE’ and smiling away.