Victor Ochei is the Executive Director Maritime Labour and Cabotage Services Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA). In this interview with senior correspondent, Okungbowa Aiwerie, blames prohibitive customs and excise duty regime for lack of Nigerian flagged vessels. Excerpts:  What gains has NIMASA made in its efforts at enforcement of the cabotage law in the last few years? It will sound immodest for me to assess my tenure. I think a lot has been done owing to the things I met in place and we have improved upon those things. Before now, we have collections coming from cabotage which had issues with remittances coming from the International Oil Companies (IOCs) and some other platforms. These issues come because the two percent cabotage which is held by the federal government was not remitted as and when due and when they are remitted they don’t come with the schedule for us to know which companies or vessels are being remitted on their behalf for the contracts they performed. This is what we have been able to look into. We have had regular meetings with the IOCs and we have come to an agreement that whenever they want to make payment and remit such as this they should give us a schedule and let it be real time as well so that we will be able to balance out the revenue accruing to those who actually paid them so that they are not in breach of cabotage laws. So what we have done is to ask the international oil companies to give us five years marine vessel requirement plans for their contracts. When they know they have a contract that will take a long time and the kind of vessels they will be requiring for the period. We now asked them to give us schedule. The importance of the schedule is that it enables Nigerians who want to invest within the maritime sector to go and see if they can acquire those vessels and be the ones to bid because by the time those vessels will be required, it means we’ll have Nigerian flagged vessels that can also reach out and be put to use therefore reducing the influence of foreign flagged vessels within our coastal waters. One other thing we have been able to do is that the minister has written to the federal government noting that we don’t have much Nigerian flagged vessels because when you buy a vessel they make you pay 17.5 percent as custom and excise duty. Do you know what it means to pay that? Meanwhile, a foreign flagged vessel enjoys some waiver and maybe pay about a hundred thousand dollars and it is allowed to operate. Therefore what we needed to do, as the minister has proposed, is that when you have a brand new vessel we should let it come in at zero percent custom and excise. What are the factors militating against the strict compliance of the cabotage laws in Nigeria? One of the factors militating against strict compliance. If you want to charge people for not using Nigeria vessel, you make sure that Nigerians can make available the type of vessel they want. Now the IOCs use huge vessels which Nigerians don’t have. What do you expect the IOC’s to do when they find themselves in that situation. They have to make do with the foreign vessels. Do you want the projects the IOCs are embarking on to stop? Certainty not. So you have to give room for a waiver for that type of vessel to come into Nigeria’s water to work. That is a situation that militates against the successful implementation of cabotage act. You also have a situation where if you are trying to fight now, you need to define exactly what cabotage is. The definition is there but you also have certain stakeholders who are fighting why a rig is floating on water and carrying out exploration on water. Because it is on water, what you are doing under the water is trading and the matter is before the court. Nigerians are still being shut out of the maritime aspect of the oil business. Is there anything NIMASA can do to correct this? I may not agree with you that Nigerians are being shut out. Though that is not within our purview, like I said to you if the oil and gas industry needs a particular type of vessel to execute a contract, and they don’t have this vessel in Nigeria what do you do? Would you tell them to stop their project because there is no vessel or they should wait for Nigerians to acquire such vessel before they execute their project? No, that project must go on and they are now allowed to bring in a vessel and when this happens, Nigerians cry out that they are being shut out. Sometimes too, it is because Nigerians fall short of the standard required. However, there are areas of sharp practices that interests NIMASA. You have Nigerians who own vessels but they flag the vessels foreign in order to evade custom and excise duties.  