Stakeholders meeting convened by the All Progressives Congress (APC) membership registration and revalidation committee sent from the national headquarters of the party to keep party members abreast of the exercise in Kwara state was Wednesday marred by the crisis. Banquet Hall opposite Government House venue of the meeting turned to pandemonium the APC caretaker chairman Hon Bashir Bolarinwa, APC woman Leader Ramat Laide Alake and their supporters were allegedly prevented from gaining entrance into the venue of the meeting by some APC youths. It was also gathered that the chairman of the membership registration and revalidation screening committee Senator John Danboyi and other members of the committee were forced to flee the venue in the ensuing melee, it was gathered. The windscreen of a car belonging to the APC women leader was also shattered and some personal belongings were allegedly stolen. State Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq was not at the venue of the meeting when the incident happened. The governor kicked off membership registration and revalidation exercise at his Idi Igba ward, Ilorin West local government area of the state. Shortly after the exercise, Governor Abdulrazaq said there is a need to expand the base of the party in the state with the exercise. He added that the exercise is important as the party is growing due to the quality performance of APC state governments across the country, adding that there is a need to register non-APC members who voted for the party who are now convinced to join the fold. He urged party members to bury whatever differences and views they have as the exercise commenced, telling them to participate actively in the exercise. “There is no political party without opposing views or differences. It’s part of democracy. The important thing is to bury those views in the interest of our party and participate vigorously to extend the membership base of the party. It will be useful for us at the party’s national convention and we should, therefore, make it a success. “The membership committee is an independent one. It has the latitude to include anyone in the executive and we wish members the best stay in Kwara. “It is a process of re-energising the party. Governors have been mandated to Kickstart the revalidation/registration exercise in their respective states while the main exercise starts on Tuesday next week. “It is to increase the base of the party. We are going out to ensure that every member registered. We should not say because somebody has a divergent view and he should not register. Everybody must be allowed to register. “Leaders of other political parties are trying to come in. Governors are trying to come in. Members of national and states houses of assemblies are trying to come in. We’re opening our doors and windows for everybody to come into our party so as to make the country progress,” he said. Also speaking during a courtesy call to Governor Abdulrazaq, Senator Danboyi, said that the exercise is being carried out nationwide, adding that there is a need to register a growing number of new members of the party and revalidate old members. Senator Danboyi said that the committee had set up a stakeholder committee to facilitate smooth operations, added that invitation had been sent across every sphere of the party in the state.