Two personnel of the Ondo State Security Network known as the Amotekun Corps have been killed in an attack by Gulen suspected to be herdsmen. The incident reportedly occurred at about 2am at Ago Sanusi village along Ute Road in Owo, Owo local government area. Sources said the gunmen laid ambush for the Amotekun personnel who were going inside the forest to rescue a farmer identified as Lanre who was abducted. But Lanre was already killed before help got to him while his abductors chopped off his hands. One of the slain Amotekun Corp member was a former member of the Vigilante Group of Nigeria and was shot in the head while the head of Operations of Amotekun in Owo, Oluwasesan Adebayo has been missing since the attack. Younger brother to Adebayo, Pastor Idowu Adebayo, who confirmed that his brother has been missing urged all security outfits to help search for him. “It is now clear that every part of the state has been invaded by the herdsmen thereby putting indigenes and other residents in great danger.” A farmer at Sanusi camp, Abu Sikiru said they have fled the camp for fear of being killed or kidnapped. Abu said other camps in the area have been deserted. Ondo Amotekun commander, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, who confirmed the killings by the herdsmen said an operational vehicle of the corps was set ablaze. Speaking through the corps image-maker Adebayo Ayeni, Chief Adeleye said, ”This cartel were piling up arms and ammunition to invade the entire State while masquerading as herders and using the forest as kidnappers den for negotiation and ransom, illegal mining activities and cultivation of Indian hemp. ” The Security outfits in conjunction with the Police, the Army and other security agencies in the State, however, smoked them out of the forest, after it was discovered that the bandits had killed a farmer and a member of the vigilante group in the Area. ” They also went to the village where an Amotekun vehicle was parked and set it ablaze. “We sympathize with the families of the victims of this dastardly act while assuring them that the culprits will surely be apprehended.”