Terrorism, banditry and other criminal activities have assumed a rather frightening dimension in the country. Terrorists have become skilled at manipulating the internet and other new technologies, but artificial intelligence (AI) is a powerful tool in the fight against them, Under Secretary-General, UN Counter-Terrorism Office (UNOCT), Vladimir Voronkov, said during a conference. Aside the deployment of modern technologies, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) said infrastructure such as the Emergency Communications Centres (ECCs) it is building across the country have been having far-reaching greater impacts in enhancing the Federal Government’s drive to improve security of lives and property. Its Chief Executive Officer/Executive Vice Chairman, Prof Garba Danbatta said then that the country was  faced with insecurity issues such as insurgency, banditry, kidnappings, armed robberies and more life-threatening issues such as the  pandemic, the ECCs has proved useful. Already in 18 states and Abuja, he said the infrastructure have served as an information hub for emergency responders  such as the Nigerian Police Force, the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Fire and Ambulance Services, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and so on by dialing 112 from any network. “The ECC has transformed lives and helped many in handling emergencies and today, it is having positive impacts on lives, improving security and providing jobs for the youths,” he said. He said it was in recognition of the important role ECC is playing in states where they have been activated that many others are asking the NCC to come and activate theirs. “Serious work is ongoing in this regard, as we know that this important life-saving facility supports security architecture in the country for improving security in our nation,”he assured. The ECCs were activated as a one-stop shop for receiving distress calls from the public and dispatching same to appropriate Emergency Response Agencies (ERAs) for timely response and resolution of the distress. The ECC project had been in limbo until a new management under the leadership of Danbatta, embarked on the construction and operationalisation of the ECCs across the states and the FCT in a bid to enhance President Muhammadu Buhari’s ongoing efforts at improving insecurity. During the lockdown occasioned by the pandemic, the ECCs played a key role by providing a platform for the public to seek information or report COVID-19 related cases by dialling ‘112’ from any of the networks. Over 1,500 COVID-19-related calls were received and processed in the peak of COVID-19 pandemic.  Equipment Each of the ECC has 11 workstations,10 for call taking and one for the supervision); a server that receives and processes 112-calls from  the public before the calls are dispatched to the appropriate response agency to attend to the specific emergency; power supply mix consisting of the national grid, two units of 100 KVA generators, two units of 20KVA UPS and a 10KVa UPS; and six dispatch workstations for the response agencies. Constraint Lack of awareness among the populace, however, stands out as one major challenge confronting the initiative. But the NCC said members of the public do not have to memorise several 11-digit numbers from different response agencies, as was the case before. It said the 112 Emergency Number is totally toll-free – even when the caller has zero credit on the phone. Aside Abuja, ECCs have been activated in 19 states including Katsina, Kaduna, Kano, Kwara, Ogun, Plateau, Enugu, Benue, Akwa-Ibom, Cross-River, Oyo, Edo, Ondo, Ekiti, Adamawa, Kogi, Anambra and Imo states.    