 Prince Tony Momoh was a man of many parts. He was a teacher, headmaster, editor, writer, lawyer, bureaucrat, policy wonk and politician. At the time he died, on February 1 at 81, his profile was on the rise as a politician, a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and vocal voice. But Prince Momoh will best ink himself in memory as the minister of Information under the shadows of a military president, General Ibrahim Babangida. That perch, as the army’s voice to the civil society, imposed on him a delicate balancing act between a pursuer of liberalism and apologist. His litmus test came with the death, by letter bomb, of Dele Giwa, a well-known journalist and editor-in-chief of Newswatch magazine, now defunct. The widespread suspicion that the military junta snuffed out the life of the popular journalist compelled Momoh to first assert that a probe would follow, only to later eat his words. He then left the matter in the province of investigative journalists, a move seen as surrender to the iron will of his bosses. He emerged ultimately without sullying his profile as a journalist and newspaper editor, whose calling privileged free speech over the primitive aura of men in uniform. Momoh enchanted his activities with a series of epistolary dispatches known as “Letters to My Countrymen,” which attracted a facetious quip during an Association of Nigerian Authors conference (ANA) that described him as “a man of letters.” He also stepped into a controversy when he tried to regiment qualification into journalism by proposing a policy that everyone who did not earn a journalism degree, or at least some higher certification in the field, should be weeded out of the profession. This happened in an era when a suite of graduates in the humanities and social sciences, including English, political science, sociology, history, et al, had started to enrich the newspapers in the country, with a variety of voices.  He did not follow the dream to its end. Yet Prince Momoh has turned out to be one of the prominent journalists of his era, having risen through the ranks at the Daily Times, from the position of a sub-editor to that of editor. As editor of Nigeria’s leading newspaper of the day, Daily Times, he squared off against the House of Representatives in the Second Republic, over the right of journalists to safeguard their source of information. After journalism, he was not only minister but served in a bouquet of public offices. He was chairman of the Board of Directors of the Nigerian Airways, a member of the Edo State Economic Advisory Committee and a member of the Nigerian Press Council. His first noticeable foray into the political terrain was as director of the Alex Ekwueme Presidential Organisation in 1999. He chaired also the screening and conduct of the governorship and state House of Assembly in the Kano chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in 1999. He moved on to become the chairman of Media and Publicity of the All Nigeria People’s Party’s (ANPP) campaign organization in 2003 and 2007 elections. President Muhammadu Buhari was then its candidate, and Momoh was chairman of the Political Committee of the Muhammadu Buhari organization. With ANPP in crisis, he was one of the Buhari loyalists and became chairman of the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC). The CPC was an insular party until it merged with others to form the APC, and so Momoh was one of the founders of the APC. In spite of his career as journalist and political player, Momoh has managed to maintain a fairly uncontroversial public image. His role as an establishment figure bore a dignity untainted by scandal or public misdeed, a testament to his self-possession.