The remains of former Minister of Information, Prince Tony Momoh, who died last week in Abuja, will be interred Thursday on Grailland, Iju Hills, Lagos. He was 81. The burial will be preceded by a Grail Funeral Hour of Worship in the Temple of God on Grailland at 4p.m, the Grail Movement Nigeria said in a statement in Lagos by Mr. Akin Orebiyii. The organisation issued an advisory on adherence to COVID-19 protocols and other guidelines required of members of the public and reporters who will attend the event. The statement explains that given its seriousness and importance, the occasion calls for absolute decorum and silence by participants throughout the ceremonies. It urged intending participants to arrive Grailland not later than 2.30 p.m. for admission into the Temple fixed for between 3 p.m. and 3.40 p.m. The statement warned that “no person will be granted entry once the Temple doors are closed”. “Also, use of telephone, camera or tape for audio or video recording or any other activity which may distract even for a moment the course of the funeral proceedings in the hall of worship or at the cemetery is prohibited. “Arrangements have been made to secure the gadgets which can be collected by the owners afterwards,” the statement said. It advised all visitors to observe strict COVID-19 protocols, including wearing of face masks, sanitising, washing of hands and having their temperature checked. “In observing social distance regulations, the Temple, which normally sits 2,000 persons, will not take more than 900 participants at this time,” the statement said. Also, the Senate on Wednesday observed a minute’s silence in honour of the late minister. The action followed a motion by Senator Francis Ailimikhena, who drew the attention of his colleagues to the development. Citing Order 43 of the Senate Standing Rules, Ailimikhena, who represents Edo North, eulogised the late Momoh and urged the Senate to honour him. He prayed the Upper Chamber to observe a minute’s silence in his honour, send a delegation to commiserate with the family of the deceased as well as urge the Federal Government to name a national monument in his honour. Senate President Ahmad Lawan said since Ailimikhena’s point of order was predicated on Order 43, which does not allow for a debate after a personal explanation, the Senate would honour the late minister with the minute’s silence.