The row between the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU); Assembly of HealthCare Professional Associations (AHPA), and the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) over the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria Repeal and Re-Enactment Bill, 2020 has deepened. The health workers have asked the National Assembly to step down the consideration of the bill sponsored by Sen. Ibrahim Oloriegbe or risk a nationwide industrial action. The unions decried the unfair treatment, injustice, lack of fair hearing and bias meted at them by Oloriegbe, who is a medical doctor at the public hearing of five health bills on Feb 1, 2021. They said Dr. Oloriegbe stretched his “misnomer” at the Public Hearings he has presided on vis the NHIS Amendment Bill and the February 1, 2021 hearing by recognising his “Medical Constituents above and over other stakeholders.” JOHESU accused medical doctors of trying to extend its regulation to health workers through the bill which is before the National Assembly. But the NMA, last week, lambasted JOHESU and AHPA and accused the unions of trying to get what they “couldn’t achieve in school through the back doors.” In its reply on Wednesday, the unions took a swipe at the NMA, saying the “grab-grab syndrome and know it all attitude of Nigerian Doctors was what had wrecked Nigeria’s health system to become the hallmark of negative health indices as well as a wretched 187 out of 191 Health Systems globally.” In a statement signed by the Chairman of JOHESU, Comrade Joy Bio Josiah, the unions said: “We therefore have a responsibility as loyal and dynamic citizens to reverse through constructive action especially by embracing global best practices in the Health options in ultimate public interest. JOHESU will continue to uphold this without caring about who’s ox is gored. “For the NMA, we send word with a deep sense of conviction that we shall no longer let you get away with the foolish mentality that in the world of power there is no equality, the strong must have their way, while the weak suffer what they must like Albert Camus says.” JOHESU said it will champion a true agenda of health reforms which will restore order, sanity, decorum and respect for all concerned in the health system. It faulted Section 4(a) which states that “the MDCN shall make regulations for the operation and management of Clinical Diagnostic Centre. “Lying to oneself is much more destructive than lying to others and we therefore encourage those who are still at such debased levels to wake and grow up to new realities in the global environment. In one template NMA says the MDCN Bill is to regulate and control ONLY Medical practitioners and Dentists. “In desperation, the true intendment is to violate the domain of Medical Laboratory Sciences and Radiography. This clearly manifests in Section 4(a) which states to wit
“the MDCN shall make regulations for the operation and management of Clinical Diagnostic Centre. “If anybody doubted the insincerity of the NMA about its intention to extend regulation and control beyond the frontiers of Medical Doctors and Dentists, then the proviso in Section 45(3)(d) and 45(3)(e) is the perfect symbol of how Medical Doctors look for trouble by standing on age-long hypocritical platitudes. “S.45(3)(d) reads Only a Registered Pharmacist shall dispense medicines prescribed by a Registered Medical Practitioner or Dental Surgeon. while Section 45(3)(e) reads Nothing in the foregoing shall preclude a Registered Medical Practitioner or Dental Surgeon or a Registered Nurse under the supervision of a Doctor or Dentist from providing medicines in the absence of a Registered Pharmacist. “Pray what is the jurisdiction of the MDCN to create rules for Pharmacists like it seeks in Section 45(3)(d) when it says the MDCN Bill is limited to Medical Doctors and Dentists? “Why did the MDCN and NMA decide to bother themselves about what should happen in the absence of a Pharmacist where they have no jurisdictional competence even in their admission that the scope of their law is for Medical Doctors and Dentists when they have not told us what should happen in the absence of Medical Doctors and Dentists which is the scope within their boundary and limitations?” the unions asked.