One hundred and ten ex-corps members who distinguished themselves during the service year will receive national honours, the National Youth Service Corps, has said. The NYSC award will be conferred on the ex – corps members by President Muhammadu Buhari at the old Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, from the president’s office. In line with established tradition, the 110 ex – corps members will receive plaques, cash gifts along with other juicy offers, which will be announced by Buhari on Thursday. It will be recalled that, in 1974 The President’s NYSC Honours Award was instituted to encourage Corps Members to contribute to the overall national development by embarking on community development projects (CDS). Director-General of the NYSC Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim, who spoke at a press briefing on Wednesday, said 500 corps members from the state level were nominated for the award by the National Selection Committee, with 110 making the final list to receive the award. The DG said that corps members who put in for the awards were those that had won various categories of awards from the local, state and to the national level. He said: “The President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, His Excellency Muhammadu Buhari GCFR will confer President’s NYSC Honours Award on 110 Ex-Corps Members of the 2018/2019 Service Years that distinguished themselves in the course of national service in the areas of; Orientation Course, Primary Assignment, Community Development Service and Winding Up/Passing-Out. “The processes are rigorous because we want to ensure that only those that duly qualify win the award, and for corps members to win this awards, he/she must have won the award from local government to the state and then forwarded to the national levels. “Out of over 500 selected corps members from the state level, the National Selection Committee that comprises of representatives of organisations as well as other eminent Nigerians, screened the award nominees forwarded by the states and 110 were finally selected; it’s not NYSC that sat to choose who wins the award. The process started from the local government, to state level and then to the national, and I am happy that they did justice to it.” He appealed to corps member not to relent in their drive towards peace, growth and development of the country. “All corps member have distinguished themselves but everybody can’t win, the fact that you did not doesn’t mean that you did not work hard. “Any corps members who wants to win must not transfer his or her service, he/she must not serve in the state of origin, a corps member must not go and borrow money to execute the project, the community must take ownership of the project. “Not only that, corps members who embark on the project without the knowledge of NYSC will not win, you need to seek right approval of your project by the department in charge,” he said. DG commended the media for its support in projecting the image of the scheme, while soliciting for more cooperation and collaboration to ensure that the scheme is projected in a way that will bring development to the country. He equally thanked the Federal Government for supporting the NYSC, while assuring Nigerians that the scheme will leave no stone unturned to ensure growth and development.