No fewer than 15 brilliant but indigent students of Gbongan High School, Gbongan, Osun State were presented scholarship award by Old Students’Association of the school. The scholarship which was first of its kind in the history of the institution cover students in both junior and senior classes including their school levies, school uniforms, school lunch, textbooks, exercise books and other educational materials that they will use throughout their secondary education. The old students association also renovated three classrooms in the administrative block, re-roofed a block of 3-classrooms, school hall and 2 offices via approval secured from the planning department of State Basic Education Board. It further purchased and fixed water pumping machine, constructed water system toilet for the administrative block and employed no fewer than 10 teachers to augment shortage of teaching staff and assist in various subjects. Speaking on behalf of the association, Femi Ade Olojede hinted that the scholarship was made possible by one of the alumni, in person of Mrs. Bolaji-Thomas (Nee Durosaro) of 92 set who contacted her Italian friend couple Galin and Denise  Gruttaro who also was interested in assisting educationally five of the students of the school but it was discovered that their donation could cater for more pupils and the number of students was increased to 14. Another old student, Mrs. Iyabo Phelps (Nee Olayinka of 1986 set) also shared intention to sponsor a pupil for the same benefits like the first 14. Olojede noted that the scholarship and other gesture for the school were planned when the school was reclassified and merged with another junior school during the administration of the immediate past government of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola stressing that the concerted efforts swiftly made by the old students’ association, traditional ruler of Gbongan, Oba Adetoyese Oyeniyi, the Olufi of Gbongan, Pioneer Principal, Pa Joseph Ojeleye among other stakeholders assisted in reclaiming the school under the current administration of Adegboyega Oyetola. He therefore reminded the representatives of the State Commissioner for Education in the state of his pledge to build a block of six classrooms in the school should the old students association fulfil its promises to renovate the school. Representative of the Osun State Commissioner for Education who is also the Tutor General for Osun West Senatorial District, E A Onatola tendered state government’s appreciation to the old students’ association for the gesture in assisting it in renovating some of the school’s buildings adding that their gesture was remarkable. On her part the principal of the school, Mrs. O I Farotimi praised the pioneer principal of the school,  Pa Dr. J. O. Ojeleye for laying a good foundation for the schools adding that through his singular efforts and hardworking staff, the school had produced professors, doctors, justices and many highly placed people in the society. Farotimi who expressed gratitude to the donors of the scholarship award noted that the beneficiaries had written a letter to thank the donors. She spoke of many more pupils in need of the scholarship. She said: “There are more of the students to be helped because a lot of them are “social orphans”. A lot of them are from broken/separated homes, they are the ones bearing the brunt. Some of them have to do some menial works before they can come to school, we have some that will work and the parents will collect their proceeds from them leaving them to suffer in vain. The traditional ruler of Gbongan, Oba Adetoyese Oyeniyi who was represented by Oosa of Gbongan, High Chief Adisa Olabimiji applauded the old students association for the scholarship award describing it as unparalleled. The awardees are Ogundipe Opeyemi SS1, Oyediran Timileleyin SS1, Abioye Roseline SS1, Olaposi Isaiah SS1, Amos Tunmise JS3, Olaniyi Bukola JS3, Adedeji Idowu JS3, Yisa Sasili JS3 and Olatunbosun Emmanuel JS3. Others are Olawale Aanu JS3,  Aliu Yusuf JS3, Odebiyi Victoria JS2, Olaoye Bose JS2, Ojewale Aanu JS2  and Isakunle Marvelous JS1.