The ongoing strike by the Medical and Health Workers Union of Nigeria (MHWUN), Bayelsa State chapter, has shut down the activities of primary healthcare centres (PHCs) across the state. The strike has hampered access to basic healthcare services such as ante-natal for pregnant women and child immunisation at health centres across the eight local government areas in the state. The union, which draws its membership mostly from primary health centres, began an indefinite industrial action on Friday over alleged non-payment of 15-month salary arrears. The Chairman, MHWUN, Bayelsa State, Mr Barnabas Simon, who gave an update on the strike on Saturday, said the union embarked on the strike as the last option following the expiration of earlier deadlines and fruitless meetings with government officials. He explained that the arrears owed the union members ranged from two to 15 months. Simon expressed displeasure over many unresolved issues by the government as it affects PHC workers in the state, adding that after several talks, none of their demands had been met. He regretted that there were no signs from the government on meeting the demand for payment of the outstanding emoluments of the health workers to justify the pressure on union leaders to suspend the strike. He said: “The Bayelsa State Council of Medical and Health Workers’ Union of Nigeria directed all her members to down tools from February 12, 2021, after the expiration of ultimatum on February 11, and so far the compliance is total. “We have been holding meetings with state and local government officials and nothing concrete has been offered to the aggrieved workers, they have been asking us to suspend the strike and discussions are on. “We made our position clear that we are open to dialogue and negotiations but what we really want is the implementation of the prior discussions have had.” An expectant mother, Mrs Ebiboere Michael, said that she had visited the Amarata PHC in Yenagoa but could not get attention for her antenatal clinic due to the strike. “I was at the health centre on Friday but the health workers there were on strike and i have to go back, it is not even easy to go to another place to register again because of costs, so I have to wait and pray they resolve it.” Bayelsa Commissioner for Health, Dr Newton Igwele, said that efforts were ongoing to resolve the industrial action by MHWUN whose mem had withdrawn services at health centres across the state. “I hope you know that these health workers are not employees of the state government? They are a staff of the local governments and they are having discussions to resolve the dispute,” Igwele said.