The first month of the year 2021 has it victorious, memorable and as well as crimes, incursion and decisions making time. On the 6th of January, 2021, Donald Trump supporters and some mob invaded the U.S. Capitol, the very heart” of the country, in a fight to oppose the results of the 2020 election won by Democrats party. This action “angered millions of Americans” and also the rest of world leaders on how fragile the old democracy is. A week after the violent incident, the former President later condemned the incursion in a series of tweets. He was later suspended by social media giants like Facebook, Twitter and Youtube. He further described his ban on social media platforms as an “unprecedented assault on free speech”. On January 20, 2021, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were sworn-in as the 46th President and Vice President of the United States of America led office by John Roberts(Supreme Court Judge). Kamala became first black and Asian-American in U.S history to hold the office. On the day one of his resumption to the office, Biden signed 17 executive orders, nine of which reversed some controversial policies of Donald Trump. Trump became the first President not to attend his successor’s inauguration since 1869. On the 27th of January 2021, President Muhammadu Buhari took a long awaited decision for Nigerians calling for a change in leadership of the Armed Forces. The President relieved his trusted service chiefs and appointed new ones to strengthen the insurgency fight. But the appointment of the new Service Chiefs has not been confirmed by the National Assembly, which is scheduled to resume on February 9. 2021. Ondo Governor Rotimi Akeredolu issued a quit notice to herdsmen to leave the forest reserves of the State. He received several backing for taking the initiative but the Presidency and Northern Governors Forum criticised the order as out of place. Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho voiced his concern over the rising of killings in southwest region by herdsmen in the state. The Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, ordered arrest of the activist in an attempt to silence him but he has been relentless. On January 26, 2021, one of his houses in Soka, Ibadan was set ablaze by arsonists leaving properties worth over N50m damaged. Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Matthew Kukah, on 15th of January, 2021, said Nigeria has not recovered from wounds of the civil war, 51 years after the unfortunate event. The activist-cleric, who spoke at the second edition of the ‘Never Again Conference” said the country has failed to adopt resolutions meant to heal the wounds of the war. It was recalled that Kukah had compared the Federal government to Boko Haram islamic sect causing havoc in the northern part of the country. The Federal Government reacted openly at the bishop in a statement by Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, criticised the cleric. On 24th December, 2020, PSG terminated the appointment of their German-born coach, Thomas Tuchel after a poor run in the league. 25th of January 2021, PSG confirmed the appointment of former player Mauricio Pochettino who was sacked by Tottenham in 2020. In a remarkable event, Chelsea FC confirmed the appointment of Thomas Tuchel as manager after the club manager and legend, Frank Lampard was sacked on 26th January, 2021.