The Chairman, registration and Revalidation Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC), for Anambra State, Bello Tukur, has warned members that his committee will not tolerate inflation of figures or any form of manipulation during the process. He expressed the Committee’s commitment to a seamless and successful registration and revalidation exercise ahead of the November 6 governorship election in the State The APC officer spoke Wednesday in Awka, Anambra State, during the commencement of the training of officers for the exercise. He warned those planning to inflate figures in the register or induce members of the committee to have a rethink or have themselves to blame. Tukur said, “There’s no room for any form of manipulation. This exercise excludes those tendencies. If someone thinks he can inflate any figure and get it into the register is making a serious mistake. “Even Ngige said it. It’s not possible, it will be rejected. There won’t be duplication, proxy registration or over inflation. You have to be physically present to be registered. “Whoever that is planning to influence the committee through financial inducement would lose both his intentions and his money. “The challenge of inadequate funding has also been taken care of. The members have pledged to give the exercise the desired support. Describing the process so far as excellent, he commended the officers for their orderly conduct, soliciting for maximum support from party members to ensure a “Before we left Abuja, the rumour we heard was as if Anambra is boiling. Some even said the registration had commenced. Some said we won’t meet anybody on arrival or a crowd that would be opposed to the exercise. “But on Saturday, they were all united to do the needful. Today again, they reinstated it. You can see how they have mobilized themselves and are very calm and coordinated. “The exercise is crucial to the party and the state in particular in view of the forthcoming November election. They need to come together to really fight to take over the government. “If they are not united, they should forget about winning an election. But if they’re united, they’ll succeed in picking a reasonable person that will carry the party flag,” he added. Earlier, the Chairman of the party, Chief Basil Ejidike, expressed satisfaction over the committee’s preparedness for the exercise as well as the cordial working relationship existing between it and party members. He assured of a transparent exercise which he said was intended to grow the party for future elections. He said, “The committee is here to train members of the registration supervisory committee so they can be equipped to train those at the ward and polling levels. “This is the foundation; hence we must capture every single one. The strength of the committee depends on your support. Good number registration will guarantee a large support base. “There are supervisory committees at every level to monitor the exercise. Make sure you register those who are physically present. Don’t manufacture numbers. “The party has gotten the best cooperation from the committee to ensure a smooth exercise. They’ve shown every good intention. Let’s reciprocate by giving them the support. “We’ve also ordered for extra four vehicles, which will be launched immediately to ensure a seamless registration exercise,” Ejidike said.