David Friday’s arrest last month came with shock and disbelief. The young officer, according to the Commissioner of Police in Ondo State, Bolaji Salami, was newly recruited but his lust for money led him into robbery with his accomplice, Innocent Victor, a soldier attached to the 32 Artillery Brigade of the Nigerian Army, Owena. For a fairly long time, Friday and his partner in crime were allegedly busy robbing innocent residents in the Ondo metropolis of money and valuables, especially at Ojadale Junction in Akure, the state capital. Luck eventually ran out on him when he allegedly stole a motorcycle used as exhibit at his duty post at Olofin Police Station in Idanre Local Government Area. And while he was being tried by the police authorities, he again conspired with Victor to rob a man of his motorcycle, using a dagger and other dangerous weapons. CP Salami said: “He (Friday) was being tried for that motorcycle theft when he was caught conspiring with a soldier to rob some people with a dagger. We paraded them and the victims identified them. Other victims also came and identified them. When we are done with our investigation, we will charge them to court. “Some of the items they reportedly stole included the sum of N6000, one Itel phone valued at N8500, 30 litres of petrol and N125,000.” A few days before Friday was apprehended, an Ekiti State High Court sitting in Ado Ekiti had slammed a senior police officer, Okubo Aboye, with life sentence for robbery. The 57-year-old Aboye, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) and his technician, Niyi Ibrahim Afolabi, 39, were said to have taken possession of a vehicle from robbery and kidnap suspects. According to the police, the vehicle was tracked to ACP Aboye after it was stolen from kidnap victims. The investigating police officers said the car was tracked to Aboye, who confessed to having bought the stolen Hilux van from his technician; an offence that runs contrary to Sections 346(2), 1(2) a and Section 5 of the Criminal Code Cap C16 Laws of Ekiti State, 2012 and the Robbery and Firearms Special Provisions Act, Cap R11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. The presiding judge, Justice John Adeyeye, found the duo guilty and sentenced them to life imprisonment. The prosecutor, Felix Awoniyi, called seven witnesses and tendered exhibits, including statements of the accused persons and bond to release the van to the owner. According to the charge, ”the offence was committed on between May 9 and 19, 2005 at GRA, Ado Ekiti, when the first to seventh accused kidnapped one Moses Ajogri, 40, and robbed him of his Toyota Hilux van with Reg. No. APP 509 BK.” In his judgment, Justice Adeyeye said: “Kidnapping people for ransom is very rampant in not only the state but in Nigeria as a whole. “The court will be failing in its duties to protect the members of the society if adequate punishment is not given to the accused persons.” Like the ubiquitous tortoise in African folklore, four operatives of the disbanded notorious outfit, the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) allegedly conspired to rob one Chukwuma Odionye on June 4, 2018. The operatives, according to the police, invaded the residence of Odionye, popularly called Bishop, and falsely accused him of performing fake miracles. The cops, Sergeants Adeoye Adekunle, Adekitan Adebowale, Agbi Lucky and Odighe Hehosa, then took their victim to a hotel and further forced him to transfer to them a sum of N7 million before setting him free. Odionye subsequently wrote a petition against the officers after he was released, detailing his travails at their hands. “The petitioner stated that on June 4, 2017, he was in his house around Alagbado area of the state when four armed men stormed his house to effect his arrest on the allegation that he performed fake miracles,” a statement signed by the former spokesperson of Zone 2 Police Command, Lagos, Dolapo Badmus, said. The statement further read in part: “He stated that after his arrest, he was taken to one hotel at Agege (Lagos) where he was detained and threatened to be killed if he failed to cooperate. “He explained further that the following day, June 5, 2017, he was taken to the bank where he was made to transfer N7 million to the account of one of the operatives. “On receipt of the petition, the AIG ordered an investigation into the case. On the strength of investigation, it was revealed that no proper police procedure for investigation was followed in Mr. Chukwudi’s arrest. “The four SARS operatives actually abducted the man from his house and unlawfully detained him in the hotel under the guard of the suspects for personal gain.” In December 2018, four policemen attached to Ijanikin Division in Badagry, Lagos State were arrested after they allegedly robbed a Togo-based Nigerian of his CFA350,000. The suspects, Inspector Victor Amiete, Sergeants Samuel Gbemunu and Afolabi Oluwaseun and Corporal Adigun Omotayo, are currently detained at the Provost Section, Command Headquarters, Ikeja. The suspects were said to have mounted a checkpoint around Iyana Era on December 17, 2018 during which they robbed the victim, Theodore Ifunnaya, under the guise of a stop-and-search operation. The cops allegedly pushed Ifunnaya, who was returning to the country for the yuletide, into their van and took him to their station when they found hard currency on him. At their station, the victim was allegedly stripped, tortured, and photographed before they dispossessed him of his money. The erring cops subsequently invited a Bureau De Change (BDC) operator who changed the currency to its naira equivalent from which they gave Ifunnaya N2,000 for transportation to his Lagos residence. The culprits further threatened to release the nude pictures taken of Ifunnaya on social media and accuse him of cultism and armed robbery if he protested. In a move aimed at making scapegoats of erring officers, in July 2018, the Zone 2 Police Command dismissed the four officers for robbing Odionye. The four policemen, according to Badmus, were dismissed and subsequently charged to court for armed robbery, kidnapping, unlawful detention, intimidation and threatening violence. She said the men were dismissed following a recommendation by a panel “based on the report of the investigation carried out on a petition against them.” She noted that the force would not tolerate any act of misconduct capable of undermining the value of international best practices of the police. The four officers held for a similar offence in Ijanikin were also dismissed after they appeared before the Police Provost Marshall at Ikeja, Lagos where they were quizzed for their involvement in the robbery incident. Some security experts who spoke with our correspondent believe that there had been various futile attempts by police authorities to contain widespread misconduct in the Nigeria Police Force. They are of the opinion that there must be political will on the part of the government to sanitise the Force in line with standard global best practices of policing. A security expert and founder of First Constabulary, a Lagos-based security firm, Dr. Modestus Okafor, urged the police authorities to introduce stringent disciplinary measures and curb corrupt practices among officers and men of the Force. He said: “The kind of curriculum offered at the police training centres across the federation should comprise moral discipline or studies required of policemen at their duty stations. “Greed and avarice as well as lust after lavish lifestyles are the harbinger of corruption that has become the order of the day among policemen. “Successive administrations in charge of the police force had tried to rein in errant officers, but what they did not consider is the fact that the overall attitude and conduct of personnel largely depends on the kind of training offered at training schools. “The only solution to this is to inculcate disciplined training that comes with stringent laws to curb violators most of whom over the years have been reveling in greed and opulent lifestyle with reckless abandon.” A lawyer, Frederick Nwapka, suggested that proactive measures be put in place to monitor policemen on duty and check their assets from time to time. Nwakpa said: “In the time past, there have been various initiatives by successive Inspector General of Police (IGP) to checkmate corrupt practices of operatives at their duty post. “One of them is the IGP X Squad which went round to monitor officers in town and a few arrests were made as unscrupulous officers were either found with money collected as bribe from motorists and offenders or arrested for extorting innocent persons. “However, the special squad has not been able to effectively comb the entire country for errant officers, hence, the need for sustainable monitoring outfits to checkmate officers and men of the Force.” He added: “In addition, there should be a mechanism for checking the assets of officers; something akin to a declaration of the assets of public officers with the code of conduct bureau. “This is necessary because not a few policemen have questionable properties in choice areas of Lagos and other cities across the country, without a system to find out how they come about these multi-million naira properties at variance with their salaries.”