There are strong indications that Victor Osimhen may not return early to action following medical reports after the head trauma he suffered during Napoli’s 4-2 loss to Atalanta over the weekend. With this development, Osimhen may have to wait for a few days to know if he would return this weekend for Coach Gennaro Gattuso’s side in their Serie A home tie against Benevento this weekend. Dr. Alfredo Bucciero, head of the neurosurgery department of PinetaGrande had described Osimhen as a player with an excellent physical condition but said that he must be managed with utmost attention. Bucciero, a fan of Napoli, said as much after  conducting a Magnetic Resonance Imaging test  amongst other checks  on the 21-year-old Nigeria international. He said inter alia: “The boy (Osimhen) is in excellent physical condition, he has had an MRI scan of both the skull and the spine and there is nothing neurosurgical in place. He has just finished an EEG and we are waiting for the results. “From a neurosurgical point of view, the boy is doing well and can’t wait to get back on the pitch. The UEFA protocol, however, expresses timing on the recovery of time. The protocol provides for a rest from a few days to a few weeks. “I think it won’t take long even if I suggest you contact Canonico for more information. But these are Ferraris, which must be managed with the utmost attention. “I believe that by the end of the week it can come back as a physical activity and training, but on the pitch I have some difficulty thinking about it, but the direct management is by Doctor Canonico.” Bucciero said he was looking forward to Osimhen’s return as a huge fan of  Napoli  but with a caveat that his condition should be’ carefully managed’ despite  the player’s huge desire to return to action swiftly. He continued:  “I am a neurosurgeon, neither a trainer nor a coach. As a fan I’d like to see him on the pitch. He is a very, very motivated guy. He can’t wait to get back. He would like to return today, but in these cases as he took a major blow another short term blow would not be good. I can say that he is fine both from a general point of view and from a neurological point of view. “The results of the MRI? Well, a trauma like he had it could bring out a hematoma. We have left nothing to chance. The main examination is the magnetic resonance and has not highlighted anything that makes us think of something negative. You have to manage him as a human being because he has a great desire and as a footballer, so you have to be careful,” the medical practitioner added. Meanwhile, Osimhen is expected to be assessed daily while  under mandatory  rest for a few days according to a statement issued by the club.