 For one year now, Nigeria has managed the COVID-19 pandemic, with mixed results. It is understandable, therefore, if attention is shifting to a balance between the testing, contact tracing, isolated care and non-pharmaceutical preventive messaging of the first wave, and how to manage the mass vaccination to come. But in the middle of all of these, Ebola, another epidemic that rocked the West Africa zone from 24 April 2014 till 1 June 2016, just broke out again in Guinea, following the burial of a Guinean nurse who died of the disease; and a couple of others, who copped the highly infectious Ebola, at the nurse’s burial.  The stricken nurse, the burial and the spread all took place at Goueke, a remote rural location in Guinea’s N’Zerekore Prefecture. That appears to have tracked the Ebola spread, right back to the first epidemic, in 2014.  Then, as now, the outbreak started in Guinea.  From Guinea, it spread to neighbouring Sierra Leone and Liberia.  A travelling Liberian diplomat, Patrick Sawyer (who eventually died), was Nigeria’s index case. At the end of it all — thanks to the masterful handling of the emergency by Governor Babatunde Fashola of Lagos State and his health officials — Nigeria recorded 20 suspected Ebola cases; 19 was confirmed via laboratory tests, and eight deaths. The dead included iconic medic, Dr. Stella Ameyo Adadevoh.  Dr. Adedevoh was not only among the medics that treated the Liberian patient, she was praised for preventing a mass breakout of Ebola in Nigeria, by placing her rather cantankerous patient under quarantine, despite intense pressure from the Liberian diplomatic community. Less preemptive actions, in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, would cost the three countries dear, in mass infections and deaths.  Guinea recorded 3, 814 suspected cases, 3, 358 confirmed cases and 2, 544 deaths.  Sierra Leone: 14, 124 suspected cases, 8, 706 confirmed ones and 3, 956 deaths. But the Liberia stats were even more interesting, for a sloppy medical surveillance clearly cost that country higher Ebola casualties, in deaths.  Liberia had 10, 678 suspected Ebola cases, of which only 3, 163 were confirmed.  But it recorded the heaviest tally of 4, 810 deaths. Had Liberia been more rigorous in its Ebola surveillance, maybe its diplomat, that brought the epidemic to Nigeria, dying during process, would have been nursed to wellness on its shores; and Nigeria saved the Ebola blush. Still, without excusing Liberia’s sloppy epidemic scouring on own soil, keeping out Ebola from Nigeria appears mere wishful thinking, given the porosity of West African borders, especially Nigeria’s.  Incidentally, Sawyer flew into Nigeria.  Yet, the airport border health police couldn’t track him, despite the open secret, back then, that Ebola had broken out in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia (to Nigeria’s west) and in Congo Democratic Republic (DRC), to Nigeria’s East. The big question: are Nigerian border posts more prepared today than they were back then?  The answer would appear doubtful, other things considered.  For one, they are now, unlike then, grappling with a slew of in-coming travellers, many of them reportedly flashing fake COVID-19-negative certificates. For another, even if you boast a tighter border health regimen at airports, the same cannot, probably, be said of land borders.  Even if the land border health police have upped their game, how do you manage the numerous bush paths, through which the border communities reportedly stroll in and out of their respective countries, many of these folks sharing pre-colonial commonness in tongue, practices and culture? That is why this editorial should sound timely alarm to the health authorities to figure out more rigorous border surveillance techniques, to minimize, if not totally eradicate, such cross-broader crossings, in this season of dire pandemic, that has brought the world to its knees.  Such a strategy should have a serious mass enlightenment segment, that directs people to “say something, if they see something”, seasoned with detailed emergency responses, should they sense any Ebola case. With the news, quoting the health authorities, saying the more transmissible UK COVID-19 variant had been located in Edo, Kwara, Osun, Lagos, Oyo and FCT, it appears quite a testy time ahead, even without Kogi playing a costly denial game, over an all-too-obvious pandemic. But as prevention is better than cure, it would even be costlier to manage an Ebola outbreak, with the ravaging COVID-19, in its current second wave.  That is why everything should be done to avert an Ebola outbreak.  That would be double trouble — needless and avoidable.