The just confirmed chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Abdulrasheed Bawa, Wednesday said that the Commission has powers to investigate “unexplained wealth.” Bawa gave this indication while answering questions from Senators during his screening by the Senate in a Committee of the Whole during plenary presided over by Senate President Ahmad Lawan. This happened even as the Senate confirmed the nomination of Bawa by President Muhammadu Buhari for appointment as the substantive chairman of the anti-grant agency. The screening came barely a week after Buhari in a letter requested the upper chamber to confirm his nomination of Bawa for appointment as EFCC chief. Buhari in his letter said that the nomination of the 40-year old Bawa was done in line with Paragraph 2(3) of Part 1, CAP E1 of EFCC Act, 2004. Recall that the immediate past head of the agency, Ibrahim Magu, performed his duties on acting capacity for at least six years before he was suspended indefinitely by Buhari. Before the commencement of the exercise, Lawan had directed the Sergeant-At-Arms to ensure that the curriculum vitae of Bawa is distributed to all Senators present ahead of the confirmation hearing. Bawa was invited into the Senate chambers following a motion to that effect by the Senate Leader, Yahaya Abdullahi at 11:48am. He was led into the chambers by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Babajide Omoworare. Bawa’s wife, a delegation of lawmakers from Kebbi in the House of Representatives and members of the Kebbi State House of Assembly led by their Speaker were also admitted into the Senate chamber to observe the screening. He received applause for his eloquence and articulate presentation of his opening remarks, an address he ended with the National Pledge. Bawa was grilled by Senators for over two hours with questions ranging from his experience, qualification for the job, relationship with predecessors as his plans for the agency upon appointment. On the powers of the Commission to investigate suspicious wealth, Bawa said: “Distinguished Senator Ali Ndume asked a question regarding the Unexplained Wealth Order. Coincidentally, I am the desk officer of the Unexplained Wealth Order at the EFCC because during the course of my career particularly in the last five years, I am not aware of any detective at the EFCC that has worked closely with the National Crime Agency of the United Kingdom. “So, I am fully aware about the Unexplained Wealth Order. But there are certain provisions in the EFCC establishment Act that more or less gave us these powers. “Section 7 subsection 1b of the Act says that the ‘Commission has the power to cause investigation to be conducted into the properties of any person that appears to the Commission that the persons lifestyle and the extent of the properties are not justified by his source of incomes. “Meaning, without any complaint, if it comes to our knowledge that you have amassed so many properties that are not justified by your source of income, the EFCC can ask questions. “And that is what the simple definition of explanation regarding the Unexplained Wealth Order. If you have this property, the U.K. will ask you what is this property for. If you explain that this is how you earned it so be it. If you did not explain, then they can further their investigation to determine how you acquired it. “So I think that looking at this provision we are covered for now until we see how other jurisdictions have carried on with this Unexplained Wealth Order.” On whether he will retain police officers seconded to the Commission or return all of them, he said: “The issue of secondment of or de-secondment of personnel in the public service from one agency to another is an issue of need. “If the need arise you second if the need did not arise you de-second or you will not second at all to your organization. We are going to review the process. We are looking at a situation where we will have a very robust and articulate establishment. “If the need arise for us to retain some of the police officers we will retain them. If need allows us to return them back we will return them back. After all, we are all serving the same government, we are all Nigerians and of course, we all desire that we have a better Nigeria.” During the exercise Bawa denied allegations of selling off assets recovered by the EFCC when he was head of its Port Harcourt zonal office. He told the lawmakers that he is qualified to be appointed as a substantive chairman of the EFCC based on his requisite qualifications, over 15 years experience in fraud investigation and vast training as a law enforcement officer. Bawa denied allegations that he was arrested and detained by the agency under Magu, over illegal sale of 244 forfeited trucks to proxies in Port Harcourt. He explained that as head of the Port Harcourt zonal office, he did not have the power to dispose off assets recovered under his watch. According to him, such power is only vested on Secretary to the Commission adding that sale was handled by a delegation from the headquarters led by the Secretary. Bawa said: “Anybody that is familiar with the processes and workings of the EFCC knows that even the executive chairman of the EFCC doesn’t have the powers to dispose off a single asset. That responsibility lies in the office of the Secretary of the Commission. “I say this to confirm to Nigerians and indeed this chamber that as Zonal Head of EFCC I never for once sold a single asset in Port Harcourt. I never did. “The then Secretary of the Commission together with three directors and other staff from the headquarters flew into Port Harcourt and disposed off trucks and other assets that were forfeited to the Federal Government of Nigeria. “When I took over Port Harcourt, they had only 33 convictions but because of the way I transformed the office we recorded an unprecedented 216 convictions within a year. “We never sold anything in Port Harcourt zonal office. It was the head office that did everything. We don’t know how the payments were made, we don’t know who bought and we don’t know who lost out the auction. “Besides, assuming we even did that the EFCC would have been the first to punish me, they could have investigated me and they could have even prosecuted me. “But the Director of Operations, who happens to be the acting chairman of the Commission as at now, was the one that posted me to Lagos. Assuming I did something, he could not have given me high responsibility to manage the biggest operational base of the EFCC.” He said he is going to discharge his duties in such a way as to facilitate the engagement of youths into positions of responsibilities in the governance of the country. He said: “I am aware that my nomination has caused a lot of hope for millions of youth around the country and the world at large. I want to state here that I am going to give a very good representation in the governance of this country so that at the end of the day more youths will be given huge responsibilities in this country.” Bawa said that he enjoys a good relationship with his predecessors including its the suspended ex-chairman, Magu, whom he said, congratulated him when he was nominated. He promised to work towards strengthening the anti-graft agency and establishing a synergy between the EFCC and other sister security and anti-graft agencies both national and internationally, if confirmed.