The increasing spate of insecurity may lead to an ethnoreligious war and famine, Deputy Senate Leader, Ajayi Boroffice, has said. He is worried that the nation is entering “a phase in governance trajectory characterised by unabated terrorism, insurgency, banditry and kidnappings.” Boroffice, in a motion scheduled for debated on Tuesday but deferred to the next legislative day, suggested ways to tackle insecurity. The adjournment of the plenary was in honour of late House of Representatives member, Ossy Prestige. Boroffice said in the motion: ”If the present spate of insecurity across the nation is not curtailed, it will lead to food insecurity and famine as many farmers can no longer access their farmlands.” He urged President Muhammadu Buhari to direct the National Security Adviser, Service Chiefs and the Inspector-General of Police to rejig the security architecture. He also urged governors to promote local conflict resolution and inter-ethnic harmony. The Federal Government, the Senator said, should embark on an operation to checkmate proliferation of firearms and enforce the laws against illegal possession of firearms. He urged governors “to implement the National Livestock Transformation Plan which is a modern scheme designed to eliminate transhumance to prevent farmer-herder conflicts and activate highly productive livestock sector in Nigeria”. Boroffice added: “The security agencies must actively deploy drones and helicopters to monitor forests and ungoverned areas in Nigeria, to identify illegal camps of armed bandits.” The motion also called on the Federal Government to “adequately equip the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) and the Nigerian Customs Service (NCS) to police and monitor our borders using technology to check illegal immigrants, and check the smuggling of firearms and light weapons. “The Federal Government must resuscitate and inaugurate the National Task Force (Commission) to combat the proliferation of Light Weapons, Small Arms and Ammunition,” he said. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, called on leaders to unite against criminality arising from the activities of bandits and kidnappers. He said they should resist the antics of divisive elements bent on instigating inter-ethnic tension. He said that the Senate would ensure that the funds earmarked for the prevention and management of the COVID-19 pandemic are properly utilised. Lawan made these assertions in his speech to welcome lawmakers back from the Christmas/New Year break.