President Muhammadu Buhari on Tuesday urged the National Security Adviser (NSA) to adopt a new cybersecurity coordination strategy. It said the new approach must focus on exploring the internet for economic growth opportunities, enhancement of knowledge and mitigation of crime. The President spoke at the launch of the National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy (NCPS) 2021, held at the Presidential Villa Abuja. He said: “I urge the National Security Adviser to continue to coordinate the efforts of all stakeholders to ensure that our internet and cyberspace are used for the enhancement of national security and economic progression. “I am confident that, together, we can pave the way for the creation of new opportunities to usher Nigeria into a bright future driven by a prosperous cyberspace and digital economy.” He added that the country is also witnessing a rapid surge in its adoption of the internet and social media for almost all aspects of its daily life. The internet/cyberspace, he said, is now central and indispensable to our national development. The president said that is why over the past couple of years, his administration has focused on Information and Communications Technology (ICT) driven initiatives. “In 2014, we developed our maiden National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy to provide us with the necessary roadmap for the realisation of our national cybersecurity programme. “This national effort paved way for Nigeria to reach numerous cybersecurity milestones over the past six years. “Therefore, to build on this achievement and reposition ourselves for enhanced engagement in cyberspace, it became expedient to review the National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy 2014 and develop a comprehensive National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy 2021 for the common good of the country. “I, therefore, unveil the National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy 2021 as the overarching policy and strategy framework for driving Nigeria’s cybersecurity efforts towards the attainment of our national objectives,” he declared. National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (rtd), said there had been a surge in the use of the internet, especially during the COVID-19 lockdown around the world, with increasing waves of crimes, irregular migration and threats to border security. The NSA noted that many platforms, including banking, communication and military had come under more threat, with personal information easily distorted and explored, necessitating a review of the 2014 National Cybersecurity Policy and Strategy (NCPS). He said the reviewed document will work towards mitigating the “suffocating presence and unpredictable threats’’ of cybercrimes.