The member representing Aba North and South federal constituency of Abia state in the House of Representatives, Hon. Ossy Prestige has died. Prestige was earlier rumoured to have died late January 2021, but his family denied the information saying he was still in intensive care at the German hospital where he was undergoing treatment. The Lawmaker who was serving his second term in the House was elected on the platform of All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) and was one of the most active members of the parliament and serve in several committees, including the House Committee on Customs and Excise. Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila described the late Prestige as a “great man who was full of wisdom and played a major part in the legislative business of the House, adding that he will be remembered for the roles in played in stabilizing the House. He said “it is with a heavy heart that I announced the death of one of our members, Hon. Ossy Prestige. As many of you are aware, he has been sick for a while and went to London for treatment last summer. “I went to visit him in the hospital in London and we chatted extensively and we kept in touch until he was taken to Germany for further treatment. He was a great fighter. He told me the story of how he managed to travel to London for treatment and that story, I will share with you at another date. He will be remembered as a great guy and led a group in the House known as House of Common and if you needed a bill to be passed in the House then, you have to go a pay respect to their Chairman who was Ossy Prestige. “I know that many members are heavy in their heart and we can only pray that God comfort his family and forgive his sins. We will do a proper valedictory session for him at a later date when the family would have communicated with us”. In a statement confirming the death of the lawmaker signed by his brother, Rtn. Chukwu Nnanna, the family said the lawmaker died in a German hospital in the early hours of Sunday, February 7, 2021. The statement reads “as it pleased the Lord and in total submission to His Will, but with heavy hearts, we announce the passing away of Hon. Prestige Ossy, the member representing the Aba North/South Federal Constituency of Abia State at the National Assembly whose transition to Higher Glory occurred in the wee hours of 7th February in Germany where he has been receiving treatment for the past months. “In his death bed and up to his last days, his love for his uncommon people of Aba and Abia State found expression in words. He fought gallantly to live for his people but God decided to take him into rest in his bosom. Who are we to question God? “As we continue with necessary arrangements to repatriate his remains and accord him a hero’s farewell that he eminently deserves, we shall endeavor to carry everybody along.”