A teenage female student in a rural secondary school in Cross River state was on Thursday stopped from gunning down one of her teachers with a locally made pistol found in her possession. The Nation gathered it took the intervention of soldiers drafted to the area notorious for kidnapping and militancy to disarm the girl. The incident happened at Government Secondary School, Ikot Ewa in Akpabuyo Local Government area. It took the presence of the military officers who are present in the local government area following the notoriety in cases of kidnappings and militancy, before the girl was termed and disarmed. When contacted, the Army Public Relations Officer, APRO, Cpt. Everest Ochinta confirmed the incident. He said the girl will be handed over to the appropriate agency for further findings and prosecution. The Principal, Mr Inyang Inyang, declined comment on the matter saying he was not authorised to speak to the press. However sources at the school, who didn’t want to be mentioned, told The Nation the student had been under watchful eyes of the school authorities having exhibited some unusual traits .  “From inception, we noticed the way she greets and we decided to take a closer look at her personality and activities in school. “On certain day, she was asked by a teacher to go cut her hair because she had dyed the hair during the festive period (December) and returned to school with the coloured hair. “The teacher after several warnings, also confiscated her sandals so that after cutting the hair she would pick them up. “Having cut the hair, she came to show the teacher and then get her sandals back but her attitude was suspicious and she started becoming rude and some other teachers tried to calm her down and the nearby military men were called into the school and she directed to see the principal . “When she got there ,the principal tried to calm her down but when she got talking, it was discovered that she was heavily drunk with alcohol. She was not stable at all.” Another source added: “The military came in and search of her bag and body, revealed the locally made pistol in her possession.” Our source did not also give the name of the teacher the school girl targeted.