 SIR: Recently, Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, stated on a Channels Television programme that his principal’s appointment of four new service chiefs was not subject to the federal character law. There had been unabated allegations of violations of federal character provisions and sectional and ethno-religious justice, equity and fairness in Buhari’s appointment of the heads of the security agencies (in particular) in the country since he came into office in 2015. The television conversation was prompted by the recent appointment of the four new military service chiefs. Was Adesina right to have boldly declared that the appointment of military service chiefs by the president does not need to have regard for the federal character law? Though section 8 of the Armed Forces Act vesting the powers to appoint service chiefs in the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces is silent on whether or not the president’s appointments must reflect federal character, other relevant laws, including the 1999 Nigerian Constitution, which is the grundnorm, do make it a duty for the president to reflect federal character not only in the appointment of military service chiefs but of other heads of security agencies. For the avoidance of doubt, section 217 (3) of the Constitution provides that “the composition of the officer corps and other ranks of the armed forces of the federation shall reflect the federal character of Nigeria.” Section 218 (2) of the same Constitution confers the powers to appoint the four service chiefs on the president. Section 4 (1) (a) of Nigeria’s Federal Character Commission (Establishment, etc) Act 1995 also categorically provides that the Federal Character Commission shall “work out an equitable formula, subject to the approval of the president, for the distribution of all cadres of posts in the civil and public services of the federation and of the states, the armed forces, the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies, bodies corporate owned by the federal government.” Indeed, if there is any sector where federal character or regard for the sectional, ethnic and religious diversity of a nation like Nigeria should be respected, it is in the appointment of the heads of security agencies. This is because this will give all the sectional, ethnic and religious interest groups a sense of belonging and see the national project as a common aspiration. Rwanda has learnt this very well from its civil war history and the lesson is making the African country to work excellently today. Unfortunately, Nigeria seems to be oblivious of this till date. In fact, nations far less diverse such as the US and the UK not only now recruit Africans and Asians into their armed forces and police services but sometimes appoint them as security heads. Are the many separatist movements, secessionist activists and self-determination groups in the country today not enough glaring reason for Nigerian political office holders to comply with the Nigerian federal character law without any pressure? Even international human rights law frowns at operation of government in such a way that there is deliberate exclusion of racial or religious interest groups. In this regard, in November 1989, the Human Rights Committee of the UN adopted a General Comment which stated that, for the purpose of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, discrimination included “any … exclusion, restriction or preference which is based on any ground such as race, colour, sex, language, religion.”