The Police Command in Plateau State has begun a manhunt for gunmen who killed four people in Bassa, Plateau, on Sunday. It promised to arrest and prosecute the killers. Mr Edward Egbuka, the Commissioner of Police (CP) in the state, gave the indication when  he confirmed the incident to newsmen on Tuesday in Jos. The CP confirmed the killing of four people in Rikwe-Chongu and Zirshe villages of Miango Chiefdom in Bassa Local Government Area. According to Egbuka, the incident occurred on Sunday evening. He said arrests were yet to be made. He, however, assured that investigation was on and the perpetrators would soon be fished out. The Commissioner, who said peace had returned to the state, expressed displeasure that it was disrupted in the past six weeks with the constant attacks in Bassa Local Government Area. “There used to be peace on the Plateau, but it has been disrupted in the past six weeks. “All we are doing is to tighten the situation and ensure lasting peace returns to the state. “Four people were killed in Bassa but no arrest has been made yet. However, the investigation is on; we have an idea where this is coming from, but we cannot just act on sentiment. “Bassa has been a challenge, but we are making some breakthrough in that regard, but soon we will make it public,” he said. At the stakeholders meeting held on Monday, the Commissioner said it was aimed at finding a lasting solution to the continued insecurity in some parts of the state. On its part, the Irigwe Development Association (IDA) has condemned the ugly incident, describing it as “unfortunate.” In a statement, the National Publicity Secretary of IDA, Mr Davidson Malison expressed its displeasure and called on the authority to apprehend the killers and make them face the full wrath of the law. “The leadership of IDA is saddened, dejected and crestfallen by this development as this callous act does not only portray sheer wickedness and devilishness but total inhumanity to human against the Rigwe people,” he said. He also said: “Absolute justice is served so as to put an end to all manner of destruction of lives and property in our land.”