A frontline contender for the November governorship election in Anambra, Sen. Andy Uba has reassured his All Progressives Congress (APC) of victory at the poll if given the ticket. He said the party lost the 2017 election to the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) because he was denied of the ticket. Speaking weekend in his country home, Uga, Aguata Local Government Area, during a town hall meeting with people drawn from the four communities of the town, Uba urged his kinsmen and party faithful to get registered and vote massively for him to avoid repeating the same mistake of the past exercise. He said: “You have a material you can sell to anybody, both at the state and federal level. I have what it takes to win the election and bring the desired transformation that has eluded the town and the state in general. “Obiano was so afraid of me in the last election that he insisted that I shouldn’t be given the ticket. In fact, he wouldn’t have been the governor if I had been given the ticket.” Uba also promised to leverage on his friendship with President Muhammadu Buhari who he described as an honest man with few words to attract the dividends of democracy to the state. “Buhari is one President that makes a promise and keeps to it. Look at the second Niger bridge that has been used for politics over the years. “He not only promised to complete it but went further to commit huge money to it. Same with Enugu-Onitsha road. “Buhari is not into political manouvering. He doesn’t lie. That’s why he is a man of few words. One statement he makes means a lot. I’ll continue to relate with him because I know what he can do. “As a governor of APC, I’ll get anything from him. There’s nothing I’ll beg him he won’t do for me. And you know I would have spent two years in office before his tenure expires. That’s a long time to develop the state. “Look at Uzodinma of Imo state and what he’s doing because of what he’s getting from the President. Whatever documents he tenders to the president receives prompt approval. “Unfortunately, it’s the negative things in his government that’s being highlighted. Those that achieved great feats hardly talk, just like me. It’s unfortunate such disposition is not working for us. But I won’t change my character,” he added.