Berger Paints Nigeria Plc has appointed Mrs Ereomajuwa Gbadebo and Mrs Aisha Umar as independent non-executive directors in a strategic move to boost its board with top notch professionals. In a statement signed by Company Secretary and Legal Adviser, Berger Paints Nigeria Plc, Mr AyokunleAyoko, the company explained that Gbadebo and Umar will be bringing on board extensive real estate and legal experience respectively. Gbadebo is a Chartered Architect and Chartered Surveyor with 34 years of international experience in strategic and executive management, project design, and on-site project and program administration, in both the construction and real estate industry. She has undertaken several courses on ethics, finance, law, and the role of Independent Non-Executive Directors as run by the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, UK, the Institute of Directors, Nigeria and Women on Boards, UK. She holds an MBA from Henley Management College, UK, with an emphasis on strategic marketing, and financial and project management. Gbadebo possesses experience in the management and leadership of people, time and resources, plus the coordination of multi-disciplinary external teams of consultants, support staff and contractors. She served as the Chief Executive Officer of Broll Property Services Limited, Nigeria (Broll NG), a subsidiary of Broll Property Services Group (Pty) South Africa, between June 2008 and Sept 2013. She also served as Executive Director of Propose, Design and Implement (PDI) Limited, a boutique real estate consultancy and advisory firm, between October 2013 and January 2015. Thereafter, she served as Managing Director of Alpha Mead Real Estate Partners Limited – a strategic business unit of Alpha Mead Group (formerly Cluttons International Limited– the Nigerian subsidiary of Cluttons LLP, United Kingdom), between January 2015 and January 2020. She is currently the Managing Director of Propose, Design and Implement (PDI) Limited. Umar is a Legal Practitioner, Notary Public and Social Entrepreneur with vast experience in the public sector, private sector and the academia. She holds a Post  in Global Business from Oxford University, and is currently a Doctorate Student at the University of West Scotland-Centre for Africa Research and Enterprise and Economic Development – CAREED, researching Africa’s engagement with the World Trade Organization (WTO) and strategies for boosting value added exports from the continent. Over the past 15 years, Aisha has provided legal and technical advisory services to the Federal and State governments on various projects in the education, transportation, agriculture and water sectors, some of which have been funded by international development agencies including the Department for International Development (DFID) and the World Bank. She also has strong background in agribusiness consultancy and social entrepreneurship. She is the founder of Inara Foundation, a non-governmental organization established to support communities affected by the conflict in North East Nigeria. She is also the CEO of Inara Enterprises, an Agribusiness company promoting trade and value addition of agricultural commodities. Earlier in her career, she was a lecturer on Company and Commercial Law at the prestigious Nigerian Law School, Lagos. She is the co-author of a book entitled Quick Reference Materials on Nigerian Law & Practice – the leading reference book used by legal practitioners and law students.