The leadership tussle between Lagos socialite Chief Babatunde Fanimokun and former Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Dr. Shamsideen Ade Dosunmu over the presidency of Eko Club, was finally laid to rest on Wednesday with the landmark judgment delivered in favour of the former by Hon. Justice Obietonbara Daniel-Kalio of the Lagos Division of the Court of Appeal. Justice Daniel-Kalio while delivering the landmark judgment jointly prepared by Justices O. A. Otisi, U.A. Ogakwu, noted that the subject-matter of Appeal No. CA/LAG/CV/346/2020 by Dr. Shamsideen Ade Dosunmu & Incorporated Trustees versus Chief Babatunde Rasheed Fanimokun in which the plaintiff filed three grounds of appeal was placed side-by-side with the prayers of the respondent on the need for speedy delivery of judgment confirming the respondent as duly elected President of Eko Club. Specifically, Justice Daniel-Kalio said the panel relied on the judgment of the lower court in line with the provision of the amended constitution of the Eko Club, 2014 and of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as amended) that Chief Babatunde Fanimokun has the right to vie for selection as the President for a third consecutive year, having served as President of Eko Club from February 2017 to February 2019. Arising from the various submissions and arguments of the plaintiff’s counsel George Oguntade (SAN) and the respondent’s counsel, Barrister Ajose Abejoye, the panel of Justices led by Hon. Daniel-Kalio held that the grounds of the appeal was not only frivolous but lacking in merit and therefore stands dismissed. The Lordship further emphasised that the judgment would be made available to the parties for enforcement accordingly. It may be recalled that Abejoye had secured a landmark judgment at the Federal High Court, Lagos under the Lordship, Hon. Justice C.J. Aneke in March 2020 in which the court restrained the Incorporated trustees of Eko Club, members of the management committee of the Eko Club and stated that the parties have no legal authority to act against the decision of Annual General Meeting of the Eko Club held on 27th February 2019, therefore, the court unanimously nullifying the purported selection of Dosumu. Fanimokun, a two-term president of the club from February 2017 to February 2019 at the completion of his second term and in accordance with the Club’s Constitution, applied to contest for the same office for the third term, got elected by the decision of the clubs AGM, but his election was resisted and rejected by the Guardian Council made up of trustees of the club. 