There has been a spike in Bitcoin’s price recently, especially in the past few months, and it has sparked a lot of conversations on what moves the price and why it keeps rising. 2020 experienced a 41% increase in the number of bitcoin users as the numbers increased from 49 million in 2019 to 63 million in 2020. What drives this growth? Is there a logical explanation as to why bitcoin keeps rising? As the price of bitcoin continues to increase, more people are beginning to find some interest in it compared to when it was just launched in 2009. A report from JP Morgan in 2020 claims that more institutions are buying bitcoin three times more than they did in the previous quarter. One of the major reasons why the demand for bitcoin increased in 2020 was the COVID-19 pandemic that impacted financial markets all over the world. Technological advancements have also made bitcoin trading easier than ever, as there are now improved high-tech platforms designed to allow seamless bitcoin trading. Ease of access and use has also been simplified for everyone whether you’re a beginner or an expert. The higher the demand, the higher the price would be, especially if the supply is limited. Considering the factors that contributed to the rise in demand for bitcoin in 2020, it is not far-fetched that the price kept increasing. Bitcoin has grown beyond a simple digital currency that you can invest and trade in and is now being adopted as a payment method all over the world. More people now have an extra solid reason to own bitcoin, as long as they can make everyday payments with it. PayPal announced in 2020 that it would allow users and merchants to buy, sell, hold, and accept bitcoin. With PayPal being a globally recognized payment platform with over 350 million users, this is a huge move and will further propel more people to own bitcoin. In addition to PayPal integrating bitcoin, several other platforms have also embraced cryptocurrency as a form of payment. Many business owners have also made it an option to receive payments. With the continuous adoption of bitcoin as a payment method by several platforms, the demands will continue to increase, which will impact how the price moves. Bitcoin has no doubt earned its respect over the years since its launch in 2009. It has managed to maintain the top position among other cryptocurrencies and has improved its authority and relevance in the crypto world. Several upgrades have been made to bitcoin over the years, including the ease of access and the availability of licensed and regulated exchanges such as the bitcoin circuit in local and international sectors. Whether or not bitcoin will continue to rise depends on a lot of factors. This includes the finite supply of bitcoin capped at 21 million and also the availability of several other cryptocurrencies competing with Bitcoin. We are however gradually settling into the era of digital currencies and as technology continues to advance, there’s still a chance that the price will continue to rise, at least for the next few years.