Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has accused an unknown police officer in mufti of harrassing his convoy with an AK47 riffle while he was on project inspection. The governor, who spoke on Friday when the new Commissioner of Police, Mr. Friday Eboka, visited him at the Government House, Port Harcourt, said the incident happened on Thursday while he was on inspection tour of the new Rivers State legislative residential quarters on Thursday. He said the unknown AK-47 wielding police officer followed his convoy to a point where he inspected the speaker’s residence but was later challenged by his security details. He said: “Yesterday (Thursday), I was going out for inspection. We saw one guy carrying Ak47, not on police uniform. He was on mufti, blocking us from Waterlines Junction when we went to inspect the Rivers State Assembly’s quarters on-going project. “We moved on to inspect the Speaker’s residence project, and the man was still following us. So, the security wondered what’s going on and stopped him.” Wike urged the new Police Commissioner to shun politics and stay within his professional mandate to fight crime without fear or favour. Speaking on the abduction of over 300 school girls in Zamfara State on Friday, the governor said there was high level of criminality in the society and that professional police officers should not abandon their duties of protecting life and property for any other interest. Wike said nobody should be above the law and if any criminal was arrested, such person should be charged to court without fear or favour. While addressing the police boss, he said: “I will never come to you to say Mr. CP go and do what is illegal. I will never come to you to say so and so person is my friend, he was arrested for kidnapping, so release him. In fact, I’ll even say take him away. “Because if I support the person who is kidnapping, it may be my turn tomorrow, I won’t always be governor. So, whatever you can do with your team, please I beg you in the name of God, provide security. Don’t come here and play politics.” Wike said he was aware that some persons might have recommended his appointment, but admonished him to let his conscience guide him. He commended the CP for reorganising the C4I unit of the state police command and pledged to support the team succeed in their task to combat crime. Wike observed that the level of kidnapping in the state had increased because the immediate past CP abandoned his duty and was hobnobbing with non-state recognised chiefs. “The level of kidnapping has gone high in the society. Your former colleague abandoned the job and was being deceived by some people who feign that they are traditional rulers. “It’s most unfortunate that the former CP will be going to traditional rulers to be hosting him. It’s a shame. Now, Nigerians don’t have confidence anymore in security agents”, he said. Wike disclosed to the new CP that his administration provided the State Police Command with about 150 vehicles, but he regretted that most of the vehicles were mismanaged and some diverted. In his speech, the new Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka said he has dissolved the E-Crack team of the State Police Command because of the uncanny report against it and redeployed the officers to other units. He told the governor that he needed an effective synergy with all stakeholders, especially the Rivers state government to succeed on his mission of crime fighting. He said: “My duty, essentially in this State is to fight crime and criminality. I know I cannot do that work alone without synergy with other stakeholders. “I want to assure you (Governor) that any assistance given to us will be used to improve the security of this State. I’ve told my men, that there is no arm chair policing in my administration. “My officers have been warned to shun corruption, be civil with the public, and we will not tolerate accidental discharge.”