A graduate of Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY), Abeokuta, Miss Adetutu Seriki, has been awarded the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) presidential honorary prize for service to humanity during her service year. Seriki alongside 110 former corps  members got scholarships and automatic employment into the federal civil service. The Computer Science graduate, who served in Ibadan, Oyo State, was honoured for her community projects which included the construction of a  well at her place of primary assignment, Ibadan Municipal Government Primary School, Alakia Oje Elewa, Ibadan, mending of collapsed part of the school fence, clothing and giving school sandals to 30 indigent pupils, fixing of a  new gate  and donation of food items and toiletries to Jesus Children Orphanage Home. Presenting the award to the Acting Rector, Dr Adeoye Odedeji,  she  said  she  was privileged to be an awardee. The former student noted that she only contributed her quota to the development of the community where she served without expecting any reward. “It is a great privilege to be among the awardees and it is an honour to my family. Though I didn’t expect anything from anyone, I was just trying to contribute my own quota to help my country.  We don’t need to complain about everything, we also have  to add value to the nation. “I sponsored the construction of a  well inside the school to allow everyone have access to it. I also repaired the collapsed school fence and fixed the school gate for security reasons. “When I finished the project, I bought school sandals for  indigent pupils  because many of them attended school barefooted. I also provided uniforms for others,” she said. Seriki urged youths to stop complaining and contribute their own quota to the development of the nation at large. “Youths should stop complaining. Nigeria is ours; be a good youth anywhere you find yourself. Everything is not about money,” she said. Odedeji  praised the former student  for being a good ambassador of  the  polytechnic. He urged students to emulate her. “This is a tonic that has brought great relief to our souls. It’s a well deserved honour. You have demonstrated that you’re kind. The ability to read and write doesn’t make you unique and identified, there are other aspects  which are moral and behavioural. “Education will not be relevant if it doesn’t add value to  people. You have represented MAPOLY excellently and you’re a role model. You have fulfilled our mandate of producing  useful students. “Others should emulate you. Though  salary was  not paid for six months, our effort is not in vain after all,” he said. 