It was a time for sharing experiences in Lagos over the weekend when a former President of Nigeria Institute of Town Planners ( NITP) and also former Rector, the Polytechnic lbadan turned 70. In a short ceremony organised by his colleagues, a former Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development in Lagos, Toyin Ayinde who spoke on ‘Ethics in Professional Practice: The future of Town Planning,’ encouraged his colleagues to live above board. He canvassed that without ethics, professionalism cannot be achieved. He regretted that some professional colleagues are part of the problems that government is dealing with everyday as a result of compromise and failure to imbibe ethics in town planning regulations. He said for every compromise by a Planner the whole city pays for it in terms of scattered development and chaos experienced in the environment and by extension the creation of Shanties and squalors where the public occupy as their homes. He commended the celebrator, Waheed Kadiri for leaving above board which has been testified by his superiors, juniors and colleagues. Contributing a former Transport Commissioner in Lagos State, Prof Bamidele Badejo said Kadiri is a rallying point and a mentor to young planners. He said: “He looks to grow to improve himself as a person, professional, advisor and others from various climes”. Earlier in his remarks President, Town Planners Registration Council of Nigeria (TOPREC), lsyaku Muhtar Kura speaking on Dr Waheed Kadiri, said success do acknowledgement and with every decade lived comes countless cherished memories and accomplishments. “Finding just the right words to acknowledge someone’s success is important on behalf of the
Council and the Planning Profession we celebrate and extend our heartfelt congratulation for his achievements, success and milestones in life which will make anyone feel special at 70”. He commended the former Ibadan Polytechnic Rector who used his birthday celebration to chart workable ways on how proper Town Planning can grow cities with livable experience. He called on policy makers to tap into the knowledge of town planners to have livable cities in the nation against the scattered development witnessed in most of our cities currently.
Speaking on the birthday lecture; “Ethics in Professional Practice: The Future of Town Planning.” The TOPREC boss said good ethics is a fundamental requirement of any profession. He said: “It is integral to the success of any practice in view of its daunting challenges as well. Ethics is a system of moral principles governing the appropriate conduct of a person or a group. Maintaining good ethics is being consistent with the principles of correct moral conduct constantly. Our personal ethics are as important as our professional ethics; this means that as professionals we owe the public a certain level of integrity and objectivity as well as professional competence, due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.” The TOPREC president said Dr Kadiri’s ambition and appetite for success have been driving forces in the life of many young planners. Responding Kadiri who was overwhelmed by the show of love his by his colleagues pledged that the rest of his life will be spent to advocate that government and policy makers imbibe the ethics of planning in order to achieve orderly cities and towns.