 Partnerships among innovative indigenous firms is one way of putting an end to capital flight occasioned by the resort to importation of information communication technology (ICT) materials, Rock Results Group and NUGI Technologies Limited, said yesterday in Lagos. While the former is a construction and civil engineering conglomerate, the latter is an ICT solutions provider. The CEOs of firms who spoke during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), said they would be deploying technology solutions in the transportation, banking, agriculture, education and utilities sectors, to end technology import, which is costing the country millions of dollars yearly. The President/CEO, Rock Results Group, Mr. Ifeanyi Okorie, said the two firms decided to go into the partnership for the advancement of ICT and innovations in Nigeria and Africa. According to him, Rock Results Group, which had created massive growth in the construction of oil and gas sectors, recently found a new vision in diversifying its investment portfolio into providing solutions in the ICT sector. “Our partnership with NUGI Technologies is strategically pivoting our movement into the tech space in Africa. This partnership is strategic to both companies, the government and society as a whole, as we seek to create a solution that will impact our community and the nation. “Our ecosystem comes with the capacity of creating thousands of jobs beginning here in Nigeria in a few months. Our focus in this partnership is to create value for everyone and to use technology to make a positive impact in Africa and beyond,” he said. Also, the CEO of NUGI Technologies, Mr. Ugi Augustine Ugi, said the two companies came together to bring technology back home and end the annual spending on technology importation. According to him, the partnership will save the country millions of dollars annually as all the technology solutions being imported will now be delivered in-country. Speaking on the company’s solutions that attracted the partner, Mr. Augustine said NUGI Technologies have been operating for five years and have been impacting the economy positively, deploying solutions in hospitals, schools and government’s institutions to block revenue leakages. Citing an example of how the company has been using technological solutions to help institutions block revenue leakages, Mr. Ugi said the Cross River State University of Technology (CRUTECH) and a federal parastatal in the aviation sector were some of the institutions that have benefited from the company’s expertise. “The school was always going on strike due to lack of payment of salaries. And we told them, don’t pay us for one year, let us work. We deployed our solution and we helped the school generate enough revenue within a year such that there was no strike again. Between 2017 and 2020, we generated N5 billion for the school. The statistics are there,” he said. On the partnership, Mr Ugi said, “Since both companies are experienced at what we do, our coming together is strategic because Rock Results has been in business for more years than NUGI Technologies. When you bring experience and expertise together, you get the best result, which is what we are doing.” Ugi said the partnership is beyond Nigeria as it is targeted at ensuring that customer-centric ICT solutions are provided across Africa and globally.