 Seasoned football administrator Mazi Amanze Uchegbulam has declared Senegalese Augustin Senghor as the most ideal candidate in the forthcoming election for the CAF presidency. Only four candidates including Patrice Motsepe (South Africa), Ahmed Yahya (Mauritania), Jacques Anouma (Cote d’Ivoire) and Senghor have been  cleared by both  the CAF’s Governance and FIFA’s Review committees  to run for the elections  to be held in Morocco on March  12 even as  hitherto suspended President Ahmad battle over his ineligibility to contest. Uchegbulam who served  as Vice President CAF Board of Appeal for over a  decade said  Senghor  has the temperament  and capacity to steer the continental soccer ruling  on its recovery  in the light of recent challenges, adding the Senegalese posturing  reminds  him of a young  and dynamic  Issa Hayatou (Cameroon)  who was ousted in 2017 by Ahmad. “ In actual fact, I related extensively with most of the presidential candidates during my 12 years as Vice President CAF Board of Appeal,” Uchegbulam, former Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) 1st  Vice President, told NationSport exclusively.“ I find Senghor most suitable to reposition CAF in view of the managerial confusion within CAF set up now.” Urbane in outlook, Senghor has been president of the Senegal Football Association since 2009 and he said his candidacy was ‘ for a united, more efficient and more attractive African football.’ “ Senghor is calm, uncontroversial, young but greatly and essentially experienced,” Uchegbulam, the current Imo State FA chairman further noted.  “His transparency and penchant for accountability knew no bounds and above all, he’s  loved by all. Actually reminds me of Issa Hayatou in 1988. I advise that, if the choice is to come from within ( among the presidents), Senghor is the man for the job. My position has nothing to do with politics or interest but very factual as one who was within the corridors of  CAF from 2006 to 2018 “I Presided over several cases which involved several Presidents of football associations/federations. I know them very well.” Meanwhile, Uchegbulam  has equally endorsed the candidacy of NFF President Amaju Melvin Pinnick for a seat on the FIFA Council-the highest decision-making organ in global  football, adding it would boost the country’s stature. He said :“For Amaju, I think election into FIFA Council shall be of immense benefits to country. Nigeria government needs to support him fully. The advantages are great to the nation; we saw the benefits from Sir Oyo Orok Oyo and Dr Amos Adamu as members of FIFA executive committee then.”  