Leicester City are set to play host to Liverpool at the King Power Stadium this afternoon for their latest English Premier League fixture. Leicester City come into this game on the back of a 1-0 win over Graham Potter’s Brighton & Hove Albion in the 5th  round of the FA Cup. A late second-half goal from Nigerian striker Kelechi Iheanacho ensured victory for the Foxes. Liverpool, on the other hand, were thrashed 4-1 by Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City last Sunday in the English Premier League. A brace from in-form German midfielder Ilkay Gundogan and goals from England internationals Raheem Sterling and Phil Foden secured the win for Manchester City. Egyptian forward Mohamed Salah scored the consolation goal for Liverpool. Leicester are 3rd  in the league table, three points ahead of 4th  placed Liverpool. The Foxes have done well this season under the management of Brendan Rodgers, but continue to rely on the experienced Jamie Vardy to provide the goals. Liverpool, on the other hand, have struggled with injuries this season. Jurgen Klopp’s side are now 10 points behind league leaders Manchester City, who have a game in hand. The arrival of centre-backs Ozan Kabak and Ben Davies could prove to be crucial. Brendan Rodgers paid tribute to the quality of Leicester midfielder Youri Tielemans. There aren’t many more exciting and promising midfield duos than Tielemans and James Maddison – and you can throw in Wilfried Ndidi anchoring that engine room when he’s fit. In an interview with Sky Sports, Rodgers went into detail about what makes the 23-year-old such a top player. “He has got a wonderful football brain. For a player of 23, I trust him in the game. Tactically, he is so strong. Technically, he can play fast because his vision is so good,” said Rodgers. “As he has adapted to the Premier League and the speed of the game, you just see his football. It is sensational. He is competitive and can compete physically now. That has taken that bit of time because of the speed of the game when you come in from Europe. It is a totally different intensity. That (deeper) role suits him perfectly. We have seen him play it with Belgium. “He is a wonderful playmaker and he really gets the whole team playing. He is a real joy to work with and has become a very, very important player. He is up there with the very top midfielders in the Premier League and he is only going to get better.” Rodgers admits that Foxes striker Jamie Vardy is still battling to get back to his best form after making his first start since surgery on Wednesday. Vardy, available again after a minor hernia operation, followed up his 30-minute cameo at Wolves with an hour against Brighton, the number nine handed the captain’s armband for the 1-0 win that was secured by a last-minute header from his replacement Kelechi Iheanacho. In a repeat of last season, Vardy has gone on a post-Christmas spell without finding the net, the 34-year-old now up to seven games without a goal to his name. Discussing Vardy and another recently-recovered star in Wilfred Ndidi, Rodgers said they would be ready for the weekend, where a win would move City six points clear of Liverpool. “The plan was to get them up to 60 minutes, get that in their legs,” said Rodgers. “They came through well, they feel fine and ready for the weekend.” While that is good news, the City boss may have to work out how to get by without James Justin, who has played every minute in the Premier League up to now.