  In the past one week, governors speaking either on behalf of their geopolitical zones or through the Nigeria’s Governor’s Forum (NGF) have denounced open grazing as outdated and prone to security challenges. They then followed up by seeking a meeting with the president to find a way out of the insecurity that has blanketed the country. It is disconcerting that the federal government, nay the Buhari administration, which should be persuaded earlier than anybody else about the country’s jaded livestock production methods has not only remained unconvinced about this obsolescent practice, but it still seeks ways of mollifying herders more than it cares about placating their victims. It is even more tragic that on insecurity, the federal government had to wait to be asked by governors to meet minds, especially given the fact that the responsibility to secure the country is constitutionally devolved to the central government. Not only is Abuja at its wit’s end, unable to rouse itself to deliver imaginative and holistic approach, it has failed woefully to acknowledge what every other person knows in Nigeria and globally: that Nigeria is at war. The country is up in flames everywhere. No place, no one is secure. Not even during the civil war has this level of insecurity troubled every square meter of the country. But it is in the midst of all these troubles and dismay that the governors are finally taking the bull by the horns. If the Buhari administration does not know the role herders are playing in predisposing the country to impending fratricide, the governors know and are speaking to it. And if the administration does not know how insecurity has negated its very essence as a government, not to say how sweeping and enveloping the problem is, the governors at least know and did ask the president to meet with them to fashion a solution. The meeting held last Wednesday, but it was characteristically ham-fisted, full of tame resolutions, placatory talk and reluctance to hurt the president’s feelings. The country is obviously in more trouble than it acknowledges; but as governors engage in role reversal with the feds, perhaps some amelioration might not after all be too far-fetched.