 Stanbic IBTC Holdings Plc, a member of Standard Bank Group, has announced several key executive appointments across the Group, to fortify its market leadership position in the financial services sector. The new appointments cut across Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc and its subsidiary, Stanbic IBTC Nominees; Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers; Stanbic IBTC Asset Management; Stanbic IBTC Insurance Brokers; and the newly floated Stanbic IBTC Insurance. The Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Eric Fajemisin, becomes Executive Director, Corporate and Transactional Banking, Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc. Fajemisin, who has over 30 years’ experience in the industry, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) and the Chartered Institute of Taxation in Nigeria. The Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC Nominees, is Babatunde Majiyagbe. The new Chief Executive of Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers is Olumide Oyetan. With over 20 years’ experience, Oyetan has held various roles in the Group and Standard Bank Group, South Africa. Also, Dare Otitoju is the Executive Director, Investment Management, Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers. Executive Director, Investments, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management is Busola Jejelowo; while Wunmi Ehis-Uzenabor is Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer, Stanbic IBTC Asset Management. The Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Trustees is Emi Agaba-Oloja and  the Executive Director, Stanbic IBTC Insurance Brokers is Ibiyemi Mezu. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Insurance is Akinjide Orimolade; Sakeenat Bakare is Executive Director, Business Development, Stanbic IBTC Insurance; and Dunny Semwayo, the Executive Director, Technical, Stanbic IBTC Insurance. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Dr. Demola Sogunle, said: “We are delighted to have a pool of highly experienced, diligent and very versatile professionals at Stanbic IBTC to be entrusted with the responsibilities of driving the next phase of our growth. “We are certain the Group will benefit immensely from their wealth of knowledge and expertise because they understand our strategic intent and commitment to our stakeholder groups.” 