 Taiwo Ajai-Lycett’s story, as she turned 80, reads like an act within an act. The first act could be her real life; and the other her acting life. Both stories interface in a personality rare in the histrionic art. She did not set out to be an actor, but she was around in the United Kingdom when one of Wole Soyinka’s early plays, The Lion and the Jewel, was in rehearsal. She, then locked in a routine job as secretary, was asked by the director, William Gaskill, to play a feisty and evocative role. She assented and she played the role of the village girl at the Royal Court Theatre in London. Interestingly, her life might have been different from the village girl in the play who teased but fell to the wilyseductions of an old man. She – the real Ajai-Lycett – was in London after a terrible experience of alienation. First she became pregnant at the age of 15. Rather than enjoy support and redemption from family and society, she was a target of contempt. Parents would not let her go to school anymore. By her own accounts, her home devalued her into a virtual maid, doing all the menial tasks while her siblings, who did not stand by her, were in school. While the naïve vulnerabilities of the village girl in Soyinka’s play drew guffaws from the audience, Ajai-Lycett’s real life invoked dark pathos. She had, in the eyes of family, committed a taboo, and that spelt a death knell to any form of salutary ambition. She did not let that early alienation and motherhood cancel her hopes. Very early, she learned to take charge of her life, and choreographed her destiny. She was to go through more dramas, and in the course of that, she would see more pains. Yet she did not bow to the buffeting. She derived strength. It was because she decided to pursue her education in spite of family obstacles that she turned up in the U.K., and started her career as an actor. She has taken part in a number of well-known roles in stage shows and television dramas over the years. They include Murderous Angels, where she played the part of Patrice Lumumba’s wife. That took place at the Dublin Theatre Festival. Others were The Refusal, Life Everlasting, The National Health, The Black and White Minstrels and The Parcel Post. She also performed at the 1972 Edinburgh Festival Fringe.  She has also starred in the popular British sitcom, Some Mothers Do Ave ‘Em as well as Tinsel, Dazzling Image and The Inheritors. She has a protean talent taking up tragedy, realism, tragi-comedy, farce and plain comedy. She has not only performed to audiences in the western world, but she returned to the country of her abuse and shone triumphantly. Yet while she is able to succeed, her early alienation was not her only travail. She endured a marriage of abuse before she had what she described as a beautiful marriage of 25 years. She is a woman who has learned in her eight decades on earth to enjoy her positives and triumphs. This she has been able to delineate when her own workers sexually abused her, and she would not allow the hurt and torture collapse her self-worth because life gives more for anyone in such situations who want to reclaim themselves. She has been not only gift to the theatre and film, but also to journalism, having written for Africa Magazine and served as pioneer editor, Africa Woman for Africans in diaspora. It was on that platform that she participated in the United Nations International Women’s Year. She has been a great Nigerian and African ambassador at the cultural level, levitating our values on the world stage. She has been a judge of the Diamond Award for Media Excellence. Few who saw her when she family renounced her at 15 would have expected to see her bemedaled in front of President Obasanjo as Officer of the Order of the Niger. So, she continues to be a role model to men and women.