 When Oluwarotimi Akeredolu became Ono State governor, over 100 communities in 10 local government areas were off the national grid. The local governments without electricity were the four local government areas of Akoko made up of Akoko North West, Akoko North East, Akoko South West and Akoko South East. In Ondo South, about five local government areas like Okitipupa, Ilaje, EseOdo, Irele and parts of Ore Odigbo were affected in darkness without electricity supply. Many communities in Okitipupa and larger part of Ondo South Senatorial district which were connected to the national grid had no power supply for over 10 years. The major campaign promise for the people of Ondo South senatorial district was the restoration of power supply. Residents of Akoko had to approach their notable sons and daughters to contribute personal funds towards the rehabilitation and repairs of abandoned distribution infrastructure across Akokoland. That was how some of the towns in the area were reconnected to the national grid. To resolve the issue of the power blackout in Ondo South, the Ondo South Power Project Committee headed by the Oniju of Iju-Odo, Oba Festus Olumoyegun. The committee signed a power purchase agreement the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) paid N371m as a security deposit for power. Electricity supply has been restored to parts of Okitipupa, Ile-Oluji/Okeigbe, Igbokoda in Ilaje and Odigbo/Ore. Akeredolu had to resort to the mini-grid system to get power supply to communities that have never been connected to the national grid. Communities that now enjoy 24 hours of electricity supply are Aboto and Gbagira, Ogbonla, Lomileju and Obejedo. The communities get to pay N44 per kilowatt. Governor Akeredolu relied on Section 14 of the Nigeria Constitution under Concurrent legislative list in part two of the second schedule which empowered the state Houses of Assembly to legislate on areas not covered by the national grid to get service providers to build the power plants. Other upcoming mini-grid systems in the state are in communities like Awoye, Molutehin, Odofado and Ala Elefosan. In his bid to ensure the future of the programme, Akeredolu sent a new electricity bill to the House of Assembly. The bill, which has been passed into law, repealed the old State Electricity Board law and guarantee private sector participation in power generation, transmission and distribution in the state as well as provide a legal framework for investors to participate in electricity provisions in areas not covered by the national grid system. The new law allows the state to establish a private power company that would engage in power generation, transmission and distribution as well as protect the historical assets and investment of the state in the sector while also introducing novel consumer protection clauses to mainstream electric power or electron transfer as a basic market commodity or product for which values exchange hands. The Special Adviser to Governor Akeredolu on Energy, Tunji Ariyomo, said the newly created Ondo State Power Company would ensure job creation as more support staff and engineers are expected to the employed. Speaking further on the mini-grid system, Ariyomo explained that the power supply from the mini grid-free was not free as they were provided by private players who hoped to recoup their investments.  According to him, “It is not free. It is commercial. It will not be sustainable if it is free. In every mini-grid service we have provided, we advertise and lots of companies showed interest. We give them exclusively period guarantee. We asked the private investor to take over the small town. We sign a collaboration agreement with them. The only way to make the project sustainable is when the community pay and we are not used to paying for service here. We set up a cluster off-take unit policy so that every willing community can enlist to be part of that policy. The policy empowers a community or an association to become a part of the quasi-legal entity and then the procedure for the CoU will guide the community to be recognised. The community becomes a quasi-government because it now has a perpetual successive privilege and can now enter into an off-take agreement with the provider. That is what we have done in areas we set up the mini-grid. We allow the community and the provider to set their tariff. Their tariff is outside the NERC regulated tariff. “By enabling the community and the company to set tariff, we show that it is not something of dividends of democracy. If we do it like that the project will fail. It will not be revenue earning programme that continues to enjoy private sector participation. These things cost lots of money. The investor must see the clear path of recouping their investment and see the opportunity for a marginal profit before stepping in. “For areas far from the grid, we will eventually need hundreds of mini-grid power system. We have sign collaborative agreement with 25 communities and we have not provided a mini-grid for half of that number. There is a likelihood that when more people discovered what we are doing, they may begin to approach us. As at last week, we are seeing estate coming to us saying they have not been connected to the grid. We must have that proof before we can step in. We go into areas where we are sure the law is behind us.” On why the state did not approach the BEDC to extend electricity to those areas, Ariyomo said it would cost billions of dollars to extend power to those affected communities. His words: “You should have asked the feasibility of the BEDC to extend electricity to areas? If BEDC could not extend Infrastructure to Igbokoda, Okitipupa where you can still drive to, how do you tell BEDC to extend infrastructure to communities on the high sea? It is impracticable because of the infrastructure you will need to do that. Even advance countries will not do it. It is futile and wasteful. What to do is to provide off-grid infrastructure to those communities. BEDC has approached us to set up a mini-grid infrastructure for those communities. All they need to do is to set up distribution infrastructure directly to the off ford plan. It could be gas, solar or whatever technology. We will not recommend connecting remote places to the grid. It will not be sufficient. We will encourage mini-grid providers to step in. It is a way of practically decentralising the problem we are facing in the power sector. “The purpose of the law is to ensure the stability of the programme. In future, if the government change hands, some other people might not have the capacity to understand the entire concept. The World Bank recognises political instability as one issue militating against investment in most Africa states. As a way to mitigate that concern, we needed a law that will have substantial investment protection clauses such that as people bring in their funds to the state, they could be guaranteed that it is not for Akeredolu but for the people. That law addresses that concern which is investors protection. “Things are fast changing. There are emerging new technologies all over the world. You need specific institutional infrastructure to be able to address to peculiarities but we do not have that. As at the time we came on board, we only have the Ondo State Electricity Board. What we are doing is beyond that because of the acceptance of renewable energy. We needed an institutional framework that will support this development and that law also fill that gap. We needed a private company that can enter into serious business with serious-minded energy service providers and that establishment must have perpetual succession right. It must be able to serve as the commercial arm of the state government in energy-related businesses. We have set it up by executive order through the CAC but we needed a law to back it up. This law recommends a jail term for energy theft. The law makes bulk metering illegal in Ondo State. The law enabled the consumer to sue the company. There is a consumer protection clause in the law. This law is revolutionary in nature. It protects the interest of the people in Ondo State. We believe that with this new law, we can attract funding to the state through the newly created Ondo State Power Company. The tariff is N44 per kilowatt. It is based on negotiation and varies from community to community.”