There was mild drama in the Senate on Tuesday following comment by Senator Smart Adeyemi referring to Abia Governor as a “drunk.” Adeyemi, while contributing to a motion on “Safe School Initiative in Nigeria,” referred to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu as a “champagne drinking man”. The lawmaker was apparently reacting to a social media post that had cast an aspersion on Kogi Governor, Yahaya Bello linked to Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe, who represents Abia South. However, Abaribe expressed surprise at Adeyemi’s outburst denying ever making the statement in question. Adeyemi had said that while some Governors like Bello were committed to the welfare and protection of their people, the people of Abia are being governed by ‘drunkards.’ He said: “Despite that some Governors are doing their best, we are lucky to have a governor who has taken the issue of security as a serious priority. “We are bordered by nine states but we had an experience of the unfortunate incidents that are happening in neighbouring states. “Some governors are committed to the protection of their people. In my state, the governor awarded contracts for the renovations of schools and provides security services to them. “In some states of Nigeria today, where we have highly intelligent people, highly educated people, very enterprising people, like Abia, they are governed by drunkards. The governor of Abia is a champagne drinking man. “Abia people are impoverished more than ever before. Abia people are unfortunate.” At this point, Senate President Ahmad Lawan cautioned him against the use of un-parliamentary language. Abaribe expressed surprise over Adeyemi’s comment and urged him colleague to apologise to Ikpeazu. Abaribe said: “Mr President, I will like to make a clarification. Unfortunately, what has happened here today is one of the problems that you see on social media. I never made any comments on the governor of Kogi State. Never. “What has happened is what we see going on today. People write something and tag your name to it. And if you don’t ask question, you will not know whether you actually said it or not. “And I see so many things tag to me but I don’t talk. The last time I saw Nuhu Ribadu, I also spoke to him. Something was tag to his name that was very deleterious. “I’m very surprised that my good friend and colleague decided to open up on the governor of Abia for something I never said.” Lawan noted the “air has now been cleared” and enjoined Senator Abaribe to address the motion on the floor. Abaribe agreed with Lawan but insisted that Adeyemi must apologise to Abia Governor “for the very bad statement he made that had no basis.”