 As companies continue to navigate the  COVI-19 pandemic environment and its unprecedented disruption, business executives are emboldened to reset their mergers and acquisitions and investment strategies, Ernst and Young (EY) Global Capital Confidence Barometer has shown. Despite a collapse in mergers and acquisitions in the first half of last year, deal making reached $2.32 trillion in second half and transactions rebounded by 123 per cent between first and second half of last year. According to the 23rd EY report, responding business leaders expect a return to pre-pandemic levels of profitability in 2021 (23 per cent) or 2022 (44 per cent) while the executives are also scanning their geographical footprints for growth. The report said Europe (39 per cent) is emerging as the region anticipated to generate the most growth and opportunities over the next three years, followed by Asia-Pacific (30 per cent) and the Americas (24 per cent). In terms of factors that could put growth prospects at risk, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic remains the biggest threat for responding executives (29 per cent). The changing global economic environment (19 per cent) and climate change (14 per cent), also emerge as top threats. Geopolitical challenges have forced the majority (81 per cent) of respondents to alter their strategic investment plans in the past 12 months. Nearly two-thirds (64 per cent) of that group delayed a planned investment and more than a third (36 per cent) terminated their plans altogether. EY Partner, Strategy and Transactions (SaT), Damilola Aloba, notes that for many business leaders, the emergence of the pandemic and the resultant economic shock, have acted as existential threats to their businesses. According to her, the C-suite has responded by resetting their strategies and making far-reaching changes with a focus on transformation. “These bold moves are  fuelling an optimistic mindset and a strategic agenda firmly focused on capturing growth opportunities. Companies plan to not only restore performance levels, but to also make the necessary investments to reframe their future,” she said. She said heightened deal activity looks set to continue with nearly half of responding business leaders (49 per cent) planning to acquire assets in the next 12 months, beating the 11-year average (47 per cent). In addition, nearly two-thirds of executives (65 per cent) plan to acquire cross-border targets, as they look to enhance capabilities and products needed for growth. Financial Services, Consumer and Retail, Telecommunications, Technology and Healthcare top the list of the most acquisitive sectors. EY Partner and Strategy and Transactions Leader for West Africa, Olufemi Alabi, believes that conditions for mergers and acquisition remain highly supportive, including low interest rates, accommodative capital markets and abundant private capital. According to him, executives are seeking to acquire innovative startups and tech-enabled competitors that will allow them to get closer to their customers and to use the digital channels and touch-points that have proved vital for leading companies during the pandemic period.” Olufemi further notes that some companies are currently reframing their corporate strategies and plans to invest their way out of the current crisis occasioned by the pandemic. The Report further states that lessons learned from the crisis are motivating business executives to make deep, far-reaching changes to their businesses. The majority (85%) have comprehensive strategy and portfolio reviews during the pandemic, with clear focus on investing in digital and technology, and putting the customer at the centre of future innovations. EY Head of Markets for West Africa, Ashish Bakhshi, says the COVID-19 pandemic is fueling bold investment intentions as companies look to thrive rather than just survive. While revenues and profit have been hit, many companies feel satisfied with their performance during the pandemic, but they recognize the need to invest for the upturn. Ashish believes that with cross-border mergers and acquisition staging a recovery toward the end of 2020, executives are focusing on markets outside their region. “Europe has emerged as a focal point for most businesses, with the majority of respondents from North America, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East and Africa citing it as their organization’s main focus for mergers and acquisition outside their region in the next 12 months.”