Three statements by prominent Nigerians in the past one week show how we live in parallel universes, defined by social or political positions, geography or our ethnicity. We may deny it, but our utterances soon show us up. For many up north, especially among the cattle-owning and rearing Fulani, the raging brouhaha about farmers-herders conflict is simply a case of selfish and insensitive people conspiring to frustrate their business. Spokesmen of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) have repeated provocations that forests wherever they are found are God’s gift to them and they are free to roam freely – not minding whose property is trampled in their path. When people complain about herders going about with AK47 rifles we get mindboggling rationalisations like the sort offered by Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, who argues they carry guns to protect themselves from bandits and cattle rustlers. Mohammed has since tried to walk back those statements somewhat in the face of criticism from all sides. His Benue State colleague Samuel Ortom, for instance, sought to know what law permits herders to go about carrying assault rifles. There’s national consensus that governments at all levels have failed to protect Nigerians and that failure doesn’t affect Fulani herdsmen only. Should we all then resort to carrying firearms because the police and military can’t shield us from rampaging bandits and kidnappers? Many are furious at the perceived profiling of their entire group. While it is never right to tar everyone with the same brush, perhaps the offended should put themselves in the shoes of victims for one minute. Imagine how a hapless villager feels when he is suddenly confronted with an armed herder whose animals have just damaged a farm he spent months cultivating? Will he jump for joy? He may be angry but too terrified to protest because of the gun he’s staring at. Imagine his frustration and impotence in the face of a destroyer who shows no remorse but rather carries on with a sense of entitlement! Several days ago, women in rural parts of Edo State took to the streets in protest over not being able to go to their farms, for fear of being raped or killed. These are real life testimonies of victims; they are not the words of people suborned into some grand conspiracy to tarnish the image of an entire ethnic group. Amidst heightened anxiety over quit notices issued to herders illegally grazing in forest reserves in Ondo State and the self-help initiative of Sunday Igboho in the Ibarapa area of Oyo State, petrol was literally poured afresh on the simmering fire as Hausa and Yoruba traders went toe-to-toe in a seemingly unrelated clash in the Shasha market in Ibadan. By all accounts what began as a nothing incident between two individuals quickly snowballed into a battle in which antagonists mustered along ethnic lines. Such was the potential for the Shasha incident degenerating into something worse, that a delegation of firefighting Northern governors raced to Ibadan to confer with Governor Seyi Makinde. The Presidency weighed in with another of those statements filled with generalised condemnations of criminality and assurances of coming governmental actions that do anything but assure. Indeed, this latest statement by presidential spokesman Shehu Garba seemed more devoted to defending President Muhammadu Buhari from charges that his attachment to his ethnic group wouldn’t let take the actions necessary to deal with the problem. Many are especially angry over the perception herdsmen fingered in crimes across the country are hardly ever brought to justice. It was an allegation Shehu was eager to dispel by claiming that numerous such cases were under prosecution. He then passed the buck to the police to back up his assertion with further details. His statement would have been more impactful if it was backed by raw data as to who was being tried where. As it turned out a claim without facts simply rang hollow. Nigeria is on edge and stronger stuff is needed to deescalate tensions. Hate thrives in vacuums created by governmental inertia; it takes root when words are not backed up action. The president may have spoken in times past to condemn criminality, but people are asking for him to go beyond politically-correct remarks. His spokesman says he’s not a showman; just expects relevant agencies to run on the basis of his past statements. Nigerians are not asking him to put on some ‘Action President’ act. They are sending out desperate SOS cries for concrete action, for him to speak ‘personally’ and not from a distance through surrogates and subordinates. It’s not enough to simply tell us ‘I feel your pain.’ It is perhaps in that sense that Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, spoke when he challenged Buhari to make a strong statement on criminality as it concerns armed herders. “If the president decides that he’s going to make any statement, what all of us will expect from Mr President clearly, is for him to at least come out and let Nigerians know, as we know, that he does not support criminality,” he said. “The president has said before that if you find anybody with arms that are unlicensed, they should arrest them. That will be a wonderful statement again.” I find it remarkable that this is coming from a governor and member of the president’s own ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and I read between the lines a sense of frustration that the president is not seen to be leading from the front initiatives to stamp out the fires. For this, we should be grateful to the governors. They– northern and southern governors, have agreed to outlaw open grazing. This consensus should be backed by legislation at federal and state levels. It has also been pointed out that most arms-carrying herders are foreigners whose crimes are quickly attributed to all Fulani pastoralists. That may be the case. So what specifically is being done to address this? Do our armed forces, overstretched between containing insurgency in the Northeast and banditry in the Northwest, have the capacity to stop these herders turned security risk from crossing our porous northern borders easily? The current security challenges are very dangerous, with unpredictable consequences if not firmly dealt with. Whatever is done now would just be a palliative, only structural and constitutional measures can deliver permanent solutions. Can Buhari take that critical leadership step in this direction?