Let me start by asking your take on many individuals, both colleagues and music heads, who feel you are cocky? I feel like most times, we barely meet confident people and if we go deep into this, you would be amazed at how experiental it is with my upbring, how we were raised, racial discrimination. By those virtues or vices, a lot of  people are not as confident as they should beso when they meet someone who is confident, it feels like something is wrong like why is he confident, all of us aren’t. And while I am saying this, they can see this as being cocky but I am just being honest because me too, growing up, everything I wanted to try had a denial from my mum, who would always say no. I want to ride a bike, no you can’t, I want to swim, no you can’t so I had to force myself to learn some of the things I now do. So imagine if I didn’t learn how to swim and I am now somewhere people are swimming, I will feel some type of way, so I feel it’s the confidence I have in myself that people misunderstand because I am not necessarily the most friendly person because i understand we all can’t be friends, at least simultaneously. It’s okay for you not to understand who I am but don’t judge me by that because you have to encounter something to know me so I know that people mistake my being confidence in myself or being self aware for me being cocky but there’s nothing I can do about it, the problem they have is in who I am. Would it be right to say T.E.S.L.I.M is you opening up some actual parts of you fans don’t know about? Interestingly, you are right, listening closely to some songs on this album, you would hear certain things, which you may call them opening up while other people may call it something else. It would be real music from the soul, so, you are on point with that assumption, there will be some opening up of some sort about things that maybe I used to be shy talking about but not anymore. How did the idea of the album name, T.E.S.L.I.M come about? Well, it all started while staring at my father’s casket. I had just released the Lafiaji album and when we were gearing up to make the album, my dad died. That energy just sunk the idea. We were at the funeral home when a friend of mine whispered to another friend that he should observe my looks as I was in deep thoughts. I was staring at my dad’s casket when it dawned on me, TESLIM, you are gone but your energy still remains. I took the letters to his name and it made the acronym; T.E.S.L.I.M, which stands for The Energy Still Lives In Me.” How would you describe the album and what message are you preaching? It focuses on consciousness, forward-thinking and happiness. It will be nice for music to be beyond just making hits to make money, even though all of us like to make money but it will be nice for music to have messages that inspire hope, unity and togetherness. Even though we have an argument or fight doesn’t mean we should kill ourselves. We all know the story of Tupac and Biggie. As my mother would say, ‘to fight, no be to die’. It will be nice for us to lay a good example for up and coming artists in the music industry so that synergy can be forward-thinking. Finding out that Teslim means peacemaker and looking at our society today, there seems to be so much negativity flying around. For example among the youths, I see a bright future but there is so much argument. On social media, there is a lot of competition. People are so keen to pull each other down because of ranks and that should not be. Competition is healthy but beyond that, there is a lot of negativity in our society with the younger generation. I felt it would be nice to have an album that would inspire us. It would be nice for us to think forward, be happy. Your albums always have titles that draw concept from your personal experiences or growth, why is this? I guess the farther you go in your career, the more you start to realise the value of who you are, where you have been, things you have experienced because all these experiences are what make up the lyrics I write, it is what I have acquainted myself with that becomes lyrics but I have also acquainted myself with my own life and put that on the table for you beyond just coming to tell you about shaking bum, fine girls, having money but it’s a part of me which if you are paying for my music, you deserve to enjoy in inspiring you and in your personal life because musicians have that ability and power to connect on that level with people. That is why the music our parents listened to will open you up to your innermost emotions because they are being honest and true to their inspirations, so it is okay for me to use my own experiences as inspirations as well to make music and hopefully to open up things inside the listener to make us connect beyond the celebrity and fan relationship. I am from Lafiaji, I grew up there, it makes sense, it’s my life, I should be able to tell you the story so the music is beyond moving your body. Did you make money off your diss tracks with MI? Yes, the records sold. There seems to be ‘sweetness’ that comes with beef records, they were streamed a lot. We trended at number 2 in the US, and both verses trended at number one on, Genius, the lyrics website. Meaning that Nigerians can write what the whole world can read and understand. So yes, there was that.” Were you paid by the alcoholic brands for reconciliation? Of course, yes. Would the brand just say come, ‘Oya take alcohol now for reconciliation.’ There is still business going on. And that is also one of the highlights that you can share with up and coming rappers. Don’t be stupid to pick a fight over growth. You must also know when to stop being hard-headed as a person. A lot of brands had called to make the reconciliation happen but I guess it had to be them. How was the feeling working with him? The vibe in the recording was easy, being in the studio with him was cool. We were also in the studio together recently because ‘as man once something don finish for your belle, he don finish’. You will be amazed by the kind of realisations that you encounter when you speak with the person that you had beef with. You will realize the people that are with you but ‘are not with you too.’ I saw it with him and he saw it with me. People that wanted to be relevant in the argument. People that I thought were my guys that would call and say “hello, how far now.” So, it helped expose people that would not have been exposed if there was no beef. We understood that, so the vibe was real. We recorded a song together titled, ‘Crown of Cray’ which is off my forthcoming album, and is scheduled to release on February 26. Firstly, since it’s a season of love, we are dropping ‘Early Momo’ featuring talented singer, GoodGirl LA by February 14. Did you also feature Reminisce on the T.E.S.L.I.M album considering a rumoured beef with him? The fight is over, it is a long time ago. At this point, I’m angry at him because he is supposed to send me a verse which he hasn’t done (laughs) but we are cool, we are friends, we talk every now and then. It’s funny how we have a long conversation on the phone but he has not recorded my verse. Though he said he has recorded it, probably, if he sends it on time, he will make the album but if he doesn’t on time, we can’t beat him now, it’s his verse. So, would it be right to say as you grow older, you drop off somethings as you realise more important things and crucial to your growth as well as the society? So, I don’t want to say as you grow older as that may be limiting it to age because I feel like there are certain realisations that I have come to and people older than me haven’t. Granted they have theirs that they have come to that I probably haven’t come to but it’s about this. As you progress in life, as you grow to become conscious of yourself and environment, you are definitely going to see things that you should hold on to and some that you shouldn’t hold on to and it will be that for me. What are your thoughts on beef in the music industry? Let me be honest with you, I am not the kind of artist that believes in beefing somebody to trend. I don’t believe a talented person needs to instigate violence to be successful or be heard. There are a lot more things to talk about than ‘you are made. You are crazy’ in music. So, my thought on beef is that it’s not necessary, but in the compound of rap, it is allowed to respond or react but the goal is not to kill each other and we can’t afford to be promoting violence with songs. Not that I am scared of anybody but it is not needed. My advice to up and coming artists, never embark on fighting anybody because it kills career rather than helping careers. So, as long as you are a musician you should also get sense. So, your dad inspired this album, T.E.S.L.I.M, and you are also a dad, how has fatherhood been for you? Fatherhood… for me, because I understand that we are the hybrid generation of Nigeria. Many of us went to school more than our parents, yet they were the ones responsible for that education that we got but beyond schooling we are the exposed parents to global understandings. With my dad raising me in strength and passing the strength to my kids as his son but now I am the hybrid version. My dad gave me what he didn’t have, it’s only right that I give my daughter what I didn’t have as well. The major thing is to make sure that one continues the legacy of doing better, bettering who you are, the legacies that you were left with. My dad did great for raising me as Olanrewaju Ogunmefun the viper but not becoming a nuisance, so if it’s okay then, it’s only right for me now to take that discipline that I have learnt hybrid style in that light so they understand there is a difference between what you want to do and what you have to do. So, I guess, we are just movin the ministry forward. Your growth on the music scene has been commendable by many, how would you personally describe it? The growth process is forever, I mean, thank God that I know now that there’s a reason for a child to grow for 20 years and be 20 years, so now that I am here, I am this level of Vector, after here, boom, because my brain is not dead, there will be a newer level to me. And since I can not know everything, growth is a continual process till the day I can’t grow anymore which will be the day you die but as long as I am alive even without a leg, you grow into an understanding of how to be sufficient in your lack, so I feel like the growth is continuous and I am willing to learn everyday. So, what’s your expectation of the album? My expectation …. I know it’s going to reach people. I am not expecting it to reach people, I know because I am intentionally making it to reach people. I know it’s going to reach people, I know it’s going to touch you in your soul, I know it’s going to make you ask certain questions, I know it’s going to make you feel happy, I know it’s going to make you feel loved, I know you are going to have an experience.