No fewer than 12 members of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), who took part in the Unity Bank’s business plan contest, Corpreneurship Challenge, have won prizes totalling N4 million. The winners emerged during the final business pitch in the fourth edition of the contest for NYSC 2020 Batch B corps members, which took place simultaneously across four NYSC camps in Lagos, Ogun, Benin, and Abuja. The prizes included a N200,000 business grant for each of the second runner up, N300,000 business grant for the first runner ups and a star prize of N.5million for each of the four winners.  The winners included Evelyn Esumai, Aisosa Erica and Ozuoka Moses in Abuja camp, while Akomolade Blessing, Okafor Augustine and Edokpayi Harrison in the Benin camp. In Lagos, Moses Bolanle, Iran-Ola Oluwosulu and Zainab Muhammed claimed the prizes. Over 300 corps members applied, but only 40 were shortlisted for the pitching from where the winners emerged. The contestants’ business plans, which ranged from fish production, poultry farming, fashion, piggery to beverages were assessed on originality, marketability, future employability potential of the product and knowledge of the business. In 2019, Unity Bank made a debut with the Entrepreneurial Development Initiative, to target corps members, as part of its efforts to contribute to job creation. During the finale, the Group Head, Retail and SME Banking, Unity Bank Plc, Olufunwa Akinmade, said the contest was aimed at encouraging more youths with clear entrepreneurial intentions to expand or start profitable ventures. “The grants are not a loan and we want the money to be directed towards profitable ventures. First, you must learn that making mistakes is part of business. It is important to think about the challenges you will face. Put the same energy you have displayed in preparing for this contest in your businesses as you face your post-service year ahead.  “We started Corpreneurship in 2019, with a launch in Lagos and in three other states, which included Edo, Ogun, and Abuja. we have expanded it to four locations, and it has been hugely successful.” He explained that the bank would sustain the programme to  to impact on job creation. He added: “This is a programme that will stand the test of time, but all we are doing is to support NYSC corps members to start their own business no matter how small and then grow with it. Unity Bank is there, and we are offering them a startup capital as well as business mentorship.”