Governor Adegboyega Oyetola of Osun State on Tuesday relaxed 24 hours curfew imposed on Erin-Osun and Ilobu communities to restore peace to the area. The two communities situated in Irepodun Local Government Area, Osun State clashed on February 6th and 7th, 2021 resulting to loss of lives and properties. Thereafter, the state government on Sunday imposed 24 hours curfew on the communities, drafting Nigerian Army and police to the areas. The Nation reports that seven people were feared killed as there was uneasy calm in the two communities on Monday. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Ismail Omipidan, explained that as part of efforts to broker peace and restore unity to Erin-Osun and Ilobu, Governor Oyetola on Monday, held a peace meeting with the traditional rulers of the two towns, the Elerin of Erin-Osun, Oba Yusuff Omoloye Oyagbodun II, and the Olobu of Ilobu, Oba Ashiru Olatoye Olaniyan II. “At the meeting which also had in attendance the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Almoroof Adekunle Magbagbeola, the monarchs pledged to prevail on their people to eschew violence and embrace peace, in the interest of all. “Following the peace meeting between Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the traditional rulers of Erin-Osun and Ilobu towns, and with the return of peace to the affected towns, the governor has approved the relaxation of the 24-hour curfew declared last Sunday to forestall further breakdown of law and order. “Consequently, the curfew will now run from 6:00 PM to 6:00 AM daily, and will subsist till further notice. Security operatives will therefore remain in the two councils to enforce the new curfew directive with a view to further maintaining law and order. “As we all know, the curfew was never declared to inflict hardship on our people in the first instance, but to protect them and return normalcy to the affected communities. “The State Government appreciates the monarchs and all the security agencies for their various roles in ensuring that normalcy and peace return to Erin-Osun and Ilobu. “We commend citizens and residents for their show of understanding and cooperation so far. “The Governor also enjoins residents and citizens to always channel their grievances to the appropriate authorities and resist the temptation of taking law into their own hands,” the statement added.