 Ike Iroegbu netted 16 points as D’Tigers continue their unbeaten run at the 2021 FIBA Afrobasket Qualifiers with a 75-70 win over South Sudan in their first match in Monastir, Tunisia. Victory ensured they became the first team to qualify for the 2021 FIBA Afrobasket Championship The Nigerian side dominated the first and third quarters while the South Sudanese side were in dominance position in the second and fourth quarters to cut the wide margin against the West African side. Today, D’Tigers will take on Rwanda while their last group match holds tomorrow against Mali with the top three teams from the four groups joining host Rwanda for the FIBA Afrobasket tournament in August. Meanwhile, Iroegbu has been listed among the potential top performers in the final round of the FIBA AfroBasket 2021 Qualifiers holding in Tunisia. The world basketball ruling body noted:  “He (Iroegbu) is quick on his feet and just like that is his mind dishing out assists, pulling up jumpers and swift on defense which comes in handy with the steals. His team knows that they can trust him with the ball at any time and he will deliver whether with 10 or two seconds on the clock or right at the buzzer. He is one that can change the game when met with adversity in a stubborn opponent.” Other players listed alongside Iroegbu as potential performers in Tunisia include Ishmail Wainright (Uganda), Salah Mejri (Tunisia), Herve Kabasele (DR Congo) and Jeff Xavier (Cape Verde). Former NBA and Chicago Bulls legend currently serving as the South Sudan head coach Luol Deng told FIBA.basketball that, “We have very good players in Africa. I have to watch the other teams closely but in our Group, there are a lot of good players. In the other groups that I got a chance to see, there are good players there. There are players that are not here and are tied with their teams but this shows the growth of the teams. For the teams that will qualify for the Final Round, it is going to be an amazing tournament.” Fifteen teams are expected to join host Rwanda to qualify for the FIBA AfroBasket 2021 from the Cameroun and Tunisia legs of the qualifiers. 