 The coronavirus (COVID-19) lockdown was announced last March across the country. It forced students to stay at home for some months. As if the lockdown was not enough,the longest industrial action  in the history of the country further crashed the hopes of students going back to school — the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike, held for nine months before it was suspended. The directive of the Federal Government that schools should resume on Monday, January 18, 2021 was a good relief for students who had been eager to go back to school. Thus, they started packing their belongings and set  out to return to  their schools. But cruel fate befell some of them as they were involved in fatal accidents. A week ago, some students of Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State lost their lives in tragic circumstances when a Dangote trailer rammed into some shops beside the school gate. Some students of Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE) were also involved in a ghastly accident last week in Itawure, Ekiti. Though no life was lost, they were seriously injured. As the university community in AAUA was mourning their students, another accident involving Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) students occurred Saturday, last week along Yauri Road, in Kebbi State.They were returning to school from Ilorin. It was also gathered that three other UDUS students lost their lives on their way from Ibadan to school. Attahiru Saka, a 500-Level student of Fisheries,  who lost his life in the Yauri Road accident had written on his WhatsApp status: “Journey back to school, Allah’s mercy I plead for and journey mercy.” Sadly, some hours later, the bus which conveyed him and his two colleagues  reportedly caught fire  in a fatal  accident. Also, Abduljaleel Ayanwale, a 200-Level student of English Language popularly known as “Jbright” because of brilliance was among those who when coming from Ibadan.  He was  an  aspirant for the post of Social Director on campus. He was an advocate of good governance. He  also shared the  same revolutionary ideology like  Omoyele Sowore, activist and Saharareporters founder. Bello Mansuroh, a 200-Level student of Accounting also  died  in the same bus  that carried  the  aforementioned  casualties from Ibadan,Oyo  State. Ibrahim Aminah, a 300-Level student of Islamic Studies and Ayobola Aishat, a 100-Level  Microbiology student, were among those who lost their lives in the Yauri Road accident in Kebbi State, having set out from Ilorin, Kwara State. They were returning to school with glee,but unfortunately their dreams perished with them.  Students  worried about bad roads to Sokoto State Abdulganiyu Mohammed Hawal, a 300-Level Public Administration student, has lamented  the  poor state of the roads leading to Sokoto from Kwara State. He said: “To be specific Niger Road is not safe  for  conveying animals not to talk of human beings.It  is beyond  mere potholes, the road is terrible. I remember we almost had an accident on that road. Let it be known to everyone that accidents of this kind  happen on a daily basis, the recent went  viral simply because it involved students, anyone who is conscious of the happenings while traveling on dangerous roads will never have an iota of doubt about this. “Again, insecurity has become worrisome. According to a report, it was gathered that the Oyo accident happened because armed robbers were chasing the said bus  conveying students from Oyo to Sokoto. While trying to free themselves from the robbers,  their bus hit   objects placed on the road by those armed robbers. This shows the level insecurity on  Nigeria roads.  “Security personnel who are supposed to secure the road users are just there to collect money from the drivers, some of those men in uniform will even threaten driver sometimes if they fail to comply. Government should call them to order. The  government has talked about waging war against corruption,but it leaves much to be desired. It is so sad!” Soliu Ridwan Adisa, a 300-Level  Public Administration student while decrying the condition of the roads, said: “It is no longer news that  some roads leading to Sokoto State like that of Niger and some parts  of Kebbi State have since become deathtraps. Law enforcement agents are also not helping matters with the way they extort drivers. “These are the agents that were employed and  paid out of the hard earned money that commoners pay as tax. While trying to forcefully extort money from  drivers and travellers, they assault those that refuse to part with their money. Yet, the government that is saddled with protecting lives does not seem to be proactive enough. “The government should take the safety of its citizens as something more than a priority and  provide infrastructural amenities like good roads.  May the souls of the deceased rest in peace.” Yusau Abdulrazak,  a 300-Level Adult Education student, who was at the scene of the Yauri accident in Kebbi State, said: “When we reached there (Yauri) with another bus, we hurriedly stopped and other buses that were occupied by the students coming from Ilorin were stopped to confirm what caused the accident. A person who pleaded anonymity said that Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) officers were chasing a bike which collided with the bus ,then the bus tumbled.That left many students  seriously injured while  two died on the spot.” An eye-witness,who pleaded anonymity,  said: “I don’t want to  remember the horror scene. It’s something that made us weep continuously because we didn’t expect such to happen.  The driver didn’t help matters, too. He was on  high speed. He couldn’t control himself again when the bike crossed him.”  UDUS Management to fund treatment of injured students The Students Union (SU) President of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto, Faruq Barade,  while condoling with families of those who lost their lives in the accidents, noted the school management had promised to sponsor the treatment of students who were injured. He said: “I  received with great shock and dismay the news of the death of our students.Among those who died  is one of my closest friends who intended  contesting  SU  Sports Director. I really sympathise with their families and friends and the entire management of UDUS for the loss. May their gentle souls rest in peace. “And regarding those admitted in UDUTH, we  have already appealed to the school management to help in their treatment. We will make sure that something is done to take care of them.” He, however, said  that the school management had taken it upon itself to bankroll the   medical   expenses of three students admitted in UDUTH. ” Please make it known that the  Vice Chancellor has  just given approval that the school would sponsor all medical expenses of the three  students admitted in UDUTH,” he said.  Kwara State Governor  mourns dead students The Kwara State Governor, Alhaji Abdulrahman Abdulrazak, in a statement  by his Press Secretary, Mr. Rafiu Ajakaye, mourned  Kwara students killed in  the auto crash while also lauding Kebbi, and Sokoto governments for their support. The statement reads: “Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq has commiserated with the families of the students who died in an auto crash in Yauri, Kebbi State, on Saturday, describing the incident as devastating. “The governor mourns with the parents and families of all those affected in these accidents. He prays the Almighty God to repose their souls and comfort the families they left behind. It was indeed a very sad day. “He also prays for speedy recovery for those injured. The government, meanwhile, is following up with every detail concerning the students who were injured in the Yauri accident. A government delegation, which comprises a director and medical doctors, have  been dispatched with an ambulance to visit the students in (Yauri) Kebbi and the Teaching Hospital in Sokoto where the three students who sustained serious injuries have been taken to for proper care. Another delegation will visit the two families who lost their children to share in their grief. “The governor, especially, commends the governments of Kebbi and Sokoto states for their prompt responses to the distress calls of the Kwara State Government. This is inspiring and (again) speaks to the general good nature of the people of Nigeria. He commended the Secretaries to the Governments of Kebbi (Alhaji Babale Umar  Yauri) and Sokoto States (Alhaji Saidu Umaru) for taking over the cases of the students and ensuring they were properly attended to. The people and government of Kwara State are indeed very grateful for this kind gesture,” the statement added.