Ropo Alabi is the Chief Executive Officer of Linkpoint Resources International Limited, a marketing communications outfit in Lagos. In this interview with Ibrahim Adam, the University of Ibadan-trained Political Scientist and Industrial Labour Relations expert-cum Integrated Marketing Communication practitioner speaks on the prospects and challenges of running brand and marketing communication outfit in a period of pandemic. Excerpts:  How would you assess the marketing communication landscape within the last 12 months of the ravaging COVID-19 pandemic? Linkpoint Resources International Limited is a brand activation & experiential Marketing agency. Incorporated in 2005 to carry out the business of Brand activation, event management, direct selling, point of sales material deployment, experiential marketing, outlet mapping and retail Census. With the advent of COVID-19, we have not been able to bring people together for them to experience brand, we have not been able to engage consumers, and we have not allowed consumers to experience brands. All these have been having dynamics in the experiential marketing world. For instance, we opened the business last year but shut down and about 60 to 70% of our consumers driven (consumer centric) activities that we do are neighbourhood, modern trade and open market-driven where we engage retailers and shoppers. But because the markets were shut down majorly last year, and when they did open, it was with so many procedures. So, that has affected the output of jobs we do in the open market and it has also affected the number of work we were meant to do. On the side of brands as well, no brand will also want to be seen socially irresponsible. There are activities they should have done but they called them back and say ‘’sorry we can’t go ahead with this because we don’t want to be caught as not socially responsible.’’ Hence, the cut down on activities and a lot of these activities went digital just to meet their customers, consumers, and shopper’s needs one way or another. So that is how the emergence of COVID-19 has affected our business. Usually, at the end of the year, we are proud to record success but quantifying our loss during COVID-19, I will say it is a huge loss, but we are thankful. COVID-19 has been an eye-opener for us. Our loss is about 65% but we have been able to take those losses and turn them into gains. We have been able to come out with some ideas that we have never thought of before in terms of what to do, how to manage the business, and to keep the business afloat, how do we ensure we collaborate, how do we make sure we expand, how do we ensure we have other sources of income, which before now we never thought of because we felt things were good and nothing like COVID-19 was coming. But now it has given us this sense of planning. This is not a short-term plan, but a long-term plan may be a five to ten years plan should in case something like this happens again. COVID-19 also opened our eyes to do things differently compared to the past. Now we are trying to see how we can infuse digital ideas about how to engage consumers without necessarily been there. But before now maybe we won’t be thinking about that if not for COVID-19. We have also understood the dynamics of how the emergence of the internet, social media, digital marketing are keys to running any business. Can you relate your experience with your counterpart abroad? I can’t say right now because I’ve not seen any data or any information on that. But I can assure you as well that a lot of them will also have the same challenges as ours because experiential marketing has to do with bringing people together. I can tell you how many events were put together across the globe last year and how many activations were carriers out. If you look at football as it is, it is an experiential game where you bring fans to the stadium but now the fans are not in the stadium and the clubs are not making the money they would have made, while some of them are asking the government for support now. But I can tell you from what we read and see on the screen that a lot of companies into experiential marketing will also give you the same challenges we are facing because there are no shows, the market is closed, and there are no major activities where you can engage any consumer. What do you think integrated marketing communications companies can do to remain sustainable and profitable in this COVID-19 period? The first thing is diversification. You look for other means of income for the business. You think outside the box by brainstorming with your team on how to work towards the growth of your organisation. Another thing is to collaborate with other relevant agencies and being a member of professional bodies, to understand what they can do and see how you can leverage them so that you can be profitable as an organisation. Also, you must embrace technology because that is the future. You must put them practically in all you do. We understand that the penetration of technology in Nigeria is low but it’s showing that technology is improving day by day. So, I think these are the key things that can make any integrated marketing communication company sustainable and profitable during this COVID-19 period. 