 Twenty-one years into the Fourth Republic, Nigeria is still afflicted by those political ailments that have held her down since independence. The first three Republics collapsed as politicians failed to cultivate the noble values and culture that would sustain democracy. Cultivating the right political culture, needed in deepening and sustaining democracy, is hinged mostly on building enduring political parties. While attempts were made to achieve that feat in the first and second Republics, the current dispensation continues to manifest how politicians have failed to learn that crucial lesson: something can never be built on nothing. The political party system that was evolving during the Second Republic was truncated during the Babangida and Abacha regimes. Both juntas toyed with experimentations that imperilled the future. First was the lifeless two-party system.  Second was the Abacha five-party structure, held by the jugular, by the military junta. The joke was out when the five parties adopted General Abacha as their presidential candidate.  But that joke was was challenged by a courageous sixth party that broke ranks, suggesting that even in the starkest and darkest period of military rule, the people’s right to make democratic choices remained unbowed, if dormant. In 21 years, thereafter, the current set of politicians has failed to suck out the toxins injected into the political party system and start a reorientation of the politicians driving it. This point has come to the fore again with the threat by the Kano State chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) that any civil servant who fails to take advantage of the on-going membership registration by the party, to join the “winning train”, should be prepared for a battle. He directed the same threat at all those who may look forward to deriving any benefits from the state government. This is wrong on all counts. Our politicians should realise that they are not inventing or reinventing any wheel with regard to party administration. A little knowledge of history would have taught them that the First Republic collapsed largely because some leaders in the Western Region chose to trample upon time-hallowed principles of running a state. Supposedly elected leaders suddenly turned into despots and hounded their opponents. Civil servants expected to be neutral in partisan affairs were forced to join the ruling party. It must be noted that one hallowed principle of political party membership is free entry and exit. Every citizen has the right to party choice. The constitution of Nigeria has always guaranteed the right to freely express opinions, take decisions and hold philosophies, including ideologies where it applies. The APC, at the federal or state level has no right to abridge such right now. The way forward for this country is to allow everyone to pitch his tent where he chooses with the majority deciding what direction to go. A party leader who could attempt to coerce people into joining his party could not be trusted with allowing the election managers conduct free and fair polls, without the wrong use of state agencies and apparatuses. Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, the Kano APC chair quoted with this undemocratic declaration, has demonstrated that he does not deserve to hold the office of a state chairman of a political party. Every Nigerian politician should realise that there is no room for dictatorship in this country. If any civil servant is victimised in Kano, as Abbas has threatened, he should go to court, supported by the other political parties. We hope that the national leadership of the APC in this instance, and other political parties in the country, would institute an orientation programme for those elected to run these vehicles for democratic development. Nigerians have said it loud and clear on so many occasions, through the pre-independence political conferences and others held thereafter, that they want an unfettered democratic system. No one, or political party, or government, has a right to thwart that decision.