Residents and traders in Shasha market, Akinyele local government area of Oyo state have started counting their losses as a result of the crisis that had rocked the area in the last few days. The Baale of Shasha community, Chief Amusa Ajani, also called on the government to take proactive steps in restoring peace in the community before the situation deteriorates. He spoke whenOyo Governor Seyi Makinde; his Ondo counterpart Rotimi Akeredolu and Oyo Commissioner of Police, Ngozi Onadeko, visited the Shasa Market in Ibadan on Sunday. Ajani, who recalled the Shasha market was built by Ford Foundation and Rocky Feller Foundation many years ago, described the recent clash that led to the burning of the market as unfortunate. Ajani said: “For me, the arson that trailed the death of a cobbler in the market was misdirected and uncalled for. It is sad that the group that was responsible for the death of the man were still those going about torching houses and shops. “It all started with the argument that ensued between a pregnant woman and a Hausa man. A cobbler who came around to pacify them was struck with an object. He died the next day and things went wild. Government should act fast. “Those who are causing trouble are now mocking us. They said if Shasha is no longer habitable they would relocate to nearby community. “We want an end to violence in Shasha. I have told our people to maintain peace. Nobody should engage in violence but we want the Hausas to sheathe the sword. “But, come to think of it, why has urgent and proactive action not been taken? Who is the government afraid of? They are beating about the bush. “The people are now saying that they would relocate from Shasha to Iroko. Should we be doing this to ourselves as a people?” Effort to reach the Seriki Shasha was futile as at the time of filing the report. But some Hausa men, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, alleged the host community failed to relate with them amicably. They also described as untrue the allegation that they burnt several properties and destroyed goods within the market during the clash. During their visit, Makinde and Akeredolu lamented the ugly incident, stressing the needs for peaceful cohabitation among the various groups in the land. They assured the community of government’s intervention, saying that progress could only be achieved in an atmosphere of peace. One of the victims of the clash, Alhaji Musiliudeen Moliki, said: “It had never been this bad. I manage the public toilet in the market. Now the facility had been set ablaze. “Property worth several millions of naira had been damaged. For me, a peace meeting should be called. We should all come to round table and look for way forward. Security in Nigeria is porous.” A food seller in the market, Osuolale Monsurat, said: “My shop was burnt yesterday. My wares that perished during the attack were about N250, 000. “Since I got to this market eight years ago, I never experienced a thing like this in my life. Now our shops were burnt while we were looking helplessly. We implore the government to come to our aid as our means of livelihood have perished.” Another victims whose shop was looted and burnt, Kazeem Olona, said he suffered huge losses. He accused the security personnel of preventing Yoruba youths from repelling others who set the shops ablaze. He said no fewer than four people were killed in the attack. The Hausa and Yoruba communities were seen in clusters in their sections with the police and the military standing midway to ensure there was no further violence. Activities were at low ebb in the Shasha community at the time of filing this report with human and vehicular movements under strict check. The adjoining Ojoo and Moniya communities in Akinyele Local Government Area of the state were also bereft of the usual hustle and bustle.