At least 19 suspected cultists have been arrested by operatives of the Lagos Police Command following continued violence in Alakuko, a border community with Ogun. The Nation also learnt another cult leader was allegedly murdered on Monday, bringing to three persons feared killed since the crisis started on Wednesday night. The Nation gathered Monday’s clash was between members of the Eiye and Aiye cult groups. It reportedly started around Dalemo and led to the alleged death of one Confidence said to be the second in command of one of the cult groups. It was gathered it took the intervention of Air Force operatives attached to Operation MESA, more police deployments and members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) for calm to be restored. Reacting to the violence, Lagos police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said there was no room for lawlessness and hooliganism in the state. Adejobi said 19 suspects were arrested and some dangerous weapons recovered from them. “Items recovered from them included dangerous weapons, assorted charms and weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. “The Commissioner of Police set the record straight that the intelligence at the command’s disposal revealed that the hoodlums came from Otta axis of Ogun State to lay siege on the affected border communities on cult-related crises and the command has been repelling them. “The command has deployed additional police personnel, including Police Mobile Force, to curtail the hoodlums; and restored normalcy to the crises affected communities. “He has also directed that the arrested suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba for discreet Investigation. “CP Hakeem Odumosu however called on the community leaders in the areas to support the police in combating the crises and getting rid of the bad boys and their antics in their respective areas and in the state at large. “He assured that the command is working assiduously with the Ogun State Police Command to decimate the activities of the hoodlums and cultists in the border areas and towns across the state,” said Adejobi. He said the Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu held a meeting with Area Commanders and Police Mobile Force (PMF) commanders on general security and public safety. “He warned the motorcycle operators, commercial drivers and Lagosians, in general, to respect the laws of the state and desist from attacking police personnel and other security operatives who are enforcing the Lagos State Traffic Regulations and COVID-19 safety protocols. He emphasised that the command will continue to discharge its duties without fair or favour.”