The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has fixed the Ekiti East Constituency 1 bye-election for Saturday, March 20. Vacancy in the constituency arose as a result of the death of the member representing the Constituency, Hon. Adegbuyi Oluwajuwa Amos. It warned that in line with the Electoral Act, any political party presents the name of a candidate who does not meet the qualifications stipulated in the Constitution and the Electoral Act, “shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000.00”. According to a statement by National Commissioner & Chairman
Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye “the Independent National Electoral Commission met on February 23, 2021 and deliberated on a number of issues including the conduct of Bye-election into the vacant seat of Ekiti East Constituency 1 of Ekiti State. “The vacancy arose as a result of the death of Hon. Adegbuyi Oluwajuwa Amos, member representing Ekiti East Constituency 1 in the House of Assembly and the subsequent declaration of vacancy for the Constituency by the Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Funminiyi Afuye. “Consequently, the Commission has fixed Saturday 20th March 2021 for the conduct of the bye-election to fill the vacant seat for the Ekiti East Constituency 1 of Ekiti State”. It added: “The official notification for the election will published today Wednesday 24th February 2021. Political Parties shall conduct their primaries between 26th February and 3rd March 2021 while the last day for submission of list of nominated candidates is at 6pm on the 8th March 2021. “The Access Code for the nomination forms shall be available for collection from 26th February 2021 at the Commission’s headquarters. “The Commission enjoins all political parties intending to field candidates to pay close attention to the Timetable and Schedule of Activities and to conduct transparent and valid party primaries that meet the provisions of Section 87 of the Electoral Act 2010 (As Amended). “Political parties must note that under section 31(8) of the Electoral Act, a political party which presents to the Commission the name of a candidate who does not meet the qualifications stipulated in the Constitution and the Electoral Act shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a maximum fine of N500,000.00. “The detailed Timetable and Schedule of activities has been uploaded on the Commission’s website and social media platforms”.