A Magistrates’ Court in Makurdi on Tuesday ordered that a teacher, Mernyi Christopher, who allegedly killed three policemen, be remanded in a correctional centre. The police charged Christopher, a resident of Katsina-Ala in Benue State, with criminal conspiracy, armed robbery, terrorism and culpable homicide. Magistrate Ajuma Igama asked the police to return the case file to the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), and adjourned the case until February 25. Earlier, prosecution counsel, Sgt. Ato Godwin told the court that Christopher was arrested by a team of “Operation Zenda” led by Sgt. Tivsue Godwin following a manhunt for a notorious syndicate terrorising Katsina-Ala town. The syndicate, he alleged, on December 24, 2020 invaded the residence of the Chairman Katsina-Ala L.G.A Benue, Alfred Avalumun and gruesomely murdered three policemen on guard and carted away their AK 47 rifles. During police investigation, he said, the suspect confessed to committing the offence, alongside one Aondofa Chekele and some others now at large. Prosecution said investigation into the matter was still in progress and prayed the court for an adjournment. Also, some gunmen have burnt a police station and killed an inspector in Umuoba community in Abia State. The gunmen attacked the station on Monday night, taking the policemen unawares, The Nation learnt. The police armoury was raided and weapons removed by the attackers. Members of the community are afraid of being arrested in an anticipated police raid. The slain policeman was simply identified as Williams. The attack lasted over three hours, a source told The Nation. Unconfirmed reports have it that the gunmen numbering 16 overpowered the policemen. Police spokesman Geoffrey Ogbonna confirmed the attack, adding that no arrest had been made.. Less than a week ago, gunmen attacked a police van and killed a policeman at Uratta Junction on Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway. The slain policeman’s AK47 rifle was taken away by the assailants.