Before a gathering of eminent Nigerians and other sympathisers from all walks of life, the remains of the first civilian governor of Lagos State, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, were on Friday interred at the Vaults and Gardens, Ikoyi. From the mourners and Islamic clerics who performed the Janazah (funeral service), came more tributes and prayers for his service to Lagos State,Nigeria and humanity. The Janazah started at the Bishop Street, Ilupeju, Lagos residence of the deceased in the morning before the body was moved to its final resting place. The body was later buried at the Volts and Gardens, Ikoyi. The late Jakande, who was also former Minister of Works and Housing, died on Thursday, aged 91. The League of Imams and Alfas, led by the Mufasir of Lagos, Sheikh Shakirudeen AbdulGaffar (representing the Chief Imam of Lagos, Sheikh Sulaimon Oluwatoyin Abou-Nolla) prayed for the repose of the soul of the deceased. He said Jakande lived a simple and worthy life and was exemplary in all strata of life. The revered cleric urged Nigerians to emulate the lifestyle of the former governor. Imam Ahmed Olawale said that the late Jakande lived his life for the masses. Olawale, who represented the League of Imams and Alfas in Odiolowo/Ojuwoye, Mushin, said there will be reward for every action of man whether good or bad. He said: “If you do good or bad today, definitely it will be rewarded tomorrow. So, for Baba Jakande, he lived a life worthy of emulation. “He did a lot that generations yet unborn will never forget. We have seen the traces of incorruptible life and best legacies from him. We have lost one that is like a million to us. May Almighty Allah be pleased with him and reward him with Al-Jannah Firdaus.” Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr. Kadri Obafemi Hamzat described the late Jakande as an embodiment of all the positives. He said: “Baba Jakande was just an example of what all of us should aspire to be: a great man, humble, selfless, loyal, and dedicated. So, he is an embodiment of all the positives; a great man that served his people when he had the opportunity to serve; a man that cared for the people, and a fantastic journalist.” He added that there was a need for political leaders in the country to emulate him by being humble and loyal to the country. Others at the Janazah were former Governor of Ogun State Senator Ibikunle Amosun and his wife Olufunsho; Lagos State Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu; former Lagos State Deputy Governor Prince Abiodun Ogunleye; Permanent Secretary, Office of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Yetunde Odejayi; some former and present council chairmen amongst others. In a tribute, former Labour Minister, Maj-Gen. Ike Nwachukwu (rtd) described Jakande as an icon. He recalled how the deceased “showed the way for a lot of us to follow” as editor-in-chief of the newspaper, Daily Service.” He said: “He was unassuming and accommodating. When he found time to stroll into the newsroom, he sat by me, as he did others, to chat about our work and how to build on the reputation of the newspaper. “He cared for us all. He singled me out and invited me on occasions to find out how I was doing. “Our newspaper, published by the Amalgated Press Limited, was supportive of the Action Group – the official opposition at the time. “He taught us how to be professional in the face of competing interests and philosophies. He was a good leader.” Second Republic governor of the old Anambra State, Senator Jim Nwobodo, described the late Jakande as not only his co-governor but a good friend and brother. “During the Second Republic, the four political parties, namely Great Nigeria People’s Party (GNPP), Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), Nigeria People’s Party (NPP) and People’s Redemption Party (PRP) formed progressive governments,” Nwobodo told The Nation yesterday while reminiscing on their time together. “And Baba Kekere was in the midst, a strong character Lagos people will miss, Southwest region will miss and the entire country will miss.” Jakande, according to Nwobodo, ran his own race on earth and departed gloriously. Oba of Lagos Rilwan Akiolu said the late Jakande’s legacies were impactful, outstanding and too numerous for the people to forget his contributions to the development of the state. The monarch sympathised with the Jakande’s family, Lagosians and Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Represented by Obanikoro of Lagos Chief Adesoji Ajayi-Bembe, who led some White Cap Chiefs to the deceased’s house, Oba Akiolu described the late Jakande as a selfless leader. “He was our father. I am a beneficiary of his low-cost housing; a three-bedroom flat then was rented for N6,000. Do you know the value now? I rented my own out and I am getting N750,000 at the moment. “He has done a lot. We can see all he had done all over Lagos State. He was so fantastic. He has done so well for the state,” he said. Son of the deceased, Deji Jakande, said: “We still don’t believe he is gone, it is as if he is still sleeping. All the guidance he has given to us will remain with us. Chairman/ Chief Executive of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Brig. General Mohamed Buba Marwa (rtd) said Jakande’s death is a big loss not only to the state but the entire country. Marwa recounted how Jakande supported him when he was the military administrator of the state. “He was always at our events and ever willing to give advice and support at all times,” Marwa said in a statement on Friday. In its tribute, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) urged leaders at all levels to emulate the humility, patriotism, selflessness and life of service exhibited by the deceased. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Kola Ologbondiyan, said in a statement in Abuja that the PDP was saddened by the death of Jakande. Ologbondiyan described him as a quintessential statesman, a very prudent administrator and exceptionally self-sacrificing leader. He said that Jakande’s life remains a true stencil and source of inspiration for younger generation of leaders. According to him, Jakande’s leadership footprints remain indelible in his unprecedented development of Lagos State. “This includes urban development, transportation, railways, road infrastructure, mass education, healthcare, economic empowerment as well as investment in mass housing infrastructure across Lagos State. “Indeed, Alhaji Jakande’s exceptional patriotism is demonstrated in his manifest spurn for materialism and sacrificing of his comfort for the benefit of the society. “His reputation of using his personal vehicle and house while serving as a state governor demonstrates his persuasion that leadership is about serving the people and not for personal aggrandizements.” He recalled Jakande’s role in the development of the Nigerian media industry, especially in instilling professionalism as well as stabilizing the industry with the establishment of the Newspapers Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN). Ijaw leader, Chief Edwin Clark, called Jakande a genial and pleasant personality. His words: “Sobered by its very sudden, sad impact, yet buoyed by good memories of a life well lived, I join millions of Nigerians in mourning a Titan of our time, Alhaji Lateef Kayode Jakande, LKJ, whose demise yesterday (Thursday) has just been announced. “Widely referred to as the “Baba Kekere” of Chief Obafemi Awolowo’s Political Dynasty of First Republic’s, Action Group (AG) and Second Republic’s Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) respectively, LKJ, nonetheless, carved a pristine niche for himself on the Nigerian social and political landscapes! “In all, I always found LKJ to be as genial and pleasant as he was implacably firm in his cultural and political roots. “It is with the same respect that I mourn his passing away; thank GOD, at a good age. May his gentle soul find eternal peace by GOD’s mercy. Amen!” Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State said Jakande died at a time Nigeria earnestly needed his wise counsel on critical national issues. He remarked that the deceased was an astute politician and distinguished democrat who provided free education to all, low and medium cost housing for the masses and opened up Lagos with good roads and potable water for the people. He said that the demise of Jakande was a great loss to his family and the entire people of Lagos State because of his consummate life-lifting accomplishments in the Centre of Excellence, adding: “The late Lateef Jakande, a distinguished journalist and outstanding politician, will be remembered for his legacy of free education in Lagos, construction of numerous roads as well as the provision of housing and potable water for Lagosians.” Interior Minister Rauf Aregbesola described the exit of Jakande as glorious. Jakande, according to the minister, “was blessed by the almighty with long life and a good and fulfilling life in the service of humanity. He has now gone to rest. He finished well. This is a thing of great joy, and it is a great feat we all pray for and seek from God. “His departure however left a great void, an earthly separation that comes with grief and a helpless sense of the loss of a person of irreplaceable value. “Jakande was an administrative genius. All his policies were people-centred: education, housing, community development and so on. He recorded huge human and infrastructural development and with a stroke of genius was able to maintain an unusual balance between the duo. “He also epitomised the four cardinal programmes of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), the platform under which he contested. He brought a phenomenal turnaround in Lagos. His legacies are unalterable. “The housing development programme, with the houses still standing after four decades; the cost-effective schools are still in operation; Lagos State University; Lagos State Polytechnic and other monuments that characterised his impactful administration.” Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige said with the departure of Jakande, Nigeria has lost “a true Awoist with an unbending tenacity for the welfare and the upliftment of the masses.” He said: “Jakande was one of the greatest of the governors of his time, whom I closely observed as a young medical doctor working in Lagos in the Second Republic. “He learnt at the feet of the Sage, Obafemi Awolowo, where progressivism was held with righteous tenacity and welfare of the people, topmost as an article of faith. “His landmark achievements in massive housing for all, education for all, health, public works, sports and youth development was a metaphor of a good master and a brilliant student. “Interestingly, Jakande neither abandoned this philosophy with the exit of Awo nor allow it wither under decades of military aberration, which was a kink on the road to progressivism. “Stubbornly rather, it expressed in his stewardship as the Minister of Works and Housing under the Abacha regime, where  massive housing programmes in Gwarimpa and Lugbe in Abuja as well as Banana Island  in Lagos, amongst others, stand tall.” Jakande died on Thursday aged 91.