President Muhammadu Buhari will next week lead other eminent Nigerian, African and global leaders to the Lagos Economic Summit, Ehingbeti, scheduled to hold from Tuesday, February 16 to Thursday, February 18, 2021. The summit is living up to its repute as Africa’s most practical and result-oriented private sector-led forum for socio-economic and infrastructural development with the quality of speakers confirmed to discuss at the virtual summit. This year’s edition, with the theme: For a Greater Lagos: Setting The Tone For The Next Decade, has drawn about 150 speakers from across the world to discuss and deliberate on pragmatic optimisation of the inherent opportunities in Africa’s fifth largest economy and offer perspectives on how to manage the peculiar socio-economic landscape of Lagos State in the coming decade. Leading the array of speakers at the summit are the Founder and Chair of Mo Ibrahim Foundation, Mr. Mo Ibrahim; Works and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola (SAN), Director General of the Budget Office of the Federation, Mr. Ben Akabueze; former Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala; President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwunmi Adesina; United Nations (UN) Deputy Secretary General, Amina Mohammed and UNDP Resident Representative, Mohammed Yahaya. President Buhari; former Lagos State governor, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and British Higher Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, will give goodwill messages. The Summit opening address will be delivered by the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu will deliver the opening address, while his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat and House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa will lead the session on Strengthening Governance, Institution and Legislation. Other speakers at summit include Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries, Jordi Borrut Bel; Chief Executive of Centre for Values in Leadership, Prof. Pat Utomi; Academic Director, Lagos Business School, Prof. Yinka David-West; Director General of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines And Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni; Director General of Lagos Chamber of Commerce & Industry (LCCI), Muda Yusuf; Founder of Ebony Life TV, Mo Abudu; Founder of Terra Culture, Bolanle Austen-Peters; Director of Creative Arts (West Africa), British Africa, Miss Ojoma Ochai, among others.