Stevens Martins, a Lagos-based banker, who was on vacation in Abuja, lost N1 million to electronic fraudsters. For the first time, he confused. The nasty experience  forced cold sweats on his face. “The debit alerts kept coming at a lightening speed. Within 10 seconds, 10 alerts were sent to my mobile phone,” he recounted. The fraudulent transactions, according to him, occurred after he used his debit card to book for a room at a hotel in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “The syndicates picked my card details and perpetrated the fraud. They did not stop until the account balance read zero,” Martins lamented. He said attempts to call his bank to block the account were unsuccessful because of the speed with which the fraudsters operated. After returning from the trip, he completed a customer complaint form at a branch of his bank, but nothing positive has come out of it since last December. The financial services sector is, particularly, susceptible to cybercrime given its crucial role of financial intermediation in a highly connected financial system. Aside significant financial losses, the sector is also exposed to potential compromise and loss of customer data, and disruption of operations, which undermine stakeholders’ confidence in financial system stability. Internet/online-banking and automated Teller Machine/card-related fraud-types reported constitute 92.68 per cent of the reported cases worth N15 billion yearly. Other miscellaneous crimes such as fraudulent transfers/withdrawals, cash suppression, unauthorised credits, fraudulent conversion of cheques, diversion of customer deposits, diversion of bank charges, presentation of forged or stolen-cheques, among others, also made the list of malpractices. The challenge of banking product security and abuse is impacting the adoption of products. If people find out that digital channels are getting more secured and that there are opportunities they can leverage when they have challenges, there are more chances that they will embrace the channels. But if they discover that the security of the platforms are reducing, this can lead to reduction in the use and adoption of digital services. Cyber-related risks have been a systemic concern for stakeholders since the turn of the century. The integration of digital technologies into almost every facet of people’s lives has transformed the way they communicate, socialise, do business and conduct financial transactions. With over 50 per cent of the world’s population online and about one million joining  daily; and two-thirds owning a mobile phone linked to the internet; rampant spread of fifth generation (5G) networks, quantum computing and Artificial Intelligence, these risk exposures can only better be imagined. As the world switched to social distancing and remote working, remote learning, remote shopping and e-financial transactions, more opportunities have opened up for cyber criminals to prey on unsuspecting citizens and businesses. According to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the use of online scams, phishing mail, disruptive malware, data harvesting malware and malicious domains, a number of which are laced with COVID-19-related themes to defraud bank customers is on the rise. It said Interpol’s last August report on the cybercrime COVID-19 impact finds that cyber criminals are developing and boosting their attacks at an alarming rate, exploiting the fear and economic uncertainty created by COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking at the Financial Institutions Training Centre/Nigeria Interbank Settlement System Virtual Think Nnovation Conference  in Lagos, Chief Information Security Officer at FirstBank, Harrison Nnaji, said there were two components in the financial services sector – the brick and mortar – over the counter transactions and digital transactions. He said over the last decade, there had been migration to the digital platforms. “You will not be surprised, that there are  some people that do not have payment cards because of fear. You have a situation where customers actually in the real sense do not need security, they need confidence in the digital products that banks offer,” he said. He said banks that have not abated a fraudulent transaction are not supposed to be accountable for any loss due to e-fraud but added that financial service providers are expected to make sure that the products they put up are secured enough. He said: “Now, when a customer has not done anything to fertilise a fraudulent transaction on his or her account, such customer should not bear the loss. And there are customer protection opportunities they can leverage. But when the bank has demonstrated that it has  taken adequate steps to protect its service, and the customer, but because of what we may call family fraud, or friendly fraud – when someone you expect to protect you leverages the information you provided to defraud you, then the bank may not be liable. For you to recover the money, you will have to prove to the bank that the transaction would not have happened, without you knowingly or unknowingly facilitating it.” Chief Information Security Officer, Zenith Bank Plc, Festus Amede, said rapid adoption of technology without adequate defence mechanism and pressure on financial institutions to keep costs low remain major challenge facing the the adoption and deployment of digital products. “Most emerging markets have their data centre in-house, only very few are in the cloud. Even tough cloud is where to be, you need to prepare before going to cloud. “Account hijacking is also a major concern, especially with people using unsecured channels because of the challenges to grow the numbers.Using channels like USSD exposes bank customers a lot, as their SIM cards can be swapped, or your PIN harvested through fishing, among other means,” he said. Amede said the CBN is committed to strengthening its regulatory framework to boost the resilience of the financial system against cybercrime. The apex bank, she added, issued a Risk- Based Cyber Security Framework for deposit money banks and payment service providers in 2018, which among others, prescribes yearly cyber resilience self-assessments for proactive identification and remediation of weaknesses and mandatory incident reporting to normalise sharing of best practices across the industry. “It is gratifying to note that most banks have in place Security Operation Centres (SOCs) in line with global best practices. Others have been encouraged to follow suit, while the CBN has also commenced the development of an industry wide SOC-CBN Cybersecurity Fusion Centre (C2FC) to serve as a shared service platform for the financial sector providing cyber intelligence gathering, analysis, dissemination and crisis response,” he said.