The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) are at each others throat over the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State. While the opposition party PDP, has asked the ruling APGA government to prepare her detailed handover note ahead of time, the ruling Party in the State, has described the former as ‘noise’ makers. PDP’s statement was contained in a release by the State Publicity Secretary ,Mr Nnamdi Nwangwu, Wednesday and made available to reporters in Awka. But in a quick reaction, the State Chairman of APGA, Sir Norbert Obi, said his Party would not join issues with PDP as he described the Party as a sinking ship. Obi, said his Party was still mourning the death of it’s State Publicity Secretary, Hon Chinedu Nkwonta. He said PDP should face how to resolve all it’s numerous Court case and other problems before talking of winning elections in Anambra State. Obi, said APGA was a movement and no longer a political party, adding that when they reach to the bridge, they would know how to cross it. However, Nwangwu noted that the APGA controlled government had failed woefully in all ramifications and as such should be preparing the handover to PDP which is ready to give Anambra State a quality, responsible and responsive government. He said no amount of distractions would stop Anambra people from showing the fraudulent government of APGA the way out and hold them accountable for their actions. Nwangwu noted that APGA government had touched everything good handed over to her with leprous hands and relegated Anambra State from being the best in Nigeria to a laughing stock. He said, “Anambra state had the best road network in Nigeria, all the towns and communities were effectively linked when the saddle of leadership was handed over to the APGA controlled government, today, the roads are not maintained and new ones are not constructed. “Anambra state had the best Primary Health Care Delivery with the highest accredited tertiary institution for health workers training. “All the senatorial zones had two or three accredited health centers well equipped, let APGA apologists tell us what has happened to the hitherto functional sector,” the Party alleged.