Media houses and the Anap Foundation COVID-19 Think Tank, on Thursday announced a partnership to name and shame violators of the COVID-19 Health Protection Regulations (2021). The Foundation hailed the Regulations aimed at ensuring adherence to public health advice around controlling the spread of COVID-19. The Anap Think Thank, in a statement by its Chairman Atedo Peterside and Vice-Chairman Abubakar Siddique Mohammed, is worried that protocols were being violated. The statement reads: “We note with concern that these regulations are being openly flouted. “While there is room for mass communication of the regulations – which mainly reiterate the popular, global advice about managing the pandemic (avoiding crowds, physical distancing, washing hands, wearing masks etc.) – we note that duty bearers and people in influential positions are particularly egregious in their disregard for public safety protocols. “In furtherance of our objectives to promote behavioural change around managing the pandemic and ensuring effective stakeholder response to COVID-19, the Anap Think Tank announces our collaboration with the media to launch a ‘Name and Shame’ Initiative. “The Name and Shame Initiative will highlight the non-compliance of newsmakers by (i) not covering events or denying media coverage of events where participants do not comply with the Health Protection Regulations and (ii) spotlighting defaulters in the media. “So far, the following media houses have agreed to join this initiative: Arise TV, Businessday, Channels, Classic FM, Daily Trust, Premium Times, TheCable, The Nation, ThisDay and Vanguard newspapers. “We encourage all other media houses to consider signing up to join our Name and Shame Initiative. “We must continue to act clever and take every opportunity to protect ourselves, our neighbours and our country. “We cannot afford another lockdown, but we can also not afford to act like we are not in the middle of a global pandemic that has already claimed two million lives globally.” The Anap Foundation COVID-19 Think Tank was established last March 22 to respond to the pandemic. It has 18 members drawn from across the six geopolitical zones and the diaspora (Germany and USA).