The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has stated that more variants of the covid-19 virus are likely to emerge, especially in areas of high transmission. NCDC Director-General, Dr. Chikwe Ihekweazu, who stated this on Monday, said SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern have emerged independently across the world and this is likely to continue. During the briefing of the Presidential Task Force (PTF) on covid-19, Ihekweazu stated that the country now has 54 cases of the United Kingdom’s (UK’s) variant (B 1.1.7) of the covid-19 virus. Stressing that the dominant virus strain in South Africa (B 1.351) has not yet been identified in the country, the NCDC boss said a new variant (B.1.525) different from the one in the UK and South Africa has been reported in Nigeria and few other countries. He, however, stated that the said variant has not been classified as a “variant of concern” yet, and that researchers and scientists are still working hard to understand if this variant has any impact on transmissibility, severity, immunity, diagnostics of vaccines or therapeutics. Concerning the emerging variants, the agency in a statement in Abuja said: “In December 2020, the world’s attention was drawn to a new variant, B 1.1.7, first discovered in the UK that was shown to be more transmissible. “Other variants of concern identified in different parts of the world include the B 1.351 first identified in South Africa, where it is now dominant and the P.1, which was first identified in four travellers from Brazil. “SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern have emerged independently across the world, and this is likely to continue. Because only a fraction of viruses from people with COVID-19 can be sequenced, by the time a variant is detected, it is highly likely to be widespread. New variants are especially likely to be undetected when sequencing capacity is very low, as it is in most parts of the world. “More variants are likely to emerge, especially in areas of high transmission, and selected by vaccination, particularly if coverage remains suboptimal over time.” It added: “On February 11, some recent SARS-CoV-2 genomes were seen to have distinct mutations and characterised as a new variant B.1.525. As at the 17th of February, these have been reported from United Kingdom (44), Denmark (35), Nigeria (30), United States of America (12), Canada (5), France (5), Ghana (4), Australia (2), Jordan (2), Singapore (1), Finland (1), Belgium (1) and Spain (1). “The first detected B.1.525 case in Nigeria was in a sample collected on the 23rd of November from a patient in Lagos State. So far, this has been detected among cases in five states in Nigeria. B.1.525 cases have also been reported in other countries in travellers from Nigeria. “Currently, there is no evidence to indicate that in Nigeria. Therefore, B.1.525 is a new strain, but not yet a variant of concern and further analysis is ongoing.” Stressing that the way to prevent viruses from mutating is to prevent their transmission, by adhering strictly with the non-pharmaceutical interventions of regular hand washing, using sanitisers, properly wearing facemasks, social distancing and avoiding large gatherings, Ihekweazu stated that 100,000 representative samples will be sent weekly to the Africa Centre for Excellence in Genomics in Ede for sequencing, even as it continues to improve on the country’s sequencing capacity.