One year after his ordination, a Nigerian Priest, Fr Kelvin Ugwu, left the shores of the country to begin his missionary journey in a rural community in Malawi. CHIKA MEFOR-NWACHUKWU writes about his challenges and how he has been able to pull through against all odds. In the midst of Malawians, lives a Nigerian Catholic priest, Rev. Fr Kelvin Ugwu, who though had joined the priesthood to serve, did not know that life would take him to Malawi, a country said to be one of the poorest in Africa. The young priest arrived in the country in 2016, barely one year after his ordination as a priest and has since been working with the people with different culture and language. “I was working in Lagos when I received the call from my superiors that I had been posted to work in Malawi. It was not funny. Although I had been trained for the mission, it took me time to come to that reality,” he said. Reminiscing on his first journey to a country he had never stepped foot on, Ugwu said, “I still remember that day in 2016 when I was on my way to Malawi. After saying goodbye to my mum, we boarded the Ethiopian airline to Malawi. “Curiosity did not allow me to sleep on the plane. I kept looking down through the window of the plane to see the places we were traversing. When we got to a certain place, I looked down and saw nothing but the colour ‘brown’. I felt like that must be the portion of land called desert in which it is usually difficult for animals or humans to survive since it is dry. It was just then, the pilot announced, “We are now in Malawi; fasten your seat belt. “There was that one voice that kept telling me, ‘If not foolishness, what else could make a young fine boy like you desire to be a missionary priest; so that he will come and die in the desert?  Good for you. Ntooo!!!’ ” Even as one voice was discouraging him, another voice was even making it harder for him by reminding about his father’s death and how his mother needed him around in Nigeria. “You are her first fruit. It is not God that is sending you here. Can’t you see the place, who can survive here?” the voice insisted. But there was no turning back for the 34-year-old priest. They had already landed in Malawi. He picked his hand luggage and walked through the door of the Ethiopian airplane. A dry hot air welcomed him, reminding him that he had left the shores of his motherland. Ugwu, a native Enugu State, grew up in Abuja. He had his primary education at LEA Primary School, Karu, a government school and then proceeded to Government Secondary School Karu, where he specifically chose to study sciences in preparation to read Medicine and Surgery in the university. While he was reading very hard to become a doctor, Ugwu couldn’t help admiring the white cassock worn by priests. “It appeared very angelic to me. But as I kept growing, I saw myself longing to serve beyond just the white cassock. I wanted the priesthood to save souls,” he revealed. Ugwu abandoned his dream of becoming a doctor and joined the congregation called Missionary Society of St. Paul (MSP), the first Nigerian indigenous missionary congregation founded by the Bishops’ Conference of Nigeria in 1977 to train priests for the mission. “I entered the seminary in 2006 and was ordained in 2015 after nine years of intensive studies and formation,” he explained. Ugwu is now the parish priest of a church in Kalembe, where he oversees 51 outstations. The outstations, he says are a distance apart from one another but added that he always organises programmes every year to enable him to at least celebrate masses in all the outstations, attend to their spiritual needs, retreat, and other sacraments. “It is challenging because the road is very poor. The poverty level is not also helping as we depend on external help from friends to do the work. Sometimes you are down in spirit, but something kept pushing me on- the way the Malawians worship. “If you attend their churches, it is as simple as eating garri soaked in water. No complications. Simple lifestyle. Sincere in worship. Happy people. Peaceful people. They may not have much, but I can assure you, they have peace. And for me, that is more than anything,” he said. But it wasn’t “simple” for the young priest when he arrived in Malawi in 2016 as it took him three months to learn the language of the people. “I became deaf and dumb. This is because I could not speak the language and I didn’t also understand the language.” Food was also a big challenge for him because the staple food in the country is maize, prepared into what is called nsima. After he had emptied the foodstuff he had brought with him from Nigeria, Ugwu had to join the people in eating the nsima. “It is interesting how Malawians eat this nsima every day for the whole year and do not get tired. I had to adjust. I developed what we call ‘missionary stomach’. I tried getting Nigerian food when I was coming, but the Ogbono and egusi I brought soon finished and I had to come back to the nsima ,” he added. The missionary priest had tried to get some varieties to his meal by cultivating yam seedlings he brought from Nigeria, but Malawi land was not ‘ready’ for that as many of the cultivated yam died off. “Because of the nature of rainfall, yam and cassava are not mainly cultivated in Malawi. In fact, in the area that I am, no one knows what yam is, not to talk of farming or eating it.  Let me quickly add that we do lots of farming here in Malawi. I farm as well. I have piggery, poultry, maize farm, and others,” he revealed. The saying that you can see Nigerians everywhere in the world, does not apply to Ugwu’s abode as his parish is far away from the town. “You will see Nigerians in the city of Lilongwe and Blantyre. That is about four and nine hours’ drive respectively.” However, the young priest keeps in touch with Nigerians via his Facebook page where he has many followers. He uses his Facebook Television series, to not only evangelize, but speak out against any ills in Nigeria. “I sincerely don’t even know how I came to amass many followers. I am just doing my thing and people said they want to follow me. The good thing is that I know where I am going. So I am sure I won’t lead them astray. I guess they saw this and decided to follow. It is a privilege to me. I pray I don’t disappoint,” he said. Some of Ugwu’s Facebook followers have also helped him in the various projects he had put in place in Malawi, of which he is grateful for. With his congregation solidly behind him, he has been able to provide potable water to many communities through the drilling of boreholes. He has also started a school to teach the English Language to the people. Because access to health is a big challenge in the area, Ugwu organizes free medical outreach where he invites doctors and nurses from the city to attend to the people and give medicines. He also organizes skill acquisition programmes for the youth to empower them and is currently sponsoring many of the children in school. “As for the project we have at hand, it is the building of St Paul’s clinic. I have concluded the architectural designs and at the moment I am in Nigeria to seek approval from my superiors after which, I will begin the project. I want the project to be financed by the people at least 50%. I will surely need assistance from friends and benefactors. I have hoped that the project will sail,” he said. During the COVID-19 lockdown, like many other countries, the Malawian government was very strict with the regulations so the priest had initiated what he called the ‘Miphakati church,’ which means a family church where smaller groups living together could come together and pray. “Luckily for us, we are in the village where mostly it is always us with little or no contact with anyone coming from outside. Despite that, in all the outstations, we made sure they adhere strictly to the regulations on COVID-19, what the Malawi government calls the three Ws: WASH your hands, WATCH your distance, WEAR mask,” he said. Speaking of governance in Malawi and Nigeria, the young priest who is also an activist laments that the continent is strongly suffering from one and the same disease of poor leadership. “Nigeria is filled with paradoxes. We have people in the security sector, we budget huge sums of money for them to secure our lives and properties, but the citizens hire vigilantes to watch over them while the big politicians employ the services of bodyguards and armed men to secure them. “We have sectors meant to provide electricity to the people, but the people buy generators and solar and inverters and provide electricity for themselves. “We have sectors for water distribution. They call them water boards. They are on the government payroll. But the citizens drill boreholes for themselves and provide the same water people are paid to provide. This is the same for health care. There are budgets for medicals. But even the big politicians go abroad to treat simple ailments. “Every aspect of our system is totally not functioning. People get kidnapped and report to the Police for assistance. But the Police have little or no idea of how to help,” he lamented. He called on Nigerians to rise and speak against the ills going on in the country adding that the day Nigeria gets it right will be “the glorious epiphany of entire Africa. With many challenges from both his country of abode and his country, Ugwu finds a way to unwind through writing. He said he finds some kind of peace in writing. “I also draw occasionally, and once in a while dance to the music Umuobiligbo in my room. Then I watch documentaries. National Geographic, History, and detective movies are always my first call,” he said. Ugwu added that he finds fulfillment in the work he does and is working to do even more. “I am working on building a clinic in the parish. This is because people have been dying from something as little as malaria because there is no accessible health care in the area. It breaks my heart to say the least,” he said in an emotion laden voice. Malawians who spoke with this reporter expressed their love and support for the work the priest is doing in their country. “I live in a different location from Father but I follow his work and see what he does. I will love to meet him one day,” Audrey Folley, who lives in Blantyre said. “I will never understand such love in one person. What he is doing for us is unquantifiable,” Mary Kampira, another Malawian said.