Kenya government on Friday denied involvement in the arrest of IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, saying “it does not want to be dragged into Nigeria’s internal affairs.” The government also challenged anyone with facts of Kenya’s involvement in the alleged arrest and extradition of Nnamdi Kanu, the self-claimed leader of IPOB to come forward. Kenya High Commissioner to Nigeria, Amb. Dr. Wilfred Machage said the claim was nothing but fictional, imaginary and deliberately concocted to fuel antagonistic feelings among certain section of the Nigerian people. The envoy who expressed his anger over the claim also said his country enjoys good diplomatic relations with Nigeria and want to sustain that, therefore begged that his country want to be left out on issues that bothers on Nigeria’s internal affairs. The visibly angry ambassador who read a prepared test also urged the press not to bother him with inquiries that bothers on Nigeria’s internal matters, advising that if you want to get any reaction on Nigeria issues, ask your people and not me. He also did not give room for questions as he closed the media briefing immediately after concluding his speech. He said, “I want to address this allegation by denying that Kenya was involved in the alleged arrest in extradition to Nigeria of Mr. Kanu. To us therefore, these allegations are fictional, imaginary and deliberately concocted to fuel antagonistic feelings among certain section of the Nigerian people. “I want to challenge anyone with facts relating to this alleged arrest in Kenya to present those facts. This includes when, where, how and who was particularly involved in the alleged arrest. “We are also disturbed, dismayed and astonished by the unfortunate statement on the alleged arrest in Kenya which was carried in the dailies. The government of Kenya is particularly appalled by the spurious, derogatory and libelous mention of the name of our dear President on this matter. “I, as the High Commissioner of the Republic of Kenya to the Federal republic of Nigeria, wish to categorically emphasize that our two countries Kenya and Nigeria have and continues to enjoy cordial diplomatic relations with both the Federal Government of Nigeria and its great accommodating and amiable citizens. “Kenya is committed to sustain this historical bond of friendship between our two governments and the peoples of our two countries. We wish to further cement our diplomatic relations with a view to ensure mutually beneficial relations between our two countries. “In conclusion, on the case of the alleged arrest in Kenya of Mr. Kanu, I wish to categorically state that we are not happy at this ridiculous attempt of dragging the name of Kenya and HE. President Uhuru Kenyatta on this matter of arrest and extradition of self-claimed IPOB leader.”