Award-winning singer Davido has graced the cover of American fashion and culture magazine, Flaunt Magazine for its “In The Garden” edition For the magazine’s cover, the DMW boss is adorned in a Gucci sweatshirt, kaftan, and shoes, Etro pants and vintage Versace sunglasses. In the interview via zoom following the cover shoot, the “If” crooner talked about his smashingly successful project, his third studio album “A Better Time” which hit over 100 million streams in just three days across all streaming platforms following its release. The international pop star also spoke about his collaboration with Nicki Minaj, fatherhood, having his son on the cover art of his album, “Fem” and #EndSARS and a whole lot more. Recording “A Better Time” at home and hitting 100 million streams in three days. “We were in a pandemic, obviously Corona hit. There were no plans to drop the album because I was on tour. I was still touring off of “A Good Time” album, then Corona hit. I went back to the studio because there’s nothing else to do. Everybody was at home focused, so we went back to the studio, and started recording a lot. Before you know, we had 50 songs. Yo, we gotta put this out. That’s how that album came, a quarantine album I call it.” What “A Better Time” meant for people during the pandemic “Really because we was having a good time on tour and everything, I said ‘Yo, A Better Time!’ It was weird because we weren’t in a better time at that time. It was Corona, but it was something to look forward to. A Better Time is coming, that’s why I called it a better time. Right now things are starting to open up, and it’s looking like we’re about to go back on the road. “ Collaboration with Nicki Minaj on ‘Holy Ground’ “Crazy man! I never met her before too. It’s crazy, I DM’d her and she replied like, ‘Yo, let’s do it!’ I sent the song and she sent it back. We couldn’t meet because I was in Nigeria and she was on the way to LA, then she had a child. I appreciate her for that verse. People love it, I love it. I’m sure we’ll do some more work. “ Having son on the cover art for “A Better Time” “It’s crazy, my first son. All my covers, I want it to be legendary. Even when he’s 30 or 50 years old, he can always look back and see that.” Fatherhood “It’s crazy! It’s amazing, the best thing in the world. I wouldn’t trade it for anything. I’ve got two daughters and a son: a 3-year old, a 5-year old and a one-year-old.” Kids knowing daddy’s a superstar “My oldest daughter knows. My second daughter kind of knows, she’s 3. But my son don’t know nothing.” [laughs] Acting in “Coming 2 America” “That was crazy, an amazing experience. I didn’t believe it. Honestly, I didn’t believe I was gonna be in that movie until I watched it. It was surreal, I’m like, ‘No way, this is crazy.’ It happened so fast. Had a meeting, you’re on set tomorrow-type shit. I remember going to the set being next to my manager like, ‘You sure this is for Coming 2 America?’ I’m on set, I look behind, and I see Eddie Murphy. What?! This ain’t real!” [laughs] Releasing ‘FEM’ in 2020 and what it did for the #EndSARS movement. “It felt good to be part of something. It was used as an instrument rather than, ‘Let’s play music and enjoy it.’ I really didn’t make that song for that purpose, but for it to turn into that and to know I was a part of that was an amazing feeling. No doubt.” Being someone with a huge platform and pushing for change “I’m a musician, just keep giving out good music, feel-good music. Also empowering other young artists. I have young artists under me. Your legacy is really what you leave behind, the truth you leave behind. Empowering and putting on other young artists and producers, that’s what I’m mainly here for.”