 Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission, Adekunle Olayinka has enjoined members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ifako-Ijaiye and Ojokoro to deliver massive votes for the party during the council election scheduled to take place this month. Olayinka, who made the remark while hosting members of the group in Ifako-Ijaiye and Ojokoro local councils recently, said only massive mobilisation of voters would redress electoral apathy which has been affecting electoral turnout in the state. He said the only way to encourage Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, is for party faithful to go out of their comfort zones and work assiduously to deliver massive votes for the party. Olayinka, who is also the chairman of the Governing Council of Kunle Olayinka Peace Initiative (KOPI), commended APC members in Ifako-Ijaiye and Ojokoro for coming out en masse during the last membership registration exercise. He said: “If each member mobilised one or two eligible voters to the polling booth and ensured that they voted for the party, it would translate into more than 90,000+ votes for both Ifako-Ijaiye and Ojokoro and this would be our negotiating power at the state to drive home suitable, deserved political appointments and more dividends of democracy for the good people of both councils”.  He urged KOPI members and the APC family at home and in the diaspora to adopt the age-long political tactics he termed “Kóló Party Loyalty to tackle the forthcoming election”. He said: “The Kóló Party Loyalty is a system whereby all members of APC will keep their voter’s and membership cards and that of their family members in a dedicated receptacle and when the need arises they would just open the kóló, use the cards and return them back into the kóló afterward.” He said an official prototype of the kóló, which has been designed for that purpose, will soon be unveiled. KOPI Chairman, Shakiru Bababunmi Shabund added that “the kóló initiative is an innovative, creative idea and such is rare in our modern-day political history”. He promised to lead from the front in mobilizing for the Hamzat/Akerele ticket and also charged KOPI members in Ojokoro to be fully on the ground for the Tijani/Coker ticket ahead of July 24, 2021, local government election. The former executive secretary and chairmanship aspirant in Ifako-Ijaiye, Rotimi Adeleye (Mission Man) thanked Olayinka and Shabund for their forthrightness and exemplary leadership. He said his loyalty to the party and its leadership remains unquestionable and that he will continue to work for the progress of the party. 