Education Minister, Mr. Adamu Adamu, has approved the preparations for take-off of the Federal Polytechnic, Orogun, Delta State, with plans to begin academic activities in September, 2022. Adamu gave the nod after inspecting the Polytechnic site in Orogun, Ughelli North Local Government Area of Delta State, said the ministry was satisfied with preparations for the institution’s take-off. The Minister, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, said the visit was to inspect the site on the instruction given to the team to coordinate and facilitate all arrangements for a successful take-off next year. The Minister expressed satisfaction with what he saw on ground, especially the land acquisition, location, proximity to public power and water supply.  He praised the communities for giving 100 hectares of their land to the polytechnic. He said: “We are pleased to note that the key issues we are looking out for is that the land is centralised, accessible to power and water supply for the employees and the students, and whether there are potentials for the development of the communities, as well as supporting communities that will constitute the larger catchment of the institution.” Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege who hosted the inspection team, thanked President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the polytechnic. He said the institution would be a “global institution in innovation and excellence”. “We have some universities and polytechnics which are glorified secondary schools, but we are determined that it will not be the case with this Polytechnic,” he said, promising to use his good offices to attract funding from other sources for the institution’s development. Though it is a practice that new institutions start with a few colleges or faculties, Omo-Agege appealed to the ministry to allow the polytechnic start with six colleges, namely College of Computer Science, Engineering, Architecture and Environmental Studies, Pure and Applied Sciences, Agriculture and Food Science, and College of Management, Humanities and Arts. 