It was a glorious moment recently in London, when the Sotheby art gallery opened auction sales for some African contemporary artists of the 20th and 21st centuries.  The outing was good as EDOZIE UDEZE notes in this piece.  Recently the Sotheby Gallery, London, did auction sales of some of the works of African great artists, dead and alive.  The idea was to espouse the themes, contents, forms and ideas of these 20th and 21st centuries contemporary African art pieces.  For now and in the years past, African modern and contemporary art works have come to dominate world attention.  And there were some select artists who opened this leeway, those whose works truly astounded the world thereby proving that African artists have stories to tell via their art productions. Some of the artists involved in the Sotheby auction show included Demas Nwoko, Ben Enwonwu, Gerard Sekodo, Boghossian Skunder and others.  They are among the African very best, and their works in various forms and shapes adorn art galleries in all corners of the world.  Their works, for now and in time to come will, continue to be the most sought-after in modern and contemporary art markets.  Their fames and values span over periods of 100 years in the areas of art history.  This was why the auction made it easier for as many people as possible to purchase at the sales.  Works of one thousand pounds also were announced on the floor of the auction.  It was so in order for more collectors to key into the show and buy as many as they could.  The more, the merrier. Demas Nwoko is a Nigerian artist, protean designer, one of the 1950’s Zarian rebels.  He is a master builder who incorporates modern technique in his architectural and stage designs.  Although he  studied Fine Arts at the Zaria College of Arts, which is Ahmadu Bello University today, his interest in arts is vast and versatile.  Indeed he enunciates African subject-matters in most of his works. Born in 1935 at Idumuje Ugboko, Delta State, his family is the ruling house of that town till date.  He is a painter, sculptor, a leader of Nigeria’s modern art movement.  He is also a member of the popular Mbari Club in Ibadan.  This club ensured Yoruba and Nigerian cultures were kept on the front burner for too long. He lectured at the University of Ibadan for a long time.  Indeed he published an art tabloid named The New Culture Magazine.  Though short-lived, he was able to promote art via the publication.  Nwoko’s works focus on the need to use local contents for artistic values,  and production, putting into consideration the temperatures of the environments.  In other words, the houses he builds suit the needs of the local people whether in the urban or rural areas.  His are totally African.  Even though properly exposed to modern European art, while at ABU, he and others preferred to domesticate and localize African art for local evaluation.  He and others therefore formed the Zarian Art School in the 1950s.  This became the basis to champion a total combination of western and African art techniques to produce forms, themes, styles, ideas, figures, landscapes, experiments and more. He also designs for theatrical dramas and purposes.  He designed the Dominican Community Mission headquarters, Ibadan, using mostly local materials to achieve architectural masterpieces. He equally designed the Chapel of Light, the University of Ibadan.  It is a Christian chapel that has stood solidly inside the university campus for years.  Usually the interior of his works conform with the comforts of the people.  It is one of the most cherished ideas to make African art totally African. The Oba Akenzua Cultural Theatre in Benin was done by him.  There he wisely invented the usage of Greek and Japanese kabuki for effect.  Today that edifice remains one of the most celebrated in Nigeria in terms of elegance and content.  Also, the Cultural Centre, Bodija, Ibadan was designed by Nwoko.  In it, he invited lots of Yoruba contents to effect form and style.  The design is unique in all respects.  It shows how he uses plenty of African motifs to perfectly suit local needs.  A perfect example is his own house at Idumuje Ugboko where he does not use any artificial cooling system to make the home comfortable, habitable and alluring. Ben Enwonwu (MBE) was a painter, sculptor, indeed the foremost African artist to bestride the world.  To date he remains the most influential African artist of the 20th Century.  He, it was, who opened ways for the visibility of modern African arts. Born in Onitsha in 1917, he died in 1994.  However, he is credited with the production of African Mona Lisa.  He began to paint when he was very young at Onitsha.  Then no one saw any hopes in the art of painting or sculpting.  Yet, young Enwonwu kept on with the same zeal, same hope and drive. In 1956, he was commissioned to do an official portrait of Queen Elizabeth II.  With the completion of that project, he became the first African artist to ever produce an official portrait of any European monarch.  A lot of people criticized the work saying he made the Queen’s lips thick like an African, yet that work launched him into the world.  A lot of Europeans thus set out to honour him, often contacting him for more historic works in paintings and sculpting. Creating the sculpture of the Queen therefore became a turning-point in his artistic career.  The sky became his limit.  He stood to gain from this personally that he became the toast of colonial  masters.  Some Europeans began to accord him respect and recognition.  At a point he became the most decorated African contemporary artist, that in the 1950s and 1960s, his voice on  African art became oracular.  He made it a point of professional duty to be close to the western art circle.  This helped more to shore up his personal resume. He once said “I will not accept inferior position in the art world. Nor have my art called African because I have not correctly and properly given expression to my reality”.  He said this in 1958, in a BBC voice programme. Enwonwu supported Negritude in his art and actions.  Negritude was an anti-colonial political and cultural group and movement founded by a group of students in Paris, France, in the 1930s.  The core aim was to be totally African in content and so they painted and created series of works of the same name.  they all celebrated Africa and blackness in its epitome and dignity and opulence. So the Sotheby auction put all these into consideration.  In the end, the sales became mouth watering that African art also occupied more places of prominence.  It was good to see other African artists dominate attention.  As a result it became clear that modern and contemporary African art no longer need to be hidden.  African artists have continued to prosper, inspire and embellish the issues of themes, forms, styles, and all.