Following the high level of insecurity and economic instability in the country, former Head of State, Gen. Yakubu Gowon (rtd) on Saturday advised Nigerians to continue to pray for President Muhammadu Buhari to overcome the situation. He said instead of attacking Buhari, the strength should be channeled to prayers. Gowon urged Nigerians not to be discouraged about happenings and assured that soon, the problems bedeviling the country would become a thing of the past. The former Head of State spoke at the 23rd anniversary and founder’s day celebration of Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN), with the theme: Rejigging the security architecture: imperatives for a second line of public safety; the Nigerian Peace Corps perspectives, at the Obasanjo Space Centre, Abuja. He said the state of affairs was also weighing Buhari down. Gowon was represented by a former military governor of Bauchi State, Major General Chris Garuba (rtd), as the chairman of the occasion. His words: “There is no nation in Africa that does not have challenges. Be it economy or security. Countries have challenges and Nigeria is not an exception. “But again, the challenges are not permanent challenges. After a period of time, it will come to pass as we will have our peace and stability back. “We should not get discouraged. It’s like the COVID-19 period. It’s a phase; it will come and it will go. “If I am the President under the challenge of instability, economy and security problems, I will be sad. So don’t forget the President is a human being. The entire country is on his shoulders and it’s weighing him down. “Instead of confronting him, we should be praying for him. He needs our prayers and that is what I will recommend. Let us pray for our country and the leadership so that they can overcome all these challenges of insecurity, poor economy, terrorism, insurgency and all whatnot.” Gowon advised the youths, as leaders of tomorrow, to always ensure peace and shun violence no matter the situation. By all standards, he said the Peace Corps of Nigerian has done extremely well. Gowon said: “Our youths as the leaders of tomorrow should take very good note. As leaders of tomorrow, you should be forthcoming and not do anything that is likely to take us backwards. “Anything that is likely to take us to the harrowing days of the past, I’m not for that. The youths should look up to the future because they are the leaders of tomorrow.” National Commandant of PCN, Prof. Dickson Akoh, expressed sadness over the rate of killings in the country. Akoh said the insecurity challenges are profiling Nigeria in a bad light. While suggesting solutions, the PCN boss said governments at all levels should come up with deliberate and conscious policies towards investing more on peace than allow the security situation to escalate before deploying humongous resources towards addressing it.