 The Stop Tuberculosis Partnership has stated that funding constraints remain the key challenge towards combating and eradicating tuberculosis (TB) in Nigeria. It noted that in 2020, of the $384 million required to implement the National Strategic Plan for tuberculosis, only 30 per cent was made available to all implementers. This leaves a funding gap of 70 per cent, that is, at least $268 million ($268,800,000) to tackle the deadly disease in the country Worse still is the fact that 23 per cent of the available funding came from international donors. Only a meagre 7 per cent was sourced domestically. Furthermore, it noted that the COVID-19 pandemic has had varying short and long-term impacts on health, including TB services in the country, such as disruption of access to TB services as a result of prolonged periods of lockdown, treatment interruption potentially breeding drug-resistance, as well as the effects of stigma for both healthcare workers and clients among many others. The Chair of the Central Planning Committee of Stop TB Partnership Nigeria and Executive Director of KNCV Nigeria, Dr. Bethrand Odume made these known during a briefing in Abuja yesterday to announce the forthcoming National Tuberculosis Conference scheduled to hold between November 9 to 11, 2021. He, therefore, called on stakeholders, especially at the state level, to invest more in the funding for tuberculosis. He said: “As we all know, funding constraints have remained the key challenge towards combating this deadly disease in Nigeria, and over the past five years, it has been driven largely by external funding sources.  “To meet the estimated funding gap along with other pertinent issues, there is a need to create an avenue to foster access to research, technologies, innovations and build collaborations/partnership for tuberculosis control in Nigeria. “To this end, the 2021 National TB Conference provides a platform for the National Tuberculosis and Leprosy Control Programme (NTBLCP) and all stakeholders to deliberate on the magnitude and dimensions of the effects of the pandemic and other diseases on TB control in Nigeria. It will also create an opportunity to learn lessons from experiences within and other countries, and to come up with strategies to address tuberculosis control during the current and future pandemics.” In his remarks, the Acting Board Chairman of Stop TB Partnership, Dr. Ayodele Awe, stated that last year, there was a 15 per cent increase in tuberculosis case detection due to common symptoms being shared between COVID-19 and tuberculosis. “We saw at the end of the year, after analysing our data, that we had 15 percent increase in tuberculosis cases; higher than the previous year, and that is the highest number we have ever had in Nigeria. We had about 138,000 cases and the previous year was about 110,000 or 120,000 cases. We are doing this in collaboration with the Federal Government, with concerted efforts with all the partners particularly the private sectors,” he said.