COVID-19 deaths approaching 3,990,000 among 184,400,000 diagnosed cases and 3.17b vaccines worldwide. Nigerian cases approaching 168,000 and 2,125 deaths with 3.4+m vaccine doses with 1.170,000+ fully vaccinated. Nigeria ‘footfalls’, at football! We lose 4-0 to Mexico (population 130m or so). Yes, sports persons may have mesmerising overnight skills but sports stamina, body building, technique and selfless teamwork take years of coaching and funded support. Sadly in 2021, Nigeria is still a country of ‘Accidental Hero Sportspersons’ individually great, hardworking. Politicians, reaping where they deliberately refused to sow, jump on them like blood-thirsty leaches or pariah, sucking press adoration due solely to the few champions among thousands. Look at our 1985 Under-17 winners in football receiving promised bonuses in 2015, 31 years late due to the irresponsibility of governance caused by the political disease of ‘Personalisation of Political Office’. That 31-year delay is a metaphor for Nigeria’s collective failure to support youth development – mental, sport, material and entrepreneurial. One consequence is the current widespread youth anger and helplessness. We did not nurture enough talented young star footballers. Which governors support education and high-class sports access as development strategies -an ‘Ogbemudian Achievement’? A complete education includes sport and a national future in world sport? The test is ‘How many home-grown Nigerian sportspersons will be in the Tokyo Olympics 2020-1 while the USA, EU, UK ad nauseum train potential 2024, 2028, 2032 Olympian hopefuls already? Oduduwa nation protests and suppression-July 2021. Easier solution than watercannon -let government and National Assembly, NASS, OBEY Nigeria’s OATH & ANTHEM[S] and make Nigeria a land where TRUTH and JUSTICE [EQUITY] truly REIGN with FAITH, LOYALTY and HONESTY of the political and ethnic classes at all tiers of governance. Period! Not nuclear physics, just LOVE of neighbour, NOT LUST for his property!!!! MUST WE DIE, in order to LIVE? This coming holiday who is safe. SSS-Safety, Safety and Safety are every Nigerian parent’s terror. All levels from family members, domestics, drivers and travel have all been indicted. The roads are frightening. The village, back home, is often unreachable even after a mountain of prayers invoking ’May we be invisible to the enemy’. No dwelling is safe from marauders and fraudsters. The Kaduna attacks, unchallenged, claim more, murdered for being alive! Endless government commiserations and daylight parades without day and night massive security presence cannot save anyone. I saw Akinwunmi Adesina, president, African Development Bank in a French interview on TV. Find his videos for ideas and content for your children. He is a fine role model of a multi-lingual highly diversely knowledgeable global leader. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, DG, WTO has equally inspiring motivational idea-driven interviews and she also is trilingual including French. African supermodels on the world’s stage/runway and great role models for your children.  Adesina’s perfect French and English should be a lesson to Nigerian youth. Our indigenous languages are important and Babandede of Immigration emphasised French and local languages at borders where Customs and Immigration staff are posted. English and French are diplomatic and business languages and more children should be guided to learn them in school, during holidays and using social media. At home start a ‘Let us learn a New Language’ home project. This summer holiday, challenge children to learn a language or deepen knowledge of languages they speak, local or international. The internet has tools for every language. Foreign students in most advanced countries must have language proficiency first usually a 3-6 months immersion language course. Often Nigerians ‘twanging’ German, Spanish, Russian and of course French learnt compulsorily while training abroad. Do not be jealous of them. Now it is Chinese-Mandarin. Emulate them. Let your children learn a language as a strategic broad education action to broaden future prospects. Multilingual role models worked doubly hard learning ‘a foreign language’. Kudos to their tenacity and language skills. Suggest to your children to think of any language they would like to learn to broaden their career options to fill the ‘boredom gap’. Many children are unknowingly gifted and can take up a useful language as a fun hobby. Talent and tenacity go hand in hand. Most are high on one and low on the other. If you are lucky to have a quadrilingual family, two traditional and two foreign languages deliberately transmit that quadraphonic skill to the children in a fun way by having ‘Language Day’ every week to get the children making home videos in different languages. A Nigerian who has studied Japanese pleasantly shocked a Japanese couple needing some help in London. We have all listened to rude passengers talking about someone else or even you in a ‘secret’ language you also understand. Indeed, any language of limited distribution can become a secret language. The US military used indigenous Indian languages as code. ‘Secret’ can be good and bad. Advanced countries teach all languages and use smaller languages in spy work and listen to conversations to monitor criminals. It is never too early to introduce a new language to a child. Try choosing a language this long holiday. Make it fun. For older youth, prioritise a language for future professional plans. Achieving polished and perfection in any language is hard work, Soyinka read the unabridged English Dictionary not as a reference book but as a study book repeatedly. All our ethnic ancestral languages are full of unlearnt and some lost innuendo and multi-meaning twisted proverbs. Sadly, many teachers were taught badly, unable to grow students.