Stakeholders project  that the volume of maritime trade will increase by four per cent between now and early next year, with optimism that the nation stands a chance to earn more revenue as it works to boost the economy, OLUWAKEMI DAUDA reports.  The volume of maritime trade is projected by the former President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA), Prince Olayiwola Shittu, and other stakeholders to recover in the remaining half of this year and expand by over four per cent. He said the nation stands a chance to earn more revenue when policies were properly implemented. The maritime sector, Shittu said, would also be affected for the next six months based on the continued trade tensions between China and the United States as well as the overall weakening of the world economy. Shittu based his argument on the figure by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). According to him, dry cargo will continue to account for over two-thirds of total maritime trade volumes in the projected months, while liquid bulk commodities, including crude oil, refined petroleum products, gas and chemicals, accounted for the balnace. “In its Review of Maritime Transport 2020,’’ UNCTAD said the recovery is, however, fraught with uncertainties as many factors can “significantly influence the outlook’’. According to the report, amid supply chain disruptions, demand contractions and global economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the global economy was severely affected by a twin supply and demand shock last year. “These trends, it said, ‘’unfolded against the backdrop of an already weaker 2019 that saw international maritime trade lose momentum’’. “Predicting the timing and scale of the recovery is also challenging, as many factors can significantly influence the outlook. Bearing this in mind, UNCTAD projections indicate that maritime trade will recover in the year and expand by 4.8 per cent. “As the debate on the recovery continues to evolve, it is becoming clear that disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic will have a lasting impact on shipping and trade. “These disruptions may trigger deep shifts in the overall operating landscape, together with a heightened sustainability and resilience-building imperative. “Potential shifts range from changes in globalisation patterns to alterations in supply-chain design, just-in-time production models, technology uptake and consumer spending habits. “Depending on how these patterns unfold and interact, the implications for maritime transport can be transformational. Further, risk assessment and management, as well as resilience-building to future-proof supply chains and maritime transport, are likely to feature more prominently on policy and business agenda. “While maritime transport could emerge as a catalyst supporting some of these trends, it will also need to brace itself for change and adapt and ensure that it is also well-prepared to enter the post-COVID-19 pandemic world,’’ it added.  War Risk Insurance Premium The Federal Government has faulted the proposal by the United Kingdom(U.K.)-based Lloyds Shipping Services seeking to retain the War Risk Insurance Premium charged on each cargo coming into the country. But it is monitoring the sustainability of the Integrated Maritime security infrastructure also called the Deep Blue Project on which the country has invested over $195million. The Federal Government, stakeholders said, must do everything possible to support the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) in its campaign against the war risk insurance premium on incoming cargo. President  Muhammadu Buhari was in Lagos to  inaugurate the Deep Blue Project assets to eliminate piracy and other maritime crimes not only in the country, but also across the Gulf of Guinea. This is in addition to signing the Suppression of Piracy and Other Maritime Offences SPOMO 2019 Bill into law in June last year, which has led to the conviction of over 10 pirates. Lloyds had in a recent report, while admitting that Nigeria has done well in her efforts at curbing piracy, however proposed that the premium should be retained to make room for proper assessment of the new security, especially in terms of its sustainability.  Govt committed to zero incidence of piracy But the Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Bashir Jamoh, who spoke with The Nation in reaction to the company’s proposal, said the Federal Government is committed to achieving zero incidence of piracy and other maritime crimes with the country’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ)and beyond, insisting on the cancellation of the risk insurance that has added a cost to every incoming cargo.  Reduction in piracy attacks Jamoh said the Federal Government, through NIMASA, apart from demonstrating her commitment and investing huge sums on the project, which came on stream in February this year, there had been a tremendous reduction in piracy attacks and other related maritime crimes and promised that more measures would be taken to end the cycle of criminalities on the nation’s territorial waters and in the Gulf of Guinea. Available records show that a total of 10 piracy attacks were recorded within Nigeria’s EEZ in December, last year, while one attack was recorded in January, this year even as zero was recorded in February, this year when the new security assets were deployed. Other statistics show that only one attack was recorded in March while zero was recorded in April, this year, an indication that the new security project is delivering value since the deployment of the security assets in February, this year. “Our target is to achieve zero attacks on Nigeria’s waters, we want to change this stigma, which has tagged Nigeria a war zone and so the world must rethink the war risk insurance premium since the circumstances that gave rise to that development has been addressed. “Today, Lloyds is telling us that they recognise Nigeria’s efforts but will continue to charge the war risk premium until they see more commitment and progress but which more evidence does anyone need other than the official statistics not generated in Nigeria?” Jamoh asked. Some of the assets inaugurated under the project, which fights piracy through land, air and sea include the Command, Control, Communication, Computer, and Intelligence Centre (C4i) for intelligence gathering and data collection for land operations; 16 armoured vehicles for coastal patrol; and about 600 specially trained troops for interdiction, known as Maritime Security Unit. Others include two Special Mission Aircrafts for surveillance of the country’s EEZ, three Special Mission Helicopters for search and rescue; and four Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. The sea assets consist of two Special Mission Vessels and 17 Fast Interceptor Boats. As we move to the end of the year, the Federal Government is expected to do more in terms of waterways security and infrastructural development. Other stakeholders who spoke with The Nation in separate interviews, urged the Federal Government to focus  on the  sector. They said the sector has much to offer the economy in terms of jobs and wealth creation, reduction in inflation and debt profile and contribute to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP).  Over reliance on oil Many stakeholders who spoke with this newspaper noted that the country has relied so much on the crude oil economy and urged the government to focus on other sources particularly the maritime trade and agricultural sector. In rejuvenating the economy, a maritime analyst, Mr Semiu Olufowobi,  said maritime remains the key sector apart from oil and agriculture. “Now is the time for the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to focus on other sources, particularly the maritime sector which covers both aquatic and marine spaces including oceans, seas, coasts, lakes, rivers and underground waters. Which also encompasses a range of productive sectors; Fisheries, Aquaculture, Tourism, Transport, Ship building, energy, bio-prospecting, under-water mining and related activities,  pointing towards economic prosperity, when adequately harnessed. “Crude oil contributes to less than 10 per cent of our GDP but accounts for roughly 90 per cent of our foreign exchange earnings and half of the government revenue. The recession we are facing is based on the collapse in oil prices in the wake of the global pandemic which has drained government purse. The economic picture may remain cloudy till the end of next year if the government fails to pay adequate attention to maritime sector that has the potential to generate over N7trillion annually,” Olufowobi said.  Infrastructural development The former General Manager, Public Affairs of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Chief Michael Kayode Ajayi, said the government must  provide the infrastructural base in and out of the port system and see to human capital and manpower development. Ajayi  decried the situation in Apapa, Lagos and urged the government to fix the Oshodi/Apapa Expressway to boost business at the port and generate more revenue to revitalise the economy. He said the quick rehabilitation of the road from Tin Can Island Port to Mile 2 in Lagos would assist in salvaging the economy. To move out of recession, out of the wood the Federal government, Ajayi said, needs to protect the nation’s over $14billion maritime trade from criminals operating on its territorial waters. This, he said, would be achieved by strengthening the institutional capabilities of maritime agencies, thereby positioning the country as a hub of maritime activities in West and Central Africa to boost the economy. “Based on its potential, the nation’s maritime sector has come under siege by criminal elements who orchestrate acts of piracy, sea robbery, arms proliferation, crude oil theft, terrorism, migration, illegal and unregulated fishing and oil theft within territorial waters. “Statistics show a total freight cost estimate of between $5 billion and $6 billion annually, while the maritime component of Nigeria’s oil and gas industry is worth an estimated $8 billion alongside seaborne transportation, oceanic extractive resource exploitation and export processing zones. Therefore, there is no other time than now for the Federal Government to protect the nation’s over $14billion maritime trade,” Chief Ajayi said. A safe, secure and efficient shipping industry, Ajayi  said, would assist in revitalising and diversifying the nation’s economy away from crude oil exploration to a  vibrant maritime trade.  Assist local shipowners The Federal Government, through the Federal Ministry of Transportation and NIMASA, a maritime lawyer, Mr Samson Felix said, must in the second half of the year remove everything that is causing delays in the disbursement of the Cabotage Vessel Financing Funds (CVFF), to assist the local shipowners to grow and contribute to the economy. “Maritime trade alone can service the nation’s annual budget, if properly harnessed. The country is lagging behind in the comity of nations when it comes to ship ownership and shipping business. For instance, the world blue economy is worth over $24 trillion. Undoubtedly, blue economy offers great opportunities for foreign exchange earnings. It is also unfortunate that the country is yet to take full advantage and harnessed enormous potential in the sector Also, the Chairman, Nigerian Ports Consultative Council (NPCC), Otunba Kunle Folarin, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to assist the industry to arrest its declining fortune and contribute meaningfully to the economy ” the way it does in other clime”. Folarin lamented that the sector had not achieved its goals since the beginning of the year and urged the government to formulate and implement policies and programmes that have the capacity to boost the economy in the second half of the year. The former member of Presidential Taskforce on the Reform of Nigeria Customs Service; Presidential Committee on Destination Inspection and Ministerial Committee on Fiscal Policy and Import Clearance Procedure, Mr Lucky Amewiro, agreed maritime has the potential to boost the  economy. 