 It is no longer news the COVID-19 Delta Variant has been detected in Nigeria. It was discovered in a traveller after going through the routine travel test required for all international travellers. A statement by the Head of Communications of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), Yahya Disu, explained that given the highly transmissible nature of the Delta variant, all Nigerians must ensure strict adherence to public health and social measures in place. Within days of its discovery in Nigeria, there has been a lot of information that has been spreading about the variant especially on WhatsApp, most of which bordered on misinformation. One of the messages being circulated on WhatsApp reads: “With the new virus Covid Delta, There is no cough, no fever.  There is a lot of joint pain, headache, neck and upper back pain, general weakness, loss of appetite, and pneumonia, it’s Covid Delta!  And of course, It’s more virulent and with a higher mortality rate.  Sometimes without symptoms!!  Let’s be more careful! This strain does not live in the naso-pharyngeal region !!  Now it directly affects the lungs, which means that the periods of time are shorter. I have seen several patients without fever, without pain, but who report mild chest pneumonia on their X-rays. Nasal swab tests are very often negative for Covid-19 !!, and there are more and more false-negative results from nasopharyngeal tests.  This means that the virus spreads and spreads directly to the lungs, causing acute respiratory stress caused by viral pneumonia. This explains why it has become sharp, more virulent and deadly !! Please, let’s be more careful, avoid crowded places, keep 1.5 m distance even in open places … let’s use double masks, face mask and wash our hands often (and when we cough or sneeze).  Please no hugs and kisses, it is very dangerous at the moment, everyone is asymptomatic. This * “wave” * is much more deadly than the first.  So we have to be VERY careful and take * all kinds of precautions * Do not keep this information to yourself, share it as much as you can, especially to family and friends.”  What is the COVID-19 Delta variant? WHO’s chief scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, during episode 44 of the WHO Science in 5, explained the Delta variant is the fourth variant of concern described by WHO because it is more transmissible than the previous variant and also has been able to resist the antibodies that we have in our blood. She noted that to overcome the Delta Variant, one would need a higher level of antibodies In its science Conversation episode 45 on the 5th July 2021, an expert with the WHO, Dr Maria Van Kerkhove explained that the Delta variant is a variant of concern that the WHO is tracking and monitoring around the world. The Delta variant of concern because it has increased transmissibility as it spreads between people more efficiently than the Alpha variant that was first detected around January 2021. The Delta variant has been reported in 96 countries and it is expected to continue to spread. The first case of infection of the variant was identified in India in December 2020 and Delta soon became the dominant variant there, eventually leading to a deadly second wave of COVID-19 in the country. According to a study published in the journal Science in April 2021, the Delta Variant was said to be 43 to 90 per cent more infectious than the original virus. Early research on the variant suggests it may be linked to more severe infections. A study of 38,805 cases published by Public Health England on June 11 found that people infected by the Delta Variant had a 2.61 greater risk of being hospitalised within 14 days of infection compared with people infected by the alpha variant. According to the WHO Director-General, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyhe, the Delta variant is crippling around the world at a scorching pace, driving a new spike in cases and deaths. Delta is now in more than 104 countries and we expect it to soon be the dominant COVID-19 strain circulating worldwide.  Does the Delta variant come without symptoms? While the Delta Variant is more severe than other variants of the COVID-19 virus, it is however untrue it comes without symptoms as claimed in this sentence in the message being forwarded on WhatsApp which states: “And of course, It’s more virulent and with a higher mortality rate.  Sometimes without symptoms!!” While the Delta variant is said to be faster and fitter and will pick off the more vulnerable more efficiently than previous variants, it comes with symptoms like other variants of the COVID-19. There is limited research regarding whether or not the Delta variant causes more severe illness than other variants but according to Public Health England, early data suggests that the Delta variant is more likely to lead to hospitalisation than Alpha due to increased transmissibility. Data from the Zoe COVID Symptom Study, an app that allows people to track symptoms, shows COVID-19 symptoms in the United Kingdom may be changing as the delta variant spreads. Top symptoms reported on the app include headache, cough, sore throat, runny nose and fever. These are all typical COVID-19 symptoms generally but do not include the tell-tale sign of taste or smell loss. Researchers are concerned people may mistake symptoms for a bad cold and avoid quarantine, helping the variant spread. Tim Spector, a professor of genetic epidemiology at King’s College London, runs the Zoe Covid Symptom study, an ongoing U.K.-based study that enables the public to enter their COVID-19 symptoms on an app when enables scientists to analyze the data in a YouTube Briefing a month ago noted that the Delta Variant had different symptoms than the usual COVID-19 symptoms. “It’s more like a bad cold in this younger population and people don’t realize that and that hasn’t come across in any of the government information. “Since the start of May, we have been looking at the top symptoms in the app users and they are not the same as they were. The number one symptom is headache, followed by sore throat, runny nose and fever. “More traditional Covid symptoms such as a cough and loss of smell were much rarer now, with younger people experiencing much more of a bad cold or funny off feeling.”, he said.  Photo Credit: The Conversation Website However, that does not rule out the fact that there may be people who will have no Symptoms because they are asymptomatic but not everyone is asymptomatic.  Can the vaccines protect from the Delta variant? Some studies have shown that vaccinated people may retain protection against severe disease and hospitalisation. COVID-19 vaccines made by Pfizer (PFE.N) and AstraZeneca (AZN.L) are said to offer high protection of more than 90% against hospitalisation from the Delta coronavirus variant, a new analysis by Public Health England (PHE) showed as reported by Reuters. PHE said that the Pfizer/Biontech COVID-19 vaccine was 96% effective against hospitalisation from the Delta variant after two doses, while Oxford/AstraZeneca’s offered 92% protection against hospitalisation by Delta. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) issued a joint statement saying that Americans who have been fully vaccinated do not now need a booster shot. “People who are fully vaccinated are protected from severe disease and death, including from the variants currently circulating in the country such as delta,” the joint statement stated.