 The National Working Committee (NWC) of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has approved the timetable and schedule of activities for the party’s congresses in nine states later this year. A statement yesterday in Abuja by the party’s spokesman Kola Ologbondiyan listed the states as Lagos, Oyo, Adamawa, Kebbi, Borno, Kogi, Osun, Kwara and Ebonyi. The statement said: “In the case of Lagos, Oyo, Adamawa, Kebbi, Borno, Kogi, Osun and Kwara states, the tenure of the Excos, by Section 47(1) of the PDP Constitution (as amended), would be expiring, having been elected in 2017. “For clarity, in Kogi State, congresses are to hold only in wards and local governments, while in Osun, congresses are to hold in some respective wards only. “However, in the case of Ebonyi, congress would be conducted to elect new Excos, following the dissolution of the state structure due to political realignments occasioned by the defection of the governors and others to another party.” According to the timetable, the sale of nomination forms, including ad hoc delegates forms, will hold on July 26 to August 27, 2021, while the last day for the submission of forms has been fixed for September 6, 2021.  The statement said all forms are to be obtained at the party’s Abuja national secretariat. The statement added: “By the timetable, Ward Congresses to elect Ward Excos and three ad hoc delegates have been scheduled for Saturday, September 25, 2021; local government congresses to elect local government Excos and national delegates have been fixed for Tuesday, October 5, 2021, while the state congresses have been scheduled for Saturday, October 16, 2021.” Also, the party’s NWC said it had approved the appointment of a caretaker committee to run the affairs of the party in Zamfara State. This followed the defection of Governor Bello Matawalle as well as federal and state lawmakers to the All Progressives Congress (APC). A statement yesterday by Ologbondiyan said the caretaker committee is chaired by Capt. Umar Bature (retd) with Yusuf L. Dambazzau as its Secretary. Other members of the committee are: Farouk Shettima Rijiya, Alhaji Barmo Abdullahi Kanoma, Alhaji Muhammadu Dan Gwamna Gummi, Alhaji Usamatu Maharazu Marafa and Bala Mohammed Zurmi. Others are: Sani Ahmed Kaura, Medinah Shehu and Abba Bello Oando. The statement added that the committee has a 90-day tenure, pending the election of a new set of executive committee members.    