 Hundreds of supporters of now-wanted Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly known as Sunday Igboho, yesterday staged a protest following the raid by operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) at his Soka home Ibadan. The DSS had last week said a joint team of security operatives raided Igboho’s residence based on an intelligence report. The raid however had been condemned by many Nigerians, including activist lawyer, Femi Falana (SAN) and Nobel Laureate Prof. Wole Soyinka. The supporters of Igboho, under the aegis of Yoruba Nation Agitator, gathered in front of his house to protest before moving round the Ibadan metropolis. Many berated the operatives for declaring Igboho wanted. Some others stated that the Federal Government must pay the N500 million damages as requested by Igboho’s lawyer. Many of the supporters carried placards which read: “No retreat, no surrender!”, “Oodua Nation!”, “Sunday Igboho is not a criminal!” among others. The protesters also demand the release of some allies of the Yoruba freedom fighter currently in detention of the security agency. One of the protesters, who prefer anonymity, while addressing the gathering, said they would marched to the palace of Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji; and from there proceed to the Government House, among other places. Oba Saliu Adetunji, however, appealed to supporters of Igboho to be peaceful and law-abiding in presenting their grievances. The Olubadan, who initially received the protesters at his Popoyemoja Palace, later instructed Mr. Adeola Oloko, his Personal Assistant/Head of Media, to address them.  Adetunji appealed to them to be peaceful and law-abiding in presenting their grievances to the Federal Government. Urging them to be patient with the government, the traditional ruler called for peace in Ibadanland and the entire state in general. He assured the protesters that their demands for the release of those arrested in Igboho’s house within seven days, would be presented to the appropriate quarters. The Olubadan also promised that he would organise a stakeholders’ meeting to see to their demands. Adetunji, however, debunked the claims in the social media that he had been “settled” by the government, saying there is no iota of truth in the said publication. The youths also stormed the Oyo State Government Secretariat, Agodi Ibadan in continuation. The protest initially caused a minor scare at the State Secretariat as workers and people around the complex took to their heels in different directions on sighting the large crowd coming towards the secretariat. Not long afterwards, the Executive Assistant to Governor Seyi Makinde on Security, CP Sunday Odukoya (retd) arrived at the secretariat’s under-flyover to address the protesters. Speaking, one of the leaders said their demand of Yoruba Nation is unchanged and condemned the invasion and raid on Igboho’s residence. But, Odukoya commended the youths for their peaceful conduct in carrying out their protest, urging them to state their demands and grievances in black and white so that same can be formally forwarded to the governor. He, however, assured that a report of the incident and their demands would be communicated to the governor immediately for prompt attention. When asked on any form of assurance that the government would take up the case, the retired CP said: “If they reduce it to writing, actions will definitely be taken. That’s all.”  