 The maritime sector moves substantial volume of the materials that are traded internationally – about 70 to 90 percent – and is essential to the global supply chains. So, whatever threatens its ability to function efficiently and smoothly will not only affect the economy, but will also disrupt markets in other sectors and affect the people substantially. The Apapa  gridlock remains a problem to trade facilitation at the port in the first half of the year, compounded by many challenges. Good pricing for profit One of the main purposes of starting any business, including a maritime transport company, is to maximise benefits for the owners. However, importers said, this becomes harder to achieve in the last six months because of unreasonable freight rates that have led to some vicious competitiveness among shipping operators. Importers said they were working hard to maximise profits and revenue. “And the only tool in the marketing mix that generates revenue is good pricing,” said, an importer, Mr Adegbola Adebiyi For companies to succeed in increasing profits, he said, pricing should be given a top priority among other business development efforts. Furthermore, when formulating a pricing strategy for shipping, “it helps to have an expert team whose sole aim is to develop and supervise the process so as to achieve optimal pricing,” he said.  Onitsha port Stakeholders said the policy of the Federal Government to ensure that the Onitsha River Port commences full operation in the first and second  quarters of this year is yet to be fulfilled. The plan by the Federal Government to start operation at the port was made known by the Area Manager of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Onitsha, Anambra State, Mrs Queen Uba, during an interactive session with reporters in Onitsha. She said NIWA had been making efforts toward the full operation of a port in the Southeast. She said the commencement of operation of Onitsha River Port was being put on hold due to the ongoing concessioning. She said: “NIWA has put in place necessary things for effective operation of the port and we are just waiting for the completion of the concession. While we are waiting for the completion of the process, the management has entered into agreement with Connect Rail Services Limited to kick-start the lifting of goods from the port to other places in the country.” Also, the Onistha River Port Manager, Mr. Baba Spencer said: “While the concession is ongoing, the Connect Rail Services Limited has been contracted to use the port stacking yard as a bonded terminal to kick-start the functionalities of the port operation on temporary basis until the concession is fully concluded. “When the port commences full operation, it would reduce the cost of moving goods and human from Onitsha to other parts of the country. The full operation of the port would promote and increase commercial activities and attract more investors into the state. “Onitsha River port was built under the administration of President Shehu Shagari in 1983 and since then, it has been lying fallow and completely underutilised up till the present moment despite the huge investment by the government.’’  Cyber security threat The industry has always been targeted by cybercriminals and the danger is very much alive since the beginning of the year. Experts advise that as fleets recover from the losses sustained amid the global pandemic, both the indigenous foreign ship owners did well by not releasing their guard. “The latest cyber-attacks on high-tech organisations like Google and a big software vendor in Germany, Software AG, has demonstrated the capabilities and sophistication of many cyber thugs and hackers.These events make it imperative for the maritime sector to be more vigilant towards cyber-attacks. “The damaging effect a successful cyber-attack would have on crew safety and shipping operations is better imagined than felt. That’s why one of the first tasks the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) will undertook in January, this year was to introduce new safety rules.’’  NIMASA campaigns to end the war risk surcharge Following the reduction in piracy incidents on the Nigerian waters and the Gulf of Guinea since February, when the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) deployed the Integrated National Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure, popularly known as the Deep Blue Project, the Director-General (DG) , NIMASA, Dr Bashir Jamoh has started a campaign to end the war risk surcharge on Nigeria-bound cargoes. The DG, who was unhappy over the persisting War Risk Insurance on Nigerian-bound cargoes, called on the international community to remove it.  Deployment of Deep Blue Project Speaking during the kick-off of the deep blue project in Lagos by President Muhammadu Buhari, Jamoh said: “Since the deployment of the deep blue project assets in February, there had been a steady decline in piracy attacks in the Nigerian waters on a monthly basis. “We, therefore, invite the international shipping community to rethink the issue of war risk insurance on cargo bound for our ports. Nigeria has demonstrated enough commitment towards tackling maritime insecurity to avert such premium burden,” Jamoh said. According to a non-profit organisation Oceans Beyond Piracy’s 2020 reports, the total cost of additional war risk area premiums incurred by Nigeria-bound ships transiting the Gulf  of Guinea was $55.5 million in 2020 alone, and 35 per cent of ships transiting the area also carried additional kidnap and ransom insurance totalling $100.7 million. Insecurity got so bad in the region before the deployment of the deep blue project that global insurance firm Beazley now offers “Gulf of Guinea Piracy Plus,” an insurance plan for maritime crew travelling through the area. The plan provides compensation for illegal vessel seizures and crew kidnappings even in the absence of ransom demands. It tracks insured vessels on a 24-hour basis, but because the risks are so high, it limits claims to $25 million.  CVFF disbursement Operators say NIMASA performed well during the period under review as the agency is showing the ability to carry out its core responsibilities of assisting indigenous ship owners through its plan to disburse the Cabotage fund to indigenous operators. However, indigenous participation in the shipping sector, which is the core responsibility of the agency was at its lowest ebb during the period because of lack of fund from the government and the current economic crisis across the world.  Who controls Hydrographic Survey? The question, which agency of the government will control  the Hydrographic Survey became an issue during the period under review. The House of Representatives is considering a bill, which seeks to create a Hydrographic Survey under the Nigerian Navy with the mandate to be in charge of survey and charting of waterways. But NIMASA has expressed its opposition to the Hydrographic Survey Bill. The agency opposed the bill over what it called “apparent militarisation” of the yet-to-be created agency. The position of the agency was presented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transportation, Magdalene Ajayi, during the public hearing on the bill organised by the House Committee on Navy. NIMASA adopted the position of the ministry. The bill, sponsored by Yusuf Gagdi (APC, Plateau), who is also the Chairman of the Committee on Navy, seeks to create the agency, under the Nigerian Navy, with the mandate to be in charge of survey and charting of waterways. The bill was introduced on July 23, 2020 and passed for second reading on December 8, 2020. Mrs Ajayi said: “Hydrography is important to both military and civil authority, but the bill seeks to make hydrography the primary responsibility of the Navy. There seems to be an apparent militarisation of the proposed agency. Hydrography as a discipline is subject to both military and civil authorities worldwide. Hydrographic services are relevant to naval authority, to commercial shipping entities. “The bill appears to situate the subject as of primary interest only to the Navy, leading to an error, in our view, in establishing a national agency as an arm to the Nigerian Navy,” she said.  Foreign ship owners domination Foreign ships owners still dominated the nation’s waters – a development, which indigenous ship owners have persistently criticised. Other stakeholders said the foreign dominance costs Nigeria huge revenue losses yearly.  Not much investment in automation There was no much investment in digitalisation and automation in the seaport during the period. But the global pandemic has shown how important  digitalisation and eliminating paper work are in the shipping industry. Standards and interoperability in electronic documentation was poor. Digitilisation of the supply chain and real-time tracking and tracing were at the lowest ebb by the government agencies at port “and that is why our ports are  losing their competitive edge to the ports of neighbouring countries. Increased digitalisation, a maritime lawyer, Dr Dipo Alaka said, “ will also come with increased cybersecurity risks, another thing that the agencies will need to pay attention to in the next six months.”  Change of guards at Shippers’ Council The retirement of Mr Hassan Bello as the Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) in the middle of the year was big news. Will the   new ES be able to wear the big shoes left by Bello? Bello was the first person to be appointed internally in almost 30 years of the agency.  Shippers want a new port order The Shipper Association of Lagos State called for better collaboration among stakeholders to usher in a new port order for the country. Its President, Jonathan Nichol,  said the new port order will improve the relationship between the terminal operator’s, shipping lines, shippers and government agencies and create an enabling shipping environment for all. His words: “Our pursuit of a new port order is sacrosanct. There will be cordial relationship with the terminal operators and the shipping lines as it used to be. We believe we understand ourselves better nowadays. “With the inauguration of the National Shippers Association of Nigeria recently, the public will witness a new dawn in the sector. The move coincides with appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer for the Nigerian Shippers Council who will pilot the affairs and to whom we will offer our unflinching support and cooperation,’’ he said. Nichol said indiscriminate port charges would be tackled by stakeholders in the sector under the new port order. “Shippers will engage and work harmoniously with all the government agencies, especially with NIMASA who have in recent times kicked against war risk insurance; the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) and Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON),” he added.  Change at the ports The removal of the Managing Director,  the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Hadiza Bala-Usman in  May, by President Muhammadu Buhari came as a surprise to many stakeholders in the sector and Nigerias in general. Her removal followed the acceptance of the recommendation of the Ministry of Transportation under Mr Rotimi Amaechi to set up an Administrative Panel of Inquiry to investigate the Management of the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) under Ms Bala-Usman. The President also approved the then Executive Director Finance and Administration of NPA, Mr Mohammed Koko,  to take charge in acting capacity The President of the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders (NAGAFF), Increase Uche and other stakeholders, said Ms Usman’s removal was a setback in the campaign for women inclusion in government and the maritime industry in particular.  