 Operatives of the Lagos Police Command have arrested 1,320 suspected hoodlums and miscreants in major raids across the state. This is just as the command said it arrested 185 suspected armed robbers, cultists and murderers. Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu made this disclosure at a press briefing to highlight the achievements of the command since May. He said those arrested comprised 66 suspected armed robbers, 72 cultists and 47 murderers. The police boss said the command recovered 110 firearms, 125 ammunition, 80 bags of weed suspected to be marijuana, eight vehicles, four cult regalia, as well as stolen phones, watches, wallets, knives, cutlasses, swords, various drinks and assorted drugs. According to Odumosu, the command has strategically harnessed all available means of having adequate and solid security system in Lagos State, including constant engagement of stakeholders, robust intelligence gathering, multi-agency collaboration and incorporating forensic (scientific) methods of investigating cases. He said the coordinated raids of blackspots were aimed at addressing isolated cases of traffic robbery, adding that some tactical units established by the command to tackle new dimensions of social vices were delivering positive results. “Many cases that were recorded have been unravelled while many suspects arrested have been prosecuted. Isolated cases of robbery in traffic have also been tackled. The perennial gridlock in the city is attributable to numerous road rehabilitations that are simultaneously going on in almost all parts of the city. “The effect of this on robbery in traffic is being adequately taken care of by the command. The tactical teams and other science-based units of the command have put their resources together to reduce these menaces to their barest minimum in Lagos State, since no society is absolutely free of crimes.  “Equally, due to the general appraisal of security of the state and robust intelligence gathering, the Command has embarked on constant raid of flash points, where miscreants who terrorise innocent people of Lagos State, especially attacking them in traffic, hibernate across the state. “The idea is to be proactive and take the fight against crimes and criminality to their dens. Permit me to state, at this juncture, that the command, today, is parading a total number of 1,320 miscreants/hoodlums who were raided at various locations across the state and many dangerous weapons, suspected hard drugs and weeds suspected to be Indian hemp were recovered from them. “The command wishes to reiterate its determination and commitment to harness all available means of reducing crimes and social vices in Lagos State as required of the police,” he said. The Nation reports that among those paraded was a woman, Augustina Onyenwe, 60, alleged to be running a baby factory at 2, Lawson Road, Isolo. The suspect was arrested on July 1, after policemen received information that she normally kept young pregnant women there till they were delivered of their babies. The police team that went there, it was gathered rescued two heavily pregnant women aged 32 and 20 years who were moved to protective custody. According to Odumosu, the suspect has made confessional statement and would be charged to court as soon as possible. Also arrested were some of the suspects who escaped from lawful custody during last October’s #ENDSARS violence only to return to armed robbery in different parts of the state. 