Special Adviser to the President, Femi Adesina, has not met anyone he cannot address yet, and that too with cynicism. He lays claim to being author of several epistles to the Church. He accused the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) of trying to dress the president in borrowed robes. He was the one who, through some form of deduction, blamed churches and mosques in the aftermath of the #EndSARS affair. He stood in prosecution against the church leaders who gave apocalyptic prophecies against Nigeria. His pen was ready to praise Pastor W. F Kumuyi when he saw light at the end of the tunnel which Nigeria currently remains trapped in, at which instance he took time to fall upon other preachers who thought otherwise. His most recent joust, however, was with Primate Ayodele Elijah of INRI Evangelical Ministries, who prophesied that Nigeria would not survive beyond 2040. The Special Adviser has a right to freedom of expression and freedom to disseminate information even though the National Assembly appears unhappy with the enjoyment of that right. He, however, must learn the discretion that should come with the enjoyment of that right. He alleges that his destiny is hid in God. Christians genuinely hope that it is. Notwithstanding the declaration by a coalition of Christian non-governmental organisations that he is a disgrace to Christianity, the general wish is for him to succeed. That wish is more likely to come to fulfilment if he bridles his pen. A principal may order his subordinate, but that subordinate must retain governance of his soul. Mr Adesina may later find that he does not need to respond to everything, especially not by trying to discredit the ministry of clergymen. If indeed they are false prophets, then he must leave them to God for judgement. Prophecies are tricky things, for they are not etched in stone. A prophecy is a moot statement that can be evaded or brought to manifestation through prayers. If some of Primate Ayodele’s statements have not come to fruition for whatever reasons, does it mean he should no longer give prophecies? Mr Adesina, despite his hasty interventions, had accomplished a lot in his media career. He may have developed a fatigued method of writing recently, but he is still a gifted writer. Although his writings appear less reflective and seem to suggest that he no longer pilots his own craft, they are still poignant. Only few have reached the heights he has – from reporter to Special Adviser to the President. He must therefore learn caution lest he puts his own legacy to the sword through reckless conflicts with the church.