Adeola Sosanwo, an engineer by training is the Chairman/CEO of SAS Foundation. The Ogun-state born business mogul and philanthropist in this interview with Ernest Nwokolo speaks on one of the major turnkey projects embarked upon by the Governor Dapo Abiodun-led administration. Excerpts:  Governor Dapo Abiodun, despite the uncooperative attitude of some members of National Assembly has remained committed to actualising the long abandoned dream of a Cargo Airport at Iperu, what is your take on this? The governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun  is not only constructing the much talked about Cargo Airport because of its huge economic benefits to the state and the country at large, he has equally been amazing in the area of road construction. He has almost completed the reconstruction of Sagamu-Siun-Abeokuta expressway likewise the Ijebu Ode-Epe ongoing ten lane dualisation project, the road that was once a nightmare is also nearing completion. This is in addition to several other road projects across the three senatorial districts. Don’t forget that the governor has against established norm of the past been also working on some road projects abandoned by his predecessor, Sen Ibikunle Amosun. I think regardless of what anyone says, Governor  Abiodun who is not given to shouting from the rooftop has tactically been achieving his set out goals in developing Ogun State. You know that this Agro Cargo Airport was started by former Gov Gbenga Daniel but his successor, Sen Ibikunle Amosun throughout his eight years left this project unattended to but part of the promises of Governor Dapo Abiodun is that he would make this dream come true and sincerely, he has remained committed to fufiling this promise. I have been to the Agro Cargo Airport project site for about five times and I really must commend the governor for his serious commitment. However, one will expect that members of the national assembly, especially, our own Senator representing Ogun East will give the governor his support over this project but that has not been the case. You know while I was in PDP, in 2019, I contested against this Senator and we even went to court after the election, I later withdrew the case and part of our negotiation was that he would support the governor in his developmental strides for the state but he has decided to do as it pleases him. Luckily, God is helping our Governor to forge ahead with the good work. I must also salute Sen Adeola Olamilekan representing Lagos West and a member of Senate Committee on Aviation for giving the governor so much support on this project. I equally want to beg other members of the national assembly to rally round the governor and make this project a success, it’s really not too late for them. Of what economic benefits is this multimillion dollar project to the people of the state? The Cargo Airport is of huge economic benefits to the state. It will stimulate a lot of employment and economic activities around haulage, hotel reservation and many other ancillary services that are peculiar to an airport. It will impact seriously on agricultural practices and boost food production because many investors in agriculture in Southwest and even from the east will latch on these opportunities to get their produce to the end users and even export to earn more money. The Cargo Airport will also help to decongest Lagos Airport, the benefits are so much, until this project materialises we really won’t understand some of these things. If it is only this project that the governor can do, then he is good for another term. What is your perception of Governor Abiodun’s government as whole? Yes, the governor has remained dedicated to diligently serving his people, he has embarked on projects that he may not be able to finish within his first term, yet he has several others that he want to embark upon during his second term. And having done fantastically well in just two years, I want to plead with Governor Dapo Abiodun to please run for another term in 2023. It is the wish of the people of Ogun State that the amazing development across the nook and cranny of the state should continue beyond 2023. There’s this project of Olokola Free Trade Zone in Ogun East that will not only create employment, boost the Internally Generated Revenue but also raise the international status of the state. The governor needs time to get all this done. I also want to add that rather than just criticising the governor unnecessarily, we must all try to encourage the governor in our own little way and support him to do more. 