Due to the increasing hostilities among Fulani and the Berom communities in Plateau State that led to the latest killing of two persons, the Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) has organised an emergency peace meeting between the farmers and herders to find a lasting solution to the attacks. The peace parley, which was on instance of the newly posted  Commander, Major-General, Ibrahim Ali of the task force saddled to maintain peace in Plateau, Bauchi and some parts of Kaduna, expressed disgust over the escalating attacks and counter attacks, especially in the Northern zone of the state. The meeting which was held at the OPSH’s headquarters in Jos had in attendance the representatives of Fulani herders and community leaders of Berom from Barkin Ladi and Riyom Local Government Area of the State. Speaking during the meeting, General Ali, who doubles as the Commanding Officer, 3 Division, warned both herders and farmers against taking law into their hands, requesting that whatever happened to any member of a community should be reported to the personnel of the operation deployed to their areas, or any appropriate authority, assuring that the OPSH under his watch would do everything possible to ensure justice and fairness to everyone. He said, “The work is not easy but it is possible. Attacks and counter attacks must be stopped. No herder should rear cows on any farm crops. If any herder is caught rearing or destroying farm crops, he will be dealt with. “Again, no farmer should kill cows. If cows eat your crops, report to us. All complaints should be reported to the appropriate authorities before taking any action.” He also said rearing must stop at 6pm, adding that any community leader found harbouring criminals will be dealt with. The MACBAN chairman of Barikin Ladi LGA, Muhammad Muhammad, explained that lack of justice and fairness had often been the problem of the 20 years crisis, saying once justice was done, there would be peace. All the communities at the meeting agreed to sheath their sword and cooperate with the commander to attain a lasting peace.