There were lots of sunshine, rains and spectacular finals  that threw up two new champions yet there was no change of guards as defending champions Jos Malcomines  secured  a fourth back-to -back victory in the just concluded 2021 Bauchi annual polo tournament. The international polo fiesta that was the last event of the 2020/2021 polo season in Nigeria, also produced debuting ASI-Kano team, Bauchi Percentage team and Kano Bichi as winners of the Tafewa Balewa Cup, Sarikin Fulani Cup and the Emir of Bauchi Cup respectively. Murtala Laushi Miners from the Plateau  extended their winning streak in Bauchi to a fourth straight year running, defeating the hard fighting Kaduna Tila Farms 5-3 in a fiercely fought Governor’s Cup final that keep the crowd on its feet from start to finish. It  was after six days of unforgettable top flight polo actions witnessed by royalties, top government officials, business gurus, diplomats and thousands of enthusiasts, debuting Asi-Kano team upsets crowd favourites, Bauchi Manchong side 31/2-2 to clinch their first Tafewa Balewa Cup title. Another home favourites , Bauchi Dokaji Farms with their patron Senator Dokaji leading the charge, also fail to the fire power of visiting Kano Bichi team 2-41/2 in crunch final match that lasted over two hours at the legendary Col. Dangiwa Umar Polo Ground, venue the grand fiesta. Another debutant, Kano Triple M side to earn their first major polo laurel in Bauchi, ran into the roughs as home side Bauchi Percentage gave  their teeming supporters plenty to celebrate about, edging Triple M 5-31/2 in the Sarikin Fulani Cup  final. “It’s unbelievable. I couldn’t describe the first time we won so I don’t know how to put this one into words,” Malcomines patron Laushi said. “It’s an amazing feeling and I’m just so proud of all the boys. It’s a huge honour. “We knew that to win the Governor’s Cup against a crack side like Kaduna Tila with Bello Buba pivoting,  is hard to earn given their competitive histories, so we definitely earned it today  through hard work and I thanks my teammates for their fighting spirits,” he added. The Meanwhile,  Buba and his Kaduna warriors, who were on the verge of ending Jos’ dominance in Bauchi, had their slow start and a dip in their horse power to blame for the narrow loss that denied them the tournament top prize. “It was the greatest final ever witnessed in Bauchi for a long time. We congratulate the winners and salute the support of our numerous fans. Today is theirs, our next meeting will be ours,” Buba noted after the closing ceremonies. Other glittering prizes of the prestigious 2021 Bauchi polo carnival include   The Wazirin Bauchi Cup, Emir of Ningi Cup and the NASCO Cup which saw Haruna Ningi pivoted Fas Agro defeating the long travelling Strata Base team from Port Harcourt who were rewarded with a Runners-up prize. Emir of Bauchi and Vice Presidents of the Nigeria Polo Federation (NPF) led other dignitaries to present prizes to the winners and runners-up at a colourful closing ceremony to bring the curtain on another episode of Bauchi annual polo extravaganza and end of season. In their closing remarks, Vice President of Bauchi Polo Club, Aliyu Sambo alongside the Bauchi Polo Secretary, Haruna Ningi both expressed delight with the state government and other sponsors, for their loyalty to the sports of kings. They also lauded the sportsmanship, discipline and peaceful conduct of both the players and spectators. 