THE Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), yesterday emphasised why it is imperative for leaders to maintain calmness while facing crisis in leadership. The Vice President spoke at the 25th year anniversary conference of the Redeemer’s International Leadership Academy themed: Winning in Adversity, organised by the Redeemed Christian Church of God. According to a statement issued by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Laolu Akande, Professor Osinbajo noted leaders’ ability to stay composed under the pressure of crisis would serve as example to those being led. The Vice President stated that “it is in times of adversity or difficulty, or hardship that leaders are most relevant and most needed. “The leader cannot afford to lose his cool or his focus. He must calm himself down and calm the people down as well.” According to the Vice President, “when all is well, there is no need for guidance, encouragement or instruction, but it is especially in the midst of wars, conflicts, insurgency, famines, danger, and fear, that people look to leadership.” Referencing the story of Moses and the Israelites in the Bible, Prof Osinbajo noted that “Moses looked up to God for help and God spoke to Him. But note that Moses first gave the people confidence in the power of God to deliver and fulfil His promises. “He had not yet heard from God on this particular problem, but because he knew the God he served, he was able to say this with confidence.” In the virtual keynote address at the conference of the Redeemer’s International Leadership Academy, the VP stressed the need for leaders to remain unruffled because “in adversity, especially where the future looks bleak, people want to give up, retreat, go back and they certainly don’t want to go forward.” Prof. Osinbajo himself an alumnus of the Academy then encouraged leaders, particularly Christian leaders, to act in faith and not fear when they are faced with crisis, especially existential crisis. His words, “God knows all things; we must obey in faith even when we are afraid. This is the burden of leadership, especially leadership according to the principles of scripture.” In attendance at the conference were Pastor A.A Bolarinwa, Assistant Continental Overseer, Research and Development of the RCCG, Pastor Idowu Iluyomade, Inter-continental Overseer for Corporate Social Responsibility and Pastor in Charge, RCCG Region 20 and Pastor Banky Ladele, the Acting Rector RILA.