The 15th Emir of Kano, Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, will be coronated and formally presented with staff of office on Saturday. The Madakin Kano and chairman, Publicity Sub-Committee of the coronation, Alhaji Nabahani Ibrahim, disclosed this to newsmen in Kano. The Kano emirate has fixed five-day ceremonies that will mark the coronation. Ibrahim said celebration started with coronation lecture on Thursday. The whole event will end with special coronation durbar on Monday. The coronation lecture was delivered by immediate past Vice-Chancellor of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Prof. Abdallah Uba Adamu, with the title: ‘Kano emirate: Yesterday, today and tomorrow.’ It held at Convocation Arena, Bayero University, Kano. “A special prayer session would hold on Friday at Kano Central Mosque, for peace and security. Later in the evening, there will be dinner to welcome invited guests. “On Saturday, the main coronation will take place at Sani Abacha stadium, Kofar Mata. On Monday, by God’s grace, the emir will hold a special coronation durbar to receive homage from Kano people,” the Madakin Kano said. Among the special dignitaries expected to grace the occasion are Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, Ministers and traditional rulers from all parts of the country. On security, Alhaji Ibrahim said provision has been made for about 4,000 security personnel, adding that access to the venues will be strictly on invitation. Dan-Daka of Kano and member of the Kano Emirate Council, Abbas Dalhatu, added that the 4000 security personnel have been drawn from the Police, DSS, Military, Civil Defense and other security agencies. There will however, be no restriction of movement especially to traders of Kantin Kwari textile market as guests will use alternative routes that will not make it difficult to other commuters. It was gathered the 16,000-seater Sani Abacha Stadium was chosen for the coronation because of its historical antecedents, close proximity to the emir’s palace and its strategic location in the metropolis. The Nation gathered the stadium area was used in 1963 for the coronation of the late emir of Kano Muhammadu Inuwa and his successor, Alhaji Ado Bayero in 1963. “The late Emir of Kano, Alhaji Ado Bayero was crowned 53 years ago at the Sani Abacha Stadium and the present emir, who is his son, will also be crowned at the same place. “We are going to receive the Vice President, Chief of Staff to the President, Emirs, Obas and so many others, so we want to perfect a true sound event. “After the Coronation, members of the Kano Traditional Institution will go round the Stadium in a Durba after which the Emir himself with his entourage will do their Durba at the place. “On Monday, the Emir will go round Kano on a horse to greet his subjects. The movements will begin from the Emirs Palace to Fagge, Government House, Sabon Gari back to the palace through the City Centre,” the Dan-Daka of Kano Dalhatu said.