 Newspaper reports about five persons arrested in Ondo State for being allegedly in possession of human body parts might be shocking but definitely not new. This is because stories of human body part sales and ritual killings in Nigeria dates back to generations amongst all tribes.  This is rooted in the African supernatural beliefs. Some herbalists and some people in all the religions believe in the fairy tale efficacy of the said items. This warped belief that human body parts of either dead and buried people or murdered humans, especially women, children, the mentally challenged, the disabled and the elderly is the reason there are stories of invasion of cemeteries and various accounts of ritual murders across the country. The erroneous belief that fetish use of human parts can enhance riches, elongate life, assist those involved to access political power is reason there are increased cases of missing persons who are often kidnapped by head-hunters who operate as syndicates in various communities in the country. Most of those often arrested by the police, in confessional statements disclose their modus operandi and the names and status of their syndicates and clients. The worrisome part of human body parts sales is that the narrative about its efficacy in letting those involved achieve their dubious objectives has no scientific validation.  The economic crisis has increased the economic pressure on cititizens with more irresponsible  and sadistic individuals and groups indulging in the business of killing other humans to improve their own lot. The more frightening dimension of the belief in the assumed efficacy of the rituals is that the perpetrators are so narcissistic they even use their biological relatives like mothers, children, and other close relatives as the witch doctors often make them believe that the closer they are to victims, the more efficacious the rituals. The mystery surrounding people’s involvement in rituals with human parts is that it defies tribe, social status and religion. The irony of a country that is seemingly the most religious in the world with more churches, mosques and shrines than industries, but with the most cases of ritual killings and cemetery invasions given the population and statistics, is the hypocrisy of the situation. All the religions practiced in the country all tend to admonish adherents about love and sanctity of the human life but sadly, actions speak louder. We find it contradictory that most of those involved in ritual killings and sale of human parts appear religious without the piety that makes them positively functional beings. We feel that while humans have the freedom to choose, there are certain ways that religion can help if well-channelled, to control the erroneous belief in the assumed magical powers of human parts for ritual purposes. We equally believe that given the recent upsurge in reports of kidnappings and missing persons, the various tiers of government must begin to address the cases of insecurity with more serious attention on the hideouts of these criminals because they do not operate from a vacuum.  The travelling routes and forests can be better secured to keep kidnappers out of business because no one commits such crimes in the open. The invasion of cemeteries for body parts may not be a new phenomenon. But again, it is against the African culture to interfere with corpses as it is seen as having grave spiritual implications for those involved. Cemeteries are in well-designated places around the country and should be better secured by the authorities. Beyond the indignities of violating the dead, most dead people died of various contagious diseases like COVID-19 that can be dire for the living. Beyond cemeteries, it is the same ritual intents that are fuelling the kidnappings around the country that is almost at epidemic level. Something urgent must be done by governments to protect the people and re-orientate them in ways to cub this social menace that comes with huge socio-economic implications. The world has moved beyond vague superstitious beliefs that enhance poverty rather than development. The human beings being killed are productive citizens that can make changes in the life of a nation. The dead in the cemeteries are supposed to be allowed to rest in peace as is the belief in all human creeds.