 The apex Igbo cultural group Ohaneze Ndigbo has agreed to the Actors Guild of Nigeria for the establishment of N1b (one billion Naira) Ohaneze Ndigbo /Nollywood Film fund. President of Actors Guild of Nigeria (AGN) Ejezie Emeka Rollas led stakeholders on a courtesy call to the President General of Ohaneze Ndigbo, Ambassador George Obiozor to propose the partnership recently. Rollas and his team presented a formidable proposition to the Ohaneze on the need to preserve the Igbo language, culture, and tradition. Obiozor, who immediately approved the partnership, described the initiative as timely and a fantastic move. He said: “This is fantastic. This is very loaded. The Actors guild is serious. I got your message very clearly. Some of it looks like preaching to the already converted. All you are going to hear from me is that the request you made here in one word ‘partnership, is already granted. I am very convinced that this is a market that can sell and this is the time for it.  The issue here is as the guild has found out convincingly too that Igbo stories have not been told by the Igbos. Most of our stories have been told by others and every history is written with some level of bias in the sense that when I was running for this office I made it clear I am here because of inspiration and not ambition. For me, ambition is over. I am now on a special kind of assignment that I feel somebody like me would do for the Igbos at this moment. We are ready for this partnership. This will be along with the Alaigbo Stabilization fund. This is coming very timely and this will be a very strong arm of that movement. We will adopt this letter as our first agenda and keep it alive.” On his part, Rollas said the move is to preserve the Igbo language, culture, and tradition.  “In this period of insecurity in South East, every Igbo man out there should be thinking of how to use his competencies and influences to protect, promote and preserve Igbo. An American, Elmer Davis, Director, Office of War Information said, “The easiest way to inject a propaganda idea into most people’s minds is to let it go through the medium of an entertainment picture when they do not realize that they are being propagandized.” Therefore, it is imperative to work towards changing the narrative,” he began. Continuing, he said, “Your Excellency, as a very successful diplomat who served as Nigerian High commissioner for the United States and Israel, two strategic Nations highly successful in propaganda management I am convinced you to know my line of thought. It is against this background that we are here to seek partnership with Ohanaeze Ndigbo for the establishment of ‘One Billion Naira Ohaneze Ndigbo/Nollywood Film Fund’ for the promotion of Igbo language, culture, tradition, presenting our people as trustworthy, loving, and hardworking in Nollywood numerous films. We cannot fold our hands and watch our language, culture, and tradition go into extinction. “Our aim is to ensure everyone, particularly young people, wherever they live, can learn about and enjoy our language, culture and tradition, landmarks, and the great personalities of the Igbos. Our aspiration is to use film as one of the mediums to promote the Igbo language, culture, tradition, landmarks, and the people. This will not only help contribute significantly to the promotion of the Igbo nation but will also support in the following ways: Re-orientating the Igbo youths; creating jobs for our talented men and women; promoting the tourism potentials and attractions in Igbo land; discovering new Igbo stars and giving them careers; reducing youth restiveness and crime and generating revenue for the region.”