The former youth chairman of Owaza, an oil-producing community in Ukwa West Local Government Area of Abia State who was whisked away by gunmen has regained freedom. The victim identified as one Mr. Nduka aka Obasanjo was rescued by operatives of 144 Battalion under 14 Brigade of the Nigerian Army Headquarters Ohafia stationed at Ariaria junction of the Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway, who raced after the hoodlums when information of the kidnap got to them. A red-coloured Toyota Corolla SUV with which he was driven away by the gunmen was also recovered by the soldiers. Sources within the security circles told our correspondent the incident occurred at the Uratta axis of the Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway. The Nation lewrnt no ransom was paid for release of the youth leader. A source that pleaded anonymous stated it was the same spot former Ugwunagbo Local Government chairperson was kidnapped, adding it was the same group of boys and pattern of operation. According to the source, the group disguised as locals from the community that usually collect tolls from motorists using the untarred community road as alternative route to Port Harcourt; Rivers State during gridlock at the highway “It happened at Uratta. When there was a serious hold-up on the Expressway, passengers and passersby use the untarred road to cut off some part of the bad portion of the Expressway. “There is a kidnapping syndicate that usually takes advantage of the situation to waylay people, rob them and kidnap people they believe are Highly Net-Worth Individuals (HNIs). “On that fateful day when the expressway was impassable, they picked a guy that we later learnt was a youth leader in Ukwa West LGA. “The guys (occupants of the Toyota Corolla) were four in number inside the vehicle. Two of them ran away but the other two; an occupant and the driver were not so lucky. “Soldiers stationed at Ariaria junction swung into action with the help of the anti-kidnapping unit to comb the area. “When the heat was on them, they abandoned the vehicle and the victim. “From information coming the 144 Battalion has it that the leader of the gang is an AWOL soldier,” a security source said.