Ifeanyi Ejiofor, the lawyer to the detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has said his client would soon be released. He said the allegations against him were not strong enough to convict him, urging his supporters to be patient and prayerful. “We’re in high spirit that Mazi Nnamdi Kanu will soon come out of detention sooner than expected, and better too. “It’s one thing for allegations to be made, it’s another thing to establish it. But I don’t think there’s anything strong enough to convict him,” he said. Ejiofor said there was a great improvement in Kanu’s health condition despite an alleged inhuman treatment he was subjected to while in Kenya. “There’s no cause for worry. His health is improving. Only that he has not been allowed access to his family, particularly his wife and children, which I see as another level of mental torture. “But we’re doing all we can to ensure he’s transferred to appropriate custodian pending when his trial commences. We’re also making efforts to get medical experts to ensure his health gets stable,” the lawyer said.  Ejiofor, who spoke during a Facebook live update by IPOB Rapture Media, claimed his life was under threat for defending Kanu, saying he would continue to do his job. “There’s no amount of intimidation or threats that can stop me from defending Nnamdi Kanu. I advise those after me to have a rethink because nobody can kill me. “I’m a man of destiny and on a divine assignment. God has appointed me to be Kanu and IPOB’s lawyer. I’ll stand by him till victory is guaranteed. All we need from Biafrans is prayers and patience. Pray for him, and for us his lawyers too,” he said. On the expectations ahead of the July 26 court hearing, the IPOB lawyer said: “Nothing extraordinary will happen that day. That I can assure you. We’ll be there as usual to entertain applications. If there’s any amendment, we’ll take it up from there. “What we have is still the three-count charge. We also have an application overdue for hearing on the invasion of his house where 28 persons were killed. “We have all the pictorial evidence. We’ll tender them before the court so the court will look at them to ensure justice.”