Managing Director of National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) Dr George Moghalu has challenged boat operators to utilise the 3,500 navigable channels across the country, promising to assist them to find their bearings. He stated that NIWA is determined to get containers bearing heavy duty vehicles out of Nigerian highways to the waters to avoid pressures and damage to roads infrastructure. “It is sad to see the damage done to our roads by containers bearing heavy duty vehicles, and which ordinarily can be moved easily through our Inland Waterways. “We shall continue to advocate that such trucks should be kept off the highway and containers and heavy equipment be transported through the waters” he added. Moghalu, who spoke at the Annual General Meeting of the Association of Tourist Boat Operators and Water Transporters of Nigeria (ATBOWATON) in Abuja, stated that a contract for the construction of a jetty in Illa, Delta State will be awarded soon. He commended ATBOWATON members for the long years of dedication and sacrifice for the growth of water transportation business in Nigeria. “No doubt ATBOWATON is our partner in progress and deserves our support. We at NIWA are happy to see the huge turn-out of ATBOWATON members from over twenty states, an indication that the future of the association and water transportation is bright” he added. Dr Moghalu presented an ATBOWATON branded face cap and inducted Mr Frank Meke, an accomplished Maritime and Cultural Tourism development journalist as a member, Board of Trustees of ATBOWATON, commended the selfless service and passion to which Mr Meke brought to bear in the reporting and advocacy on marine transportation and tourism. President ATBOWATON Mr. Gani Tarzan Balogun praised the efforts of NIWA to change the narratives of water transportation in Nigeria and for also carrying the association along in its programmes across the country. Other dignitaries at the meeting were the acting President Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria (FTAN), Mr Nkerewuem Onung, President National Association of Nigeria Travel Agencies (NANTA) Mrs Susan Akporiaye and President, Women in Hospitality, Justina Ovat.