Leadway Assurance Company Limited, one of Nigeria’s foremost insurance companies, with a reputation for service efficiency and customers’ reliability, is blazing a trail in the field of insurance business. Leadway was established in 1970 and commenced business in 1971. It started out as a direct Motor Insurer with a passion for customer service. The business expanded into other areas of general business until it became a composite company underwriting both life and general insurance business. From a modest capital base, the company’s financial capacity grew over time and now, it can boast of an ability to underwrite risks of very high magnitude as regards heavy industries, such as Oil and Gas and big manufacturing concerns. It also offers subsidiary financial services like Bond, Secured Credit, Miscellaneous financial losses and Fund/Portfolio management. At present, it is an active player in providing good local security under the local content arrangement of the Oil and Gas Industry. For over five decades, LEADWAY has honoured its underwriting commitments and has earned its reputation of excellence in claims handling. The reputation enjoyed today by LEADWAY has been attained by the continuing pursuit of improvements, as regards its financial, underwriting and service profiles. The evolution of LEADWAY since 1970 has mirrored the dramatic expansion of indigenous insurance service providers, with LEADWAY remaining in the forefront as an insurer of repute. Our core values are iSCORE meaning; integrity, service, costumer-focus, Openness, respect-for-the-individual and excellence. The reputation enjoyed by LEADWAY has been attained by the continuing pursuit of improvements to maintain competitive advantage. At present, LEADWAY has a shareholder’s fund of N67 billion. To reposition and take advantage of opportunities in the changing environment, LEADWAY has a policy of increasing its paid-up capital steadily. Over the years, the company has recorded steady growth in its business operations. As at December 31, 2020, the company had a total asset base of over N523 billion and a premium income of about N54 billion. It has no loan stock and internally generates funds for capital projects. The company holds a sizeable number of blue-chip stocks spread across banking, insurance, manufacturing, finance, among others. Its total investment portfolio as at December 31, 2020 was N453 billion. Within the money market, it has an average of N54 billion deposit placement in investment grade rated banks. Leadway also has a remarkable claim paid record of over N165 billion claims paid in five years, with N43.5 billion paid in 2020 alone, one of the highest figures of claims paid in the industry. LEADWAY is aware of its customers’ financial security. It ensures that its insurance risks are carefully backed up with world-class reinsurance arrangements. For over two decades, the company has maintained a good business relationship with Swiss Reinsurance Company and Munich Reinsurance Company. These two widely known international reinsurance companies lead on the company’s major treaties. Other participating companies are Africa Reinsurance Corporation, Continental Reinsurance Company Limited, GIC Reinsurance and Scor Reinsurance Company Limited The company has a highly computerised work environment with major offices on-line. This enables a timely dissemination of information to clients on any risk assumed. The company’s decision to invest heavily on computerisation is part of its corporate strategy to take advantage of the benefits offered by technology as a service enhancement tool and the company’s preparedness to follow the trails of e-commerce into the next century. LEADWAY’s Registered and Corporate Offices are located in Kaduna and Lagos with 24 branches spread all over the country. Gen. Martin Luther Agwai (rtd) is the Chairman of the Board of Directors while Mr. Tunde Hassan-Odukale is the Managing Director of the company. For more information about our products and services, please call us on +234 1 2700700, email insure@leadway.com or visit www.leadway.com.