  By Olatunji OLOLADE, Associate Editor  Angela Jika’s grin is “expensive.” For the right price, it will slink into a sneer while she plays the pitiless dominatrix. But “to act a bondage (BDSM) script, I will take N40, 000, and nothing less,” she said. Through her definition of “expensive” to her cocksure demeanour, her voice crashed through the evening like a broken scream, and a silent shriek crept into her narrative. The impact was chilling. At 21, Jika can “act anything.” She would submit to restraints and take a beating from a dominant male or dominatrix. She feign a rapture by draping a slick, sultry mask on her face. For N50, 000, she would spread out and make a flora bed of the studio. Since she made her foray into the porn industry, Jika has done everything. “I have paid my dues. Na to blow (achieve renown) remain,” she said. Money teases off her inhibitions. Hard drugs too. She’d do anything to feed her drug dependence hence at age 17, she let two two married neighbours sleep with her on the backseat of a car, while her boyfriend, Azuka, secretly filmed them. “We used the N6, 000 to buy crack and my boyfriend said we would use the videos to blackmail them for more money,” said Angela, adding that she ended up as the face of a ‘public sex’ porn fetish. Her boyfriend, now ex, eventually uploaded the sex video to teach her a lesson. She said, “He did it to punish me because I jilted him.” The moment it happened, she contemplated suicide. “I wanted to kill myself. I nursed the idea of drinking rat poison but I was dissuaded by my friend,” said Angela. While she stewed in regret, she received a ‘business proposition’ from Vitus, owner of the makeshift pub where she hung out with her friends and ex-boyfriend. The proposition was simple: if she didn’t mind, he could help her profit off her notoriety. “People are asking about you. My producer friend would like to meet you. He wants to put you in a movie,” he said. “I asked him what kind of movie it was and he told me it was a romantic movie. I told him I won’t do sex movie with anyone. Dem no fit pay my money (They can’t afford me),” she said. But when she got to the venue, she got swayed by an advanced sum of N20, 000 to make a porn movie. She received a balance of N15, 000 afterward. Earning N35, 000 for a five minute video seemed a walk in the park for the 17-year-old. Now 21, she has become a prominent feature in porn movies. Do her parents know about this? How did they react to her chosen profession? “My family disowned me. My friends are calling me names but their boyfriends are calling and texting me behind their back. They want to sleep with me. Nigerians need to chill,” she said, lamenting that people take who she is in the scenes too seriously. “Initially, my parents thought I was training to be an actress in Nollywood until a neighbour’s husband fingered me in one of my porn videos. Nobody asked him how he came by the video. Or what he was doing on the porn site but everybody started calling me ashawo (prostitute),” said Angela, adding that she has gotten used to the name-calling. She said, “The fact that I do incest movies and gang bang does not mean that I would do it in real life. I think those that are most offended are often those who are yearning to experience such sexual taboos. In late July 2020, during a bathroom quickie with a distant aunt’s husband, he kept saying, ‘Naughty girl. You are a bad child. Daddy will punish you. Don’t tell mummy and so on, while begging me to say: ‘Yes daddy!’ That was weird,” she said, stressing that her greatest agony was the propriety of telling his wife, who is one of her greatest critics, that her husband has an incest porn fetish. “She would ask how I got to know about it. And they have two daughters; one is in her early teens,” she said. Angela’s role models in the industry are Ajibola Elizabeth aka Maami Igbagbo and Tobiloba Jolaoso, popularly known as Kingtblakhoc. Both smut film aficionados, were at one time, the poster icons of Nigeria’s cyber-porn culture. “If I were a man, I would be doing just what Jolaoso has been doing. I go do worse sef. Wetin una don see? You never see anything,” said Angela. It would be recalled that Jolaoso was recently arrested for allegedly recording a pornographic movie at the Osun Osogbo sacred grove on the outskirts of the city of Osogbo, the Osun state capital. The sacred forest, adjudged home to Osun, the Yoruba goddess of fertility, is a UN-designated World Heritage Site. The police said Jolaoso was arrested for allegedly recording a “sex movie” in the forest. Police spokesman, Yemisi Opalola, said that Jolaoso would appear in court following an investigation as his conduct “could have breached public peace.” Jolaoso subsequently appeared in court and was granted bail.  The Jolaoso factor From Jolaoso’s desecration of the sacred grove to his teeming fans, including Angela’s celebration of his “feat,” a generational conflict resounds with an instructive peal. It highlights the widening cultural chasms between the older generation and millennials channeling deviant impulses in response to puritan values. Born May 12, 1993, Jolaoso, a native of Osun, is the first Nigerian and African male to boldly venture into the adult film industry without hiding his identity. As he gained notoriety, he published social media advertisement for performers, bragging that his payment pattern includes a “Nice meal and daddy’ treats. Maybe, I bought you pants, stuff, and helped you send money home and cards. If you like to stay 20 minutes or 20 years, same price; though I usually request for two to three days; N30, 000 if your period came and I did not sleep with you.” Addressing his prospective clients further, he promised, “You won’t go empty handed; N40, 000 if I didn’t sleep with you, pocket money; N50, 000 if I didn’t sleep with you but took pictures of you without your face; N80, 000: I sleep with you, took pictures or video without your face; N150, 000 if you didn’t care about showing your face; N200, 000 if you show your face and N300, 000 if you show your face, and we have sex and you are good.” He concluded that, “If you have a nice arse, good workshop and you are naturally good,” there could be extra money. Predictably, several undergraduates and unemployed girls made a beeline for his studio. Major beneficiaries of Jolaoso’s smut factory include Elizabeth aka Maami Igbago, his ex-girlfriend and “video vixen.” Born April 9, 1995, as the first of five children, in Ipoti, Ekiti State, Elizabeth joined the adult film industry when her mother died in 2016 and she had to cater for herself and her siblings, said acting porn is her calling. She got her break in porn acting when she met Jolaoso shortly after her mother’s death. According to her, Jolaoso is a good person, who is unfortunately, widely misunderstood. Once, during an interview, she described him as leadership material, stressing that, “He is the kind of person that Nigerians should elect as our leader.” Despite her gushing admiration of Jolaoso, they eventually fell out with each other. Things turned awry, she said, soon after she started getting offers that ran into millions of naira from different people, who were inspired by her performance in Jolaoso’s porn movies. Elizabeth said he got so emotional and scared that she might dump him, and subsequently started inviting girls who lived in guest houses into his studio and their bed. She lamented that Jolaoso ignored her warnings despite getting STDs from the girls he invited in, and subsequently infecting her. Eventually, she left him and started her own porn outfit. Now, on her own, she offers her videos for premium download. She recently disclosed in an interview that her customers included top Nigerian actors, musicians and politicians. Like Elizabeth, Chisom Ugwu alias Chyzum Hills also features prominently in Jolaoso’s pornographic movies. The porn actress, who recently argued that the kind of life she lives “is her bloody business” and needs no critics whatsoever in her life. “I don’t know what’s giving folk grief about my sexual calling. I am a beast of a woman, a force of my own. My decision to act porn is nobody’s business. If I am too much of a woman for you because of that, go to hell. It’s part of my femininity,” said Ucheoma Passions aka Uchybomb, a porn actress.  A nation living in denial Nigeria has a thriving, underground porn industry but both the government and citizenry are living in denial of it. “We could blame this on fear; fear of acknowledging the ugly truth and a deep-rooted anxiety about the pervasiveness of porn in our increasingly permissive society,” noted Olanrewaju Abdulhameed, a high school counselling psychologist. Astonishingly, for a country that’s deeply religious, and prominently split along Muslim, Christian faiths,  Nigeria has never outlawed pornography, not even in the 1999 Constitution. While the country’s criminal code slackly defines “obscenity”as any article whose effect, “taken as whole is such as to tend to deprave and corrupt,” those exposed to it, Lagos State has, however, outlawed the public display of graphic sexual material, at the backdrop of calls for the government to block porn sites. However, due to a lack of federal law against public broadcast of smut movies, pornographic content can be accessed online at any time by anyone including teenagers and minors. Until recently, all domestic porn were heterosexual but there has been increasing production of same-sex porn. While homosexual activity attracts a 14-year sentence in the country, a couple of actresses have engaged in lesbian porn to wide acclaim. Nonetheless porn actresses have to deal with “misconceptions” of their “calling.” Mareme Edet aka Uglygalz, in a widely publicised interview, lamented how she is mistaken for a prostitute by the public, stressing that she’s “a porn star.” According to her, porn acting is a lucrative venture and artistes earn between $3,000 to $10,000 for a five-minute long video. As of 2014, Mareme claimed to have slept with over 100 men and has been confirmed as one of the “verified” porn actresses and producers on a popular x-rated content website. “But it’s not up to 1,000 but getting close to 1000,” she said. At 17, she kept a diary of people she had slept with and the situation that led to their encounters, until her brother-in-law saw the book, “and he flogged me mercilessly,” she revealed. Back in high school, Mareme almost got expelled for having sex with her principal. She said, “I was the one who actually lured him into it and later, people got to find out and I was almost expelled but in my university days, I willingly traded sex for grades especially for courses I found hard passing,” Mareme said, stressing that she has the blessing of her parents in her “very lucrative calling.”  Acting porn is harder than it looks While more popular porn artistes claimed they earn between N50, 000 and N100, 000 for a six to 10-minute video, Mary Chigbo, 28, argued that several actresses actually earn lower. The native of Owerri in Imo State, said she got N15, 000 for her first job even though she was promised N30, 000. Afterwards, her fees fluctuated between N20, 000 and N30, 000 for a 10 to 15-minute video. “I will earn more when I get into the big league. I just need to feature with one big actress to blow (attain renown),” said the young adult who has a fetish for playing a sexually daring teenager and high school girl. Indeed, life as a porn actress isn’t what it’s cracked up to be. Before quitting the business, Delphina Joy aka Savage Trap Queen, complained of physical assault by her former boss and onscreen partner. She made a live Instagram post, crying while filing a report against him in a police station. She also lamented being attacked by fellow porn actresses who felt she was stealing their shine and hugging the limelight.  Beyond the fallacies Save Jolaoso and fellow smut entrepreneur, Krissy Joh, very few actors are well paid in the porn industry. The only option they have is to quit and start their own productions. “Too many actors trying to start something on their own has led to the prevalence of mediocre porn movies in the industry,”argued Chiedu Raphael, a self-confessed “internationally trained professional.” According to him, desperate actors seeking to make a name and overnight renown, employ commercial sex workers, teenagers and the underage as performers. “What you have in the end are badly done videos. Poor lighting, poor acting and terrible content,” said Raphael. Further investigations revealed that male performers make about a third of the money paid to their female colleagues. Kingsley Oroh, 24, lamented that his fee stagnates at N15, 000 to N20, 000 for a 5-10 minute feature even though many of his onscreen female partners earn higher – between N25, 000 to N35, 000. “The few times I complained, I was told to quit if I didn’t like the money. The director blamed me for being ungrateful. He said I should be thankful for the opportunity he gave me to have sex with different females. Even though most of those girls are oloso (commercial sex workers),” said Oroh. In truth, the average porn actor must struggle to sustain the singular talent of keeping an erection for long periods of time while a small audience of actors, actresses, directors, and production crew watch. Consequently, some actors, at least those who can afford it, inject Alprostadil or Caverject into an open vein in their penis. “The average cost of the drug is N15, 000 for a single chamber dose and N30, 000 for a dual chamber dose. It used to be N28, 000. Not many actors can afford that. So, they resort to taking Viagra and local alcoholic beverages mixed with cannabis and other psychotropic substances; anything to get them high and hard, very fast,” said Brown Edet, a porn director. Further findings revealed that some actors who inject, keep an open wound at the base of their penis through which they inject the stimulant into their organ. They do this to maintain a single needle point on the penis. The downside of this is that, they bleed on their onscreen female partners thus increasing their chances of contracting Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs). Edet said he has seen actors lament their inability to achieve an erection without the drug. Addiction makes them stock the fridge with vials, to be sought, every time they wish to have sex, on the set and even when they are home with their girlfriends. And that is the height of imperilment, he argued.  Exploiting drug dependent youth as performers More worrisome is the influx of drug dependent youth into the porn business. Investigations revealed that the industry is currently battling the scourge of artistes heavily dependent on heroin, cocaine, Indian Hemp, ecstasy and other psychotropic substances. While some established porn artistes are known to habitually indulge in narcotic use to get high and dull their inhibitions before a performance, several struggling porn makers have developed a knack for employing young adults and teenagers with chronic drug dependence as performers. Some producers visit drug dens like Ipodo, in Ikeja, Lagos to recruit performers; 37-year-old retired ‘runs girl’ (commercial sex worker), Gladys Onoja, for instance, pimps girls from several brothels in Ipodo for porn makers. “They are easier to manage. Many of them would take between N5, 000 and N10, 000 to feature in porn movies. From their earnings, they pay 10 percent to their manager (pimp) and spend the rest on gbana (heroin),” she said.   The smut ‘cattle fair’ Auditions comprise another crisis point of the porn business. The glut of aspiring porn actors furnish smut filmmakers with a vast array of easy girls for the picking. They jocularly refer to auditions as a cattle fair; oftentimes the producers and directors (who are often the same person), invite each other to audit (have sex with) performers. “Many of the girls get exploited. They get slept with for free. It’s like a ram market, where you get to hack off part of the animal while its still alive, in order to taste it and ascertain if the meat is sweet. Only that the filmmakers and the male actors, who are often their buddies, get to sleep with most of the girls for free. They keep sampling the girls on the pretext of testing their competence and stamina for the job, said Chinyere aka Cindy Luv. The 36-year-old former porn actress revealed that she quit acting porn soon after her life-threatening duel with STDs. Producers and directors invite colleagues to each other’s auditions and the recipients of such a gesture eventually reciprocates. While the girls are made to sleep with random actors in front of the camera, a select few among them are chosen for the production. The rest are given the boot.  The link between pornography and sex trafficking Performers in pornographic material are often female victims of sex trafficking. They are subjected are often forced to recreate pornographic scenes buy abusers adept at mental and economic exploitation  while using pornography to break down inhibitions of uncooperative victims. The Nation investigations within and outside Nigeria, from the streets of Lagos to the shanties and underground brothels of Bracody, Cocody, Treichville and Abobo in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, revealed how Nigerian sex traffickers use pornography to groom the victims of sex trafficking for the practices in which they are expected to engage. At 15, Precious, was forced to watch orgies and gonzo porn to prepare her for her gang-rape by two pimps and a bodyguard, in Abidjan, after her boyfriend sold her to a brothel owner and sex trafficker, at a paltry N480, 000. “I was 15 and a virgin but they deflowered me,” she said. Three weeks later, Precious would play porn movies on a TV and mini DVD in her cubicle to get her in the mood before and while sleeping with a customer. Juliet, 14, got raped in Cocody while her guardian and aunt, Chioma watched. After Chioma smuggled her from Lagos to Abidjan, by road, on the pretext of helping her secure employment as a nanny with an American family in Spain. “She (Chioma) sat down and smoked a cigarette, watching nonchalantly as they gagged me and took turns to rape me. They made a video of it and she threatened to send it to people who knew me back home if I ever rebelled or told anyone about it,” said Juliet. Although both girls eventually escaped in the wake of this reporter’s reportage of their predicament in Abidjan, they constitute the oft ignored fraction of sex trafficking victims who are coerced and groomed into a life of sexual servitude in extreme conditions. “Porn is often used to groom women and children by their traffickers and abusers. It’s a gruesome form of psychological conditioning that eventually renders the victim broken and submissive,” said Bolanle Ahmed, a trauma psychologist and social worker. Despite its apparent dangers, porn addiction has become a pop culture, cutting through swathes of conservative norms and social correctness. As it knifes through the country, cyberspace becomes a garish, raunchy boulevard; a theatre of libertine delight, fetishes and rendezvous for voyeurs and porn stars. It also offers a negotiation point for the addicted desiring real physical action. The social space thus unfurls as an esplanade of taboos and fetishes that expands and contracts to temptation and patronage. A typical call for performers reads thus: “Do you want to join the porn industry today? We need ladies and young men who are ready to act porn in Nigeria porn industry. This is sponsored by Mr. Jerry Hobbs from America. To get a form call. 08169207796. Or WhatsApp +1(352)4030180. Maximum security is guaranteed, and all necessary background checkup will be done on all the ladies and men. So contact us today for you to get started… Note: Applicants must be 20 and above.” The stereotypes are legion: voyeurs with tenacity post comments beneath porn videos, pleading with the producers to employ them as performers in subsequent videos. Some even offer to perform for free. Adult film actors and producers upload and sell content to popular porn sites for a fee. They also advertise their talents with suggestive thumbnails, while bragging about the number of subscribers to their sites. Hence it has become the norm to see them broadcast their details thus: Ajibola Elizabeth  AKA Maamiigbagbo -100 videos and 99.3 subscribers; Naija Olosho – 33 yrs, 81 videos, 41 fans and 7, 900 subscribers; Schoolgirlpornxyz Woman, Amateur, 26yrs, 8, 100 subs; Realsavagebitvh, Amateur, 23yrs, Subscribers 17.5k – the latter advertises her wares thus: “Let me introduce you to the page of the only Savage Queen left. Enjoy homemade videos of me having sex, masturbate, and being naughty. All my videos are real homemade videos of me. NB: I sometimes act with my friends, so they may not want to show their faces. Follow me on social media: IG: @####, Twitter: #####. Sinfulfriday canvasses for subscribers thus: “Female Porn Stars needed, you can choose to wear mask or not. Contact us via mail:######.” Each porn artiste’s story is remarkably different, although a few narratives resonate kindred needs and sexual exploitation. To several female performers, like Elizabeth aka Maami Igbabo and Mareme aka Uglygalz, they are emancipated ladies, wielding their sexual independence and ‘talents’ for a profit. However, the hushed narratives of the struggling newbies, who look up to them, establish that porn acting is no walk in the park. Not every porn artiste is assured of breaking even; for those who claim to make it, the road to stardom is grisly and the impact on actresses, in particular, is unimaginably severe. Although they talk shop about running tests on each other to prevent STDs’ spread, there have been cases of infections in major studios. Maami Igbabo, for instance, lamented how Jolaoso aka Kingtblackhoc got her infected a couple of times by welcoming street hustlers into their studio and their bed. Notwithstanding, porn allows the youth, safely removed from the traditional norms and social etiquette, to be voyeurs of a frighteningly prejudiced world of taboos and sexual stereotypes, where all the conventions of civilized society cease to exist. This eldorado is a place of cuckolded husbands, rapists, lechers, incestuous families, pimps, prostitutes, the dominatrix, and generally uncontrolled sex aficionados. And viewers are invited to slum in this world of debauchery, for a paltry fee.  In defense of porn As the debate rages about the porn industry’s exploitative push for profit, smut movie buffs enthuse about its “educative” and “artistic qualities.” Kachiside Maduka, 35, argued that porn helped him reignite his marital sex and his love for his wife, and the latter, Lotachukwu, 36, corroborated him, stressing that “porn is not all bad if its used for educational purposes by consenting parties.”  Porn unwrapped… On the flipside, most Nigerian porn, in particular, are digitally airbrushed to hide the squalor beneath. Several artistes lamented being reduced to expendable tools in an endless stream of desperate newbies. Competition is fierce. Girls bring their friends and earn kick-back. So, a lot of girls are desperate to do anything. The lighting in most films is coarse. Pubic hair is shaved off to give the actresses the look of supple divas – warts and all. Yet the staple is often poor acting. The plastered bodies, exaggerated moans and facial contortions, the erections that never go down, and the evidently limp male organs been forcibly put to work, heighten porn’s unreality. Then, there is the dank smell of human bodies, the thump of studio filth and indelicate tenderness of onscreen partners. “Pornography hardly  promotes sex, if one defines sex as a shared intimacy between two partners. It promotes masturbation, a solitary sexual auto-sexual. It’s a selfish experience that precludes healthy love and intimacy. Porn addicts are obsessed about getting off at someone else’s expense,” said Iyabo Osikoya, 41, a psychologist and sex therapist. The addicted must seek urgent help from experts. Therapy works, said Osikoya. But despite her upbeat claims of weaning the addicted off porn, Osikoya’s homily hardly serves the interest of porn artistes like Jika. The 21-year-old has done a lot of gang-bang and “taken it up the arse.” She recently acted a slave in a Bondage, Discipline, Dominance and Submission, Sadomasochism (BDSM) movie. “I was tied up and gang-raped. I was severely beaten and penetrated in every orifice. Viewers would love it,” she enthused. Yet through her enthusiasm, she slunk into a flat, numbing monotone, like a victim of trauma; a cottony shriek drifted across her coarse, heavily made-up face, and for a moment, unmasked the scarred youngster cringing beneath the icon of the sultry siren. “What you just described, was it painful?” I asked. “Yes,” she answered quietly.