There are some words whose meanings are well known for any English speaker, but sometimes it may be necessary to recheck the dictionary meaning to be sure they used approximately. This was what I did with the word slaughter in the headline of this column. For a moment, I felt that the word may be too strong to describe the killings being perpetrated by terrorists in the northern part of the country and had to be sure I was not exaggerating. I was reassured when I confirmed that slaughter also means to kill in a violent and bloody manner and kill in large numbers. I was further comfortable with the use of slaughter when the synonyms included: massacre, murder, butcher, kill, kill off, annihilate, exterminate, execute, liquidate, eliminate, destroy, decimate, wipe out, mow down, cut down, cut to pieces, put to the sword, put to death, send to the gas chambers, literary slay. All the above words aptly capture the endless killings that have been on for years in the region with no end in sight despite repeated assurances by the federal and state governments that they are doing their best to address the worrisome issue. Apart from the terrorist attacks, which have claimed thousands of lives, but displaced many from their natural locations, killings have become so common across the country without security agents guaranteeing lives and property. A recent report by the International Committee on Nigeria (ICON) and Peace Building and Social Justice  (PSJ)  titled Nigeria’s Silent Slaughter: Genocide in Nigeria and the Implications for the International Community revealed that between January 2000 and January 2020, deaths resulting from Fulani Militant attacks are about 19, 101 across the country. Similarly, 52, 861 persons were recorded to have been killed by the Boko Haram terrorist group, while 44, 303 were documented killed by other actors. Many more have been killed since the period not covered by the report as indiscriminate killings by terrorists, bandits, kidnappers and unknown gunmen have become a daily occurrence in the country. Last Wednesday, suspected Boko Haram terrorists killed about 24 villagers in Dabna community, Hong Local Council of Adamawa State and ruthlessly wounded many during an early hour raid. The District Head of Dabna, Simon Yakub, confirmed that the terrorists burnt all the churches in the village. Also last Monday, at least 18 people were killed by suspected armed bandits in an attack in Tsauwa village in Batsari Local Government Area of Katsina State. The above incidents are just two of the recent killings that were reported with many unreported incidents. While the efforts of the security forces are acknowledged, with some of the officers and men being killed by terrorists too, it will be necessary for them to be able to as ICON and PSJ called for demonstrably, emphatically, and proactively tackle and address the present crisis of insecurity to make the country safe again. The current rate of slaughter cannot be allowed to continue and whatever needs to be done must be done urgently. The security forces have to be adequately equipped to battle the insurgents who seem to have more sophisticated weapons to unleash violence on innocent citizens nationwide.