 Last Tuesday, Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle switched from the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), ending months of speculation about his intentions. But the fanfare that saw him being welcomed to APC at the Gusau Trade Fair Complex by governors, ministers and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, could not hide a looming political face-off between him and some of his erstwhile allies, among them his deputy, Mahdi Aliyu. Sentry gathered the governor’s decision may have escalated a crisis that was being managed before now. It is no longer news that Aliyu will not be going to APC with his boss. What can now be revealed is that they have been at loggerheads over Matawalle’s defection plot for months. “One major thing that delayed the governor’s move is the refusal of his deputy to buy into the defection plot all along,” a source said. The governor’s political family is sharply divided over the matter. “Many of our leaders are not happy with his move and they told him so,’ another source added.  The governor’s men are currently losing sleep over what many described as the deputy governor’s ‘rapport’ with majority of the state legislators. “Many things will start happening from now; even the governor knows Aliyu is not a pushover politically. If you add his family background in Zamfara, you will understand what I mean,” the source said. While the governor said his decision is part of his plans to move the state forward, Aliyu, son of a former Minister of Defence, Aliyu Gusau, said he chose to remain with the PDP to honour the mandate given to the party by the Supreme Court. For now, all eyes are on Zamfara Government House.   THESE are very interesting times in Anambra State as the November 6, 2021 governorship election draws closer. Not only are two blood brothers, Drs. Andy and Ugochukwu Uba, poised to confront each other as candidates of opposing parties, a popular herbalist and native doctor, better called Dibia in Igbo, has clinched the ticket of one of the political parties to contest. The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), on Wednesday elected Nnamdi Nwanwuo, as its standard-bearer. “Before now, he was more known for his feats as a native doctor than for anything that has to do with governance or politics. But with his victory at the primary election, he has proven he is a serious politician,” a former state lawmaker told Sentry. Announcing Nwanwuo as the winner, National Secretary of the party, Babatunde Ali, described him as someone well-acquainted with the grassroots and the man for the job. He said: “He knows them and they know him. The PRP’s flag is the next flag to be hoisted at the government house. He will defeat the ruling All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). Well, the people will soon decide which of three ‘doctors’ in the race they prefer as governor.