POISED to enhance teaching and studying of science and technology education in Ogun State, the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, has announced the transformation of the Tai Solarin College of Education, Omu-Ijebu, to  Sikiru Adetona College of Science, Education and Technology. Abiodun, who noted education has played important role in the development of the state, said his administration would continue to focus on science and technology education, to boost technological development of Ogun. The governor equally declared that his government would set a Special Task Force to deal with the menace of cultism, not only in the educational institutions, but all the nooks and crannies of the state. Abiodun made these known  yesterday at the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign for the forthcoming council’s poll, held at  Odogbolu town, Odogbolu Local Government Area. He maintained that his administration would no longer tolerate cultism and its attendant destructive activities in the state. According to the governor, cult activities would henceforth be regarded as a sabotage to the state, emphasising that his government was determined to put a stop to it. “I am happy that today no one is shooting, you can all see that the political temperature of Ogun State is so low, there is rest of mind, no problem, we are all going about our work. “All those involved in cultism should repent because if we catch them, the will face the full wrath of the law. I am setting up a Special Taskforce on Cultism because we are working towards making this state number one state in this country, and any attempt to undermine that by way of cultism is an act of sabotage and we will put an end to it”, the governor stated. He acknowledged Odogbolu Local Government as the “food basket” of the state, noting his administration was committed to the advancement of the agricultural sector in the area. The governor, while presenting  the party flags to the APC chairmanship and vice chairmanship candidates, Shuaib Ladejobi and Iretiolu Adenugba, urged party faithful and people of Odogbolu LG to cast their votes for the party in the local government elections coming up on July 24. 