IN line with prevailing public sentiment, the Senate last Tuesday rejected the nomination of presidential aide, Ms. Lauretta Onochie, as a national commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The red chamber of the National Assembly declined confirming Onochie and stepped down consideration of the confirmation of another candidate, Professor Sani Mohammed Adam, among seven nominees to the electoral body put forward for its clearance by President Muhammadu Buhari. However, Adam has now been confirmed. The President had in October 2020 written the Senate nominating his Special Assistant on Social Media and previously self-avowed partisan, along with the other candidates for confirmation respectively as national commissioners and resident electoral commissioners of INEC. After the nomination letter was read at plenary by Senate President Ahmad Lawan, there was an outburst of public objection to Onochie’s candidature for the electoral commission, and the legislative chamber chilled off on the issue at the time, almost like it’s been rested. Late last month, however, the Senate dug up the controversial nomination of Onochie and referred her to its Committee on INEC for screening along with other nominees. But that move ignited fresh clamour against her candidature by stakeholders who contended that if she got eventually cleared, her presence in INEC would severely compromise the agency’s insularity and neutrality. Arguments against her candidature included that she was a card-carrying member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) contrary to the Third Schedule, Part 1, Section F, paragraph 14 (1) of the 1999 Constitution (as Amended), and that the nomination violated the federal character principle prescribed by Section 14(3) of the same law considering she hails from Delta State from where a serving national commissioner of the electoral body, Mrs. May Agbamuche-Mbu, also hails. Objectors as well cited Onochie’s past activity on social media in the course of her job as presidential aide deemed intemperate and, at other times, purveying fake news – conducts considered inconsistent with the provision of Third Schedule, Part 1, Section F, paragraph 14 (1) of the constitution requiring that an INEC national commissioner be a person of unquestionable integrity. At her confirmation hearing by the Senate Committee on INEC penultimate week, Onochie said she had renounced partisanship since 2019. She also argued against the charge of federal character breach, saying though Agbamuche-Mbu hails biologically from Delta, she is married in Cross River, which should be the state she represents in INEC, hence that she (Onochie) would not duplicate Delta State on the electoral board. The Senate panel was not persuaded by her defence against the federal character argument, though, and that was the score on which it declined recommending Onochie for confirmation by Senate plenary. In its report, the committee acknowledged several petitions against her on grounds of core partisanship and alleged misconducts on the social media; it, however, argued that none of those reasons was good enough for her to be rejected but for the federal character principle. Recalling that Agbamuche-Mbu was nominated explicitly from Delta State and confirmed in 2016, the committee said confirming Onochie from the same Delta would be a violation of that principle, adding: “Therefore, based on the provisions of Section 14(3) of the Constitution…and in order for the committee and the Senate to achieve fairness to other states and political zones in the country,  the committee is unable to recommend Ms. Lauretta Onochie for confirmation as a National Electoral Commissioner for INEC but would rather recommend to the Senate to request that the President make another nomination.” Keeping faith with the committee’s recommendation, the Senate turned down Onochie’s candidature last Wednesday at plenary. We applaud the Senate for acting in line with the wish of the majority of citizens on Onochie’s candidature for INEC, thereby safeguarding the integrity of the commission and the political process. Besides, it was a reassuring show of independence by an arm of government widely viewed as too pliant towards the executive arm. But the singular reason on which the chamber anchored its rejection of the controversial nomination offers cold comfort, because it shunned germane reasons why Onochie is not suitable for INEC and provided a leeway for her future re-nomination. Rigorous interrogation of Onochie’s antecedents should show what a moral burden she would constitute on the electoral body that is an apolitical public trust striving to build up the confidence of all segments of the citizenry in its institutional neutrality. As far as federal character goes, Agbamuche-Mbu would serve out her tenure by the end of 2021 and it is conceivable that President Buhari could re-submit Onochie’s name for confirmation at that time without breaching the rule. Actually, it is moot the Senate did not envisage such possibility and knowingly left that window open. It will be a great disservice to the Nigerian electoral system should such games be played with it. Onochie is simply unsuitable for INEC – by all means, she could be given other political appointments – and we strongly advise that Mr. President perish the thought of re-presenting her for the electoral job.