Actor and producer Yomi Fabiyi has replied the Theatre Arts and Motion Picture Practitioner Association of Nigerian (TAMPAN) on the suspension order slammed on him. The controversial actor, who was suspended indefinitely over his latest movie ‘Oko Iyabo’, which portrays the Baba Ijesha sexual assault saga, stated the suspension holds no water as it is “back to sender.” Fabiyi stated he is not a member of the association, challenging them to produce his membership form for all to see. The actor also stated that TAMPAN’s attempt to clamp down on his right to freedom of expression is illegal and unacceptable. He however noted he will meet with few respected elders and members from the association after which he would come up with his next cause of action. Yomi Fabiyi further identified with the Association of Theater Arts Practitioners of Nigeria (ANTP), stating he is their member while charging himself to renew his membership. Sharing a post on his Instagram page, he wrote: “Ask TAMPAN to generate my MEMBERSHIP FORM and post it online for people to see if am there (sic) member. “I am not an official MEMBER or a card carrying member, SO are MANY STARS in the industry. That letter of suspension is BACK TO SENDER. “The (sic) told me meeting was for RENCONCILIATION. “We all originally belong to ANTP and it is time we go and renew our membership there. I am sure the spirit of the Ogunde’s will be happier.” He added: “TAMPAN NATIONAL, “I have back to SENDER your malicious letter @tampanglobal I am not a CARD CARRYING MEMBER OF YOUR ASSOCIATION. I was made to show interest and up till now no formal registration done. I challenge you to produce any form I filled with your organisation. “All movie associations in the Yoruba Movie industry are VOLUNTARY ORGANISATIONS with primary aim to protect interest of members and promote welfare of members. “Search within you, are you fully committed to this mandate. So, throwing me under the bus when legally I have not done anything wrong never came as surprise. “I am unbothered with your PULL HIM DOWN LETTER and you sure know I am eligible to keep filming in my own right and with whoever I am comfortable with in all associations available. OKO IYABO is a good movie and you have no right to review my movie the way your letter did. It is unfortunate and unacceptable. “Your attempt to gag my constitutional right which is FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION is illegal and unacceptable. More so all your fabrications and excuses on ethics of the profession are baseless, untrue and violation of human rights. The movie will be released on DVD and other relevant platform when it is time. “I will discuss with few elders and members I so much respect in TAMPAN before I take my next step. Stop following social media razzmatazz when dealing with professional colleagues. Thank you.”