Kano State has in the last few days been in the news, and for the right reasons. The government is reported to have promised to sponsor about 10,400 students for National Examination Council (NECO) examination; it is also putting finishing touches to Kano multi-billion naira Economic City, considered to be one of the largest business hubs in West Africa. The project is a public-private partnership between the state government (which provided the land) and Brains and Hammer Limited, the developer, and Jaiz Bank, which provided the funds. Amidst the global  economic problems exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, these good news come as an elixir for both the students, parents, the business community and the general population. The beneficiary-students’ parents would heave a sigh of relief and none of the affected students would worry about the exam fees which often prevents some indigent students from sitting for such examinations. We commend the Kano State government for investing in the affected students’ education and for providing the land and conducive business environment for the investors. These are all long-term investments that would have positive impact on the economy of the state and the nation. They are by no means white elephant projects. It is commendable that the Economic City would be ready for commissioning in a few weeks, so, chances of its being jettisoned by any future administration are no longer there. However, commendable as sponsoring students for NECO exams is, we find it curious that the government did not choose to sponsor the more popular and much more acceptable exam, the West African Senior School Certificate (WASSC) exams which is a sub-regional qualifying exam for Anglophone West Africa, established in 1952 and which has a more global acceptability. NECO, on the other hand, is a purely Nigerian high school qualifying exam created through a decree by the Abdulsalam Abubakar military regime in 1998. It would be interesting to get the details about how the government arrived at the need to sponsor so many students for NECO instead of WASSCE, with the latter’s proven record of credibility and public trust. Did the government get the best advice from educationists? What advantages would a NECO certificate give to those students? We believe that if the government wanted to assist the students, WASSCE would have been a better choice, given the wider acceptability it has globally. We are also of the opinion that the state government should find ways to take many of the Almajiris in the state off the streets to make the investment in final examinations worth the while. Kano State is home to a huge number of such children without a balanced education that can assist them acquire better skills for their future. A great percentage of the more than 13 milion out-of-school children are in that state. The acquisition of basic education, training of more teachers and equipping more schools to accommodate more children would not be a bad idea. For the Economic City, we commend the fact that the plan would make the city a comprehensive one, with facilities for work and play in the same environment. We however advise that the city must be well run, through good supervision and strict adherence to a good maintenance culture, to avoid an early deterioration that might discourage other investors in the future. States need these types of investments in the education and economic sectors. Kano State, in particular, as a huge business hub, would reap the benefits in the medium and long terms. But the government should not rest on its oars but ensure that the social infrastructure for a better city are continuously upgraded to attract more investments. That way, more jobs would be created and the state would earn more revenue and possibly the crime rate and insecurity can be reduced to the barest minimum.