When it comes to celebrating your wedding anniversary you want to make sure that the day is special. This means that you are required to put in some thought to the day to make sure that firstly, you have something planned and secondly, the day is as romantic as possible. If you are unsure where to start, don’t worry, we’re here to help. Here are 10 romantic ways to celebrate the wedding anniversary. Weekend Getaway Nothing says romance quite like being whisked away on a weekend break. The beauty about these is that you can stay within your own country of jet off to a city break somewhere else. You don’t have to go for a week, simply go away on the Friday night and come back on the Sunday. You’ll both feel revitalised for a break away together. This is the perfect anniversary gift! A Special Meal If your significant other has a favourite meal that they enjoy, why not try and cook it together. There’s something fun about getting into the kitchen and working through a recipe. Not only can you have fun, but you’ll also both end up eating something that you created. Relax At A Spa Nothing says romance and relaxation quite like a spa! Why not treat yourselves to a spa break? You can opt for more treatments to really make the day extra special. From massages to flotation wraps, you want to come away feeling refreshed and relaxed together. Picnic In The Park If you are short on time and money, then one way you can get round this is a lovely picnic in the park. You can get all your favourite snacks, from chocolate, sandwiches to champagne and Strawberry’s. You can while away the hours in the sun and make the most of each other. Find A Botanical Garden If the weather is nice and going away just isn’t an option due to work schedules, why not find a beautiful botanical garden. There are plenty of them to choose from and you can make a day of it. Botanical gardens are full of sensory options you can explore together. You can walk, talk, and grab coffee. Rewrite Your Vows When you got married, chances are you wrote and read wedding vows. Why not spend an evening revisiting these? You don’t just have to read them together, why not rewrite them? If you’ve been married for a long time, then it may be time to update them to vows that reflect how long you’ve been together and how much you’ve been through over the years. Not only will it bring back memories of your special day, but it’ll also work towards goals together. Order Gifts To Be Delivered On the Day Anniversary’s require special gifts; you don’t need to get ones that relate to the traditional items though. If you aren’t able to spend the day together for whatever reason, then why not order a special gift to be delivered on the morning of the anniversary? This could be anything from flowers to jewellery! This way, when your other half opens the door, they’ll be surprised and happy that you took the time to remember. Go Out for A Meal If you went out for a meal on your first date, why not go to the same restaurant? It may well not be your favourite one, but the fact that this is where you connected could make the night extra special. You can talk through old memories and laugh about how young you were when you first met. Recreate Your First Dance When you did your first dance, chances are you were filled with nerves when other people were watching you. This time, make it about just you two. Put the music on and dance around your living room and kitchen and just enjoy one another. Dancing is a great way to connect and by retracing your steps you are making it extra special, filled with love and laughs. Use Your Wedding Gifts! Chances are you were given a lot of special gifts on your wedding day, and we would bet that you actually haven’t used the special gifts. If you were given lovely glass wear and table wear why not get it out and make the most of it? You don’t need to use to everyday, just make sure that you do get round to using it! Wrap Up When it comes to wedding anniversaries you don’t need to spend the earth to make the day extra special. It is the small gestures that make a world of difference and can really make the day romantic. Whether it is a weekend break or rewriting your vows together, you can cement your relationship further and look forward to a future together.