FAME Foundation has signed a Financial Agreement and Partnership of 20, 000 Euros with Agence Francaise de Developpement (AFD), a French Government public utility office in Abuja. The grant will support the PLAY it DREAM it initiative of FAME that aims to use sports as a tool to achieve SDGs 3, 4, and 5 through 200 Internally Displaced Girls in the Federal Capital Territory and its environs. As part of the project, the girls will be provided with education on menstrual health and hygiene, regular sensitization workshops, support with sanitary towels, quality education advocacy, scholarship, empowerment, mentorship among others for the duration of one year. Speaking at the event, Ms. Virginie Diaz Pedregal, Deputy Country Director of Agence Francaise de Developpement in Nigeria, said: “AFD recently declared itself as a feminist organization and has been pushing since 2018 to promote the use of sport as a tool for education and social change. Supporting committed CSOs like the FAME Foundation was an evidence for us. “By the end of 2022, more than 200 girls ages 7-17 will benefit from the weekly sports activities and regular sensitization workshops (including supplying as much sanitary protection as possible). An additional 1,500 members of the girls’ community will benefit from the change of mindset initiated by the project.” “In 13 years, AFD has become a recognised partner in Nigeria with activities in key service sectors such as energy, water, rural roads and urban transport. With nearly two billion euros committed, AFD supports about 30 projects in the country.” Victor Baysang-Michelin, AFD Project Officer, said the AFD is proud to associate with FAME Foundation to tackle gender inequalities in the society. “Gender Based Violence, is one of the prominent issues in Nigeria and the AFD is proud to partner with FAME Foundation to curb the gender issues in the society and the organization hopes that this grant will keep the good work going,” he said. Aderonke Ogunleye-Bello, the Executive Director of FAME Foundation, stated the PLAY it DREAM it Initiative which is currently ongoing, is using sport as a tool to tackle gender issues such as child marriages and lack of education amongst others in the society and also to mentor Internally Displaced Girls. “Due to the heterogeneous nature of Nigeria, the only unifying factor is Sports, and this is why we are using sports as a social vehicle to drive gender issues in the society” she said. She also assured that the funds will help actualise the Play it Dream it Initiative, aimed at developing the girl-child through sports, in line with Sustainable Development Goals. “IDP camps were specifically targeted to give hope to the girls internally displaced as a result of insurgency and banditry activities in some parts of the country. “We look forward to the year-long project and happy for this great partnership with the French Government/AFD which is set to help actualize our dream for the girl child in Nigeria, through sports.”