Cars45, an end-to-end digitised platform for buying, selling and swapping cars in Africa has merged with Jiji, a leading online marketplace in Africa. The merger promises a new level of trade experience for auto buyers and sellers. Joining the Jiji family will allow Cars45 users to benefit from Jiji’s market-leading products in online classifieds. In turn, Cars45 brings a unique car buying and selling service, where cars can safely be sold instantly to dealers or via a consumer marketplace to other consumers. Together, users in the auto sector can expect a new level of convenience in buying and selling cars, combining online and offline capabilities. Chief Executive Officer of Cars45 Soumobroto Ganguly at a briefing in Alausa, said merging with Jiji was aimed at creating a new kind of automotive retail experience for users in Africa. “We are proud to have built a trusted buying and selling experience in autos. It makes sense to combine online and offline expertise. We are confident of jointly building an African Champion in the O2O automotive Sector. Together we look forward to making transactions transparent and convenient for our customers, dealers and franchisees across all our current and future markets. Our business is complimentary; they (Jiji) have a good database of listings, merchants, sellers, dealers. Jiji has got  powerful performance management in Nigeria to generate leads. We (Cars45), on the other hand, have a strong transaction side in terms of bookings and inspections for closing transactions. We hope to combine offerings with all kinds of users and stakeholders,” Ganguly said. Jiji’s African Director Yuliy Shenfeld said the collaboration will bring additional value to the consumers. Shenfeld said: “We want to transform the market of buying and selling of cars with Cars45, which will have to go through inspection first before listed on Jiji. We are looking forward to creating a new advanced experience for customers. The Cars45 inspection process covers both the technical details, legal and vehicle history and documentation. With Cars45, you can sell your car in less than one hour. Now Jiji sellers will also benefit from this, and they can use more than 100 locations of Cars45.” Jiji’s Investor Relations Manager Maxim Makarchuk, stated that the merger represented Jiji bold step into the transactional business model and an important foundation for building the future of the company. According to him, the goal of the merger was to bring value to the end-users and create a one-stop solution for buying cars in the most convenient way for customers. “The merger is also a logical step in Jiji’s development as the leading e-commerce platform on the continent. Our strategy implies moving further into transactional marketplace models and Cars45 merger is an important step in its realisation. We are a customer-first company, and we are positive that customers will enjoy an even wider array of options with this relationship,” Makarchuk said.