As part of its corporate responsibility and to stem the incidence of fraud, Shirah Tutors, an arm of Shirah, an Alberta, Canada-based online platform is offering tutorials for Nigerians seeking to study abroad. According to its management, despite receiving admission to study in a Canadian College or University, very few Nigerians seeking to further their studies actually make it to Canada. To this end, it has made available tutorials and steps on how to achieve smooth sailing on its platform. A statement from Shirah outlines the factors that enable speedy admission to include: a strong letter of intent, intent to return, meeting the required financial requirements, absence of a criminal record as well as a complete medical examination. Other factors include a letter of acceptance from the academic institution one wishes to study, as well as a confirmation that all the relevant documents, which vary from country to country, are in place. CEO of Shirah, Bukky Abaniwonda, a licensed immigration specialist, who holds a Master’s in Finance from Canada, explained that Shirah Tutors underscores the company’s commitment to helping prospective clients meet up with the language requirements of the Canadian government.  According to her, to further make sure that one’s study visa application gets approved, it is advisable to make use of a licensed immigration consultant. “No knowledge is wasted especially when it comes to Canadian Immigration. One of the ways to stand out from other candidates is to have an additional educational certificate such as a second degree or a Master’s to stand out from other applicants. Shirah has constantly proven to be the best immigration consultant to work with. With our experienced consultants you can rest assured of an approved study permit,” she said. Bukky, among other things, stressed on the importance of taking a language test, stating that the purpose is to determine migrants’ proficiency in English or French and is essential in granting residency. 