 The glamorous Nigerian Polo Federation (NPF) sanctioned polo tour is heading to the home of foremost Yankari Reserves as teams from all the major polo centers across the country brace up  for the  2021 annual  Bauchi polo fiesta. A release from the NPF secretariat confirms to The NationSport that the grand polo festival is schedule to gallop off with fanfare from July 8 and thrills till July 13, 2019 in what promises to be one of the most exciting and glamorous Bauchi polo festival in years. It was  also reliably gathered that the polo loving Bauchi State  Governor Bala Mohammed who recently accepted responsibility as the Patron of the Bauchi Polo Club,  is pulling  the stops to ensure  that the ancient kingdom host one of the most memorable and the most exciting polo tournaments in years. Bauchi Polo Club Secretary, Haruna Usman, confirmed that the state is set to host the glamorous polo fiesta which remains one of the biggest sporting events on a yearly basis and one of the most attended polo tournaments in the country. According to Usman, the event promises to competitive and exciting: “Our playing pitch is in top shape, the hotel accommodation as well as the stabling facilities, are all up to standard as required by the ruling of the game.” Backed by the State government, Bauchi and Yola Emirates, a consortium of blue chip firms and prominent individuals among others, the annual tournament revered as the biggest tourism attraction in the state, promises to be the biggest in years. Bauchi Polo Captain Bello Sam-Pam stated that over twenty ambitious teams comprising old rivals and debutants from Abuja, Lagos, Port Harcourt, Kano, Katsina, Kaduna, Yola, Bauchi, Jos, Zaria, Keffi, Arguing and host Bauchi, are all battle ready to jostle for top honours during the weeklong polo extravaganza. He stated that four major trophies and a dozen of selected prizes would be at stake during the six-day event. The Prizes include the glittering Governor’s Cup which is the event’s biggest reward. Other prizes include the Emir of Bauchi Cup, Emir of Kata gum Cup, Sarki Fulani Cup, Beginners Cup and the Veterans Cup. The build-up for the glamorous event heightened over the weekend with the arrival of truck-loads of horses, players and thousands of polo buffs converging at the ancient city for polo extravaganza that is guaranteed to surpass last year’s, in excitements, pomp and competition. After six days of unforgettable top flight polo actions witnessed by a record crowd of royalties, top government officials, business gurus, diplomats and thousands of enthusiasts, it was the defending champions, Malcomines, Haske & Wiliams, Jengere and Kangiwa teams that rule the festival carting homes the biggest titles. It was a double celebration for the miners from Jos as Hamisu Buba led Malcomines defeated their hard fighting Iyatu Farm opponents, to keep the Governor’s Cup thrice on the trot. Unlike their two previous wins, the Governor Cup final this year, pitching title holders and top contenders, Iyatu Farms from Kaduna was a nerve wracking that went straight to the wire after a 5-5  opener that sets up a must watch finale.  Hosted under the auspices of the Nigeria Polo Federation (NPF), the Bauchi Polo grand slam attract thousands of enthusiasts from neighboring Kano, Gombe Plateau, Kaduna, Adamawa, Yobe and Borno in their droves to the annual festival.