COORDINATOR of Sector ‘C’ Command of Surveillance and Enforcement Team of Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN) in Delta State Eshanekpe Israel has urged the Presidency to probe alleged sabotage of the team’s activities. Israel, leader of National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators (NCNDE-A), said his team had succeeded where many failed. He urged the authorities to investigate dismantling of his team’s checkpoints by policemen. In a June 24 petition to Chief of Staff to the President Prof. Ibraham Gambari, Israel (aka Akpodoro) alleged there was a plot by a top police officer to frustrate his efforts. He alleged the police appeared to be giving an easy ride to those he described as culprits in pipeline vandalism, oil theft, product adulteration and sundry crimes, which his team was fighting. The Urhobo-born ex-warlord also sent the petition to National Security Adviser to the President; Secretary to the Government of the Federation; minister of Defence; Police Service Commission; Police Affairs minister; Inspector General of Police; among others. He claimed that from his first encounter with the officer, his body language appeared to show that he was not happy with the war against economic saboteurs in the state. According to the petitioner, were it not for the collaboration between the IPMAN team and Operation Delta Safe, which supported the fight, the outfit would not have been able to achieve this much in making the state hot for oil thieves, product adulterators and others. Israel claimed that structures belonging to IPMAN Surveillance Team were being dismantled contrary to the mandate given by President Muhammadu Buhari to the IPMAN leadership to stamp out criminals from that sector of the petroleum industry.  He said: “I didn’t appoint myself. I am not a trader in petroleum products but I am mandated by the leadership of IPMAN based on my track record as an ex-militant leader, who was instrumental in disarming NDA (Niger Delta Avengers). “I worked tirelessly with the military to stamp out the NDA in 2016 and my records are there. The IPMAN president is the one I report to… “…these were reasons the president of IPMAN appointed and mandated me to lead the Surveillance and Enforcement Team of IPMAN in Delta State. “My team bust a gang of well head thieves. We have destroyed over 50 million litres of stolen Automotive Gas Oil (AGO). “We have impounded over 20 trucks laden with stolen products and the culprits were handed over to the Army.” Israel claimed the alleged sabotage was done in a manner that showed personal grievance against operations of the IPMAN team.   