 The Labour Party (LP) flag bearer for the November 6 governorship election in Anambra State, Obiora Emmanuel Agbasimalo, has promised to tackle the state’s foundational challenges. The Ezinifite, Nnewi South Local Government Area-born chartered accountant listed the main problems to include healthcare, security, education, infrastructure and trade. He said his manifesto places emphasis on all the necessary catalysts for growth, such as women and youth empowerment, effective local government administration and social welfare. Agbasimalo, 40, an accounting graduate relishes his deep involvement in philanthropic and humanitarian activities. To develop the state,  he said he would maintain a good relationship with the grassroots with a view to getting first-hand information on the goings-on in every part of the state. The LP candidate said he would work closely with the police and vigilante groups for the safety of lives and property. He said security is a key component of his agenda to sell Anambra to the world as a viable investment destination.  He also assured the people that he would work closely with the government at the centre to ensure that the state gets its fair share of the deal if elected into office. The LP flag-bearer harped on infrastructure development, reiterating that new roads would be built and existing ones maintained. Same attention, he added, would be accorded to hospitals. He said: “I plan to develop Anambra into a world-class state. Anambra has human and non-human resources in abundance. I would effectively harness all the state’s resources to create a well-structured entity with strong institutions. A state where its citizens and residents would enjoy a very high standard of living that would be the envy of the entire nation. “I would bring the government closer to the people by ensuring a viable local government administration in my tenure. All local government executives would have direct access to me. I would ensure that they help me fulfil my election promises to the citizens in their constituents.” He added: “I would reach out to all men and women of repute in the state, seeking their cooperation in selling the state to the world as a viable investment destination.” 