 The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS)  has expressed support for the bill for the establishment of a National Paramilitary Academy. This, it said, would help train more personnel to fight insecurity. The Chairman, NANS, Ogun State Axis, Comrade Adeyemi Samson Ajasa, said the bill, being sponsored by a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Adekoya Adesegun, was in the right direction. He, therefore, urged the National Assembly to give the bill accelerated consideration and passage. “We like to acknowledge here that the said bill as proposed by Hon. Adekoya Adesegun is absolutely brilliant and its ultimate consideration for passge by the National Assembly will be of great reward to the nation at large, especially at this time when insecurity is confronting our dear country. “The bill comprehensively and exhaustively spells out the many angles from which its due consideration and diligent implementation will add imeasurable value to our nation. “We are faced with the reality of persistently growing insecurity and commensurate increase in abuse/misuse of military/paramilitary privileges by contending forces in the nation,” he said. Ajasa noted that it was imperative  to seek effective ways to grow outfits that are thoroughly schooled in the art of intelligent and civil discharge of security services to the citizens just like  in more developed countries. He also said establishing a paramilitary academy would reduce  unemployment. “The bill describes how the strategic siting of the proposed Paramilitary Academy in the Southwest will not only save the government the cost of building from the scratch, but also will bring a significant balance to the perceived marginalisation of the Southwest and others regions asides the North in hosting federal academy for the various military schools. “Paramilitary organisations, including the Nigeria Immigration Service, Nigeria Customs Service, the Nigeria Correctional Service, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, National  Drug Law and Enforcement Agency and the Nigeria Federal Road Safety Commission, when brought under one roof, will form workable synergy, interconnect, and bond for inter-agency knowledge exchange purposes.This singular benefit as stated in the bill will go a long  way in enhancing the effectiveness of the Nigerian law enforcement agencies,” Ajasa, however, urged members of the National Assembly to throw their weight behind the bill and ensure speedy approval by both chambers. 