 He could not cross over the 50 bar, like most outstanding peoples of the world that mysteriously bow to the cold hands of death , but achieving so much at that short life span. The figures 39, 49, 59, and 69 in age brackets, the most daunting and to leap into the next age, demands the Grace of God. Why this quiz? He had marked his anniversary of birth on February 27, 2020 last year, just turning 49 and four months after, Isi-Uzo Constituency of Enugu State lost its torchbearer and Member representing the Constituency at the State House of Assembly, Hon Chijioke Leonard Ugwueze, the Aguiyi of all seasons. So much has passed though the bridge, the unending tears of family members, friends and associates both in government and the private sector, where he stamped his authority as an industrialist and manufacturer par excellence. Come July 31, this year, indeed few days away, all roads would lead to Ikem, his home town in Isi-Uzo Local Government area of Enugu State, where several activities have been lined up to mark the anniversary of one year of his burial  proper. Everyone in Isi-Uzo and his very bosom friends all over the country are falling over themselves to make that day as remarkable as ever. Indeed, the entire Enugu State will empty there because of his large heart, philanthropic nature, his numerous achievements in politics and business, breaking all grounds from a humble family background, to becoming an employer of labour with a staggering large numbers of workforce both local and expatriates in his Leomarkz Integrated Services Limited at the sprawling Emene Industrial hub of the Coal City of Enugu. Biblically, the Creator God is said to be the Father of all widows. The departed Honorable member Chijioke Ugwueze will remain endeared to widows who he had hosted regularly, a practice that had spanned over a decade. He was a succor to the less privileged, the poorest of the poor, orphans and indigent students who he gladly supported with money to solve their intractable problems. No one went to his house, ever came out the same. He planted smiles on the faces of the ‘army’ of those in dire need and straits. It is to keep his memory effervescent and alive in peoples’ consciousness that the wife, Hon. Amaka Catherine Ugwueze, who replaced him in a by-election she won, is rolling out a Chijioke Leonard Ugwueze Memorial Foundation. The Foundation which comes on stream immediately, would concentrate for now with towns and communities that populate Isi-Uzo Local Government area. Considering that Aguiyi during his life time, was a philanthropist, who bothered about others first before taking care of his personal worries, the Foundation would tackle three crucial areas at its inception viz:- Education. Skill Acquisition and Support for Widows. Qualified beneficiaries already chosen from a pack of prospective students’ applicants who have already undergone rigorous selection process of examinations and interviews, would enjoy the Foundation’s sponsorship for Registration of SSCE and UTME for 11 Candidates (one per ward).  A Scholarship scheme opens for each successful candidate in any Federal or State University throughout the course of study in the university. Very attractive openings for the Skilled Acquisition, that encompasses such areas as Tilling, Roofing, Fashion Design, Hair Dressing, Welding, Mechanic, Furniture making, POP art and Carpentry. The Foundation would bear costs of apprenticeship and accommodation, amongst others. As regards widows, certain sum of money is being made available for 22 beneficiaries to go into their choice of business. Hon Mrs. Amaka Ugwueze is very upbeat about this special ceremony which also would mark her getting over the sad episode because she decided on her own to mark one full year for the husband’s memory, who she describes as her idol, and life partner. Earlier there would be a church thanksgiving service at the palatial home of the Ugwuezes now wearing a rainbow buntings of the great day ahead, where church services by nuclear family members, Top government officials, Colleagues at the Enugu House of Assembly led by the Speaker Rt. Hon Edward Uchenna Ubosi, and associates cum distinguished friends and guests from all walks of life, would hold. Perhaps, one of the great events is the unveiling of a statue, effigy perfectly embossed in memory of Hon. Chijioke Ugwueze, situated strategically at the family country home at Ikem. The ice on the cake will also be the formal public presentation of a book ‘The Aguiyi I Married’ written by his wife, Hon. Amaka Ugwueze. She is quick to tell me that the public presentation is not in the mould of commercial launching ceremony but whoever feels to sow in the success and smooth take off of this foundation, was most welcome. For a man who was a fighter of the oppressed and the minorities, there was so much pains and tears last year that every segment of the society felt his sudden demise. The cloak of mourning is definitely disappearing for a celebration of a Man whose life although was short, but made indelible impression throughout Isi-Uzo Local Government and Enugu State respectively. He broke ranks, selling vegetables in the beginning, transporting them to Abuja, ran a poultry farm supplying eggs and chickens to most top hotels in and outside Enugu, combining academics with business without any one of them suffering. He got appointed as Chairman of Isi-Uzo Local Government and held several political appointments, as Chairperson of Peoples Democratic Party PDP at the local branch Ikem, from where he contested election and won via landslide as member representing Isi-Uzo Constituency. He was barely a year at the Enugu House of Assembly, when death came knocking last year. He sponsored his political party and politicians with his personal resources at various elections, including friends and family relations on his pay roll monthly. He was one who never hesitated to assist. At the House of Assembly, he never collected any salaries, that is the spectacle of a man Enugu State would celebrate and his kindred in Isi-Uzo would beat their chests and say without mincing words, that there goeth our indefatigable and wonderful son and brother. His flourishing manufacturing Octopus of a Synthetic Polythene and Waste to Wealth conglomerate is a star signal, a footprint and a legacy that would remain evergreen. For a man very wealthy, but simple, a man engrossed in farming and business but found time to study up to a Masters degree, and indeed had picked up a form to go in for a PHD degree few days, before his demise, Aguiyi remains an enigma. As everyone converges at Ikem his home town, to celebrate this great Enugu Son, it is all systems go!!!