Yoruba nation agitator Sunday Adeyemo (a.k.a Sunday Igboho) has been declared wanted after a raid on his Ibadan home by a joint team of security operatives. During the early morning raid, about 1:34 am on Thursday, two of Igboho’s men were killed, 13 were arrested and taken to Abuja. Igboho escaped. Arms, ammunition, charms among other items, were recovered from the house after almost one hour of gun exchange between security operatives and Igboho’s guards. Department of State Services (DSS) said last night that security operatives carried out the raid after an intelligence report confirmed the stockpiling of arms in the house. DSS spokesman Dr. Peter Afunanya told reporters that when security operatives approached the house, they came under heavy gunfire from nine of Igboho’s men. Afunanya said six of the men were armed with AK-47 while the three had pump action rifles. Afunanya explained that Igboho escaped during the exchange of gunfire. He urged Igboho to turn himself in to the security agencies. Various weapons, cash and charms were recovered in the raid, Afunanya said. In a statement he read at a news conference, the DSS spokesman said: “In the early hours (about 0134 hours) of today, (1st July, 2021), a joint team of security operatives raided the residence of Sunday Adeniyi Adeyemo a.k.a. Sunday Igboho at Soka, Ibadan, Oyo State. This was based on intelligence that he had stockpiled arms in the place. On approach to the residence, the team came under heavy gun attack by nine (9) men, suspected to be Igboho’s guards. Six (6) of them were armed with AK-47 gun and Three (3) others, with Pump-Action riffles. “In the course of the exchange, two (2) of Igboho’s armed men were gunned down while the rest were subdued and arrested.  Only one operative who was shot by the assailants on his right hand sustained injury. He has however received medical attention and he is very stable. “Afterwards, the team procedurally searched the house and subsequently recovered the following among others:  seven AK-47 assault rifles; three Pump Action guns; 30 fully charged AK-47 magazines; (5,000) rounds of 7.62mm ammunition; five cutlasses; one jack knife; one pen knife two pistol holsters; one binoculars and a wallet containing  $5 in $1 denomination, local and international driver’s licenses in his name, ATM cards and a German resident permit No. YO2N6K1NY bearing his name. “Also found were: two whistles; 50 cartridges; 18 walkie-talkies; three Voodoo charm jackets/traditional body armour; two laptops (Toshiba and One Compaq models); and his International Passport and those of many others (as displayed).” Afunnaya said further exploitation and forensic analysis were ongoing.  He added: “Aside the items recovered from the building, thirteen (13) suspects including twelve (12) males and one (1) female were arrested and brought to Abuja. While one suspect is being profiled, the other twelve (12) paraded here are: Abdulateef Ofeyagbe; Amoda Babatunde (aka Lady K);  Tajudeen Erinoyen; Diakola Ademola; Abideen Shittu; Jamiu Noah; Ayobami Donald; Adelabe Usman; Oluwafelumi Kunle; Raji Kazeem; Taiwo Opeyemi and Bamidele Sunday. Highlights of this brief are to: “Inform Nigerians and the world that Sunday Igboho and his group, in the guise of campaign for self-determination, have become well-armed and determined to undermine public order. This, the arrests and seizures are, no doubt, a confirmation of a grand plan by Igboho and his cohorts to wage a violent insurrection against the Nigerian State. “Alert foreign missions and licencing authorities within and outside Nigeria about this development and the possibility that Igboho could declare some of his personal permit and identity cards missing in order to seek their replacement. “Apprise stakeholders that the Five (5) AK-47 assault rifles recovered from the building are suspected to be those collected by Igboho’s men from Nigerian Customs and Immigration personnel at Idi Iroko, Ogun State. “The gun duel which lasted for an hour offered Igboho the chance to escape. He is now on the run. Igboho may run as far as he can. He may hide as long as he wants. He might have attacked security operatives as his strength carried him. But this will be the end of his shenanigans. Soon, he will not have a hiding place. His strength will sure fail him. And the law will catch up with him. The law may be slow. But it will be steady. “Consequently, Adeyemo/Igboho is advised to turn himself in to the nearest security agency. Those cheering and eulogising him may appeal to or advise him to do the needful. He should surrender himself to the appropriate authorities. He or anyone can never be above the law. Meanwhile, those arrested will be charged accordingly.” Many groups including Afenifere, the Afenifere Renewal Group and Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) condemned the raid. Other groups also urged caution.