Aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have staged a peaceful protest against the suspension of the party’s chairman in Gwer East Local Government Area of Benue State. The APC Chairman of Gwer East Local Government Area chapter Terfa Ikyereve was suspended for two months after a disciplinary committee set up by the party found him guilty of improper conduct. The State Working Committee (SW SWC) of the APC approved a two-month suspension of the embattled chairman from office on Monday. Yesterday, (today) aggrieved members of the APC and his loyalist across the Gwer East Local Government chapter of the party staged a peaceful protest against his suspension. Leader of the protesters Kyomon Terzungwe, who is also APC youth leader in Yonov, Gwer East Local Government took to the streets carrying some placards. Some of the inscriptions on the placards read: “We want peace in APC,” “Suspension must follow due process,” “APC National Secretariat must intervene.” Terzungwe told The Nation that the suspension of the APC Chairman did not follow due process. Terzungwe, who spoke on behalf of the protesters, said the suspended chairman was innocent of allegations levelled against him. “They removed him few days to APC congress because he was not doing their bidding, but doing the right thing,” he said. He called on the National Secretariat to reverse the decision in the interest of peace ahead of 2023. The APC state Publicity Secretary James Ornguga said the suspended chairman led some thugs to the secretariat of an APC aspirant and disrupted their sitting. In the process, they destroyed some items. According to APC spokesperson, police arrested the chairman but the party intervened and set up a disciplinary committee which recommended his two-month suspension and the State Working Committee (SWC) on the party approved the suspension on Monday. James Ornguga appealed to APC members in Gwer East to be law-abiding and shun acts that may portray the party in a bad light as they wait to take over power in 2023.