Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, has thrown his weight behind the 30-day global prayer for peace, the brainchild of Prince Ayo Manuel Ajisebutu. Ajisebutu, who is a musician, peace activist and social entrepreneur based in the United States, noted Nigeria would be a better place if citizens of the country lived together in peace. He said: “Our mission statement is to unite humanity for the common good of all. I am concerned about the spate of killings by unknown gunmen, herders/farmers crises, kidnappings and ethnic unrest which can lead to a full-blown genocide. “The calls for the dissolution of Nigeria, especially by the Southwest, Southeast and South-South ethnic nationalities should be handled with love. According to Martin Luther King Jr., Nonviolence is the answer to the crucial political and moral questions of our time; the need for mankind to overcome oppression and violence without resorting to oppression and violence.” Manuel stated he believes in the power of prayer to calm the growing tension in the country. “My goal is to continue to bring together Christian, Muslim and other religious leaders in Nigeria and around the world to call on their followers to pray for peace in Nigeria for the entire month of July.“ The program will be followed by some practical initiatives to promote love, peace and unity in the country. Oba Adetona appealed to all Nigerians to denounce violence and embrace one another with love. He said: “The leaders must listen to the cry of the youths and every member of society that feel neglected and do the needful. We must work together to lift up the poor. We must make education a priority for our children.” Adentona continued, “Religious leaders— be they Christians, Muslims or traditionalists— have a vital role to play in making Nigeria a harmonious place. “They must come together and demand that their followers love and protect all lives. I also appeal to the armed forces that deal directly with the members of society to be more humane. Every citizen of this country deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. They should allow the court to decide the fate of every accused person.”