The messy affair between Super TV boss and the 21-year-old University of Lagos (UNILAG) student, Chidinma Ojukwu, which eventually led to the murder of the former, has raised concerns among students over the fast-eroding values and morals as well as the culture of having ‘Sugar Daddy’ and ‘Side Chick’ in the country’s tertiary institutions, report EMMANUEL OCHAYI (UNILAG) FORTUNE AMAECHI (ABSU), OMOJOWO AJOSANMI (AAUA) and HANNAH AJAO (UNILORIN). It is no longer news that Chidinma Ojukwu, a 300-Level Mass Communication student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), allegedly murdered her ‘Sugar Daddy’, the Chief Executive Officer of Super TV, Usifo Ataga. Ever since the news broke, observers have expressed their displeasure as to  why such a girl would get embroiled in a seedy affair with a man old enough to be her father. The deceased was not also spared for being morally deficient.  Travails of a ‘Side Chick’  When quizzed, the culprit, a native of Arochukwu in Abia State, revealed she met Ataga four months ago through a friend. Recalling their last moments, she said: “On Monday, we were together, drinking and smoking.We had fun. Later I went out to get food for both of us. On Tuesday, he tried to make advances at me, but I told him I was tired and he became violent. Eventually, he had his way. “Towards afternoon, we ordered for smoke and blue fees together, that was what we took. We ate food and became high. I wasn’t happy with the first one he did. So, I sat on my own, smoking, drinking and eating. He was on the couch but later came to where I sat watching television. I told him I wasn’t happy with what he did the first time. “ I told him, ‘you don’t help or assist me but yet, you just want to be playing with me around’. He gave me his ATM card and said I could go and withdraw any amount I wanted. He also gave me the PIN. “But I told him that was not what I meant by assistance. He became violent and tried to get to me, but I resisted him and tried to defend myself. At some point, he hit my head on the wall and I retaliated. He held me and was choking me as I leaned on the cabinet. In defence, I stretched out my hand and collected a knife and stabbed him in the neck. I had attempted severally to leave before then, but he stopped me.” However, the 21-year-old has started showing remorse after attributing her actions to the  effect of hard drugs and smoking. She said: “I started smoking after I got into UNILAG. I regret killing Mr. Ataga. I don’t know what my future holds but I don’t want to die. Please, I don’t want to die because of this case. I have not killed before. “I was just trying to comport myself to answer questions during the parade and not that I am not showing remorse. I totally regretted everything I did and I am sorry. “Mr Ataga’s family, I am deeply sorry for what I did. If I had my life back, I wouldn’t do anything like that. I am deeply sorry and I hope you forgive me.”  Students on erosion of values; culture of ‘Sugar Daddy’  Students across tertiary institutions believe that moral decadence in our  society did not creep in overnight. They also lament that the culture of having ‘Sugar Daddy’ would continue, citing many reasons. For Sarah Ben, a 200-Level Chemical Engineering student of University of Uyo, the immoral act (old men having sexual relations with young girls)  should be discouraged. “I heard the story and I just shook my head. What about the man’s family and the girl’s parents? What will they do or say? It’s just appalling. This heinous act should be discouraged because the more it keeps happening, the more the younger generation sees nothing wrong in it; and the most annoying thing is that, not only are the young girls involved, but the mothers, also. Just for the highlights, too, sugar mommies exist,” she said. Ben Agoha, a 400-Level student of Abia State University, said: “On the culture of having “Sugar Daddy”, first, I believe it is  still on and  increasing daily, owing to the fact that most students in our varsities are needy, hence, they subject themselves to such act in  to cater for their needs; second,  greed and being discontented with what they are being given.” James Michael, a student of Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, described  the whole affair as ‘immoral’, adding that men should learn  to have self-control. “It is  a lesson to  both parties. Regardless of the reason given for the death of Mr. Ataga, there is absolutely nothing right in the whole thing. Imagine how the wife and children of the deceased will feel. ‘’Then, what will the parents of the girl in question do? No girl should frolic around with any woman’s husband and men should learn self control,” he said. Decrying the situation, Ifeoma Richard, a 400-Level student of ABSU, said: “Having Sugar Daddy, especially in our universities, has become a norm to our young girls, who probably come from poor backgrounds and are easily swayed by the enticing words of these elderly men. These gullible girls give sex to these men in exchange for money. Funny enough, these girls can have more than one ‘Sugar Daddy’. Honestly, this act is immoral and wrong.” Another student, Blessing Ikuomola, a 500-Level Law student of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Ondo State, wants parents to work their socks off and train their children to be morally and spiritually upright. This, she said, would ensure sound character in children. Afieajoye Tubosun, a 300-Level Political Science student of AAUA, said: “We need to tackle this issue of Sugar Daddy before it boomerangs. It is an ill that has become a norm as a result of the moral decadence in our  society. “Such relationship is not safe for the girls. Some of these girls might be used for rituals. They might get infected with STDs and STIs. Such relationships can as well have a psychological effect on the girls. “I think our various communities, familie, religious organisations, the media, NGOs and others need to come together to put an end to the menace.” Samuel Sobande, a 100-Level Chemistry student, UNILAG, many  female students believe they cannot survive without having sexual relations with elderly men. “I was shocked. For you to kill a man you just met four months ago, who is also your benefactor, is terrible. Sadly, many students think they will not survive in the university if they do not go into such act,” he said. Weah Nyennoh Vilisa,  a 400-Level, Mass Communication student at the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), said: “Some girls have everything they want from home but  they want more. The ones that want to show off will rather follow married men because of what they will get. But the men are to blame, too. Why would a married man go after a girl young enough to be his daughter?” Abegunde Temitope Samuel, a 500-Level  Quantity Surveying student of Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) warns young girls against living above their means, stressing that the common expression ‘Small girl big God’ is only a fallacy if they don’t act with moderation. His words: “These girls are doing themselves more harm than good by engaging in such acts. Also, they should learn to live by their means, as it is imperative for the society, too, to rise and condemn the act.” On his part, Folarin Samuel, a 400-Level student of UNILAG, blames the act on the desire to enjoy a flamboyant life despite being financially incapable. A student, who pleaded anonymity, said: “Some parents do not care about the well-being of their children as long as they can provide them the necessary money that would help them in institutions. In fact, some do not bother to check on their wards  in  school. It is expected of a parent to regularly check on the school, department and house their children live in the school; to investigate how their children  attend classes and their lifestyle.” Another student of AAUA, Atere Helen Funmilayo, said: ”The killing of Ataga  portrayed the suspect as totally unfair and heartless. “Women running after men that are old enough to be their fathers is quite disgusting. A situation where the female child isn’t properly trained, she might resort to sleeping around with married men for money. This is common on our campuses. “Having  a Side Chick is not to be encouraged. If a man knows he can’t stick to one woman, he should marry as many wives as possible, that, at least, would free him from being starved of intimacy.” A 100-Level student of UNILAG, who prefers to be anonymous, blames the act on peer pressure. She said: ”Ninety per cent of students  who have Sugar Daddy were influenced by their peers in the school. I am sure the majority of the  students involved in the act  are from good homes and were influenced when they came into the school.” Lateef Sodiq Olamilekan, a 300-Level student of  UNILORIN, said: “Well, I will say both are to blame. It is actually not morally upright for a married man to be having an affair outside marriage. To the girl, I can say her parents might also be at fault, a well-trained child will not engage in such bad act of killing a fellow human, even if the CEO breached the agreement they had, it did not warrant killing him. “The issue of female students having an affair, to me, has two angles to it. First, it’s greed. We just have to be satisfied with the little our parents are giving us, But,  nowadays, everyone wants to wear branded dresses; use latest iPhone and that’s part of the social ills. “Also, some parents are not even concerned about their children in school, no check up, no follow up; some don’t even sponsor their children again. It’s the children that are sponsoring themselves.” Another student who preferred anonymity said: ” The economic situation of the country can also be blamed for this. Where it is difficult for the government to provide a safe environment for local businesses to thrive. Where only the rich have access to education than the poor; where school fees are being increased on daily basis. These conditions may lead to self help on the part of a  student who wants to achieve his/her goal by hook or by crook. Some students may want to follow the advice of their friends. They want to belong to the classic group in the school. Because some of their friends are using the latest  phones and other material things, they don’t want any one to make them look inferior. Hence, they engage the service of a man who is older, rich and who they think can provide for all their needs. It doesn’t matter whether the man is married or whether the source of his wealth is pure or not.”