A woman accused by the police of impersonating her employer and forging his signature was yesterday re-arraigned before an Ogba Magistrates’ Court in Ikeja, Lagos. Olaide Olukanni, 34, was charged before Chief Magistrate E. Kubeinje alongside her alleged accomplice, Sikiru Lawal, 39. Olukanni, said to be a deaconess, was first arrested last February by the Area ‘G’ Command, Ikeja, Lagos on the allegation that she impersonated her boss, Mr Abiodun Esan and forged his signature. She was arraigned on a three-count charge of impersonation and forgery under sections 78(b) 365 (1) and (2) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. The defendant pleaded ‘not guilty’ was granted bail. But, following a fresh petition from three complainants which led to Lawal’s arrest on the allegation that he was her accomplice, the police prepared a fresh charge against the duo. Olukanni, of 11, Mokore Street, Warewa, Ogun State and Lawal, 39, were brought before the same court on a six-court charge of impersonation, forgery and conduct likely to cause breach of peace. Police counsel Bisi Ogunleye informed the court in a charge marked MIR /D / 2021 that the defendants committed the offences in May, 2019 at Kayode Street, Ogba, and in November, 2020 at Oke-Ira, Ogba, Ikeja. Ogunleye alleged that both defendants, besides impersonating Esan and forging his signature, also forged his seal and survey plan and used it to process fake survey plans for numerous clients. The police also claimed that in the process, the defendants collected the sum of N120,000 from one Tunde Oyediran under false pretence. The court heard that the defendants also allegedly falsely represented themselves as “Surveyor Abiodun Esan” to one Azeez Olasupo with intent to defraud him and also forged the signature of a Surveyor, S.W Fatoye. Ogunleye said the offences contravened sections 411, 365 (1), 380 (11) 168 (1) and 314 (1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015. Olukanni and Lawal both pleaded “not guilty.” Mr Kubeinje granted each defendant N200,000 bail with two sureties each, one of who must own a property within the court’s jurisdiction. He adjourned further proceedings till August 4. 