The Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) has celebrated its Diamond Jubilee in grand style. The theme of the anniversary is ‘Celebrating 60 years of Management Excellence: Poised for More!’. The hybrid event, which kicked off on July 14 with a flurry of activities, including unveiling of the 60th anniversary logo and jingle, visit to an orphanage lecture by Dr. Ayo Teriba, will be rounded up with a luncheon on July 17. President and Chairman of NIM Council, Mrs. Patience Anabor, FNIM, said in the past 60 years, the Institute has done a good job of fulfilling its mandate by bequeathing an enduring professional management practice to the nation. “With about 200,000 individual and 400 corporate membership strength that cut across all professions made up of high net worth professionals and blue chip organizations, the institute has grown to become the foremost, largest and biggest multidisciplinary professional management Institute in Africa. “Since the core mandate of the Institute is capacity building especially in the areas of management and leadership development, the Institute has been in the forefront of capacity building in the critical sectors of the nation’s economy. “NIM has done very well in this direction as it has successfully delivered professional management, capacity building, consultancy, re-engineering and human capital development solutions to many organisations in public and private sectors of the economy which it collaborates with both locally and internationally. “Over the years, the Institute has been involved in providing workable roadmap to Government in solving issues of governance through its numerous public advocacy programmes and activities,” she said. Anabor, however, recognised the effort of the sacrifices of the founding fathers, who nurtured the Institute to the enviable height, image and recognition it is enjoying. The President pledged to continue working hard to build on and sustain their legacy. The Institute was established in 1961 by a group of management professionals to bridge perceived gap in management of the nation’s public and private sectors, attaining charter status through Act 14 of 2003.