The shape of the nation’s security and the 2023 general election may change following the endorsement of state police and independent candidacy by the Senate Committee on Constitution Review. The committee has also moved transportation from the exclusive to the concurrent list to enable states to build and run their railway systems. The 1999 Constitution will be amended to reflect the new ideas of the lawmakers. But to avoid crowded ballot, the Senate is likely to set tough conditions for independent candidates to emerge. One of the conditions is similar to the template for the recall of a member of the state or National Assembly. The concurrence of the House of Representatives Committee on Constitution Review on state police and independent candidacy is being awaited before the amendment can sail through. The two committees of the Senate and the House will soon meet to compare notes on their decisions on proposed amendments to the 1999 Constitution. The two chambers will later table all the proposed amendments at their plenary. The amendment to the constitution also requires the concurrence of at least two-third members of the state Houses of Assembly. Meanwhile House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila wants the National Assembly and State Houses of Assembly to synergise in producing a people oriented constitution. Speaking at a meeting of the Conference of Presiding Officers of Nigerian Legislatures (COPON) in Abuja, Gbajabiamila called for collaboration to make the ongoing review of the 1999 Constitution successful. According to an aide to one of the leaders of the Senate, the committee arrived at state police, independent candidacy and transportation during the clause by clause consideration of proposed amendments. The aide, who spoke in confidence, said the clause by clause consideration by the Senate Committee on Constitution Review provided an opportunity for the members to find a major solution to the nation’s security architecture when majority of the members voted for state police. “I think they took into consideration the need to bring the police system closer to the grassroots. With this decision, the nation’s police system will be decentralized,” the aide said. Continuing, he said: “They also opted for independent candidacy to enable some Nigerians with integrity contest for any office at the state or national level. Some credible Nigerians do not want to engage in partisan politics. “But to avoid crowded ballot, the committee is working on tough conditions any aspirant must scale before he or she can emerge as an independent candidate. “It is a return to the First Republic when independent candidates stood for elections and won on merit.” On transportation, the source said railway has been removed from the Exclusive List. His words: “If this particular amendment is finally passed into law, any state can float its own railway system. “States aspiring to have modern metro lines can now go ahead unlike in the 1980s when the administration of ex-President Shehu Shagari did not support the Lagos Metro line project, which was initiated by the late Governor Lateef Jakande. “Railway will no longer be the exclusive preserve of the Federal Government.” Responding to a question, the aide said: “These are some of the decisions of the Senate Committee on Constitution Review, which reflect their thoughts to effect some changes. They are waiting for the decisions of the House of Representatives Committee on Constitution Review too. “At the end of the day, the two committees will meet to compare notes on the amendments to present to their plenary. “The gaps in the decisions of the two chambers might lead to a joint conference for harmonization.” Gbajabiamila seeks synergy between NASS and state assemblies Addressing the Conference of Presiding Officers of Nigerian Legislatures (COPON) in Abuja, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon.  Femi Gbajabiamila, asked the National Assembly and state houses of assembly to synergise for the purpose of producing a people-oriented constitution. The speaker, who described the legislature as the most important arm of government in any democratic setting, said the intention of the “wholesale review of our nation’s constitution” was “using the constitution amendment process to address the foundational deficiencies in our constitution that continue to mitigate against the attainment of an honourable, peaceful and universal prosperity in our country.” He said once the National Assembly was done with its part, it would forward the constitution review document to State Houses of Assembly for their own constitutional inputs. Gbajabiamila said by virtue of its roles, which included coming together to protect the interests of the diverse people in the country, the legislature has a more direct and immediate connection with the people at the grassroots. The Speaker urged legislators to remain true to their constitutional roles, saying: “It is only the legislator that has the constitutional obligation to come to work each day and advocate for the interests of the people on whose behalf we serve. “This is both a high honour and a heavy responsibility. And I am pleased that at this time in our nation’s history, we have as presiding officers of parliament across the country capable people who recognise the importance of this moment and are equal to the task of nation-building at this critical time.” He said though there are three arms of government with the Judiciary and the Executive having their roles clearly understood by all, there is usually a misconception about the role of the Legislature. “In governance, there is a role for the Legislature. Unfortunately in our clime, and perhaps in most climes, the role of the Legislature is often conflicted and bungled together to include the role of the Judiciary, the role of the Executive, and even the role of a private organisation. “We have to play all these roles as legislators. What I find solace in is the fact that this misconception and misunderstanding of the role of the Legislature is a worldwide phenomenon. It is universal, and it is not peculiar to Nigeria alone”. On the conference, Gbajabiamila said since the last meeting of COPON 12 years ago, “…our democracy has changed. We have matured and improved, yet in many important ways, and on many important issues, there is still a lot of work left to do. “As legislators, our ability to do what is required of us in this joint task of nation-building depends, in some measure, on how well we can work together within the federal legislature, and across the legislatures of the 36 states.”