 The year began with the exit of the country from recession in the last quarter of last year. The telecoms industry, regulated by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), was identified as one of the sectors whose performance lifted the country out of recession in the fourth quarter of 2020, contributing 12.45 per cent to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). According to the latest data released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), telecommunications & Information Services under Information and Communication grew by 17.64 per cent in Q4 2020 from 17.36 per cent in Q3 2020 and 10.26 per cent in Q4 2019. The report said agriculture, industries, and services sector, under which telecoms is categorised, contributed 26.95 per cent, 18.77 per cent, and 54.28 per cent. This is a pointer to the fact that telecoms, trade, services and crop production were the main drivers of Nigeria’s exit from recession. Specifically, the report showed that largest sub-sectors in Q4 2020 are crop production at 3.68 per cent, crude petroleum and natural gas at 8.2 percent, trade at 14.9 per cent, telecoms & information services at 12.45 per cent, and real estate at 5.7 per cent, the report says. The sector has, in the last five years, been a major driver of the digital economy agenda of the Federal Government, as it has continued to provide the needed digital sinews that support the economy, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic and its attendant restriction period. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, government institutions, businesses and individuals have relied heavily on telecoms services to carry out their operations and official routines. In response to the increased demand, the Commission put some regulatory measures in place to ensure seamless access by Nigerians to telecommunication services and protect against any adverse impact on the quality of service enjoyed by consumers. The steady growth of the sector over the years with its pervasive positive impact on  other sectors in terms of increased automation of processes and digital transformation in service delivery has been remarkable. The growth trend since 2015 has reawakened hope that the diversification dreams of the country may finally be a reality as the sector continues to energise significant economic activities in the services sector of the economy. Through an effective regulatory regime put in place by the Commission, under its Executive Vice Chairman (EVC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta, telecoms investment grew from about $38 billion in 2015 to over $70 billion. Also, broadband penetration increased from six per cent in 2015 to 45.02 per cent at last December, indicating that 85.9 million Nigerians are connected on 3G and 4G networks which provide enhanced high-speed Internet that has continued to boost efficiency and increase productivity across the economic spectrum. Recent statistics also indicate that between 2015 and last December, active voice subscriptions have increased from 151 million to 204.6 million, with teledensity standing at 107.18 per cent. Basic active internet subscriptions grew from 90 million to 154.3 million during the period. The Commission is committed to its culture of quality regulation of the telecommunications industry that ensures a stable and robust sector, which drives the digital economy agenda of the Federal Government and, ultimately, leads in the growth of the country’s GDP.  Infrastructure Sustained local and foreign direct investment (FDI) in the sector grew to about $80billion while huge infrastructure spend increased the number of base transceiver stations (BTS) deployment in the country from 30,000 to 54,460. Though the figure is still a far cry from the 80,000 BTS required for effective coverage of the country’s huge land mass, it, nonetheless, an improvement because its impact on quality of service cannot be over-emphasised. The BTS consists of third generation (3G) and fourth generation (4G) while Fibre Optic Transmission cables expanded from 47,000km to 54,725km in the last five years, resulting in improved broadband/telecoms service delivery. Danbatta  said the effective regulatory regime put in place by the leadership of the Commission had resulted in increased deployment of infrastructure by telecoms operators, which in turn, helped to improve broadband penetration and other related service delivery in the telecoms industry. “The BTS, fibre optic cables and other related infrastructure are central to the provision of improved service experience for Nigerians by their respective telecoms service providers,” he said, adding that the licensed Infrastructure Companies (InfraCos) are also expected to add 38,296km to optic fibre cables when they commence full operations. According to the EVC, as at last November, active telephony subscribers stood at 208 million with teledensity standing at 108.92 per cent while active Internet subscriptions were 154.9 million and a broadband penetration of 45.07 per cent, among others. He spoke on various initiatives undertaken by the Commission to ensure consumer protection and empowerment. These, according to him, include the Declaration of 2017 as Year of the Telecom Consumer, introduction of the 622 Toll Free Line for lodging and resolving consumer complaints and the provision of the 112 Emergency number and activation of 19 Emergency Communications Centre (ECCs). Other consumer-centric regulatory measures intervention, according to the EVC, include the issuance of various directions to mobile network operators (MNOs) to protect the consumers from being short-changed, ensuring smooth transition of Etisalat to 9mobile, consumer outreach programmes, introduction and enforcement of mobile number portability (MNP) as well as introduction of the Do-Not-Disturb (DND) 2442 to check cases of unsolicited text messages. The EVC disclosed that the number of subscriptions to DND service had hit over 30 million as the service empowers Nigerians  to protect themselves from the menace of unsolicited text messages. In recognition of the tremendous economic growth opportunities afforded by the deployment of broadband and its technologies, Danbatta said the Commission has positioned itself in government’s drive for a digital Nigeria, as contained in the Nigerian National Broadband Plan (2020 – 2025), the National Digital Economy Policy and Strategy (2020–2030) and the Strategic Management Plan (2020–2024) of the Commission. “The Commission will continue to put its best in the discharge of its mandates, especially in facilitating the deployment of broadband, which is central to diversifying the economy and national development. Also, it is our belief that the communications industry, under the leadership of the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, will experience more quantum leaps and retain its current leadership role in the telecommunications space,” he said.  Siege for NIN The relative peace enjoyed by the populace after the COVID-19 lockdown was upturned by the panic rush to link mobile phone users Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) with the National Identity Number (NIN). Thousands of frustrated telephone subscribers besieged the offices of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to do the biometric data capturing and get the NIN to sync with their SIMs. The Federal Government had given mobile network operators (MNOs) and subscribers two weeks to link their SIMs with NIN. The government ordered that SIMs not linked should be deactivated while MNOs not cooperating risked operating licence withdrawal. The two weeks had ended last December 30. Due to wide condemnation, the timeline was extended by three weeks for subscribers with NIN from December 30, 2020 to January 19 and six weeks extension for subscribers without NIN from December 30, 2020 to February 9, 2021. The Federal Government granted a further extension of the deadline from January 19 to February 9 to allow subscribers yet to sync their SIMs with their NINs to do so. They also promised to enroll citizens to the National Identity Database (NIDB) of the National Identity Management Commission (NIMC) to ease the frustration, desperation and extortion of people by desiring to get enrolled and get their NINs by unscrupulous elements. The MNOs, acting under the aegis of the Association of Licensed Telecommunication Operators of Nigeria (ALTON), in a statement, said it had received confirmation of the deadline extension from the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC). The Federal Government continued to extend the timeline for the exercise. The last was June 30 before another July 26 extension was granted. NCC Director, Public Affairs Dr Ikechukwu Adinde and the Head, Corporate Communications, NIMC, Kayode Adegoke, made this public through a statement entitled: ‘FG approves July 26 as NIN-SIM verification deadline as enrolment systems increase to 5,410’ The Federal Government said the decision to further extend the deadline was made based on a request by stakeholders.  Brouhaha over 5G During the period under review, there was a lot of rancour over the deployment of 5G technology. The arguments were from the literate, half literate and untutored. But following the Senate investigative hearing, which gave the technology a clean bill of health, the NCC took a major proactive regulatory step by inaugurating a committee to develop the Information Memorandum (IM) for the auction of 3.5 gigahertz (GHz) spectrum band which will be used for early deployment of 5G services. Danbatta inaugurated the 18-member Committee in Abuja with NCC’s Executive Commissioner, Technical Services, Ubale Maska as Auction Adviser while the Director, Spectrum Administration, NCC, Oluwatoyin Asaju, is the Committee Chairman. Danbatta said aside developing the IM for auctioning of C-band spectrum for 5G deployment, the Terms of Reference (ToR) of the committee include the development of an award process to be used pursuant to which the grant of spectrum licenses may be made. The IM defines the process that the Commission has decided to adopt for the auctioning of the 3.5GHz spectrum band. It will provide information on the Nigerian telecommunications market, details of the Spectrum to be made available, the pre-qualification process, the Auction process and indicative timetable. Other ToRs reeled out for the committee by Danbatta included the auctioning of the C-band spectrum for 5G deployment in Nigeria in line with the award process; as well as report regularly/fortnightly to the EVC through the Office of the Executive Commissioner, Technical Services of the Commission on the progress made by the Committee. Expressing delight with the stage of the 5G deployment in Nigeria, especially  with the mutual understanding among stakeholders that 5G service poses neither security nor health risk to users, Danbatta said the outcome of the work of the Committee is a major step towards realisation of 5G services in Nigeria. According to him, the NCC has committed enormous resources to ensure harmonised spectrum is secured and released  timely for the deployment of services that will underpin the fourth industrial revolution, including International Mobile Telecommunication (IMT-2020) services. This, according to him, is in recognition of relevant provisions of the Nigerian Communication Act (NCA-2003) and its strategic plan for effective communications resource management, facilitating broadband penetration and improving Quality of Service (QoS), among others. He said the Commission had ensured the participation of relevant staff in international fora, especially in the International Telecommunication Union Radio Telecommunication Sector (ITU-R) study groups, to enable the allocation of strategic Spectrum to IMT services, for example IMT 2020, which, he said, has been in the front burner in the last two ITU-R study cycles towards World Radio Communication Conference (WRC-15 & WRC-19). “Arising from these efforts, which include engagements with relevant governmental and non-governmental organisations during preparatory meetings at National, Regional and Continental level, we have been able to secure harmonised frequencies for 5G deployment in Nigeria,” he said. He, however, stated where NCC desired premium spectrum like the 3.5GHz with good propagation characteristics suitable for capacity and coverage with good device ecosystem but did not have sufficient allocation, “we put in extra efforts and secured additional 160MHz in the 3.5GHz band by making huge commitment of resources to secure additional Spectrum from Nigerian Communication Satellite Limited (NigComSat),” culminating in a recent Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between NCC and NigComSat. “Having put in these efforts and resources to secure, among others, contiguous Spectrum in a premium band like the 3.5GHz band that is being adopted as the best Spectrum for early deployment of 5G with about 70 per cent of 5G global deployment so far, it has become imperative to immediately re-purpose the 3.5GHz band in Nigeria for auction in accordance with best practices.’ “In view of this, Danbatta said NCC Management deemed it necessary to constitute the committee with clear ToRs, adding that the committee members are expected to demonstrate strong commitment required to carry out these tasks and in a timely manner,” he said. Meanwhile, Danbatta stated that even though some successful auctions have been conducted by the Commission in the past, “extra effort is required of us to ensure the success of this particular exercise since the 5G technology is just being adopted around the globe.” The EVC tasked the committee to consider benchmarking its activities against other countries where 5G has been successfully deployed through successful auction of relevant spectrum band like 3.5GHz. Asaju as the Chairman of the Committee, agreed with the EVC on the MoU with NigComSat. He  said the Commission had, in line with the NCA- 2003, filled request for bulk allocation of 380 MHz bandwidth (3.52 – 3.9) GHz in the 3.5 GHz band from National Frequency Management Council (NFMC). While assuring the EVC of the Committee’s readiness to deliver on its ToR, Asaju said the outcome of the actions will, no doubt, form the basis and put NCC on the right pedestal for 5G deployment in the country. The Executive Commissioner, Technical Services of the Commission, Engr Ubale Maska, who doubles as the Auction Adviser, assured the EVC that the Committee will deliver on its mandate, noting, however, that work of the Committee is without prejudice to the approval of the National Frequency Management Council (NFMC), which, he said, must be in place before 5G deployment can take commence in the country.  Telecom license structure review In response to global trends and the dynamics in the global ICT ecosystem, the NCC initiated the process for reviewing existing licensing structure in the telecoms industry. An in-house Standing Committee has been put in place to carry out the task. Danbatta, while inaugurating the Committee, said the need for the review was informed by the wide range of technological advances, convergence of technologies and services which have characterized the global telecoms space over the years, and whose impact is increasingly being experienced in Nigeria. According to him, the current licence structure is almost 20 years old, hence the need for an urgent review of the existing license pattern to reflect new licensing trends in line with international standards while providing opportunities for improved revenue for the government. “Therefore, it is evidently clear that this Standing Committee, drawn up from competent hands in various departments of the Commission, is perfectly suited and capable of addressing the enormous task of reviewing the existing license structure of telecom licensees in Nigeria,” he said. While noting that the work of the Standing Committee will be carried out in phases, Danbatta said effective delivery of the Committee’s task will help the Commission to institute a process, which will culminate in the review of the terms and conditions of the various license categories. These, he said, will include licensing fee, as well as identification of the limitations of the various license categories, with a view to clearly determining licenses that should be phased out or amended. Specifically, Danbatta outlined Management’s seven-point deliverables from the Committee to include a comprehensive review/report on existing licenses; report and recommendations on consultative fora; and report on recommended new license undertakings. Others include a report on recommended amendment to license fees and durations; a report on benchmarking of license with similar jurisdictions, a report on the impact of certain licenses on other license holders. The Committee is also expected to recommend solutions as well as the develop updated regulatory framework for new and amended licenses as the case may be; and a final report on the project with all recommendations. Also speaking during the inauguration of the Committee, the Director, Licensing and Authorisation, NCC and Chairman of the Committee, Mohammad Babajika, assured the Commission’s Management of the Committee’s resolve to deliver on the terms of their assignment. At the end of the Committee’s assignment, and following due consultations with industry stakeholders, the Commission envisages a new draft framework for new and amended licenses.  Twitter ban The Federal Government descended heavily on micro blogging platform, Twitter, by indefinitely suspending its operations in the country. A controversial decision though, the government had argued that the platform had turned itself to the megaphone of secessionist agitators in the country. The suspension came days after Twitter pulled down the twit of President Muhammadu Buhari threatening to speak the language criminals understand to them. Though the ban still subsists, people desperate to use the platform have sought and got relief from Virtual Private Network (VPN) to do so. Micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have taken a great hit from the ban while Twitter, with over 40 million users in the country, may have also incurred losses too. Twitter has extended the olive branch to the federal Government in response of which the government has constituted its team to meet with Twitter.  International termination rate determination During the period under review, the NCC concluded the process for determining the cost-based price of Mobile International Termination Rate (ITR) to ensure healthy competition on traffic handling for voice services between local and international operators.  The ITR study was done by Messrs Payday Advance and Support Services Limited. Prof. Danbatta said the cost-based study became imperative, following previous efforts at finding an optimum price for the termination of international voice services that will be beneficial to all relevant industry stakeholders. Danbatta said the “overriding need for regulatory options and intervention in relation to the international termination rate in the voice market segment is predicated on some intractable challenges, most common with economies with severe macroeconomic volatility such as ours.” Going down memory lane with respect to MTR determination in Nigeria’s telecom industry, the EVC said, in 2013, the Commission issued a Determination stating that mobile Termination Rates (MTR) are the same irrespective of where the call originated. He, however, stated that this was misconstrued by operators at that time to mean that ITR should be the same rate as the MTR, consequently ignoring the international cost portion. “Arising from these is the persistent fact that Nigeria’s ITR is below that of most countries with which it makes and receives the most calls, making Nigerian operators perpetual net payers. The obvious implication of this is seen in the attendant undue pressure on the nation’s foreign reserves, which continue to get depleted by associated net transfers to foreign operators on account of this lopsidedness,” Danbatta explained. Danbatta further stated that regulating the ITR is imperative for developing countries, such as Nigeria, with volatile currencies in order to prevent or mitigate the imbalance of payments with international operators. He also said the Commission was faced with the challenge of arriving at a rate that will balance the competing objectives of economic efficiency while, at the same time, allowing operators the latitude to generate reasonable revenues. He informed the forum however, that “where ITR is not regulated, it tends to converge to the MTR and for a market like Nigeria with major supply side challenges, the socio-economic implications and attendant backlash can only be imagined.” In her comments, the Director, Policy, Competition and Economic Analysis, NCC, Yetunde Akinloye, corroborated the EVC, noting that the study was intended to compliment and consolidate the initial work done by the Commission which had also culminated in the MTR Determination published in June 2018. According to her, the ITR previously determined was based on actual benchmarking with countries of similar characteristics to Nigeria, but the findings from that study were faced by major national macroeconomic management challenges, ultimately pointing to the need for an ITR that is cost-based, consistent with the MTR. ITR is the rate paid to local operators by international operators to terminate calls in Nigeria as contrasted with MTR, which is the rate local operators pay to another local operator to terminate calls within the country. Meanwhile, Danbatta has reiterated the NCC’s commitment “to continuously provide a conducive environment and level playing field for the effective interplay of factors that would engender sustained market development and growth, while ensuring the provision of qualitative and efficient telecommunication services to the consumers”.  MTN’s N640b broadband cash MTN Nigeria plans to invest N640 billion, about $1.5 billion, over the next three years to expand broadband access across Nigeria. The plan is in line with the Federal Government’s 2020-2025 National Broadband Plan and in support of MTN Group’s strategy, Ambition 2025: Leading Digital Solutions for Africa’s Progress. Group President and Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Ralph Mupita, who spoke after a three-day visit to Abuja and Lagos after meeting a number of key stakeholders, said Nigeria is one of the group’s most important markets. “We have a proud history of partnering with Nigeria and Nigerians to drive faster and more inclusive growth through digital transformation,” Mupita said.  He said MTN Group’s plans to sell down 14 per cent of MTN Nigeria to Nigerian investors were well advanced and this would happen as soon as conditions were conducive. MTN Nigeria, in which MTN Group has a 78.8 per cent stake, sought to have the largest retail shareholder base on the Nigerian Exchange (NGX), where it has a market capitalisation of N3.4 trillion (S$8.2 billion). 