Cornerstone Insurance Plc believes the market is changing and should be served differently. Therefore, the company seek to adapt its offerings to meet the specific needs of our diverse customers. We focus on the integrity of our service and leverage on extensive use of technology in product development and service delivery. These qualities set us apart from other insurance companies and have placed us on the path to a leadership position in the industry. We were the very first to introduce the mass market products where we have over one million customers; first company to offer both family and general Takaful insurance products in the market; first company to have an online platform that allows you manage transactions from end to end, among others. These are some of the values that makes us unique and set us apart from other companies.  Introduction Over the past few years, Nigeria has witnessed a broad reform, which focused on deepening the market through creating incentives and favorable business environment for different sectors of the economy in general and the financial sector in particular. It is true that the insurance industry like any other is intricately linked to the macroeconomic context within which it operates. However, more is required from the players in the industry to harness economic potential. There is a renewed call for superior quality services that match global best practice, as well as developing innovative products that are customer focused from the insurers. Cornerstone Insurance is committed to playing a lead role in the transformation of the insurance business in Nigeria by doing things differently and doing different things within the confines of highly professional and ethical standards. The aim is to consistently provide new bold values through need-based products and exceptional quality service to delight both our corporate and individual customers. For over twenty years, we have remained committed to these principles; the numerous awards and recognitions both within and outside Nigeria, bear testimony to the company’s distinctive value offering. Cornerstone Insurance Plc was incorporated on July 26, 1991 as a private limited liability company and became a public limited liability company, quoted on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1997. The organisation was established to conduct insurance business in a professional, ethical and customer-focused manner. As part of its corporate brand strategy, the company implemented a re-branding exercise in 2008 to position Cornerstone as a leader in the industry, part of which was the unveiling of the new corporate identity for the company. The company is licensed and re-certified by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) to do both General and Life businesses. The classes of Insurance business, we currently underwrite include: Motor Vehicle, Aviation, Marine, Engineering All Risks, Asset Protection, Liability to Third Party, Oil & Gas, Group Life, Credit Life, Mortgage Protection, Term Assurance, Wealth Creation Products and Takaful (Islamic Insurance). The company’s Authorised Share Capital and Market Capitalisation is N7.5 billion and N5 billion, while the Shareholders’ Funds is N10.5 billion as at December 2019. The total assets of the company are in excess of N29.3 billion. Over the years, we have received many accolades in recognition of our high level of professionalism. These include; the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) Merit Award (1995), Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA) Distinguished Insurer of the Year Award (1997), NAICOM Award for Design and Development of New Products (1999), The Nigerian Stock Exchange 25th President’s Merit Award in the Insurance Group (2002), The Nigerian CSR Award (SERAs) for Best Company in Partnership for Development (2013), LEAD Africa Award for Best Insurance Company in Risk Management (2013), Special recognition at the International Conference on Islamic Finance for Best Takaful Provider Company of the Year (2015), Nigerian Risk Awards for Best Insurance & Pension Services (2016), Africa Insurance Awards for Innovative Insurance Company (2016). Nigerian Technology Awards for Best Insurance Company website (2017).  Our Business Scope Cornerstone Insurance provides qualitative and professional services in all classes of insurance business namely: General Insurance & Risk Management Solutions. Personal & Group Life Assurance Solutions. Deposit Administration & Investment Management Solutions. General Insurance Business Life Assurance Business Fire Children Education Fund (CHEF) Accident Maximum Investment Plan (MIP) Motor Vehicle Foresight Personal Pension Plan (FPP) Marine Cornerstone Universal Policy Workmen’s Compensation Capital Builder Goods-In-Transit School Fees Plan Engineering All Risk Group Life Oil & Gas Funeral Plan Individual Gold Package Immediate Annuity Estate Insurance Keyman Policy Owner’s Occupier Liability Credit Life Assurance Building Liability Insurance Social Club Protection Plan Cornerstone Business Assured Cover Mortgage Protection Plan Gadget Protection Plan Term Assurance Combined Fire and Burglary Insurance Professional Indemnity Home Insurance Oga Boy. Halal Takaful Nigeria Cornerstone Financial Services-IM—Family Takaful Plan LPO finance Takaful Group Scheme Contract Finance Takaful Education Plan Vehicle Lease Hajj and Umra Takaful Import Finance Halal Investment Plan Personal Loans General Takaful Products Motor Takaful.  Service Proposition Our commitment is to deliver bold new values through need-based products and quality service, so as to give our customers the confidence to seize the future.  Reason to Believe Service excellence is the hallmark of Cornerstone Insurance Plc and prompt claims settlement has become synonymous with our name. In the 2014 and 2015 financial years, Cornerstone Insurance Plc paid over N1.8 billion and N2.6 billion as various gross claims to our esteemed clients.  Strategic Partnership In our bid to provide world-class products and services we leverage on our network to access proven expertise and competencies available in today’s globalised world. Because some risks require a broader approach involving international institutions, such partnerships expand the scope of capabilities we are able to offer to our clients. In that vein, we have engaged the following reputable re-insurers whose international spread gives us the assurance we need to underwrite your risks.   