Leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta South Senatorial district have attributed perceived marginalisation of the area and its people in development and appointments to disunity. The leaders in a crucial meeting held in Koko, headquarters of Warri North council area of the state, pointed out the need for all to come together in order to attract the necessary developments to the area, which they said produces over 80% of the crude oil resources in the state. They called for an indigene of any of the ‘three Is (Isoko, Ijaw and Itsekiri)’ in Delta South to be considered for the chairmanship position in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) board which has been zoned to the State. Some leaders of the party in the district present are Dr. Alex Ideh, Prof. Bello Orubebe, Ologbotsere of Warri, Chief Ayirimi Emami and the Delta South APC chairman, Tosan Awani. Deputy chairman of the party, Engr. Elvis Ayomanor who also attended the meeting lauded the leaders for the effort to being made to “build the party”. Addressing the gathering, the host, Dr. Ideh, said since governorship will “likely” go to Delta Central district, it will be fair for the South to “continue to keep the state chairmanship” of the APC. He added that Delta South has been “optimally marginalised” because they “have not shown some kind of binding as a people”. In a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, the leaders passed a vote of confidence on the President Mohammadu Buhari-led government and enjoined the party leadership to zone the 2023 presidency to Southern Nigeria. Parts of the communiqué issued read, “that the APC Delta state can win all the 2023 general elections if the three Senatorial districts resolve to close ranks and work together in the interest of the party. “We urge our great party leadership to zone the presidency to the South in 2023 presidential elections in the interest of equity, Justice and fair play and national unity. “We demand that the chairmanship of the party in the state should be retained in Delta South Senatorial district in the forthcoming state Congress in the interest of equity, fairness and justice. “That the three Is of Delta South area constitutes the oil producing area of Delta state. Now that the position of chairman is zoned to Delta, it is only natural that our people should be the first to be considered for this position. “We therefore urge President Buhari to appoint one of any of the Itsekiris, Isokos or Ijaws for this position.”