GOtv Nigeria established the Sabiman scheme as part of its contributions to empowering young Nigerians to make them contributors to the economic and social well-being of the country. The scheme, which came into being in 2016, provides willing young Nigerians with technical training that enables them to resolve various issues related to the GOtv service. Sabiman go door-to-door in their assigned neighbourhoods to resolve issues of connection and assist subscribers to renew their subscription through e-payment platforms. Some of the beneficiaries of the Sabiman scheme discussed the impact the scheme has had on their lives. Aghadiuno Chiamaka Benedicta, an Onitsha based sales representative, who was in search of a better paying job got introduced to the scheme by her friend. She was sent for training once she got selected for the programme. According to Chiamaka, the trainings were very enlightening and she gained skills such as interpersonal skills, communication and problem-solving skills. After the trainings, Chiamaka explained that GOtv supported her business by providing a point of sales machine loaded with a refundable fee of N20,000 in order to help her start up her business, alongside other branded items such as flyers and T-shirts. She disclosed that starting a career with MultiChoice has enriched her life for the past five years and impacted her positively as she has been able to meet her daily needs and expenses as well as provide for her family. “A career at MultiChoice will forever enrich your life for good. I say a very big thank you to GOtv Nigeria for making me a better person, for giving me a life after many lost hopes. Truly Multichoice is indeed a place where they will change you positively in order to make magic” she said. Also speaking on the initiative, Beauty Nwaka, a Warri-based Sabiman expressed how GOtv Nigeria supported her career via the Sabiman scheme and how she has grown her business to get more profit. According to her, “I have been on the project for some years now and I can tell you it has been very good working as a Sabiman. I had a shop before GOtv came and introduced us to the Sabiman business”. “GOtv keeps surprising us and they always fulfil their promise, they always pay the agreed percentage as at when due.  Sometimes, they challenge us with targets and promise to give us more money if we meet our targets and when we do, they never default on their promise”. “It is one thing to empower you, and it is another thing for the person to be serious with the scheme or skill. Some of us are going the extra mile to do this job and GOtv always acknowledges us, which pushes us to do better in the business”. The scheme, in which GOtv has invested N162million since inception, currently employs 8,000 young people in various parts of the country. Closely related to it is the GOtv Canvasser Scheme through which young people are provided basic marketing skills to enable them make GOtv products more accessible to subscribers. A beneficiary of the canvasser scheme, Opeyemi Ibrahim, explained how the various skills acquired helped him thrive in the business. “I became a canvasser six years ago. I have learnt technical skills in installation and engineering jobs, I have also learnt how to approach people. Being a canvasser involves inducing customers/clients about the product, so interpersonal skills helped me a lot”. “Financially, I earn daily when I interact with customers and I also get monthly commission. MultiChoice has helped me build experience in the business and I am looking forward to establishing my own shops to make more money and also work as a canvasser. I encouraging young people to join the business because I know the benefits they can get”. Another social-economic empowerment initiative is the “Moms and Pops”, which takes just a little capital requirement from participants to be GOtv sales agents. At the top of the empowerment pyramid are about 9,000 dealers, who operate the GOtv distribution network and develop local businesses as agents. Many of these started out as installers, who received intensive training in customer relations/sales, which imbued them with skills required in other ventures. They regularly move up the value chain, setting up businesses that employ other young Nigerians, who provide technical support to subscribers.