Seun Kuti, the youngest son of famous Afrobeat pioneer, Fela, has argued Nigerians complain bitterly about oppression when these oppressions are self-perpetuated. The singer revealed this in an interview with Ebuka Obi-Uchendu on “Rubbin Minds.” The host, Ebuka asked Seun what Nigerians should do differently to hold the government accountable, noting the singer hails from a background where they believe in speaking up against bad governance. Bigbird stated that Nigerians have to shed the spirit of their oppressor and stop mimicking them. The 38-year-old explained that Nigerians have continued to oppress each other in different sectors of society. Seun noted it will not be an easy task but it’s something the people must do if they must overcome their oppressors and bring about a change in government. ‘Egypt 80’ band leader concluded by saying the majority of the oppression that Nigerians feel as a people are perpetrated by themselves on behalf of their supposed oppressors. Seun said: “In Nigeria, we as Motherland people, we need to shed the spirit of the oppressor. “It is not a very easy thing to do because it takes a lot of self-reflection and some people end with self-doubt and they don’t want to linger there. “Because it takes a lot of energy to power through that doubt to get to clarity. “We are all educated by our oppressors. They set themselves as examples of society. So, we find ourselves, even though we’re oppressed, mimicking the oppressors. “There’s no way in Nigeria today, our money can be laundered without the assistance of our bankers. “There’s no way people’s homes can be displaced without the help of civil servants. “There’s no way people can be abused on the streets without the help of policemen and military men. “There’s no way our educational sector can be destroyed without the help and connivance of our lecturers and vice-chancellors. “So, majority of the oppression that we feel as a people is actually perpetrated by us, on behalf of the oppressor. “We so believe in the spirit, and we think if we just keep our head down, and we don’t say anything, one day, we’ll also become an oppressor. So, everybody is kind of an oppressor in waiting.”