Mubarak Bala is still in unlawful detention more than a year after the police arrested him without any formal charge, and more than six months after the High Court in Abuja ruled that his detention violated his rights to personal freedom, fair hearing, freedom of thought and expression. He was arrested in April 2020, and the court made the ruling in December 2020. Bala, 37, president of the Humanist Association of Nigeria, was accused of blasphemy and arrested at his residence in Kaduna State and taken to Kano State after posting comments critical of Islam and religion on Facebook. His comments had attracted accusations of blasphemy and threats. In a petition to the police, a group of lawyers accused him of posting things on Facebook that are “provocative and annoying to Muslims.” The Islamic system of justice, Sharia, operates in 12 Muslim-majority states in the northern part of the country alongside a secular justice system. A lawyer fighting for his release was quoted as saying the police had detained him on “a holding charge” usually employed to cage detainees without presenting formal charges against them. The court declared his detention illegal and ordered his immediate release following a “fundamental rights” petition describing how he had been detained without charge for more than seven months, and denied access to lawyers for five months. The court awarded him N250, 000 in damages. It is unjustifiable that the authorities disregarded the court ruling. By disobeying the court, the authorities ironically demonstrated contempt for the rule of law. The campaign for Bala’s release from unlawful detention has been ignored by the authorities, which suggests undemocratic governance. This is a case of abuse of power that has attracted the attention of international observers.  Notably, a group of seven UN human rights experts issued a statement in April, condemning the “flagrant violation” of his “fundamental human rights.”  They also drew attention to their efforts to get him released.  His wife, Amina, has described her “psychological and emotional trauma” as “unbearable.”  They have a toddler. A Kano State indigene from a Muslim family, his family members believed he was mentally ill and put him in a psychiatric hospital in 2014 after he renounced Islam and embraced atheism. He is a vocal atheist, and his rejection of religion is offensive to many people in the country’s Muslim-dominated northern region.  Campaigners for his freedom regard him as a Freedom of Religion or Belief (FoRB) Victim. There is no question that his arrest and detention violate some of his fundamental rights under the country’s secular constitution, which is supreme. Bala’s unlawful detention is condemnable. Being an unbeliever shouldn’t make him open to abuse of power based on the religious beliefs of those in power. He should be freed immediately and unconditionally.