Interswitch Group, the organisers of InterswitchSPAK National Science competition, has announced the release of the results of the National Qualifying Examination for the InterswitchSPAK Nigeria 3.0 which held nationwide on Friday, May 28 and Saturday, May 29, 2021. A total of 18,274 students registered for the national qualifying examination but 10,502 pupils wrote the examination online. Fifty per cent of the candidates were from the Southwest. About 35 per cent of the registrants came from public schools, while 65 per cent was from private schools. Fifteen-year-old Alao Oluwateniola from Divine Step College, Lagos State had the highest score of 93 per cent.  The second highest score was 92 per cent by 15-year-old Okoro Halimah of Taidob College, Ogun State. Results are available on the InterswitchSPAK portal. Group Chief Marketing and Communication Officer at Interswitch Cherry Eromosele expressed excitement about interest in the competition despite the pandemic. “It is impressive to see the level of participation at this year’s edition of InterswitchSPAK. Despite the pandemic which led to the deferment of the competition last year, I am particularly excited to see that students and schools have adapted to the new normal of virtual learning and online classes. This year’s qualifying examinations was written online, yet, we recorded a high rate of participation from both private and public schools. This just goes to show that truly, the only thing constant in life is change”, she said. The top 81 finalists will compete in the InterswitchSPAK TV quiz competition. The prize at stake are scholarship funds worth N12.5 million to the top three winners. The overall winner will be awarded a five-year scholarship in any tertiary institution, a laptop, a plaque and monthly stipends throughout the duration of the scholarship, all totaling N7.5 million. The second-place winner will be awarded a three-year scholarship, a laptop, a plaque and monthly stipends for the three years totaling N4 million; while the third-place winner will receive a year-long scholarship worth N1 million, a laptop, and a plaque. This is the third edition of the InterswitchSPAK Nigeria competition. The competition, tagged ‘InterswitchSPAK SWITCH-A-FUTURE’, is a CSR initiative of the company. The second edition was concluded in February 2020.