The controversy over presidential zoning deepened on Monday as the pan-Igbo socio-cultural group, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and Northcentral leaders clashed over the contentious rotation principle. While the Southeast group said zoning would foster equity, fairness and justice, the Northcentral leaders under the aegis of Northcentral People Forum (NCPF) objected, saying that it is divisive and a negation of merit and competence. Besides, the Ohanaeze chided Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello for his rejection of zoning. It berated him for a shortfall in historical perception. According to Ohanaeze Ndigbo, rotational presidency, which Bello described as unconstitutional, was a product of an agreement between the North and the South. The group said Bello  was an undergraduate when the  North and South reached an agreement on  rotational presidency, adding that he lacked understanding of the principle. The governor at the maiden edition of the Governor Yahaya Bello Seminar for political and crime correspondents in Abuja  at the weekend, said: ”Nigerians should be allowed to make their choices for the best candidate to emerge for the top post.”. Bello’s position was backed by Northcentral leaders, who faulted Southern governors’  call for  power shift to the South in 2023. But, in a statement by its spokesman, Alex Ogbonnia, Ohanaeze Ndigbo accused  the governor of being  obsessed  with a political  ambition, adding that he  lacked conscience and principle. The group advised Bello to support the resolution by his  southern colleagues, stressing that age is still in his favour. Ohanaeze Ndigbo said:  ”Governor Bello, no doubt, has demonstrated a remarkable obsession with ambition shortly after providence paved way for him to be sworn in as the governor of Kogi State in 2015 at an impressionable age of 40. “There is no doubt that Bello has a date with destiny going by a smooth political ascendancy that life has presented to him. However, we have our fears that he is embarking on a political adventure that lacks both conscience and principle. “Governor Bello was still a student, studying accountancy at the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria when an agreement was reached between the North and the South with respect to rotational presidency. “The meeting was held at the National University Commission (NUC) Conference Centre, Abuja in 1998.   Dr.Chuba Okadigbo of blessed memory spoke on behalf of the South while Alhaji  Abubakar Rimi spoke for the North. The likes of Dr. Alex Ekwueme, the late Chief Solomon Lar (late), Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo,, etc were at the meeting. “The Nigerian statesmen examined the merits and demerits of zoning and rotation of power between the composite zones in Nigeria. At the end, it was resolved that the Presidency be conceded to the South and that it would rotate between the South and the North in the interest of equity, unity, and corporate existence of Nigeria. “The foregoing was the basis for the emergence of presidential candidates of the mainstream political parties from the Southwest in 1999. “Since then, patriotic and peace-loving Nigerians have adhered to the rotation principle such that at the end of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo’s second tenure, President Musa Yar’Adua was elected; Goodluck Jonathan and then President Muhammadu Buhari. ”The above exposé informs the resolution by the Southern governors that the South should produce the next President  after President Buhari. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo advises Bello that it will serve his interest better if he supports the resolution by his southern colleagues; since age is still in his favour. Bello is beckoned to the ethical functional relationship between the morality of an agreement and the legality of the constitution.” However, North Central Peoples’ Forum (NCPF) maintained that it is completely opposed to zoning. The organisation said “competence and integrity” should be the criteria for election at every level. According to the Northcentral leaders, every part of the country should be given opportunity  to occupy the highest political office in the country. NCPF  Secretary-General Khaleel Bolaji told reporters in Abuja that the Northcentral had been particularly shortchanged in the scheme of things in the country. Bolaji said zoning has the potential of dividing the country at a time Nigerians should work for unity. He said the position of Southern governors on the Presidency in 2023 was not tenable and should be jettisoned. “We in the Northcentral do not believe in what the southern governors are saying. They are dividing the country more. We should look for the right person to lead the country. We should go for competence and integrity. “Even if some northern governors say it, we will also oppose it because zoning is dividing the country.” Reminded that some Middle Belt leaders threw their weight behind the  Southern governors, Bolaji, who is also board Chairman, National Orientation Agency, said he was speaking for NCPF with the backing of governors of the zone. He said that the forum would support anybody from Northcentral who declares interest in the Presidency.