The Federal Government on Thursday inaugurated eminent Nigerians as Governing Council chairmen of universities. A former Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof. Attahiru Jega, will chair the Governing Council of the University of Jos (UNIJOS); ex-Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udoma Udo Udoma will oversee that of Bayero University, Kano (ABU) and Chief Ikechi Emenike will chair the Governing Council of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Others appointed as chairmen are: University of Benin (Dr. Sonny Kuku); Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria (Malam Adamu Fika); University of Ilorin (Malam Abidu Yazid); University of Abuja (Prof. Ahmed Mohammed Modibbo); University of Maiduguri (Ballama Manu); Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Efurun, Delta State (Prof. Anthony Gozie Anwuka); Federal University of Technology, Owerri (Senator Jack Tilley Gyado); University of Uyo (Njideka Bernedette Nwachukwu); University of Calabar (Gen. Martin Luther Agwai) and Modibo Adamawa University (Alhaji Bashir Dalhatu). Also appointed Governing Councils’ chairmen are: Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (Ibrahim Ida); National Open University of Nigeria (Peter Okebukola); Nnamdi Azikiwe Univeristy, Awka (Prof Sulyman Alege Kuranga); Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi (Bukar Goni Aji); and Federal University of Technology, Akure (Ambassador Dr. Godknows Igali). The government also presented the new Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the Federal University of Health Sciences, Otukpo, Benue State. Education Minister Adamu Adamu, who performed the inauguration at the National Universities Commission (NUC), accused some governors of hijacking the appointment of vice chancellors for Federal universities because of his lack of interest in the selection processes. Adamu urged the Governing Councils not to allow outside influence in the selection process of new Vice-Chancellors of their respective institutions. The minister hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for approving their appointments, saying he had to literally beg Jega, Ndoma-Egba and others to accept their appointments. He said: “The Federal Ministry of Education under me has not in any way interfered with the selection of any vice chancellor and I have not talked to any chairman that I have any candidate. “Unfortunately, I found out that because of my lack of interest or because I feel I should allow you (Councils) to exercise your right, it is being hijacked by the governors. It is your right; don’t sell it to them. The law stipulates that and we are giving you full independence. Don’t sell it to them.” Ndoma-Egba, who spoke on behalf of other Pro-Chancellors and Chairmen of the Governing Councils, said they would not disappoint the Federal Government for the confidence reposed in them.