 Coach Gernot Rohr has hinted about the possibility of drafting some home-based players from the cast that lost 4-0 to Mexico in an international friendly played in California at the weekend. The German who attended the game in an advisory capacity to the home-based coaching crew led by Paul Aigbogun said he has identified some new players, adding that the lads did their best despite the loss to the North Americans. “I saw a wonderful game and we were able to see real football with fans in the  stadium because it has been such a long time that we’d been playing in an empty stadium and  Mexico as number 11 team in the world showed their quality today,” Rohr explained .“We have here some of our best players from home and they tried to do their best and they have learned today. “I have seen some players that could be very interesting for our list for the World Cup qualifiers in September.” Meanwhile, words are rife that Enugu Rangers International coach, Salisu Yusuf will return to his position as the assistant coach to Rohr ahead of the 2022 World Cup qualifiers in two months’ time according to bestchoicesports.com.ng.  Yusuf was Rohr’s second assistant when the Eagles qualified for the 2018 World Cup in Russia and he also led the country to the final of the 2018 Africa Nations Championship, CHAN in Morocco.  The former Kano Pillars coach was banned after he received cash from undercover journalists posing as agents to feature some players in the final. He has since served out his ban and have been coach of Enugu Rangers after his contract with the NFF ran out. SCORENigeria also claimed that  the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) have stood by him all along and insisted he is the best man to help Rohr get the Super Eagles through to the World Cup in Qatar. The main stumbling block to his return has been a top official, who was behind the appointment of former Super Eagles captain Joseph Yobo, as Rohr’s new assistant. However, a source was quoted saying Salisu has since given his nod to return in his former position.