Infinity Microfinance Bank Limited has unveiled its new brand identity across all of its 20 branches in Lagos State. Speaking during the unveiling of the bank’s new identity at the bank’s head office in Lagos, its  Co-Founder and Pioneer Managing Director, Mrs. Clara Oloniniyi  said the bank unveiled the new logo to celebrate its unending growth, vibrancy and success. “This followed the successful 20 years of doing microfinance business in Nigeria,” she said. According to  Oloniniyi, the bank’s history started in 2001 when it started a modernised  local community savings outfit in Ketu Lagos. She said the  bank has witnessed smooth and steady transformation over the years by providing diverse basic banking services to her teaming customers that have grown to hundreds of thousands. “In 2005, we transformed from a local money collector to a community bank with the required  N5 million capital base. In 2007, the Federal Government proscribed community banks and came up with a new Microfinance Banking Policy and we upgraded the institution to Infinity Microfinance Bank by meeting the required N20 million capital base. However, today, I am proud to announce to Nigerians that Infinity Microfinance Bank Ltd is a state microfinance bank,” she said. Also speaking, the bank’s Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Also, Oludotun Adewumi, said: “Infinity Microfinance Bank is now set to continue to assist more customers in the Micro Small and Medium sector with more business loans, having grown our capacity and reach over the years. One of the customers of the bank, Jonathan Abaniwonda, commended the bank  for standing tall among other microfinance banks’’. The Chief Consultant of the bank, Tope Oloniniyi said the bank still aspired to become a National microfinance Bank in the next three to five years. I can tell you that we have all our plans intact and we are going to hit our target.” He, however appealed to President Mohammadu Buhari to consider post Covid-19 intervention for Microfinance Banks so they could improve on the financial empowerment to the active poor Nigerians.