By the time I discovered what stylist actually was, I had been doing it for a while. I did my first pull in secondary school, without even knowing what it was. I started by customising wears back then in school. People noticed I had a good taste when it comes to picking clothes and they started asking me to help them shop for clothes. So, later on when I left school, I became a personal shopper and started shopping for celebrities and from there on I became a stylist. I think the Universe decided it for me in 2015 when I officially started my brand Kazzian Luxury and a year after I became a celebrity stylist to be reckoned with in this space. Since I was good at picking clothes for people who kept referring me to other people and before I knew it, I have had a large amount of people seeking my service, so I decided to take it as a career. And I am grateful for that. The brand Kazzian Luxury is mostly into wardrobe styling, retail fashion styling, prop styling and editorial styling. I have so much love and passion for what I do and it has always come naturally to me. I started celebrate styling in 2016 and since then God has always been faithful. To be honest, it’s been really amazing, I became one of the best in my career since my first year, and all I can say is God has really been faithful. I am from Ogun State but I was born and raised in Festac Town, Lagos Nigeria. I attended 2nd Avenue primary school and Solika High School in Festac. Davido, Wale MMG, 2Baba, Banky W, Yung6ix, Dr Sid, Iyanya, Solid star, Olamide, Ycee, Ice Prince, Patoranking, Praiz, Tiwa Savage, Chidinma, Sound Sultan, Reekadobanks, Sean Tizzle, Orezi among others. My styling is unique, my styling is different. Although I have never seen anyone as a competitor, I always see myself as my own competitor. Seeing my clients get excited for looks that I create. It’s such a blessing to be able to do what I love every day and work with clients that I love and who inspire me. What people don’t understand is that the act of literally styling is only 30% of the job… I love creating looks for everyday and red carpet but people do not know how hard it is to get the wardrobe for these looks. We are glued to our phones and computers researching, calling in wardrobe and running around town to every showroom and store in town. We are non-stop and there is so much preparation that is required beforehand. It can be very stressful at times. My team helps me so that I can run around to fittings. They are constantly sending me look books and pictures to preview so I can select the best of the best for my clients. I really count on my team to be on top of everything 24/7. There is no room for error. I like to be creative so the challenge is to constantly come up with new ideas while managing a business. It’s a lot and it can be very stressful at times, but I love what I do so much that I manage to make everything look easy, but it’s not, No, not really I haven’t had any; I really pray I don’t experience such in future because I know it can be embarrassing. Effortless, essential and evolving. Yes, I do style female artiste sometimes.