Gombe State governor, Inuwa Yahaya, on Friday announced the sale of NPK 15:15 fertilizer at N7, 500 against its current price of N9,600. Yahaya, who stated this at the commencement of NPK 15:15 sales and distribution in the state to farmers and cooperative societies, said his government is subsidising fertilizer to the tune of N2,100 per bag. “Last year, we subsidised by N2,000; this year again, by what we said, we are subsidising by N2,100. Instead of N9,600 in the market, we have reduced our price to N7,500 and we will ensure we supply to our people in the grassroots, the unit level,” he said. According to him, the blending plant had been moribund for years prior to his government’s intervention, stressing that with the optimum utilisation of the plant, productivity of farmers would be better enhanced. “Since 2019, I realised that this plant had been abandoned for 19 years. We thought it necessary for us to supply the people at the right price and the right quality at the right time. So, we needed to restore production in this plant. “We worked together with a private company that is committed to doing this, that is TAK-Agro; and today, you can see what we have achieved. I have always told the people that whatever that is owned by government is their own; they must make sure it works and they maintain it. “We will continue to work together with this company to improve productivity of our farmers, and for states not producing we will supply them,” Yahaya said. Earlier, the Commissioner for Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, Muhammad Gettado said the state is committed to ensuring food security. Gettado said this would be achieved with continuous support for the current administration. He said, “To ensure effective sales and distribution of fertilizer this season, the ministry has made adequate preparation so that the fertilizer reaches the farming populace of the state at the grassroots.” Said Gettado, “The lease of fertilizer blending company to capable company (TAK-Agro & chemicals Ltd), which produced this year’s fertilizer, will not only produce for Gombe State but will extend to other states, thereby generating revenue and employment to the state. Producing 18 trucks per day.” The State Coordinator, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Dr. Musa Inuwa said through the partnership of Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Japan International cooperation, farm inputs have been distributed. “Only this Wednesday to Thursday 14th and 15th July, 2021 distributed farm inputs (fertilizer, rice seed, herbicides, pesticides and Soil Amender) to 150 registered smallholder rice farmers in Gombe State at no cost to the farmers with each beneficiary getting; four bags of NPK 20:10:10, two bags of urea, one bag of 50kg certified rice seed (faro 44). “Others are; five litres of herbicides (2-4D), four litres of insecticides, one litre of soil Amender,” he said.