The University of Uyo (UNIUYO), Akwa Ibom state, was on Friday shut down following tension from the death of an unidentified student in a cult clash. Another student was badly injured in the crisis which has created intense tension at the town campus of the university situated along Ikpa road, Uyo metropolis. It was gathered that the situation erupted on Tuesday, June 29, 2021, when the 300 level student, said to be from Geography Department, Faculty of Social Sciences was killed by some suspected cultists. It was learnt that the situation has paralyzed academic activities in the institution as both lecturers and students have been engulfed in fear of the unknown. A source who pleaded anonymity said that upon the death of the student, some cultists in a reprisal attack proceeded the following day to the Fine Arts Department and shot another unidentified student where he only sustained injury. The source said that the suspected cultists thought the death was caused by the student in Fine Art Department but was later discovered it was caused by a student from the Department of Philosophy, Faculty of Art. “A student from the Department of Geography was killed on Tuesday. “But, on Wednesday around 5 pm, we heard some gunshots in the Department of Fine Art and on getting there discovered that a student was shot. “He was said to be rushed to an undisclosed hospital where he is undergoing treatment,” the source added. However, the Management of the institution in a statement signed by the Registrar, Mr. Aniediabasi Udofia, obtained by our correspondent in Uyo Friday, directed all the students residing in the hostels to vacate the school with immediate effect. The statement urged students whose academic activities were still running to carry them out from their respective homes. The statement reads: “Students who have any ongoing academic activities (Examination or Research Projects) to do in the school during this period are advised to do so from their respective homes. “By this notice, The Dean of Students and the Director, Security is requested to ensure that the hostels were evacuated as directed by the Management,” it added. As at the time of filing this report, the suspected cult groups involved in the matter was yet to be unraveled.