The Federal Treasury Academy (FTA) is soon to award government approved, widely acceptable Diploma in public finance management. To ensure this vision becomes a reality, the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation is working to obtain the necessary legal backing and approvals by relevant Agencies. The Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris dropped this hint when the management of the Federal Treasury Academy visited him in Abuja. The Federal Treasury Academy, located at Orozo, in the Federal Capital Territory, is an arm of the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) established to serve as a premier institution for developing human capacity in public finance education and management. Idris Ahmed assured that the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation (OAGF) “will do all that is necessary to ensure acceptance of your certificates”. He added that when reforms being implemented by OAGF is approved, “the certificates will have acceptance in the labour market and career advancement. We will do all that is necessary and possible for the Federal Treasury Academy (FTA) to advance as an institution,” Idris assured. The AGF stated that “in order to sustain the successes of the ongoing Federal Government financial management reforms, it is imperative to provide effective financial and accounting training for public officers”. He disclosed that the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation is sponsoring a Bill, through the Honourable Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning for a complete change of the structure and administration of the institution. Idris applauded the initiatives and sense of responsibility of the management of the institution, which he noted has attracted patronage by many agencies and organizations. He tasked them to ensure accountability and transparency in the management of the finances of the institution. Earlier, the Acting Director of the Federal Treasury Academy, Jatto Audu informed the Accountant General of the Federation that all the courses in the institution have been professionalized and the institution has been granted approval to commence pre-Diploma courses. He said the institution currently has a total of forty-eight students for the two-year Diploma courses, adding that a number of Agencies have indicated interest to send their staff for training at the institution.