 General Manager, Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK), Mrs. Adetoun Popoola, yesterday said about 4,000 trees will be planted on that date, simultaneously across Lagos by both private and public sector institutions, while about 7.6 million trees have been planted between 2011 and end of last year with 50,000 targeted for 2021. According to her, there will be ceremonial tree planting events by members of the state executive at designated locations. In addition, trees will be planted across the 57 Local Governments and Local Council Development Areas. “We have commenced sensitization and mobilization in preparation for the exercise. Tree seedlings are already being distributed to all the state LGAs and LCDAs for this purpose. To encourage more people to plant, we will also be giving out tree seedlings free of charge to interested participants, private Organisations and volunteers like Non Governmental Organisations (NGOS), Community Development Associations (CDAs) and Community Development Committees (CDCs), until the end of July. According to her, the Lagos State Tree Planting Day which was established in 2008 and further established by law as a statutory responsibility of the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency, remains a significant day for us as it offers the opportunity to create awareness on the need to protect our environment and enhance healthy living through planting of trees. Poopola, said “Over the years, the Lagos State Tree Planting Day has grown to be one of the largest platforms for environmental public outreach in Lagos State and is celebrated annually by thousands of people, groups and organisations across various sectors of the state. “In line with this, we recently established an urban forest park on the Lekki-Epe expressway which consists of a spiral loop trail for walking and jogging, garden seats, fun wall art, solar-powered security lights and several tree and plant species across the entire length. “Our efforts do not stop at planting trees tomorrow, we will continue to plant and replant trees, engage partners and stakeholders on advocacy programmes critical to the recovery and restoration of our ecosystem”, she added.