The military lacks adequate manpower and equipment to successfully wage the insurgency war, Borno State Governor Babagana Zulum and a former military administrator of Kaduna State, Col. Abubakar Umar (rtd), said on Wednesday. The governor believes the Army was better equipped 40 years ago; Umar said there is the need for a “massive” increase of military manpower. Zulum said the Army is prosecuting the counter-insurgency war in the Northeast with obsolete weapons procured about 40 years ago. He reiterated his call for the engagement of mercenaries to assist the military to defeat Boko Haram. Zulum spoke on Channels Television’s morning belt programme. He noted that the Buhari Administration had procured some equipment, but wondered when they will arrive. The governor said: “The Nigerian Army in the last 30 or last 40 years is better than the Nigerian Army of nowadays. It is sad. It is very sad. “We are supposed to have gone far in terms of development, but if you look at the equipment we have in the last 40 years, some are still in existence, yet Mr President has procured some equipment. “The equipment is coming but when will they arrive? That is a serious thing that they should look into because we need to address this issue immediately. Otherwise, the issue will consume the greater part of the nation. “The Nigerian Army, do they have enough vehicles? No. Do they have enough ammunition? No. Do they have enough AA guns? No. Do they have enough helicopters? No. Do they have enough numerical strength? No. They are doing their best, but again, we need to say the right thing.” Zulum stressed the importance of forming partnerships with neighbours to ensure the remnants of the insurgents are cleared. He praised President Buhari for engaging the governments of the Lake Chad Basin as part of efforts to deal with the insurgency. “You can’t address the issue of insecurity in Borno State without the government of Niger, Cameron, as well as Chad,” he said. On hiring foreign soldiers, he added: “I have had series of consultations with Mr President, and he has never told me he will not engage mercenaries. “It seems the Federal Government, as well as the Nigerian Army, has developed a lukewarm attitude towards bringing the mercenaries. They have developed cold feet. “I think one of their reasons is cost and the second reason, to the best of my knowledge is: I think the Nigerian Army thinks that it is big enough. “The remnants will consume all of us. I have been saying this for the last four years, since when I was a commissioner. “If this thing was done before, we wouldn’t have seen the problem of insurgency in the Northwest, as well as the Northcentral, and we are seeing now that it has even affected the Southwest as well as the Southsouth and Southeast.” The governor also shared his thoughts on the ban on open grazing in the South. “The issue of addressing the socio-political and economic dimensions of this crisis is also very important. Addressing the issue of farmer/herders (conflict) is also very important. “Ensuring that an enabling environment has been created for the herders is very important. “This issue of stopping open grazing and others will not work unless we sit down and address all these issues squarely.” Umar called for better support for the military. He said: “The government must massively increase security manpower and equipment. As we have seen, a mere change of Service Chiefs would appear far from being the solution.” He accused the Buhari Administration of lacking the capacity to manage the country’s diversity. He also believes the government appears to be paying more attention to separatist agitations rather than the more daunting threats posed by bandits, kidnappers and insurgents in the North. Umar said in a statement that the best way to unite a diverse and fragile nation like Nigeria is through justice, fairness and equity. According to him, the arrest of the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu “is clearly an exaggeration of the security threat Kanu and indeed IPOB pose to our nation’s security and unity”. “In recognising or reasserting the right of every citizen or group to express their desire for self-determination, one does not support or condone the use of violence for such purpose. “IPOB and its leader may well be responsible for some of the violence, including the murder of security personnel, arson and destruction of public and private properties for which they should be held to account. “We must, however, be honest enough to identify the cause of the current growing restiveness in the Southeast. By all means, the government needs to deploy nonviolent means in addressing the problem. “It is self-evident that justice, fairness and equity are the best means of building a united and virile nation, particularly one as diverse and fragile as Nigeria.” Umar was of the view that the nation can only remain united and prosperous when all its citizens and the component parts feel a true sense of belonging. “Without it, the nation’s unity will be in serious jeopardy similar to what Nigeria is currently experiencing. “Truth be told, the Buhari administration has so far exhibited poor skills in its management of our diversity. Yet it has the benefit of great examples by past administrations and statesmen which should guide it,” he said. He cited the reconciliation efforts after the civil war and the pardon granted the Biafra secessionist leader, the late Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu, by former President Shehu Shagari, which enabled the former to return from exile in 1982. “These are in sharp contrast to the declaration of President Buhari after his election in 2015 in which he promised not to treat, on equal terms, those who gave him only five per cent of their votes with those who gave him over 97 per cent of theirs. “This may account for his government’s refusal to appoint an Igbo as head of any of the security services. A review of this ill-advised policy will go a long way to neutralise the growing influence of IPOB among Ndigbo, both at home and in the diaspora. “The Federal Government must go beyond the arrest of Kanu and pay greater attention to the more serious security challenges threatening to cripple the country completely. “The apparent failure of our security forces to deal decisively, as the President so often commands them to do, with these security threats is obviously due to the acute shortage of manpower and equipment,” he said. On the challenges he considers more daunting than the threats of separatists agitations, Umar said: “It is quite strange and disturbing that the Federal Government is according undue attention to the threats of separatist movements in contrast to the more daunting ones posed by bandits, kidnappers and insurgents in the Northwest, some parts of Northcentral and Northeast. “Activities of those criminals have resulted in the evacuation of over 20 per cent of the villages in Northwest and Northeast. Hundreds are being murdered and maimed every week. Many more are kidnapped for ransom. “Millions have been rendered internally displaced, facing disease and starvation. Over one thousand schoolchildren were abducted in the past 8 months with over 300 still in the hands of the bandits and kidnappers demanding humongous ransom payments. “Rape of women and young girls has become a daily occurrence. Most economic activities, particularly farming, which is the mainstay of the people in these areas, are now all but impossible. “Government’s earlier claim of having technically defeated the Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast has turned out to be empty propaganda. Contrary to this claim, the enemy has morphed into a more determined and deadly force, threatening to overrun the whole of the Northeast. “For the average Northerner living in these zones, who is barely aware of the activities of separatists, banditry, kidnappings and insurgency are of greater threat and concern to him. “The arrest of Nnamdi Kanu is of no serious consequence since it does nothing to ameliorate his harsh and brutal condition.”