Flight operations resumed Friday morning, at the Osubi Airstrip located in Okpe Council Area of Delta State, 17 months after it was shut down. The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) is the new operator of the Osubi Airstrip. The first flight, an Air Peace aircraft, which touched down at about 8:40 a.m flew in 45 passengers from Lagos State. It took off shortly after for Abuja, with 42 passengers. The Orodje of Okpe, HRM Mujakperuo Orhue I and Ovie of Uvwie, HRM Emmanuel Sideso Abe I, alongside their traditional chiefs were on ground to witness the occasion. Speaker of the Delta State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Sheriff Oborevwori noted that the over one-year shutdown of operations affected the economy of the host communities and the state at large. “For over a year it has been very hectic. The shutdown led to the stress of traveling to Benin Airport and other airports. And it has had a negative impact on the economy of these oil  producing communities,” Oborevwori said. Revealing that the Delta State Government donated an ambulance to the airport, he assured that the needed safety measures, including that of COVID-19, have been put in place to ensure hitch-free operations. The Osubi Airport manager, Mr. Winston Egwuatu, assured prospective passengers of the airport’s readiness to cater to their flight needs. He disclosed that a new airline, United Nigeria Airline, will be joining the former three, Air Peace, Arik and Aero, which used to operate in the Airport. Noting that the airport’s destinations are Lagos and Abuja, he added “we intend to do other routes. We encourage the airliners to do other routes. The market is very large and the airport is viable. The business is here and we are ready for the business”. Speaking with The Nation, the pilot, Captain Matthew Ekeinde, said “we are happy to be back in Warri after over a year. I’m happy with what I am seeing. We have more fire trucks and the airport seems to have been refurbished. And we are looking forward to flying everyday”. Passengers who alighted from the Air Peace plane, including founder of Flock of Christ Mission, Bishop Dr. Simeon Okah, Sir Happy Agbeyi and Maria Martins, expressed excitement over the development. They noted that the flights resumption at the Osubi Airstrip would relieve travellers from the Warri axis of the stress of more than an hour’s journey to Asaba or Benin in Edo State to catch flights. The Osubi Airport runs chartered services and commercial flight services.