The Nigerian Law School has rescheduled its Call to the Bar screening exercise earlier fixed to hold between Monday 19 and Wednesday 21 to Thursday 22 till Saturday 24. This followed protests by some Muslim organisations that the days fall on public holidays meant for Sallah celebration An Islamic human rights organisation, Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) had earlier kicked against the dates picked by the Nigerian Law School for the screening of its call-to-bar candidates. Director of MURIC Prof Ishaq Akintola said the dates coincided with the widely publicised dates of the Muslim festival of Eid-il-Adha (Sallah). “Considering the fact that July 20th is now known to be the real date of Salah and the Federal Government is certain to declare two days as holidays, the two screening dates (19th and 21st July) picked by the Law School are too close to call. After all, Muslim faithful are expected to travel to their home states to meet members of their families just as Christians do during Christmas. “By sandwiching Sallah day between its two screening dates, Law School has deliberately created inconvenience for its fresh Muslim graduates as well as its Muslim staff. The school has also encroached upon the public holiday declared by the Federal Government,” Akintola said. MURIC urged the Law School to ensure equal rights, justice and equity. Akintola said: “It is an unfriendly, uncharitable and unhospitable act. How on earth are Muslims involved in the screening exercise expected to join their families to mark the Salah, particularly those who have to travel long distances? “But are there no other options? Were those options explored at all? Must the screenings be done on 19th and 21st July unfailingly? Were there no Muslims among those who fixed the date? Did anyone call attention to the implications of the chosen dates for the Nigerian Muslim population? “These are questions begging for answers and only the Council of Legal Education can provide answers. We, therefore, appeal to the Council to do its findings and call the Law School to order.”