 For the most part, separatists are likely rethinking their options all over the country. After the apprehension of Nnamdi Kanu and the close shave of Sunday Adeyemo a.k.a Sunday Igboho, the myth of invisibility surrounding separatist agitations would have simmered down. A cursory examination of the announcements that informed Nigerians of the capture of Mr Kanu and the perturbation of Mr Adeyemo conveys the euphoria of federal authorities at the level of damage they have done to the separatist dream. First, they allowed Mr Adeyemo run free with occasional, half-hearted raids on his residence. Then they set up and apprehended Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Mr Kanu at an undisclosed location. He was lured with the promise of a huge donation, but found himself holding the short end of the stick when the dust settled. Concerning the full details of his arrest, Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, who proudly made the announcement, kept his cards very close to his chest. Said the AGF triumphantly, “Self-acclaimed leader of the proscribed secessionist Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, has been arrested through the collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence services. He has been brought back to Nigeria in order to continue facing trial after disappearing while on bail regarding 11-count charge against him. Recent steps taken by the Federal Government saw to the interception of the fugitive Kanu on Sunday the 27th day of June, 2021.” While the AGF was more restrained and discreet in the disclosure of the federal government’s apprehension of the IPOB leader, the Department of State Service, which tried but failed to capture the Southwest secessionist agitator, Mr Adeyemo, celebrated its almost-had with more vim. A statement by DSS PRO, Peter Afunanya, read in part: “Sunday Adeyemo a.k.a Sunday Igboho is now on the run. Igboho may run as far as he can. He may hide as long as he wants. He might have attacked security operatives as his strength carried him. But this will be the end of his shenanigans. Soon he will not have a hiding place. His strength will sure fail him. And the law will catch up with him. The law may be slow, but it will be steady… He or anyone can never be above the law…” It is not uncommon for public announcements or briefings to be delivered with more emphasis on the thrust of the message than the style or poesy of the thing. It is, however, not a crime that the elevation that such poesy may potentially lend to their messages has not been appreciated. The country is long-suffering enough to receive and put up with volumes of rough-hewn public announcements. In the same vein, it is understandable that employees tend to blow their trumpets to their employers while they take immaculate care to cover up their missteps. Indeed, should an employee’s misstep lead to an unexpected accomplishment, he would again find a way to take the credit for it and talk up his abilities. The federal government, an unconvincing employee of the Nigerian people for the purpose of administering and governing national interests, has stuck boldly to this principle. Nigerians have therefore been treated to the spectacular irony of the DSS bluntly preaching the rule of law when it ran roughshod over several court orders and refused to release former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, a retired colonel, from custody for years. Nigerians have also been amused by the grating irony that the DSS, which invaded the Federal High Court in Abuja on December 2019, perpetrating every degree of contempt of court imaginable, and causing a sitting judge to abruptly suspend sitting and flee, could prophesy that the rule of law would prevail over outlawed separatists’ interests. In the business of circumventing the law, it is a Darwinian dog-eat-dog world. Despite the relative sparsity of the weapons and ammunition retrieved from the house of Mr Adeyemo in comparison to the arsenal of the Nigerian Army, the DSS perfected its statement with the allegation that seven AK-47s, three pump action guns, five cutlasses, one jack knife, traditional body armour and other sundry ammunition constituted stockpiling of ammunition and that they (the separatists) were well-armed and determined to undermine public order. Indeed, by the dictates of the law, the evidence appears sufficient to indict Mr Adeyemo and his associates as being determined to undermine public order. Moreso, where the arms and ammunition were obtained through illegal means, all the odds are stacked against them. But to allege that a force thusly armed is well-armed to wage a violent insurrection against the Nigerian state is taking things hyperbolically. Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, who for all the country knows, is the subject of the DSS’s hospitality can affirm that there were criminal herdsmen and bandits more heavily armed with anti-aircraft guns. So far, the government has not appeared interested in apprehending the possessors of those exotic weapons. But government’s discretion is a rummy thing. Public officials are elected on the strength of the fact that their judgements are sound and their ability to navigate the country through tricky straits is top-notch. They will deploy that discretion in the treatment of Messrs Kanu and Adeyemo, the latter of whom remains at large and on the run. His supporters will not appeal to him, as the DSS cynically advised, to relent. They will urge his feet to be fleeter in guiding him to safety. Meanwhile, the federal government will toy with the IPOB leader. The immediate temptation before them would be to make a proper scapegoat of him. That may be consistent with the current administration’s style of governance, but is it really in their best interests? If the caliber of advice the federal government has been receiving has improved, then there is the likelihood that Mr Kanu will simply remain in detention and perhaps become a political tool for controlling other IPOB forces still at large. It was, after all, the same method that was used to capture him. One of the charges brought against him is terrorism. Precedence reminds the country of a time when one such terrorist leader, Mohammed Yusuf, who in his day led what used to be the deadly Boko Haram sect, was in the federal government’s detention. Somehow, Mallam Yusuf was summarily executed and upon his expiration his deputy, the deadlier Abubakar Shekau, assumed power. He would remain elusive, putting the government to shame severally several times, until he was upstaged and put to the sword by a more extreme terrorist group, ISWAP. There is no evidence that making an example of Mr Kanu would do any good. When he is arraigned on July 27, the public will have a peek into federal government’s plans for him. Treasonable felony would be the least of his worries at that time. Will the south-eastern separatist leader cut a deal if offered one? Or will he do what his predecessor did not do and offer himself a martyr for the Biafran cause? Mr Adeyemo, meanwhile, remains undaunted. He has laughed in the face of the DSS and scorned the message asking him to turn himself in. No one, not even the DSS, expects him to heed the offer. In fact, his spokesman, Olayomi Koiki, has claimed that the separatist leader still plans to stage a mega rally in Lagos today. Every side is talking tough, but while the federal government has the force of law and controls the state’s instruments of coercion, it would appear that the best Mr Adeyemo has is the support and goodwill of a good many people. Whether that would avail him when the showdown occurs today, if indeed he goes ahead with his planned rally, remains to be seen. Nevertheless, these are warm times for all separatists. Every leader of a revolution has to deal with such a time when the prospect of losing his life for a cause looms largely and fearfully before him. The events of the next few weeks will, however, play a crucial role in determining the future of Nigeria, hence the niggling feeling that it has only just begun.    Continuing its show of piety, the Hisbah Board in Kano prohibited the use of mannequins by tailors, supermarket stores and boutique owners to display clothes in the state. The appropriately titled Commander General of the board disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday, which read in part: “Hisbah prohibits the use of mannequins at shops, commercial and private residences, and other public places; this violates Islamic provisions. It is also responsible for inciting immoral thoughts amongst some members of the public, all these are against Islam.” The message, shrouded with all the encryption of the Commander General, Haroun Ibn Sina, did not disclose how they came to know that people were walking all over the place, throat deep, in immoral thoughts. What constitutes immoral thought? If there were, in fact, such immoral thoughts consuming people, he did not disclose how he was sure that the mannequins were liable for these. It is a sad and mortifying thing that mannequins now have to grapple with bearing liability for the indiscretions of human beings in Kano State. More, it is perfectly shocking that of all the religious woes dogging the north, mannequins occasion the Hisbah Board headaches. Last year, the Hisbah Corps in Kano destroyed over N200m worth of beer. They then decided to embark on door-to-door searches in the state to fish out sinners. All this in spite of a country that spells out clearly in its constitution that there shall be no state religion. No state in the federation is also allowed to have its own religion. Every person is allowed to practice their own religion and in the case of a change of religion, such a person is statutorily protected from persecution. What the Hisbah Board has done is to make the state very uncomfortable for citizens and residents of Kano. The board purports to speak the religious mind of the people and in doing so, makes ordinances for them to follow. Misplaced priorities will ruin the Hisbah Board which ordinarily should not exist, but if left unchecked, the board will ruin the state.