The House of Representatives on Thursday continued implementation of the report of its security summit requiring legislative actions with passage of eight security related bills for second reading. The House had resolved to take some legislative actions in the fight against insurgency by passing into law bills that will enhance the performance of security forces. The eight bills include a Bill for an Act to enable effect to be given in the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the ECOWAS Convention on Small Arms and Light Weapons, their Ammunition and Other Related Materials made in Abuja, Nigeria on the 14 June 2006 sponsored by House Leader, Rep. Alhassan Ado Doguwa and Majority Whip, Rep. Nkeiruka Onyejeocha. There was also a Bill for an Act to Amend the Civil Defence Corps Act N0. 6 of 2007 to institutionalise collaboration between the Corps and Relevant Security Agencies to strengthen its complementary role in the maintenance of public law and order. The security bills also include a Bill for an Act to Amend the Armed Forces Act, Cap. A20, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 to foster collaboration between the Armed Forces and other security agencies in the provision of national security and establish the Armed Forces Human Rights Unit to provide a reporting channel for civilians whose human rights are violated by members of Armed Forces. In addition, there is also a Bill for an Act to Amend the Nigeria Police Act, 2020 to regulate the powers of the police to promote effective collaboration between the police and other security agencies and to provide for the operational framework for community policing in Nigeria. There is also a Bill for an Act to Amend the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Act, 2004 to enhance effective collaboration with relevant law enforcement agencies as well as a Bill for an Act to Amend the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, Cap. No.5 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004, to clearly define the scope of powers of the Chairman of the Commission to revoke order or notice under the Act to avoid arbitrariness, and ensure effective collaboration between the commission and other agencies. The House also passed for second reading a Bill for an Act to Amend the Administration of Criminal Justice Act, 2015 to provide for review of the provisions which do not conform with the spirit of the constitution, and make them more responsive to criminal justice reform, eliminate the use of life-threatening gadgets on suspects by security agents according to international best practices and further enhance the dispensation of justice in criminal proceedings in Nigeria. They also move to alter the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) to provide for judicial review of all activities of the Nigeria Police Force and strengthen the legal frameworks listed under Section 315(5). However, details of the bills were not immediately available as they were not subjected to serious debate by the leadership. All the bills were referred to the relevant committees for further legislative action and public hearing.