 The North Senatorial District of Kwara State has called for power shift to enable them produce the next governor. They added that they would not relent in their demand to make the area produce the state governor in 2023. Chairman, Kwara North Stakeholders Consultative Forum, Alhaji Abdullahi Lade said that “already, the journey has started and we have begun consultations to politicians across all divides in the state so as to acheive the goal.” Lade told reporters in Ilorin, the state capital, after a peace meeting with the leaders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara Central, led by Alhaji Oba Ajara. He added: “The people of Kwara north senatorial have paid their dues to the people of other two senatorial districts and this is the time they should be  allowed to lead the state.” Lade who insisted on equity, justice and fairness noted that Kwara north is pleading for understanding from the two other senatorial districts to produce the next governor. Said he: “We don’t want to be left behind in power equation.It has to do with grabbing political power. By calculation Kwara central got first four years through late Mohammed Lawal,then eight years from Dr Bukola Saraki, so the central had twelve years and kwara south had eight years through Alh Abdulfatah Ahmed.  “The yorubas says three stones do not throw away pot soup,we are three in number,they should allow us in kwara north.We realised that if we don’t cry out that they should think about equity ,justice and fairness and allow kwara north to produce the next governor irrespective of party affiliation. “If we want to talk about the party we will still have the same problem so we are bringing everyone on board. Going by the nature of kwara politics we need to cry before other follow us and before people listen to us because it’s not about population or any other considerable factor they are stronger than us that’s why we are harping on equity justice and fairness. “In Kwara North we have been loyal to a fault to various governments across the political parties,they should give us what we also deserve. He added: “The fear of Ilorin people is about the loyalty of other people that would be brought on board for the agenda and we have assured them. We don’t just approach people we talk to people in all the political parties who share our belief and feelings. “The next step after this gathering is individual approach and we have started already.I have met Professor Shuaib AbdulRaheem and we had useful discussion. ” Alhaji Ajara urged the forum to be careful about their demand so that those that are  not part of them would not spoil their agitation. He said that, ‘it is a normal agitation but the agitation would need to pass due process before it can  be achieved. “We will not hesitate to support their agitation but they must be cautious of the fact that it will pass due process before it can be achieved.’  