A group, North Central All Progressives Congress (APC) Stakeholders has called for an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting to ratify the tenure extension granted the party’s Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC). The group also demanded that the office of the National Chairman of the party should be zoned to their region, while it endorsed Senator Umar Tanko Al-Makura for the post. Addressing newsmen in Abuja on Thursday, the Coordinator of the group, Prince Sani Ogu Salisu said only the resolution of the National Executive Committee of the party can legitimize the tenure extension of the Gov. Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker Committee. The Caretaker Committee which was inaugurated on June 25 last year for six months had its tenure extended by an emergency NEC meeting on December 8 for another six months, which lapsed on Wednesday, June 30. But President Muhammadu Buhari last Friday while approving the timetable for the conduct of the party’s congresses from ward to state level tacitly extend the tenure of the Caretaker Committee without a timeline. Admitting that the tenure extension of the Caretaker Committee was imperative, Salisu said a resolution of NEC is required to legitimize it, hence the call for an immediate convention of NEC meeting to ratify the extension and approve timelines for the congresses and the National Convention. According to the leader of the group, “Though the extension of the tenure of the caretaker committee has become imperative, we make bold to say it can only be legitimate by a resolution of the National Executive Committee (NEC). Therefore, we call for an immediate convening of a NEC meeting to ratify the extension of the caretaker committee’s tenure and approve timelines for congresses and the National Convention. “It is also imperative for this to be done so that our party does not face any legal conundrum over the conduct of the congresses vis-a-vis the powers of the Caretaker Committee to superintend over it especially after their extended tenure which ought to expire by 30th June, 2021. “We also urge the caretaker committee to summon a meeting of the National Caucus, as a prelude to the NEC meeting in line with Article 12.5 of the APC constitution as amended. It has been the tradition of the APC to hold an expanded National Caucus meeting before NEC meeting. This is more crucial at this time as we need all hands-on deck to forge a common ground as we race towards the National Convention.” On agitation for the leadership of the party, the group pushed that the office of the National Chairman should be exclusively zoned to the region. They insisted that “the north central is a bridging region between the north and the South. More so, such will be a signal of all-Inclusive governance in the party.” The stakeholders also threw their weight behind the aspiration of the former Nasarawa State Governor, Senator Umar Tanko Al-Makura, whom they described as a unifier as their consensus candidate for the office of the National Chairman of the party. “We believe that Sen. Tanko Al-Makura possess the requisite qualities, temperament and experience needed to lead the APC, not only to victory in 2023 but to consolidate on the achievements of the Caretaker Committee and deepen the progressive ideology of the party. “We urge party stakeholders in other regions of the federation to throw their weight behind Sen. Al-Makura and let’s have a repositioned APC that will be formidable enough to sustain and build on the legacy of President Muhammadu Buhari.”