An Ogba Magistrate Court has sentenced one Mrs. Raji Sekinat Oluwakemi, a traveller from India to 14 days Community Service for flouting the Coronavirus Pandemic Law 2021 of the State. The court also ordered Mrs. Raji to pay a total sum of N30, 000 in addition to community service. Magistrate Bolanle Adeola delivered the judgement on Tuesday in the case brought against the defendant by the State of Lagos. A statement by Director Public Affairs, Ministry of Justice, Kayode Oyekanmi said the defendant was arraigned by the Directorate of Public Prosecution on behalf of the State Government on a two-count charge bordering on breaking out of confinement and nuisance to the public against the defendant. He said these are contrary to Section 17(2) of the Coroner Pandemic Emergency law 2021 and nuisance contrary to Section 6(m) of the public health law, laws of Lagos state 2015. Oluwakemi pleaded guilty to the charges. Prior to her arraignment, the Chief State Counsel, Benedicta Shokoya, said the defendant, Raji Sekinat Oluwakemi with Passport Number B00166532 came into Lagos State on Qatar Airline flight on May 23, 2021, from India, one of the ‘Red’ listed countries, and was transported to one of the Isolation Hotels, Airport Hotel. “Since arriving at the hotel, the passenger has consistently left the hotel as the surveillance team, whilst visiting the hotel, did not meet her at the facility at least on two occasions. ‘On another occasion, she left to attend her daughter’s wedding and came back around 8pm of the same day according to the Hotel staff. ‘Unfortunately, the passenger’s Day 7 test was conducted and returned positive the next day despite having a negative Day 2 test”, she added. The Chief State Counsel, however, prayed the court to convict the defendant accordingly having pleaded guilty to the charges. In her Judgement, Magistrate Adeola sentenced the defendant to 14 days Community Service, to be carried out at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja. The convict was also ordered to pay a fine of N15, 000 for each offence. “The community service is to run concurrently while the fine is to be paid separately for both charges,” the Magistrate added.