The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to order the military and police to rescue abducted Rev. Popoola Kayode of Calvary Baptist Church, Kurmin Mashi in Kaduna State. He was abducted by gunmen on Tuesday, July 6th, 2021. Kayode was kidnapped 24 hours after abduction of 121 students of Bethel Baptist High School, Damishin, Chukun Local Government in Kaduna State. CAN said the abductors of the students are demanding N800m ransom and foodstuff. In a statement by its General Secretary, Daramola Joseph, CAN said: “Our appeal to the President, the military, the Police and the Kaduna State government is to ensure Rev Popoola is not murdered like the district chairman of the Church of the Brethren in Nigeria (EYN) and CAN Chairman of Michika Local Government in Adamawa State, Rev Lawan Andimi. “To us in CAN, we believe that the freedom of the Pastor is a litmus test for the Service Chiefs, especially the new Chief of Army Staff, Major General Yahaya Farouk and the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba and the whole world is watching whether they will live up to the expectations or not. “If the then American President, Donald Trump, could put his acts together from far away from America and ordered his military to rescue only one kidnapped American in Nigeria, then, our President has no excuse not to act decisively and rescue this Servant of God. “Why should the government leave Nigerians to be at the mercy of the insurgents, bandits and kidnappers? What is the essence of having a government in place? The government that did everything to ensure that the leader of IPOBs, Nnamdi Kanu, was brought back to the country is strong enough to stop these criminalities if the political will is there”. CAN accused the government of refusing to bring the criminals to book: “For example, Sheik Ahmad Gumi has been having an unholy romance with them publicly and making unguarded remarks about them yet the government is not bold enough to call him to order. “All the grave allegations against Sheikh Isa Ali Pantami, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy over his alleged relationship with some notorious religious extremist organisations like Al Qaeda were swept under the carpet by the government that wants the people to believe that it is fighting terrorism”. It said: “The unborn generation will be shocked by the government that was brutal to the peaceful protesters and ‘freedom fighters’ like Sunday Adeyemo (popularly called Sunday Igboho) but was lenient with the hardened criminals who were operating with impunity. “To reverse this, the President should have a change of heart in his style of governance before it will be too late. 2023 is not an eternity. He must stop a situation where Pastors are becoming endangered species under his watch”.