Plateau State Governor, Simon Bako Lalong has directed security agencies to go after criminals behind recent isolated killings in Jos South and Riyom Local Government Areas. Lalong who expressed outrage over the incidences recorded in Chol, Vwang District of Jos South; and Tamborong, Ganawuri District in Riyom Local Government Areas, said the recurring incidences of such isolated attacks are unacceptable and totally condemnable. He said such occurrences reoccur partly because some of the persons behind such attacks are yet to be arrested and brought to justice. During both attacks in the two areas, lives were lost, animals killed and crops destroyed. Lalong, in a statement by his spokesman, Dr. Makut Simon Makut, lamented that there is no justification for the killings as no one is permitted to take the law into his hands. He, therefore, ordered the security agencies to do everything possible to arrest the perpetrators as well as get to the root of the criminal conduct which is clearly meant to resuscitate violence in the State and thwart the peace currently prevailing. Lalong said “recently we acquired and launched 50 patrol vehicles and 200 motorcycles for use by our security agencies. Our expectation is that these attacks will not only be prevented but wherever any is recorded, the perpetrators will be swiftly arrested and brought to justice. “I expect to see a drastic change from now onwards on how we respond to these unfortunate acts. Our people deserve to live in peace and pursue their legitimate means of livelihood without fear of being attacked or killed”. The Governor urged the citizens to assist the security agencies and relevant Government bodies with the necessary intelligence to enable them to arrest the fleeing attackers and also get to the root cause of the recurring incidences. Meanwhile, the Governor has commended community leaders within the communities where the killings occurred for making efforts to calm nerves and also supporting Government efforts to restore normalcy and build confidence. He directed the Peace Building Agency and the Plateau inter-religious Council to intensify their mediation efforts across the State especially in areas where there are disagreements that are capable of causing a breach of the peace.