On the two occasions the Southern Governors’ Forum met in Asaba and Lagos, the northern reaction to their decisions and communiqués has been strident and antagonistic. The division in the country may not be a neat, straight line between the north and south, for the north is not as monolithic as many deploy the word, it is nevertheless clear to the eyes and metaphorically palpable to the touch. The divisions are likely to endure beyond today until the country can produce statesmen to obviate the crises which the northern and southern dissonance has inflicted upon the country. The divisions are, however, not new; they have been with the country from its foundations, smothered no doubt by farsighted and benevolent rulers, but now vivified and exacerbated by inept political elite. In the Asaba meeting, the communiqué was notable for its bold opposition to the anachronistic and destructive open grazing practice by Fulani herdsmen. In the Lagos meeting, the communiqué was notable for its decisions on the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB), Electoral Act amendment, 2023 zoning arrangement, and timeline for enacting legislation against open grazing. Strangely, rather than seek a neutral position and attempt to cobble a national consensus out of the many implacable positions taken by the north and south, the Muhammadu Buhari administration has openly sided with northern groups, embraced their positions, adopted their biases, and chided the south and southern groups for fostering disunity through their unilateral demands and resolutions. For the administration, the crisis of confidence it has engendered in the polity is not limited to its unusual adoption of northern groups’ positions; it extends to its attitude towards southern groups and states. For instance, the main thrust of the Asaba communiqué was its adamantine resolve to prohibit open grazing, of course among many other relevant decisions. However, the response by both the administration and other northern groups was succinctly framed by the president himself when he announced that he had instructed the country’s attorney general Abubakar Malami to search for the gazettes that enabled open grazing, preparatory to reclaiming grazing routes and reserves. All pretence to the impartiality of government in a country supposedly running a presidential and federal system of government was promptly discarded. The administration’s position was not informed by the environmental and hugely disruptive impact of open grazing, not to talk of the concomitant effects of the outdated animal husbandry practice, nor by any concern to ensure that the best methods of livestock production was developed in which both north (used guardedly here and subsequently) and south would be gainers. Instead, in the expressions and actions of the administration, the dispute was allowed to degenerate into a conflict between north and south, and between ethnic nationalities. Having concluded that the administration had taken sides, and was desperately fishing for ways to advance the interests of the north only, particularly the Fulani, hitherto smothered demands for self-determination began to snowball into agitations for secession in the south. In turn, the open demands for separation began to bring out the prejudices and the worst in the federal government. The government’s violent response, many analysts suggest, was not caused by southern separatist agitations; it merely caused the Buhari administration to manifest in all its true, frightful and disturbing colours. The Lagos meeting has stretched the divisions between the north and the south into a chasm. The division is accentuated by the dispute over zoning arrangement for the 2023 presidential poll, how the next general election poll result would be transmitted, and the PIB which contains different but skewed provisions for oil producing host communities (three percent, instead of the initially recommended five percent, of oil companies’ profit as contained in clause 240 of the draft bill) against the 30 percent of oil companies’ profit provided for in the bill to fund the search for oil in frontier basins, presumably in the north. There will be no end to the dispute, nor the bad blood it would create, nor yet the unrelenting accusation that the Buhari administration is unreasonably, flagrantly and irredeemably sectional. It is even likely that if the 30 percent provision is maintained, it could unleash a torrent of events that would climax in instability in the oil region, and possibly far beyond. But what is certain to cause more acrimony between the north and the south is the informal zoning arrangement spoken to by the southern governors in their communiqué. As far as they are concerned, the arrangement must stand, regardless of the fact that it is informal and unconstitutional. They were vehement in their assertions in favour of the arrangement, as they urged the north to honour and respect it. Key northern leaders and politicians have, however, suggested that the southern governors should instead focus on persuading the leading political parties to adopt the informal arrangement rather than blackmailing the north into doing the south’s bidding. Having tasted the intoxicating benefits of total power, which Nigeria’s unusual presidential cum unitary system inspires, the north may be loth to relinquish the presidency. Using all sorts of subterfuges, constitutional logic, and legislative and administrative sleight of hand, the north will hope to win the argument against the southern governors. While insecurity, which has reached astronomical levels under the Buhari administration, may put a spanner in the works of the next elections, other constitutional matters, including how elastic the Buhari administration may wish to test and deploy executive powers, may in fact constitute far more threat to the unity and stability of the country. The southern governors worry about how the administration has deployed the Department of State Service (DSS) in what they allege are clearly illegal nocturnal raids, but it is not clear that the administration feels the urgency to assuage their fears. The raids have been mainly targeted against the south’s separatist groups rather than the north’s ubiquitous bandits, kidnappers and insurgents. The north is in turmoil, and life has become miserable; but it is the south where only a few parts are seething that has elicited the most fearsome use of state coercive machinery. Nothing suggests that the misunderstanding between the north and south, including their perspectives on politics, would be resolved before the next polls. When it does not pass the buck to the states, the administration has been largely flatfooted in responding to the crisis clearly engulfing the nation. The southern governors are alarmed that the administration’s response has been slow, dismal, selective and often inappropriate. They have stepped up into the gulf created by a hesitant government at war with its own ruling party, at war with almost the entire south, at war with the Middle Belt, and insensitive to the fears and wailings of besieged Nigerians. But in stepping up to the void created by the administration, a void it is sometimes accused of deliberately creating to placate herdsmen and bandits, the south’s governors are likely to constantly clash with the Buhari government and the north’s governors in the lead up to 2023. For instance, in its Lagos communiqué, the governors insisted they must be informed of any plan to carry out a security raid in their states. The administration is unlikely to pay heed to the governors, notwithstanding the fact that state governors bear the consequences of the sometimes misguided raids. The longer the insecurity crisis persists, and the more the administration remains shambolic in adequately, constitutionally and intelligently responding to the problem, the more likely distrust and enmity between states, regions and ethnic groups would flare to everyone’s pains and dismay. The suspicion between ethnic groups is ossifying. If the insecurity crisis continues, as it is almost certain to do in the months ahead, the competition for state power in 2023 could become quite nasty and challenging. Not only is there nothing to suggest that the crisis is being properly tackled, the administration is unfortunately muddling the waters by setting its face against the south and criminalizing their values, such as protests and free speech, and muzzling the expression and practice of their democracy. There have been suggestions as to how the administration could tackle these problems, but little or nothing will happen. There is no indication in fact that the administration recognizes the urgency of the crisis or the consequences of the crisis to national survival, given the excessive but obviously futile reliance on the deployment of force and military hardware. The confusion is almost complete. With the administration paralysed by its poor understanding of the crisis and lack of capacity, with the north facing up to the south in a demonstration of lack of national cohesion, and with bandits, kidnappers and other criminals compounding the failings of the legislature, executive and judiciary, the coming months may prove to be truly apocalyptic.