To rural and idyllic Edunabon penultimate Wednesday for the funeral ceremony of Mama Lydia Adunni Oyeleye, relic of the late founding Director of Nigerian Customs and Excise, Chief Oyebode Oyeleye, Okanlomo of Ile-Ife and Aare Maiyegun of Edunabon.  To its starry-eyed denizens, this historic town, jocularly known as the “city of Edinburgh”, is the nearest thing to the Garden of Eden on earth. Serenity and leafy tranquillity taken into consideration, even the fabled Scottish capital of Edinburgh would be a poor match for Edunabon this temperate late June morning. There is always something very therapeutic and tranquillising about the countryside. In the rapidly modernising Britain of the Industrial Revolution, people fled from the chaotic and anarchic cities when they had had enough. For miles on end, the gentle rolling countryside bristled in its evergreen daintiness. The bounties of nature were on full display. The corns were out in full force and in all their celestial varieties. It was their season. It was their time. Naked and disrobed, they grinned from ear to ear before disappearing forever into the bowels of famished humanity. Childhood nostalgia flowed back. There has always been something enchanting and alluring about this collection of agrarian settlements that make up the organic community known as Origbo meje: Akinlalu, Ashipa, Ipetumodu, Yakoyo, Moro and Edunabon in no particular order. Iwaro, the seventh settlement, has since disappeared leaving archaeological ruins in its wake. Despite the atmosphere of transparent peace and the personal warmth and affability of its habitants, you have been taught never to overstep your bounds whenever you venture here. These are the descendants of recuperating warriors and off duty combatants from the longest Yoruba civil war. As youths from neighbouring towns, you were told that even the General’s homestead of Yakoyo is really an ironic sobriquet connoting something more deadly and uninviting than what it purports to mean. So this Wednesday morning, you found yourself a wise and wary participant-observer amidst bucolic but tame celebration of a departing matriarch. But for the brief but by now proverbial hitches at the Lagos tail-end of the express road, the early morning journey to Edunabon was quite pleasant, with the lush vegetation reminding one of abandoned pleasures and the unabating longing for the countryside. By a miraculous reprieve, and to one’s pleasant relief, the road that connects the Ashipa junction on the Ibadan-Ife Road to the Moro-Edunabon junction on the Ife-Ede road through Sekona had been paved and tolerably tarred by the Oshun State government. The last time one traversed the vital arterial link, it was a jagged and ragged mess pockmarked by potholes and collapsed sections. The ancient Community High School peeped out somewhere, a sorry and sordid ghost of its former self. It didn’t take much time to arrive at the Anglican Church, Edunabon.  Despite the fact that midweek Wednesday had been strategically chosen by the Oyeleye family as a form of crowd control in keeping with the existing mood of the nation, many still found their way to the church from Edunabon and the entire Origbo community to bid farewell to a beloved mother. As the church service progressed in a rousing crescendo of dancing and singing, one was forced to concur with the ancient saying that a child may have as many new clothes as an adult but cannot boast of the same baggage of disused apparels. The old traditional churches may not have the glitz and razzmatazz of the new ones, but they are still the one to beat when it comes to rapturous worshipping and the elaborate ritual of departure. Nostalgia flooded back as one noticed some of the callow choirboys leading the hymnal recession. It brought back memories of one’s own youthful exertions as a spiritual rookie in that department. But that was almost sixty years earlier. With its luxuriant plantain fronds and mango trees, the church premises appeared frozen in time. That was exactly how it was forty years earlier. I drew the attention of General Alani Akinrinade who sat next to me to this memorable cameo of mummified memorials and he sombrely nodded his assent. It is said that man fears time, but that time fears the pyramids. They are still standing six thousand years after. The Mississippi flows relentlessly forever. Mama Oyeleye was a woman of timber and distinction in her own right. She was born in Kontagora on the 13th day of October, 1932 as the second child of the family to a father who worked in the old PWD. After school, she trained as a dressmaker and was an instructor for many years at the P.Z Training school in Marina Lagos. She retired in 1979 as the Necchi Machine Demonstrator at the P.Z Unit in Kingsway Stores in Marina. On the 21st of August, 1953, the then Lydia Adunni Lasiyan married her childhood sweetheart, Oyebode Oyeleye, and the marriage produced seven children who have all distinguished themselves in various walks of life both in Nigeria and abroad. What remains to be said was that this woman of valour and muscular faith, while pursuing her own career, was also pillar of strength and support to her husband as he rose to national stardom and professional distinction. Thirty years after his glorious transition, the Origbo people and the larger Ife community recalled their illustrious son with affection and reverence. Without claiming any credit, he was known to have contributed immensely to the development of the area and the enhancement of its manpower without lapsing into cronyism or nepotism. He was famous for his intense abhorrence for corrupt practices and self-recruitment based on primordial consideration. Decades after leaving the service, his sterling career at the Customs is universally benchmarked as the ultimate gold standard for rectitude and integrity in the Nigerian post-independence public service. Such was his remarkable disdain for opulence and unearned wealth that when he died he could boast of only two buildings. One was his modest bungalow in Surulere, Lagos and the other an unremarkable duplex which stands on the road to Sekona in Edunabon. They do not come like this anymore. General Alani Akinrinade, himself a man without much appetite for slackers and slobs, recalled an exceptional individual who was an absolute stickler for rules and regulations even in community meetings he presided over. Chief Oyeleye was not ready to bend the rules for anybody and those who came late to meetings or manifested disruptive tendencies bore the brunt of his sharp reprimand. When it came to donations, he contributed what he could afford without being in the least fazed by those who tried to upstage him or the nouveau riche who thought they were putting him in his place. All they got from him in response was an inscrutable smile. The refuse dump does not refuse or reject any refuse dumped. It was well as long as it was in the interest of communal development. He knew where and when to ambush such unruly rascals when they tried to corrupt communal values. As we left the modest reception hosted by the Oyeleye children, the mind began to swirl and swell with all kinds of desperate queries. Where did we begin to get it wrong in this traumatized and much abused nation? The much admired and well respected man we have been talking about did not descend from heaven. Neither was he an Ayorunbo, an escapee from outer space. There were no mysteries about his earthly circumstances. We know where he was born and how he grew up. We need to start asking ourselves where the rains started beating us. Considering our dire circumstances, there is an urgent need for a new ethical order in the land. Without this, all the talk about restructuring and devolution of power will come to naught. You cannot build something on nothing. Even if we break into a thousand pieces under the current state of anomie, it is an exercise in futility without a fundamental reconfiguring of our mind-set. This recuperative essence of the Black psyche, a reengineering of the soul utilizing the redemptive tropes already present in our society, can only be carried out by a visionary political elite. Fortunately there is some architecture in the ruins as shown by the exemplary example of the former founding Director of the Customs and Excise. It will however be a mistake to conclude that the revered Edunabon chieftain was a lone star in our galaxy of transformative heroes. There were many other ethical luminaries like him in the firmament; a few acknowledged and many unsung and uncelebrated. They came from the old civil service, politics, the old academia, the private sector, the medical institution, the judiciary, the press, traditional royalty, teaching, law and even the much maligned military. Our good friend and intellectual sparring partner, Ibrahim Babatunde Jose, once regaled this writer with what he considered an example of his father’s eccentricity and quaint devotion to the old ethical order. As an undergraduate student of Political Science at the University of Ibadan, the younger Jose and his mentor, the late Areoye Oyebola as at then the editor of the Daily Times, took advantage of Alhaji Jose’s absence from the country to get his son a holiday job at the Daily Times. When he eventually returned, the older Jose was obviously pleased to have his son in the office to welcome him back to the country. But when the chap failed to leave after the pleasantries were over, Alhaji Jose became suspicious and pointedly asked his son what he was doing loitering about his father’s place of work. The older Jose, undisputed master at the Times’ group, could not contain his indignation at this development. “ Oh no, Mr Tunde, it is not done like that!!! You cannot work here, you cannot work here, you hear?” Alhaji Jose screamed at his son and promptly called his bosom friend at Radio Nigeria, Alhaji Saka Fagbo, to help him offload his off-message son. Please note that at that point in time, Alhaji Jose bestrode the Times empire like a colossus and could do anything he wanted, more so a minor matter like a holiday job placement.  Also note that it was within Areoye Oyebola’s remit as the editor of Daily Times to offer this kind of temporary employment without any reference to management. Finally, note that the applicant came eminently qualified in his personal capacity as a leading student in his class. These isolated avatars were eventually steamrolled and swamped by a society whose ship of sail was already set on a wrong course. With the new postcolonial society lacking the organic capacity to transform their example into a critical mass for a new dawn, they remain solitary crusaders and lone expeditionists to be mopped up as ethical stragglers in the brave new world of corruption and sleaze. As Louis Althusser famously put it, only the production of new heroes keeps old heroes alive. Even pre-colonial traditional African societies had their moral compass in place for navigating around new ethical conundrums. But that has been lost forever to the irruption and massive disruption that came with colonization. Now, something fundamentally depressing has overtaken postcolonial Nigeria and this is why everything appears to be upside down. It could be the advent of oil and the fabulously unearned wealth which has neutered the moral proboscis of the emergent Nigerian postcolonial elite. Like gluttonous rodents set upon a sugarcane plantation, they have gorged themselves to a state of stupefaction and ambulatory paralysis. Or it could be the conflicting and countervailing cultures of multi-ethnic societies which have made it difficult if not impossible to fashion out a truly national charter. Whatever it is, we must find our way out of this hellhole. With the possibility of pan-Nigerian heroism receding by the hour, it is going to take one hell of a multi-faceted struggle. This is the only way to guarantee that the labour of our avatars has not been in vain. May the good Lord grant Mama Lydia Adunni Oyeleye and her illustrious husband eternal repose.