Chief Executive Officer, Oil Money Records, Alafaa Kariboye Igbo, aka Oil Money, has said the hit record label only signs artistes who are creatively gifted and talented to its stable. Oil Money Records is a British label created to manage the development of songs, production of music, manufacturing of merchandise, creative marketing and distribution of intellectual properties. “At Oil Money Records, we signed on artistes based on their uniqueness and creativity as these make any individual stand above others. We are not focusing on a particular genre, as we accept all genres, but artistes’ uniqueness and creativity is what matters to us,” said Alafaa Kariboye Igbo, popularly referred to as Oil Money. With the target to raise to the stardom about five Nigerian music stars in the entertainment industry in the next five year, Oil Money said he setup the label to assist the young and talented artistes in the industry, adding that so far two Nigerians are on the label; Clova Fresh and Jaydboy, while plan is to sign more artistes in the future. While declaring that lots of goodies are in the offing on the stable of Oil Money Records between now and the end of the year, the Rivers State-born Nigerian billionaire said if he could turn back the hands of time, what he thinks he could do differently in his childhood and early adult years, is he wished he could have started the label earlier before now. Oil Money, a philanthropist par excellence, is motivated by self-confidence and loyalty. He finds joys in helping people. He has been doing a lot of giveaways on social media especially on Instagram, while also responding to the need of people who reach out to him privately. “As a public figure, I received thousands of messages daily. I replied the one I could, but soon I will be unveiling a platform where the needy will be answered,” said Igbo Oil Money said his motivation comes from creativity and uniqueness. He advised the youths who look up to him as a role model to always remain focused on their goals and dreams and “don’t let anyone talk down on you,” he said. Speaking further, Igbo said it is the divine one who bestowed on him the name Oil Money, adding that, “I believe oil does not stop rushing and excess money does not finish, so with the combination of the names oil and money, it simply means my money won’t finish or stop rushing with God Grace.”