LUCK is a controversial subject, far more complicated than its ordinary definitions suggest. But in the way President Muhammadu Buhari used it last week to explain why he thought Nigeria had not collapsed despite Nigerians’ poor response to adversity, it is hard to say whether he approached the word with caution or any sublime understanding. He is right to suspect that Nigerians are curious about why their country has survived punishment more than twice enough to bankrupt and crush other more endowed countries. He attributes it to luck, a conclusion he reached, probably without understanding the full import of the word, when a delegation of the House of Representatives paid him a visit last Tuesday to present the report of their National Security Summit held on May 26. “We are a lucky country and should congratulate ourselves, despite challenges that could have torn us apart,” the president had said gravely. Nigerians may be mystified about how they had all along been carried on the wings of luck, when many of them had thought their ‘non-negotiable’ unity was because God had ordered forceful cohabitation. The world may not be inspired by what President Buhari attributes his country’s survival to, and Nigerians themselves may be shocked to learn that luck had sustained their unity for 60 years fraught with life-threatening challenges, but finally Nigerian rulers have put the lie to the belief that some deliberate and scientific efforts by them explain the country’s survival. Former military head of state Ibrahim Babangida had also once wondered why despite all the stealing taking place in Nigeria the country was not bankrupt. He didn’t go ahead to suggest an explanation; but perhaps he spoke cynically like the amateur rhetorician he had always pretended to be. Under the Yakubu Gowon military government, a federal cabinet member had suggested that Nigeria’s problem was not making money, but spending it. What is, however, not known is what period of luck the president referred to: before independence, post-independence, before or after the civil war, or under his presidency which has been the most controversial and divisive. When the president speaks of Nigeria being lucky, he implies that he is baffled to still see the country on its feet. For a leader who has repeatedly and publicly feigned consummate religiosity, it must indeed be remarkable that he speaks of luck, and reassuring that he does not attribute the country’s survival to God in the mindless and abstract manner many Nigerians are wont to do. More crucially, he indirectly acknowledges that he has done little to facilitate the process of national unity, and perhaps wonders how despite all he has been accused of, his policies and appointments have not tipped the country over the precipice. In the classical definition of luck, two words are key: unknown and unpredictable. Thus, in war, elements such as rain, snow, or any adverse weather for that matter could switch the direction and outcome of battle. But there have been stories of how such elements were overcome by enterprising generals and leaders. Indeed, in the modern era, militaries now plan and develop technologies to overcome unpredictable weather and terrains, among other intervening variables, provoking such terms as all-weather, all-terrain battle equipment. For national leaders, indeed any leader who knows his onions, unpredictable is a lexical and practical anathema. Leadership is both an art and a science. A leader is under obligation to study the concept, and imbibe and symbolise it: if an art, to demonstrate an instinctive and aesthetic grasp of its sublime and multifaceted elements; and if a science, to demonstrate by logic, experiment and examples the causality of national experiences and a grasp of how outcomes can be arranged and sequenced. To therefore speak of the survival or unity of a nation as an abstract controlled by mystifying factors extraneous to the leader or the elite of that nation is to be guilty of complicity, incompetence and recklessness. Indeed, to speak of luck as the explanation for national survival is to embrace a much deeper and more troubling submission to fatalism. Complete with that rudimentary logic, it is not hard to see the Buhari administration suggesting that if the country implodes, why, it must be God who wanted it so; or it must be sheer luck. This is abdication of responsibility at its unedifying worst. The factors that have kept Nigeria from dissolving into chaos may in the end prove incapable of preventing it from imploding. If, for purpose of argument, it is luck, then as luck goes, it never holds up to the very end. It will run out sooner than later. And if it is something else, it is still unlikely that it would prove strong enough to prevent the descent to chaos. One factor frequently cited is the Nigerian himself, in particular his endurance, which the president alluded to when he received the House of Representatives delegation. For instance, despite the administration’s foolish obsession with both the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader Nnamdi Kanu, who was seized from Kenya in foggy and controversial circumstances, and the Yoruba self-determination advocate Sunday Adeyemo, alias Sunday Igboho, the evidence on the ground in all of southern Nigeria is that the people are unconvinced about secession. By their disposition and statements, they have indicated that they still hold out a little hope that the terrible crisis engendered by federal misrule is not beyond amelioration or remedy in the near future. They do not trust President Buhari to ensure a smooth transition in 2023, or even relinquish power at all, but the incurable optimists that they are, they believe that somehow the day would be saved. Moreover, as sceptical as the southern public and leaders are, and regardless of their visceral distrust of the Buhari presidency, they nurse residual hope in the capacity of the good people of Nigeria to join hands in the nick of time to pluck peace from the jaws of disaster being engrafted by the government into the country’s manifest destiny. The president calls this optimistic disposition luck. It is hardly luck. Nigeria might already be at war had they not possessed the fortitude to bear their government’s incompetence and serial misdeeds. In addition, even if the south was disposed to secession, they still have to resolve in their minds whether President Buhari and his aides fully and genuinely represent the north. Then, to end all misgivings, neither the Southwest nor the Southeast appears convinced that the character and capacity of their self-imposed champions, to wit, Messrs Igboho and Kanu, are entirely agreeable. The two aggrieved regions respect and admire the commitment and passion of the two self-proclaimed champions, and wish that no harm should come upon them, but they do not see them, by reason of their education, temperament and principles, as capable of leading the two regions either to rebellion or negotiations with Abuja. President Buhari has spoken of luck as the mooring upon which the survival of Nigeria is hinged, whereas, despite his evident lack of presidential capacity, the stability of Nigeria can partly be explained by the south’s reluctance to agree with or back their self-acclaimed champions of secession. Had Mr Igboho been capable of adding intellectual depth to his iconoclasm, and had he been even-tempered, wise, moderate, restrained and calculating, the Southwest would have given him a hearing far more threatening to ‘lucky’ Nigeria than the president can contemplate. And though they would remain unconvinced about secession, they would have kept their fingers crossed rather than voicing out their disagreement with Mr Igboho’s secessionist agenda. In addition, the idea of self-determination, despite the economic drawbacks, would have remained tantalizingly current and practicable. On his own, Mr Kanu alienated many south-easterners with his megalomaniacal disposition, his alleged dishonest bookkeeping habit, and his fiery and often instigative propaganda. Had he been wise and controlled, had his messages resonated robustly with the elite as well as with the ‘booboisie’ in equal measure, he would have presented a far more dangerous and unstoppable adversary to ‘lucky’ Nigeria and its hesitant and schizoid president. In the words of President Buhari, Nigeria is lucky not to have disintegrated yet. The fact, however, is that the country’s contradictions and the president’s transgressions have simply not matured into ripened pimples. Reading luck into its unraveling and unstable condition is a misconstruction of its present state and future fate. The Buhari administration has still not done anything to erase the schisms it has nurtured since 2015, the debt peonage it is instigating with gusto, the flagrant hegemony it is promoting, the herdsmen terrorism it has connived at and which Messrs Igboho and Kanu have used as their casus belli, and the appalling and retrogressive governance it has instituted and seems completely incapable of remedying. Because nothing has been done to address these factors beyond applying superficial balm, the decay and conflict pushing Nigeria towards balkanisation remain tangible and suppurative. Insecurity will be intensified in the months ahead, especially at a time the country’s unstable political structure appears to be reeling under the pressure of its own contradictions and the compounding inattentiveness of the administration. Anyone with a modest gift for clairvoyance knows that the crises inundating Nigeria will soon come to a head. Apart from misinterpreting the concept of luck, only the administration can tell why, despite all the warning signs, including unprecedented bloodshed and display of barbarism on the highways and farms, the coming apocalypse escapes its vaunted predictive and interpretative skills.   NO one is sure anymore whose definition and practice of democracy to respect: the APC’s or PDP’s. In its heyday, when the entire country was eating out of its hands, the PDP acted, spoke and ruled as if other parties had become social and political pariahs. It welcomed defectors, mocked and depleted the opposition, and boasted that it would rule for decades. But within its own ranks, it nurtured autocracy, and overthrew its chairmen, often for flimsy reasons, some as insufferably minute as the chairman giving voice to his private idealism. But every time it trampled on members’ rights, it was Pyrrhic victory that eventually undid the monstrous contraption, and ‘Attila the Hun’ eventually brought mighty ‘Rome’ to its knees. But the APC is adamant in its refusal to learn from the PDP’s sullied history, and is elevating adamancy into an exasperating rubric of self-worship. The APC now also revels in defections, taking sanguinary delight in bleeding and weakening the opposition. (On the other foot, the shoe can afford to be as tight and discomfiting as possible). The party has also begun to speak highfalutin praise of its invincibility, and has changed hideously from an engaging and precocious party into a media stifling monster, a harbinger of blood in nearly all parts of the country, a loan guzzler which has boastfully announced that it would also rule for decades. Thankfully, neither the PDP nor the APC has spoken lyrically of democracy as a lofty and inspiring concept, nor composed panegyrics to the rule of law, justice and fairness. The country will, therefore, feel no pangs of conscience in dismissing them as charlatans and impostors. Not too long ago, the APC seemed to have shown that the PDP could not hold the candle to it, even if it tried hard. But the PDP never stayed in the hands of caretakers for a year, and counting. After twice flouting its deadline to ‘reform’ the party and organize a convention, the APC days ago wrote the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) informing it of another decision to indefinitely postpone its July congresses expected to culminate in a convention before the year runs out. After the June 10 letter leaked, the party rationalized that the Sallah holiday was responsible for the short postponement, but privately hoped that its chicaneries would deliver the contrived outcomes they hoped would transform the party into the effigy of their choosing. Whether the party would be able to shape itself in the unflattering image of the president, who had twice gloated in recent months that the party had been extricated from the hands of its former minders, remains to be seen. Few still remain sanguine about the president’s intention to help build and enthrone a great party, one capable of standing bold, firm, confident and independent, a party able to inspire other political parties in Africa by exemplary conduct, fidelity to ideological purity, and obedience to democratic principles. That objective of inspiring others is unlikely to be within the party’s reach, especially in the hands of an administration and its supporters who obsess about narrow ethnic ideals and fret over political trifles. Having set for itself the three-pronged goal of displacing the founding leaders and fathers of the party; contriving a weak, pliable and one-term presidential candidate for the party in the 2023 presidential poll; and transforming the president’s legacy party, the anomalously named Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), and the Northwest as the kingmakers for 2023, the APC will flout every rule, break every law, and oppress anyone in the process of remaking Nigeria along its mediocre goals. It is almost certain now that the APC in its present form may never rise to the ennobling level Nigerians once hoped. Yet, governors on its platform describe the party as the future of democracy, nay the face of democracy. But the party is too corrupted by power and too empty of content and soul to satisfy that lofty ideal. Its national lawmakers are churning out controversial laws with a frenzy that indicts their earlier lethargy, perhaps in order to set them apart from their unworthy predecessors, the PDP-led NASS. Their frenzy will still push them to the sewers beyond the mockery they have made of the Electoral Act amendment, past even the controversial issue of electronic transmission of results. If the country overcomes its present crisis, many of the new laws will of course be reviewed or even abrogated. The dilemma Nigeria faces is that there is no settling the precedence between the APC’s greed and the PDP’s larceny. The PDP taunted democracy, and never subscribed to any lofty ideal. It was, therefore, not too difficult to dethrone. Unfortunately for the party and the country, it has now become so enervated that even if it suddenly became inspired, it could not hope to advance any ideal, let alone pursue such ideal with vigour.