 At  the beginning of the new millennium in Y2000, leading writers and editors in the stable of the defunct Concord group of newspapers were assigned to write full page discourses on who they perceived to be the most influential man or woman of the preceding millennium. Mr. Tunji Bello, who was Daily Editor of the newspaper at that time, chose the great, Nobel Prize winning physicist, Albert Einstein, as his man of the millennium. In doing so, he adduced as the reason for his choice, Einstein’s relativity theory, which not only changed the way scientists understood the world, but also transformed fundamentally the focus, theories and concepts of scientific research. Writing on the influence of Einstein on the intellectual landscape of the last millennium, an online medium states “The impact of relativity has not been limited to science…. Einstein’s 1921 Nobel Peace Prize for Physics (awarded for his work on the photon nature of light) as well as the popular perception that relativity was so complex that few could grasp it, quickly turned Einstein and his theories into cultural icons”. Another scientist avers that Einstein’s relativity theory “Transformed physics and astronomy during the 20th century, superseding a 200-year old theory of mechanics created primarily by Isaac Newton. Far from being simply of theoretical interest, relativity effects are important practical engineering concerns. Satellite-based measurement needs to take into account relativistic effects, as each satellite is in motion relative to an earth-bound user and thus in a different time frame of reference under the theory of relativity”. But why would Mr. Bello, a political scientist and lawyer by training, choose Einstein as his man of the millennium rather than some towering figure in the social sciences or law? This is certainly a reflection of his wide reading and broad outlook in the quest for knowledge. It is also not improbable that he was deeply influenced by some of the core courses offered in the Political Science Department of the University of Ibadan, where he obtained his first degree. These include ‘Logic and Methods of Political Inquiry’ and ‘Modern Political Analysis’. For the latter course, the physicist,Thomas Kuhn’s book, “The Structure of Scientific Revolutions”, was compulsory reading. Thomas Khun’s book depicts the evolution and development of science and scientific research as an essentially cyclic process. Introducing and popularizing the concept of “paradigm”, Khun explains how the pursuit of scientific knowledge and breakthroughs is conducted within a set of paradigmatic assumptions that determine what research questions are posed as well as the methodology that is followed in the conduct of scientific enquiry. Normal science, argued Kuhn, occurs when scientists undertake research within certain framework or paradigm, which continues to be prevalent for as long as it enables researchers to raise and solve practical problems both for the sake of the scientific enterprise as well as for the benefit of society. Thus, it has been submitted that “Einstein’s theory of relativity became the new paradigm, and the study of motion and gravitation entered upon a new period of normal science…When, during a period of normal science, it turns out that some problems cannot be solved using existing theories, then new ideas proliferate, and the ideas that survive those do best at solving those problems”. In this piece, we do not limit the concept of intellectual to those in academic institutions whose place in the functional specialization of society is to teach, conduct research and produce new knowledge. Rather, we agree with the Italian Marxist theoretician, Antonio Gramsci, of the early twentieth century, that “This means that, although one can speak of intellectuals, one cannot speak of non-intellectuals, because non-intellectuals do not exist. But even the relationship between efforts of intellectual — cerebral and muscular-nervous — effort is not always the same, so that there are varying degrees of specific intellectual activity. “There is no human activity from which every form of intellectual participation can be excluded. Each man, finally, outside his professional activity, carries on some form of intellectual activity, that is he is a “philosopher”, an artist, a man of taste, he participates in a particular conception of the world, has a conscious line of moral conduct, and therefore contributes to sustain a conception of the world or to modify it, that is, to bring into being new modes of thought”. That Mr. Bello loves knowledge and relentlessly strives to expand his mental horizon is vividly illustrated by his pursuing and acquiring a B.Sc. degree in political science, a Master’s degree in International Law and Diplomacy as well as obtaining a Bachelor of Law (LL.B Hons.) from the University of Lagos, and also qualifying as a Barrister at Law from the Nigerian Law School. As a practicing journalist for more than two decades, he was at various times, feature writer, Assistant Features Editor, Politics Editor, Editor, Sunday Concord and Editor, National Concord as well as serving as Editorial Board Chairman of THISDAY. In these roles, he reported and analyzed the news while also maintaining widely read and highly respected columns that helped to elevate and illuminate public discourse. He was a public intellectual par excellence. He gave an early indication of his commitment to the principles of democracy, the rule of law, equity and social justice when, as Vice President of the University of Ibadan between 1983 and 1984, Mr. Bello led the struggle of the students against what they perceived as the betrayal of the union leadership, which they accused of corruption and an undue romance with the university authorities. The epic battle led eventually to the dissolution of the union and the appointment of a caretaker committee to run its affairs. His principled commitment to the cause and welfare of the students and his refusal to sell out to the authorities enhanced his moral integrity and standing in the minds of the majority of students. It was no surprise that years later, he took the side of the people and was at the vanguard of the struggle against dictatorship as a member of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), which worked assiduously for the de-annulment of the June 12, 1993 presidential election and the swearing into office of the undisputed winner of the election, Chief MKO Abiola. Despite the danger to his life as a senior Editor with the Concord Group and personal assistant to Chief Abiola, Tunji Bello never sold out or betrayed the cause of the struggle. Here again is another hallmark of the conscientious intellectual – a fidelity to truth and the cause of justice no matter the consequences. In his contribution to the book, “Asiwaju: Leadership in Troubled Times”, Mr. Tunji Bello gives an insight into his conceptions of what should be the attributes of a good leader. In his words, “One of the hallmarks of leadership is the ability to assemble a good team of advisers and cabinet members. History has shown that great leaders have been those who had a good crop to work with. Usually they are brilliant minds and self-assured people who will be ready to tell the leader not just the way things should be but also what others will hide from him or what they lack the courage to say. Former President Lee Kwan Yew, the builder of modern Singapore, remarked in his book, ‘From Third World to First’, that having good crop of minds in his cabinet was central to the success of Singapore”. Here again, Mr. Bello places premium on the quality of the human mind and intellect in appointing or electing people into public office. But then, a critical factor militating against good governance in Nigeria is that we, more often than not, have leaders who are not knowledgeable and thus do not attract the bright and best minds to serve in government. The consequence is the continued prevalence of bad governance that compounds and worsens the country’s protracted crisis of poverty and underdevelopment. Tunji Bello’s ideological vision and philosophical orientation is clear. His is a progressive vision of governance that emphasizes the greatest good for the greatest number of the people. Thus, he has consistently supported and brought the quality of his intellect to bear positively on the governments under which he has served with distinction. It is not surprising that one of his favorite intellectual mentors and role models is the late progressive economist, Professor John Kenneth Galbraith. There is hardly any of Galbraith’s books that he does not have in his library. That is why, in his political thought, Bello prioritizes promoting the welfare of the human being as being the justification for the state’s existence in the first place. The late revolutionary economist, Professor Baran, makes a distinction between the intellectual and the intellect worker. The former, he submits, is a fierce and uncompromising critic of government; one who speaks truth to power no matter the consequences for him personally. But the intellect worker is one who is content with simply doing the tasks he has been assigned without questioning the status quo. While the role of the intellectual as social critic who puts governments on their toes is indispensable to good governance and meaningful development, we certainly cannot discount, as Baran does, the role of the intellectual in government who utilizes his skills and intellect to help contribute to the pursuit of the common good by the state. This certainly is the way in which Mr. Tunji Bello has been contributing to adding value to governance through the various offices he has held in Lagos State over the last two decades. Being excerpts from a new 308-page book entitled “In Pursuit of the Public Purpose – Essays in honour of Tunji Bello at 60”.