Kwara state government Tuesday arraigned before an Ilorin High Court eight suspected persons in connection with the rape and murder of a 24-year-old student of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Olajide Blessing Omowumi. The arraignment of the accused persons could not commence last week Wednesday as a result of the inability of three of the suspects to produce legal representation. The suspects; Abdulazeez Ismail, Ajala Moses Oluwatimileyin (aka Jacklord), Oyeyemi Timileyin Omogbolahan, Abdulkarim Shuaib (aka Easy), Kareem Oshioyemi Rasheed (Rashworld), Abdullateef Abdulrahman, Daud Bashir Adebayo (aka Bashman) and Akande Taiye Oladoja were brought to court for allegedly rape, murder and armed robbery. The state police command had confirmed the suspected rape and murder of a 300 Level student of the University of Ilorin in her residence located at Tanke area of the Ilorin metropolis on June 2, 2021. The defendants were brought before the court by the Kwara state government in suit No KWS/33c/c/2021, on 11-count charge bordering on armed robbery, illegal possession of firearms and rape. Three of the defendants, Abdulazeez Ismail, Ajala Moses Oluwatimileyin (aka Jacklord) and Oyeyemi Timileyin Omogbolahan, were said to have conspired among themselves, “to rob one Olajide Gloria Blessing Omowumi also known as “Wumi” (now deceased) of her Samsung Galaxy A2 Core handset and carted away other items, including one black Acer aspire, one series laptop, one Samsung drive, one pink wireless mouse, one white handheld mini sewing machine, one infinix charger and one gold colour wintouch tab while armed with offensive weapon including a black wooden pistol gun.” Kwara state government also accused five others of aiding and abetting the receipt of stolen items which include Samsung Galaxy A2 Core handset and some other computer gadgets being proceeds of armed robbery. The charge also accused Abdulazeez Ismail, Kareem Oshioyemi Rasheed and Abdulkarim Shuaib of stealing a sum of N116, 000 from the GTB account of the deceased. At the Tuesday’s proceeding, the eight accused persons pleaded not guilty to the 11 count charge preferred against them. After their plea, lead prosecution counsel, who is also the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Salman Jawondo filed an application to call three more witnesses, which was granted by the court. Counsel to the seventh accused person Mr. Sikiru Solagberu filed an application praying the court to grant his client bail. Solagberu said: “The application I filed is for the court to grant my own client the 7th defendant bail pending the hearing determination of the case. My opinion is predicated on the fact that the offence for which he was charged even though looking at it from all angles is a capital offence but in a special circumstance, the courts do grant bail to a defendant or an applicant even if he is charged for capital offence but because of sentiments attached to the case, usually, people will not want to hear you filing a case for the defendant.” In his ruling, presiding Judge Ibrahim Yusuf dismissed the application for bail, saying that the offence is capital in nature. Justice Yusuf added that counsel to the defendant did not give satisfactory conditions for acceding to his request. “Generally, bail is at the discretion of the court but in this circumstance, the counsel failed to give satisfactory reasons to grant his request. I am not inclined to grant the request as the case in question borders on capital offence,” he said. The judge said that the case would be accorded accelerated hearing. He then adjourned the case till Wednesday for a hearing.