Experts have called on the government to collaborate with youths towards delivering action to achieve the sustainable development goals (SDGs) in Africa. This was disclosed at Youth Sustainability Development Conference 2021 – Pan African Edition (YSDC) organised recently in partnership with Jet Escp, Panta Group, International Supply Chain Education Alliance (ISCEA), OXZY and Hofstede Insight Nigeria. YSDC themed, “Collaboration for Change: Empowering youth to deliver action towards the SDGs” experienced the gathering of audience and panelists largely across Africa, Australia, Asia, Europe, America and South America as all the six continents were represented as speakers. While there were over 250 participants from 10 African Countries. The event witnessed keynote speakers like Madison DeSliva;  Director of Strategic Partnership ISCEA, Okechukwu Okere; Africa Regional Vice President of Hofstede Insight, Taylor Spicer;Assistant Director Office of Sustainability Initiative, Emory University and Omar Alshogre; Director Syrian Emergency Task Force. It also featured panelists like Victor Kumar; Chairman Advisory Board JET ESCP,  Maame Boateng; Associate| Executive Office of the CEO and Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General for Sustainable Energy for All, Cassandra Akinde; Team Lead, The Neo Child Initiative, Nisreen Elsaim; Chair of UN Secretary General’s Youth Advisory Group on Climate Change, Madelle Kangha; Founder, Jumpstart Academy and United Nations Young Leader on the SDGs Class of 2018, Joshua Alade; Executive Director, Nigerian Youth SDGs and Olumide Idowu; Co-Founder and CEO International Climate Change Development Initiative. Moderated by Harvard University Startup Mentor, Caroline Rakus-Wojciechowski, the discussion focused on the goals of the ‘SDG Case Challenge’ on unlocking the potential of African youth to develop and deliver the longer-term benefits of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals through Public-Private Partnerships. Speaking during the conference, Panta Group Chief Executive Officer, David Kahale said, “The big challenge is always how we design infrastructure to capture data which unlocks value and fosters inclusivity, sustainability, and resilience. “And seeing the incredible scenes of young professionals and aspiring young change makers working together during the sessions has been truly heartwarming so far and gives me hope for the future. I am very proud of the work of the YSDC directors in nurturing the amazing pool of ideas coming from the young and talented minds of the conference delegates,” he added. The CEO of OXZY, Samuel O KariKari also emphasized the power of young people to take action towards achieving SDGs. “I believe in the power of young people like myself and my colleagues at Oxzy. I believe we have the power to bring change. We are the change we seek. We are the future we want. Now is the time. The future is now” The Co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, YSDC, Damilola Balogun while delivering his keynote address emphasized on the need to promote youth and private sector leadership in the space of sustainable development. “It is important that we emphasize that in this decade and beyond, we are dedicated to Promoting youth and private sector leadership in the space of sustainable development. “Connecting private sector and youth led initiatives in the space of social impact. Finally, building a network of global change makers such that they are provided with opportunities to further deepen their knowledge and understanding on sustainable development.” At the end of the Case Challenge, Saving The Earth Initiative Founder, Jude Onyeka from Nwaorieubi, Mbaitoli Local Government Area, Imo State, Nigeria emerged winner of the Case Challenge sponsored by Panta Group.