The economy is gradually on the recovery path, after the debilitating effects of constrained economic activities forced by the COVID-19 pandemic and the oil price crash. However, the manufacturing sector, which is a major yardstick for gauging the economy’s health, is still struggling, requiring urgent policy measures to revitalise it. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  The first quarter 2021 report by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), which revealed that the economy again witnessed a successive positive growth rate following the 0.11 per cent it recorded in Q4 2020, gladdened the hearts of real sector operators, particularly manufacturers. For one, the report was an indication that the economy and by extension, the manufacturing sector, was beginning to gather some momentum after the emasculating effect of the COVID-19 lockdowns and constrained economic activities. The report, therefore, set the stage for what naturally should be a favourable and heart-warming review of the manufacturing sector’s performance in the first half of 2021. But it is doubtful if members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), particularly manufacturers, are swayed by the report; they still acknowledge the fact the sector is still struggling. For instance, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) admitted that the report was “a welcome departure from the negative growths witnessed in the past quarters,” but its Director-General, Segun Ajayi-Kadir, was quick to add: “We are mindful of the negative impact of the depreciation in naira value and acute shortage of forex as they remained huge challenges in the quarter.” Indeed, in the first quarter, up to the first half of the year, the value of the local currency, the Naira, has been plunging compared to other international currencies, particularly the dollar, exchanging at N503/$ as at this week. Also, the forex squeeze aggravated by the fall in oil prices and the COVID-19 pandemic has yet to significantly improve, even though there has been a gradual rebound in oil prices. However, depreciation in naira value and acute shortage of forex are not the only pointers to the inclement macro-economic environment in Nigeria that have constrained the performance of the manufacturing sector in the period under review. Manufacturers are still agonising over high and rising inflation rate, double digit lending rate and unfavourable exchange rate parity. The regulatory environment, according to Ajayi-Kadir, remains harsh and induces high business operating cost in the economy. As a result of the high cost business environment, the manufacturing sector persistently suffered low-price competitiveness, as a plethora of close substitute to local manufactured products are imported while others are smuggled in through the land borders. Infrastructure deficit, particularly inadequate electricity supply, is largely responsible for the high cost business environment in the period. This is so because electricity related expenses of manufacturers constitute about 40 per cent of the production overhead in some sub-sectors. And it is easy to see why manufacturers are heavy users of electricity in Nigeria. MAN, The Nation learnt, represents the interests of over 3,000 manufacturers (small, medium, large and multinational industries) spread across 10 sectors, 76 sub-sectors and 16 industrial zones. The manufacturing sector also employs over five million workers, directly and indirectly, with 8.93 per cent contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Despite the sector’s size, spread and contribution to GDP, manufacturers spent over N67.38 billion on self-generated electricity to keep their businesses running in 2019 alone, according to its President, Ahmed Mansur. He said besides inadequate electricity supply and incessant increases in tariff without a commensurate improvement in generation, transmission and distribution also remain key challenges being faced by members in the sector—challenges that are obviously not growth friendly and are antithetical to the sector’s competitiveness. Rather than enjoy any significant improvement in electricity supply, manufacturers have continued to contend with the overwhelming negative impact of increase in electricity tariff in the past six months of the year such as decrease in foreign exchange earnings from the sector, as high cost of production feeds into export commodity prices. There is also reduction in government tax revenue caused by drop in sales, as a lesser quantum of disposable income is available to purchase manufactured goods. Also, reduction in capacity utilisation, further decline in GDP, and large scale unemployment across the 76 manufacturing sub-sectors has raised fears over increase in crime rate. Expectedly, manufacturing sub-sectoral groups with higher energy consumption, which include Basic Metal, Iron and Steel and Fabricated Metal Products; Domestic & Industrial, Rubber and Foam; Non-Metallic Mineral Product; and Chemical & Pharmaceuticals sectoral groups are worse off. However, as part of push by the authorities to assuage the high cost manufacturing environment and improve the sector’s competitiveness, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) created several development funding windows with “single digit” interest rates to support real productive businesses, including manufacturing. Despite the availability of these funding windows, Ajayi-Kadir said manufacturers still suffer the dual challenges of scarcity of investible funds and high lending rate. For instance, he lamented that the N1 trillion COVID-19 Stimulus for Manufacturing and Import Substitution, a stimulus aimed at sustaining manufacturing and improving the sector’s output, as well as other funds created by the CBN at liberal lending rate, have not been adequately accessible to manufacturers. He accused the managers of the stimulus package namely, the Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) and Deposit Money Banks (DMBs), of prevarication, saying the banks claim that they have not received the framework for the administration of the facility from the CBN. Ajayi-Kadir, in a recent statement made available to The Nation, said MAN observed that most of its members who applied for the facility were not able to get it. He said, according to the CBN, only 76 companies have received N300 billion, which translates to 30 per cent, in one year. As if these are not enough trouble for a sector still struggling to be competitive, Mansur has stopped decrying the numerous, oftentimes duplication of demands from the three tiers of government in form of taxes, levies, fees and permits, which manufacturers still contend with. “Manufacturing companies are continually overwhelmed with multiple regulations from different regulatory agencies and excessive drive for revenue by government agencies. And this has continued to be a major disincentive to the nation’s manufacturing sector,” he said, at a recent forum in Lagos. In the period under review, manufacturers have also been clobbered by rising inflation, which is not healthy for the well-being of Nigerians and the economy’s growth aspiration, particularly the projected 2.5 per cent economic growth this year. The Director-General, National Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, blamed the nation’s soaring inflation on rising insecurity which has spread across the country. He said the consequences of insecurity on agricultural production, especially by the small farm holders across the food belt of the nation, are huge, as many of the farmers are either not able to engage in active farming or evacuate their farm produce. Pointing out that business and productive activities only thrive in a safe and secure environment, Olukanni said an enduring solution must, therefore, be found to the problems of banditry and other sources of insecurity across the country. Given the prevailing economic circumstances, which are worrisome, and the struggling state of the manufacturing sector, not a few industry operators and stakeholders are of the view that going forward, government should intensify its intervention initiatives and follow through on the cost reduction aspect of ease of doing business. There is also a consensus among operators on the urgent need to create a friendlier operating environment and deliberately support the productive sector in a strategic manner and also set priorities along the line of improved infrastructure, competitiveness and stronger industrial linkages. They also recommend that government, in partnership with manufacturers, should select strategic products, particularly those with high inter-industry linkage, for backward integration support and upscale the drive for the resource-based industrialisation agenda. Operators also called for priority allocation of forex to manufacturers to import input that are not locally available and for which there are no immediate plan or resources to produce locally. To address food inflation, Olukanni said there must be significant improvement in  road infrastructure to facilitate movement of farm produce and goods across the country. “This is to strengthen the food supply chain and reduce cost of transportation from the farm to the market,” he told The Nation. He further said more support should also be given to SMEs in the agri-business sector as they are important in the quest to ensure food security and combat food inflation. “Movement of goods within the country should also not be disrupted by incessant roadblocks across our highways, because this is another cause of the upsurge in inflation and price increases,” he stated.