Many studies have established that at least 1 out of 4 couples today struggle with one infertility problem or another, be it male or female infertility. So, if you are a married woman who is less than 60 years of age, A woman who have been married for over 6 months or more without a “Positive” pregnancy result. OR You have been able to conceive and have a child before and after that, you have been looking up to God for another ( the condition that is refered to as secondary infertility). If you fall into any of the above category, then…  It is only going to take about 15 minutes to read through, but If you take your time to read and digest every word on this page before you leave, There is one thing I know for sure, and that is the fact that. You will experience a higher boost in your fertility rate which will force your womb to open and help you to get pregnant within the next 60 days or less.  A Natural Fertility Therapist with over 10 years of practicing experience. I am also the CEO of Green Remedies International.  A Leading wellness company that specializes in tackling different health challenges through Natural, Organic, and Holistic Medicines. In the past years since I have been in this job, I have helped over 1,675 African and Non-African women to conceive Naturally through my Training, Lifestyle recommendations, organic solution and numerous Natural methods adopted from both our forefathers and Ancient Natural International Practices and here is what some of them have to say…   Apart from the numerous homes I have helped,
I have also succeeded in building a community of to-be mothers where I share valuable information on how to achieve success in the “Trying to Conceive” journey… and the good news is that, countless of these women are now happy mothers. But You See, This writeup is not about me, It’s About You! A recent statistical report has shown that Infertility is one of the common problems couples battle with after marriage. Infact, It was established that 1 out of every 4 couples suffer from one infertility problem or the other after wedding.  No matter how these cases are many everywhere, each person is particular about a solution to their problem as everyone want a complete home. Maybe because the happiness children bring to a home cannot be underated. Not to talk of the pressure from the both parent of the couple which is majorly directed to the wife. What of how the society people sees a couple without a child – In Nigeria, they start looking at you with a pity face, call you all sort of names like barren, and even disrespect you. In short, there is a huge difference in calling someone a Mrs (with your husband’s name) and Mummy (with your child’s name). When you are called Mummy Somebody in Nigeria, It means you are a married woman who is also having a child to your name… which is the best feeling any woman prays for, anywhere in the world.  Within 2014 and 2017, these couple has spent close to 11million naira to seek solution to their infertility case both within Nigeria and Abroad, and sadly, without any good result. In November 2017, I advise the couple to Let us go ORGANIC. We started the process of Holistic Organic Remedy which is base on the Husband and the Wife. Since the Wife is having many serious infertility problems, I started my research on A SINGLE NATURAL SOLUTION that could cure these kind of different infertility problems at once. I spent months and months on the research… But thanks to God, I FINALLY DISCOVERED THE TRUTH! I got to know that in most African countries, there is No Single drug that can provide a solution to all infertility problems in the body at once.  And this is the major reason why it takes many women years to be Free from infertility because they have to keep tackling different problems that arise with different prescribed drugs. When I discover this fact, I had to turn to my colleagues who are also Natural Fertility Therapists in the USA and INDIA. Finally, after so many months of searching in Nigeria, USA and INDIA with many trials and errors, We finally discovered … This Secret Ancient Organic Solution Was Discovered in India. So for the first time, we are able to Import and make available a single product that provide Complete Solution to Every Kind of Infertility Problems, All in a Single Pack. The Ancient Solution has been in use in USA and CHINA for over 2,000 years which is what the ancient Chinese and USA people uses as permanent cure for ANY infertility cases. No matter what the Infertility Condition is, Either… This Solution were able to Clear the Numerous Infertility problem in Mrs. Oludare and also help Engr. Oludare to boost his Sperm count and cure the erection problem all at once. The Truth it that… This Organic Solution was a dream
come True for Engr. and Mrs. Oludare. Within 3 Months, she was able to conceive her first twin ( a boy and a girl) and that same year, they were out of the “to-be-parent” gang… they were able to carry their children with so much joy that cannot be explained  A Newly Discovered Ancient Organic Remedy that Cures ANY Infertility Problems and Forces a Woman to Conceive within 60 to 90 Days. From the stable of GREEN REMEDIES INTERNATIONAL A fully registered natural health and wellness company in Nigeria licensed to consult, formulate, produce, import, export, market and sell natural health products. We serve the populace with highly potent and effective 100% natural health solutions, products and services  WORLDWIDE! [ Whatsapp or Call/Text Messages to +2348164943199]   You may want to ask yourself how this Organic Products are able to provide solution to all the major Infertility problem you can think of. Well, I also asked myself this same question sometimes ago before we imported the Fertility Solution for Mrs. Oludare. But, what I found out was the fact that the product contains 10 organic ingridients that cut across different infertility problems. These 10 organic ingridients has never been found in a single fertility pack before… because they are found in different part of the world. Let me share some of the powerful and Holistic ingredients with you…   Once regarded as a “Fertility Woonder Root” is an edible herbaceous biennial plant that is majorly found in South America in the mountains of Peru.
It helps regulate a menstral cycles, and Reverse Early onset menaupause which improve overall fertility in women.  This is a powerful Traditional Chinese Seed that has over 95% success rate in increasing overall reproductive health in men and women, Helps to support their egg quality and libido and also aid longevity and anti-aging, as well as boost immunity. Used in balancing homone, Reversing Early Menopause, Implantation Failure and Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (Pcos) Commonly Used by Ancient Indians.
In women, It support optimal hormonal balance, promote overall vitality, Erase Endometroisis and Pelvic Inflmatory Diseases from the system. In India, Royal jelly is commonly used for male fertility to increases libido, sperm count and virility. This is a powerful traditional Chinese Ingredient that helps in treating Autoimmune Disorder, Infections, and Ovulation disorder.
It is commonly found in China as one of the powerful infertility remedies. This ingridient is popular in the USA, Canada and China for treating Blocked Falopian Tubes, Implantation Failure, Fibroid and other infertility problems. A powerful Solution for Ovarian Cyst, Ovulation Failure and poor egg health.  And probably What you are thinking now is; O yes, that’s fine! It happens when one has tried different things that claim to perform wonder only to end up not working. In fact, in some cases, some of these treatments and interventions even cause more damages than helping. I know this because I have worked with several women and couples on this case of infertility and I am aware of the different experiences! Like I have said earlier, Fighting infertility and getting a child to one’s name is not what anyone cannot give up upon, even at the age of 65.  … All because you want to become a mother –  Maybe you are even at the point of giving up! But, Let me tell you,
This is not the time to give up, Not even now that you have a proven solution that is ready to help you out of this problem of Childlessness so that you can have your own child to care for in Less than 1 year from now.  The best way to treat any Infertility problem and get free at once is to go organic. This is a simple strategy your doctor or Gynecologist will NEVER TELL YOU. Well, they may not tell you for a reason best known to them…  But Let me tell you, If you happen to be their Wife or their Sister, THEY KNOW WHAT TO DO. I am saying this because we have many Doctors and Health Practitioners across Africa who have used this Organic Formula to become parent today.  SO, FORGET BEING A NATURAL THERAPIST, IF YOU ARE MY SISTER OR MY WIFE, AND YOU HAVE BEEN HAVING INFERTILITY PROBLEM FOR 1 YEAR OR MORE, THE ADVISE I AM ABOUT TO GIVE YOU IS THESAME THING I WILL BE SAYING TO YOU. WHICH IS TO…GO ORGANIC! Use a Proven Organic Solution that has worked for many people… with this, you will be able to fast track your process of getting pregnant. The Natural Fertility Ignition Pack Consist of a unique Foreign Organic and Natural Fertility Remedies made from the Natural Ingridients which was Imported to Nigeria to make a Permanent Solution to every fertility issues.   These Organic Solutions has been packed
with Natural Ingredients that will…    Ngozi was introduced to Natural Fertility Ignition Pack by her Friend (Jane), She started the treatment immediately she got access to the package. She is now an expecting mother of twins. She sent me this Scan exactly when she saw the pregnancy result.  Mrs Andrew has been battling with Ashearman Syndrome, Ovarian Cyst and Fibroid for over 8 years, this year, she got her break through after a friend introduced her to our Organic Remedy. She sent me this message as she just Delivered a boy, See below…  More and more people who used the Natural Fertility Ignition Pack are giving their testimonies.
If this Natural Solution can permanently treat a 55 year old woman with years of childlessness, their is no single reason it won’t deal with yours. So, I will advise that you do not procrastinate or take much time.   If you finally grab this Most Effective, Result Oriented Natural Fertility Solution and you are finally able to Treat All Forms of Infertility and get your own baby within some months from now, – You will never have to complaint of Irregular Period/Ovulation Problem, PCOS, Ovarian Cyst, Infections, hormonal imbalances, Endometriosis, Fibroid, Sparm leakage, Tubal Blockage and other serious infertility related issue again. This issues will now become a thing of the past to you. – It will save you lots of time and efforts and will finally put a smile on your face. – It will save you your marriage and help you get back your husband affections and love just like you have always wanted. and the BIGGEST of it all…It will help you join the league of motherhood and feel like a mother. How much will that feeling worth?
Some are even ready to spend anything to achieve this, but they did not have access to the kind of information you are reading now (on a platter of Gold).  Good Day Coach, I am Josephine, one of the beneficiary of your Natural Fertility Ignition Booster Programme Last year. I want to let you know that I am my husband are greatful for what God has used you to do in our home. Through your Fertility Pack, we have be librated from barreness and became a parent. The Products are God sent to us. Infact, it came at the time we needed it most, when we were almost giving up. As you are helping Nigerian women, May God always attend to your heart desire also. My case is a Confirmation that Natural Solution is the Best. And I am Confirming that Natural Fertility Ignition Booster is the Solution for any Fertility Issue. Josephine ANAMBRA, NIGERIA  When I first heard about the Natural Fertility Ignition Booster Package, I had great doubt in my mind because I have used different things in the past. But yet, since I just can’t give up on the issue of having my own child and becoming a mother, I decided to give it a trial. I started the treatment immediately the package was delivered to me. Within the first month, I felt some changes in my body system. and before I complete the Full treatment pack, Something great happened. I became pregnant…Since 8 YEARS OF TRYING It was such a great news for myself and my husband.  With the doctors’ report I have had in the past, I never believe I can have a child again. Coach Amuda, God has used you and your team to make this happen. Thanks for your support, thanks for the honest advices. and Thanks for Making this Natural Solution Available to Women. Mrs Babajide. MAGODO, LAGOS  In the past, A larger percentage of people who have used it and share their testimony also recommend the GOLD treatment Pack. This is because this Organic Solution Goes through all the complete steps and stages of fertility treatment (Fertility Cleanse, Body Fertility Reset, Boosting of Fertility Hormones e.t.c).         Kindly Send Us Your Details By TEXT or WHATSAPP to +2348164943199
with the Followings Details: => Female Fertility (Silver Pack) => Full Name => Delivery Address (Including State) => Phone Numbers + Alternative phone No => Email Address  [ Whatsapp or Call/Text Messages to +2348164943199]  Like I said above, we reccommend the GOLD PACK. But you can start with any package you wish…Incase of Financial reasons, you can go for Silver Pack. Although, If you Buy the Recommended Gold Treatment Pack,
you will be saving yourself some money. But, it’s all your Choice to choose which one you will like to go for. Jut Make sure you get it, you will surely call back for your own TESTIMONIES. You Can Contact Us on Whatsapp or Call/Text Messages to +2348164943199.  If You Place Your Order Right Now… I mean if you dare place your order right away when this promo is still ongoing. Like fill the form and send in your order; I’ll know you’re really serious and want a Quick Solution.
So I’ll make sure I blow your mind by throwing in THESE AMAZING BONUSES BELOW…   Once you Order any of the Above Package today, As a FREE Bonus, we will also be giving you our 30 Days Fertility Guide to help you with things like…
— The best Meal Plan to take to make your body system respond faster during a Fertility treatment. — It will also show you the ‘3 Unique Lifestyles’ that Affect a woman’s Body and disturb Fertility Treatment and how you can Avoid them or Get them Under Control During your treatment. — The Unique Methods to Use ‘WATER’ daily so that your Body System can be Washed and Become Very Response to Treatment
NORMALLY, WE SELL THIS FERTILITY GUIDE FOR N15,000 BUT, IF YOU ORDER FOR NATURAL FERTILITY IGNITION BOOSTER DURING THIS PROMO, WE WILL BE SENDING THIS GUIDE TO YOUR EMAIL AFTER 24 HOURS OF DELIVERING THE PACKAGE AT YOUR DOORSTEP. [ Whatsapp or Call/Text Messages to +2348164943199]  When working on Fertility, Either in a Woman or a Man,
The first step I always suggest is to eat a Natural Fertility Diet. Eating a healthy Natural Fertility diet is the foundation of a natural fertility program. To make it even easier, I suggest the very first step is to drink a fertility smoothie daily, at least for the first 30 to 60 days. Starting the day with a smoothie guarantees that you are going to be getting the most important components of the Natural Fertility Diet consistently. As an African, there are some fruits and veggies that can go a long way in boosting our fertility Naturally. Do you know Pineapple has a Special ingredient that can make a woman get Pregnant Fast? …Don’t worry, You’ll find out in this guide. In this Fertility Smoothie Recipe Guide, we have compiled the Easy-to-Find Fruits and Vegetables that you should make a part of your daily rutine for the first 60 days of your journey in this Fertility Programme. This Guide contains all the fruits and vegetables, how to make them, the list of fertility component each of them will add to your body instantly after taking them and the best time of the day for each of them. The Value of this Guide is N9,000
But you are getting it for Free as Part of this 90 Days Fertility Programme. [ Whatsapp or Call/Text Messages to +2348164943199]  [ Whatsapp or Call/Text Messages to +2348164943199]  ORDER METHOD 1  ORDER METHOD 2 Kindly Send Us Your Details By TEXT or WHATSAPP to +2348164943199
with the Followings Details: => Female Fertility (State Gold  or Silver Pack here) => Full Name => Delivery Address (Including State) => Phone Numbers + Alternative phone No => Email Address I want you to be sure of the Genuity of this product, so I will be offering you a payment on Delivery option. This means that…You will only be paying for the Pack once the Product gets to your doorstep. I am a Nigerian and I know how people abuse the use of internet. So, I want you to be sure that this is not one of those internet germs that take advantage of people’s hard earn cash and run away. So, If you have the amount to pay for any of the package when delivered EITHER IN CASH OR THROUGH BANK TRANSFER, Just go ahead to order, we will be recieving the payment when we bring the product to your doorstep.  For you to know that I am so certain about this Natural Fertility Ignition Pack even regardless of what kind of infertility issue it is you want it to solve. I will also give you a 100% Money Back Guarantee. I have made this easy for you so that you will NOT Loose anything . If it doesn’t work for you within 90 days, Return the empty bottles to me and have your full money back to your account. This product have been endorsed by high level naturopathic Practitioner and medical professionals from India,  United States and Nigeria. They endorsed it because they found out that it works naturally. So, JUST TRY THIS…TRY IT. Of course you will NOT Loose anything . If it doesn’t work for you, Return the empty bottles to me and have your full money back to your account. Its that easy. ORDER METHOD 1 =>Click Here to Fill The Order
Form on Our Website  ORDER METHOD 2 Kindly Send Us Your Details By TEXT or WHATSAPP to +2348164943199
with the Followings Details: => Female Fertility (State Gold  or Silver Pack here) => Full Name => Delivery Address (Including State) => Phone Numbers + Alternative phone No => Email Address  WEBTAGS: What helps you get pregnant fast? What pills can I take to get pregnant faster? How can I get pregnant fast naturally in 2 months? What vitamins should I take for fertility? Do fertility vitamins really work? What is the strongest fertility drug? What vitamins help conceive twins? Is there a way to have twins naturally? What you need to know about PCOS? Can PCOS get better by itself? Can you live a normal life with PCOS? Why is it important to know PCOS? Does masturbation cause PCOS? What happens if PCOS is left untreated? What are the 4 types of PCOS? Can PCOS go away with weight loss? Are polycystic ovaries painful? Does PCOS make your stomach big? Can PCOS cause death? Can polycystic ovaries disappear? What is the difference Btween polycystic ovary syndrome and polycystic ovaries? How can I get rid of my PCOS belly? Can you get pregnant with polycystic ovaries? What is the best age to get pregnant with PCOS? What should I not eat with PCOS? Can I get pregnant with PCOS without treatment? How can I manage my pregnancy with PCOS? Does PCOS get worse with age? Does PCOS cause birth defects? Can PCOS cause twins. Can PCOS go away after pregnancy? What are the chances of having a baby with PCOS? Is miscarriage more common with PCOS? How can I prevent miscarriage with PCOS? How can I know my fallopian tube is blocked? What are the general causes of tubal obstruction and damage? How can I unblock my fallopian tubes naturally? What Cannot take place if the fallopian tube is blocked? What is the best treatment for blocked fallopian tubes? Has anyone got pregnant with blocked fallopian tubes? How do you flush your fallopian tubes? Do you still have periods if your fallopian tubes are blocked? What is the best treatment for uterine fibroids? What happens if fibroids go untreated? What does fibroid pain feel like? What to avoid if you have fibroids? Can fibroids come out as clots? Can I eat eggs if I have fibroids? What is the root cause of fibroids? What foods aggravate fibroids? What to eat to reduce fibroids? Can Apple cider vinegar shrink fibroids? Can you get rid of fibroids without surgery? What is the safest way to remove fibroids? Can fibroids make you gain weight? Can fibroids turn cancerous? When should you have fibroids removed? Should I worry about uterine fibroids? Is banana good for fibroids? Can turmeric shrink fibroids? Does ginger shrink fibroid? What vitamins help shrink fibroids? Can vitamin D shrink fibroids? Can vitamin D deficiency cause uterine fibroids? Which vitamin is good for uterus? How can I clean my uterus? How can I boost my ovulation naturally? What are the signs of hormonal imbalance?  What are the 5 hormonal imbalances? How do you fix hormonal imbalance? What is hormonal imbalance in females? What food causes hormonal imbalance? What can I drink for hormonal imbalance? What vitamins help balance female hormones? What vitamins should I take for hormonal imbalance? Does banana help hormonal imbalance? What is reason of hormonal imbalance? What food is good for female hormones? What causes hormonal imbalance in menstruation? How can I check my hormone levels at home? What to do if periods are not coming? What is the earliest age for menopause? What are the first signs of perimenopause? Can you start menopause at 35? Can menopause start at 30? What triggers early menopause? Can stress bring on early menopause? What are the worst menopause symptoms? How can I reverse early menopause? What are the stages of perimenopause? Do periods get closer together before menopause? What is the best vitamin for perimenopause? Can a woman have an Orgasim after menopause? Do you get wet after menopause? Where does sperm go after menopause?