All Progressives Congress (APC) chairman in Ondo State, Ade Adetimehin Thursday accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of chasing shadows by challenging the victory of Governor Rotimi Akeredolu in court. He said its governorship candidate, Editor Jegede, never contested the outcome of the poll, adding that he only sought to puncture the results on technical ground Adetimehin in a statement accused Jegede and PDP of desperation, flowing their rejection by the electorate. He noted that their hired analysts have twisted the judgment of the Court of Appeal and painted the judiciary in a bad light. The chairman said: “This is viciously ungentlemanly, dishonest and disappointing,” adding that APC has also noted the spurious allegation that the governor intended to compromise the Supreme Court Justices. Taking an exception to the allegations, he said: “We find this attitude and behaviour insolent, mischievous, unwholesome and absolutely in bad taste.” Adetimehin added: While we will not attempt to hold brief for the Supreme Court Judges, we however want to put on record, that it is absolutely bad manners that will make anyone to comfortably manufacture falsehood and attempt to shoot down the integrity of these Judges and the Judiciary institution they represent. “We however wish to reiterate that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, does not engage Honourable Justices in any discussion over any matter before them, and this continues to represent the hallmark of his practice as a senior lawyer who has an unmitigated and irrevocable commitment to upholding the tenets of justice and fair play. “The APC-led government will not, for any reason, deploy the resources of the State to the pursuance of any individual interest. The party, therefore, urges the people of Ondo State and the workforce to disregard this petty insinuation that the funds meant for salaries would be deployed to other purposes. That is not consistent with the character of our Governor, Arakunrin Akeredolu. “While we patiently wait for the resolution of this matter before the Supreme Court, it is important to underscore the fact that Jegede and the PDP are not challenging the result of the October 10th, 2020 governorship election, where the APC won outstandingly in fifteen out of the eighteen local governments, while the PDP won in only three. Rather they are pursuing an interloping technical issue that concerns the APC alone. “We respect and appreciate the electoral expressions of the people as validly represented by the election results, and will continue to do all to uphold and protect same. “While we sympathise with the PDP over its loss of focus, the pitiable decay and degeneracy that continues to confound and permeate it, our commitment to maintaining decency and civility will not be compromised. Thus we will not permit them to drag Ondo State into any crisis because of a failed ambition. “We wish to congratulate all those staunch and credible leaders of the PDP that have signaled their intention to join us and further encourage other patriots in that Party to equally consider an exit and join hands with us to develop our dear Sunshine State.”