The Police Service Commission (PSC) has lifted suspension of Mohammed Musa, a Superintendent of Police (SP) in the Yobe Police Command, who was demobilised from the Special Protection Unit, Base 2, Lagos. PSC also approved reinstatement of 21 other officers and directed the promotion of some of the officers and payment of salary arrears of others. The decisions were taken at the 12th Plenary Meeting of the Commission in Abuja on the 6th and 7th of July, 2021 presided over by Commission Chairman, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police (IGP). Musa, who was on suspension, was recalled by the Commission and awarded a punishment of severe reprimand. He was facing charges of disobedience to constituted authority, absence from duty, divided loyalty, refusal to accept posting, discourteous behavior to public and act unbecoming of a public Officer. According to a statement on Friday in Abuja by the Head, Press and Public Relations (PSC), Ikechukwu Ani, Musa in his representation had stated that he did not indulge in the allegations levelled against him and denied the same while pleading for exculpation. He however recalled his encounter with aides of a former IGP and his detention at the Maitama Police Station without any known offence. The commission was convinced after going through his representation that he was not guilty as charged and recalled him to work. PSC also approved the reinstatement of Adamu Damji Abare, an ex- Chief Superintendent of Police on the rank of Superintendent; Edwin Ochima, ex Deputy Superintendent of Police to DSP and directed the payment of his salary arrears from 01/08/2015; Dauda Bot Lamba, ex Superintendent, returned to the rank of SP but with a punishment of reprimand. Other Officers reinstated were SP Simeon A. E. Ajisafe (to be promoted at par with his erstwhile colleagues and paid his salary arrears); SP Oluwatoyin Adesope; CSP Solomon Akika (to be promoted at par with his erstwhile colleagues and paid arrears of salaries; Inspector Odianosen Endurance; Inspector Augustine Madufor (to be promoted at par with his erstwhile colleagues and paid salary arrears) and Inspector Imariabe Ikpomnwosa and Danladi Lengkang (to be promoted at par with erstwhile colleagues), among others. The Commission had also confirmed the acting appointments of three Deputy Inspectors General of Police. Ani said: “The Commission further approved the promotion of 24 Commissioners of Police which included Vwamhi Felix Yame, CP Special Fraud Unit (SFU) Lagos and Balarebe Abubakar, CP Works, Force Headquarters. “CP. Buba Sanusi of Katsina State Command and CP Dauda Abdulkarim, former Commandant, Police Training College Kaduna did not make the list. CP Sanusi did not make the field of selection while CP Abdulkarim had since retired. (Their names were erroneously included in the previous list sent out) “Similarly the Commission approved 35 Deputy Commissioners of Police which also included Owotorufa Warebi, DCP, DFA, Plateau State Command; Oladimeji Yomi Olanrewaju, DCP DFA, Rivers State Command; Odama Paul Ojeka, DCP Zonal CID Zone 1 Kano; Patrick Ogon Edung DCP, Maritime, Lagos; Badru Banji Lawal DCP DFA, Benue State Command; Bartholomew Onyeka Nnamdi, DCP DFA Zamfara State Command; Suleiman Yusuf, Deputy Commandant, Police College, Kaduna and Shehu Sani Gwarzo, CP Forensic FCIID, Abuja. “Fifty two Assistant Commissioners of Police were also promoted to Deputy Commissioners of Police. They included; ACP Baba Mohammed Azare; Nwanosike Wodi Okocha; Anthony Odita; Martin Nwogoh; Shetima Jauro Mohammed; Garba Dungun; Adamu Abdullahi Ellema; Hauwa Ibrahim Jibrin; Abayomi Shogunle and Regina Cosmas Udoette, ACP, DFA, Ebonyi State Command. “Olusegun Rafiu, Chidi Emmanuel Onuora, Augustine Aniah, Udochukwu Ugwueke Peace; Amadi Kelechi and Afusat Alausa of Lagos State Command were also promoted from Superintendents of Police to Chief Superintendents.”