Too often it seems there is a surfeit of bluster in our national politics and a deficit of guile. But then, there’s Lauretta Onochie, Personal Assistant on Social Media to President Muhammadu Buhari. Onochie puts the craft in craftiness, in the strides of a foxy combatant who understands that defeat may be avoided by simply swapping horses midstream, like the proverbial apostate. On Thursday, while the Senate Committee on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), led by Senator Kabiru Gaya, screened Onochie and five other nominees whose names were sent to the upper chamber for scrutiny, the presidential aide and hitherto unrepentant supporter of the APC and President Buhari, denied her membership of the APC. In a manner reminiscent of biblical Peter’s denial of Jesus, Onochie denied her membership of the APC thrice, under intense scrutiny by the senators to determine her eligibility for appointment as a National Commissioner of INEC. While she admitted to being a card-bearing member of the APC, Onochie claimed that she ceased being a member after President Buhari was returned to office at the 2019 general election. She disclosed that she served in the Buhari Supprt Organisation but had stopped working for the group. She said, “I have seen the petitions written against me. It is instructive to note that it also came from members of the APC. “Nobody has anything to fear, if I get this role because I will be working for the people of the South South to ensure that their votes count, irrespective of religion or political affiliations. I am for due process. That’s why the attack is coming because I follow the law, I follow due process.” A recent check of the affidavit she swore on June 30, 2021, at the FCT High Court, Abuja, however, showed that she remains a member of the APC and was an active participant in a UK election where she also contested. Part of the affidavit read: “That I am an educationist having served as Headmistress of Auntie Margaret International School, Calabar. I have also served as a lecturer at the Epping Forest College, Essex, United Kingdom. “I am also a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress and a volunteer at Buhari Support Organization.” This contradicts her denial, thrice, of her membership of the APC while responding to Senator Instifanus Gyang’s request that she speaks to the affidavit she personally submitted to the panel before her screening. Major opposition to the APC, the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP), in a statement issued by Kola Ologbondiyan, its national publicity secretary, berated Onochie for disowning the APC because of her desperation to become an INEC commissioner at all cost. The statement read: “Nigerians were amused to watch Lauretta Onochie, a nationally known APC front runner, as she spewed falsehood before the Senator Kabiru Gaya-led Senate Committee on INEC in denial of her membership of the APC. “With her lies, Lauretta Onochie, a dyed-in-the-wool APC member, whose name appears as number 2 on the ward 4 register of the APC in Aniocha Local Government Area of Delta State, has further demonstrated her lack of integrity to be trusted with the position of a national commissioner in INEC. “Lauretta Onochie in her escapade in the Senate may have forgotten that the lawmakers and Nigerians, in general, are aware of her subsisting oath filed in a pending suit in court affirming her membership of the APC, which she further reinforced and adopted under cross-examination in the same matter very recently. “With such proclivity to desperate denials in the face of the truth, allowing Lauretta Onochie anywhere near INEC would pollute the commission as well as the conduct of elections by the commission.” The PDP argued that now that the facts of Onochie’s partisanship have been further laid bare before the Senate, the Senate Committee must respect the rule of law and “the sanctity of our electoral process by rejecting outright the nomination of Lauretta Onochie as INEC commissioner.” If there were a template for shooting oneself in the foot, Onochie’s recent theatrics certainly trumps it; her performance at the screening disinters hopes of her likely attainment of her sought role. President Buhari had previously sent the names of six nominees, including that of Onochie, who was his senior special assistant on social media to the Senate on October 12, 2020 but her nomination generated uproar from Nigerians over her presumed partisanship. In the wake of the outrage, President Buhari renominated her alongside other nominees including Saidu Babura Ahmad (Jigawa); Professor Sani Muhammad Adam SAN ( North Central) Professor Muhammad Sani Kallah, (Katsina); Professor Kunle Cornelius Ajayi (Ekiti); and Dr Baba Bila (North East).