 Almost waxing lyrical about the violent raid on the Ibadan, Oyo State, residence of self-styled agitator for an independent Yoruba Nation, Mr Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho, in the early hours of July 1, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Shehu Garba, was full of praise for what he saw as the high professionalism of the security operatives as well as the “significant deftness, guile and secrecy” with which the operation was carried out. The irony was apparently lost on the presidential spokesman that the full might of the federal security agencies was brought to bear on the arrest of this single individual, yet the quarry proved elusive. A critical measure of the degree of professionalism of security agencies globally, especially in democratic polities, is their adherence to constitutional principles and the rule of law in the execution of their responsibilities. The attack on Igboho’s residence reportedly by operatives in military fatigue, as well as the Department of State Services (DSS), bore the hallmarks of embarrassing lawlessness and impunity. There is no indication, for instance, that a warrant for the arrest of Mr Igboho was obtained from a competent court of law as required by the constitution. Even if one was obtained as some have claimed , the mode of operation of those involved in the exercise leaves much to be desired. After all, Nigeria is no banana republic. No matter how provocative or offensive anybody finds Igboho’s Yoruba nationhood rhetoric and advocacy, the constitution guarantees his freedom of speech and he remains innocent of any legal infraction unless proven guilty in court. Of course, the federal authorities may claim with some plausibility that the operation was based on intelligence and designed to provide incontrovertible evidence to the court that Igboho was engaged in subversive activity designed to achieve his separatist agenda by force of arms. If so, the methodology of the operation seems tailor-made to defeat the achievement of any such objective. We believe that our security agencies possess the necessary acumen, skills and intelligence capacity to have effectively, efficiently and methodically monitored Igboho’s movements and activities with a view to apprehending him in a clear and clinical manner, so as to prove incontrovertibly the accused’s guilt and complicity, in court. Rather, they chose to invade his residence between 1.30 am and 5.00 am, and reportedly engaged some of the residents in a gun battle during which at least two of the latter died and their corpses carried away, while a number of others were arrested and taken to Abuja. If Ighoho himself had been found and possibly killed in that encounter, would that not have amounted to the state being the accuser and judge in the case, and then engaging in extra-judicial murder? Given the way the operation was carried out, the claim by the security operatives that they recovered seven Ak 47 rifles, thousands of ammunition and charms, among others, in the premises has been open to credible doubt. For, Mr Igboho claims that his residence harboured no such weapons and that those allegedly discovered were indeed planted by the security agencies. As it were, it is Igboho’s word against that of the security operatives. This is especially as he claims that the Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras in the premises were disconnected and carted away by the operatives. It is certainly only the presentation to the public of what is confirmed to be authentic footages from the allegedly seized CCTV cameras that can prove the truth. Even then, it is curious that the security operatives not only reportedly carried away what they described as charms from the premises, they also took away at least a black cat. It will be interesting to see how useful these will be in proving any allegation of wrongdoing against Igboho before the law. The attack on Igboho’s residence only demonstrates the unwarranted nervousness of the Federal Government as regards his Yoruba Nation separatist rhetoric. It would appear that the objective was to prevent him from attending the Yoruba Nation mega rally planned by the umbrella body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups and Ilana Omo Oodua (IOO) scheduled for Lagos on July 3. Indeed, the Lagos State Police Command had forcefully declared that on no account would the rally be allowed to hold. The state commissioner of police, Mr Hakeem Odumosu, claimed that there was credible intelligence that disgruntled elements planned to hijack the rally to cause public disturbance in the state. He referred to the hijacking by hoodlums of last year’s #EndSARs protests in the state and the resultant widespread loss of lives and destruction of property as justification for the stance of the police. It is our view that in taking this position, the police stood on shaky legal, logical and empirical grounds. Nigerians have a right to organise and participate in public demonstrations under our law. It is the constitutional responsibility of the security agencies, including the police, to provide adequate security for protesters involved in constitutionally protected rallies and ensure that they are not disrupted by hoodlums and sundry criminals. This is particularly so as the police claim to have had prior intelligence of plans to hijack the rally and disturb the peace. The unfortunate #EndSARS experience in Lagos particularly should not become an excuse for security agencies to abridge the rights of citizens to stage lawful public protests. Such rights are critical and indispensable to the survival and flourishing of viable democracies. Rather, security agencies must develop the capacity to prevent hoodlums and other undesirable elements from successfully aborting the organisation of legitimate public protests. From media reports, it is evident that officers and men of all security agencies in Lagos  were fully mobilised to prevent a breakdown of public order in anticipation of the Yoruba Nation rally. It is thus difficult to understand why, despite this show of preponderant force, the police still allegedly fired live bullets to disperse the reportedly no more than 100 protesters that converged on Ojota despite the legally questionable ban of the rally by the police authorities. In the process, a salesgirl, Jumoke Oyeleke, was reportedly killed by a stray police bullet. Although the police have denied firing live bullets and claimed that the corpse of the girl bore stab wounds, we commend the directive by the Lagos State governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for a thorough investigation of the incident and look forward to the fulfillment of his promise that anyone found culpable will face the law. It remains to be seen for which offences the 49 persons arrested by the police in Lagos for allegedly participating in the protests will be prosecuted. According to the police, the items recovered from them included seven vehicles, a walking stick, a white box believed to contain assorted charms, a king’s crown as well as various cloth materials with Oodua Nation inscriptions. We are unaware that these are items prohibited by law or which can be utilised by protesters to cause harm to others. In any case, the organisers of the rally not only wrote to inform the police of the event and seek protection, they also reportedly invited external observers, including the United Nations (UN), European Union (EU), Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) as well as the governments of the United States and the United Kingdom. This does not appear to be the disposition of a group bent on perpetrating violence. Significantly, the Yoruba Nation rallies have been held without negative incidents in Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, Ogun and Oyo states. In these places, the protesters had their say while members of the general public went about their normal businesses. The Federal Government, unfortunately, by its action has grossly exaggerated the significance of Igboho and his separatist oratory in the South West. Prominent politicians across partisan divides, traditional rulers and influential opinion moulders in the region have all denounced the Yoruba Nation separatist agitation and condemned in no uncertain terms Igboho’s often inflammatory rhetoric. We do not endorse it either but insist that he be brought to book if he has committed any offence only in accordance with due process and the rule of law. Much more importantly, the security agencies should combat the criminal herdsmen and bandits operating with impunity in forests in the South-West and other parts of the country with similar fierceness. They openly and brazenly carry sophisticated weapons, kidnap, rape and murder innocent citizens. Yet, state government officials and prominent individuals have been known to engage in negotiations with these criminal elements who walk free on the streets. We believe that if there is the will, the security agencies possess the capacity to rid our forests of all criminal elements within a very short period.