Gunmen suspected to be herdsmen on Friday night beat security operatives to attack Igangan in Ibarapa North local government area of Oyo State again. The attack, which was repelled by swift response of local security operatives, however left at least four people dead in different parts of the axis. The Commander of Amotekun Corps in Ibarapa Central simply identified as Muri was among the deceased. The attackers were said to have stormed the town in two hilux vans, a 18-seater hummer bus and a Toyota Sienna bus spotting customs and military uniforms. Some residents said they initially lowered their guards, thinking the men were customs operatives who could have stormed the town in raid of suspected smugglers. But they proceeded to attack some areas of the town, shooting sporadically. The convener of Igangan Development Advocate, Oladiran Oladokun, confirmed the attack. He said the attack was an attempt to invade the State through the axis, a border community but it was resisted by the local security operatives. He said the suspected herders came in customs and military camouflage to change the narrative security operatives stormed the town in search of suspected smugglers. A community leader told The Nation “Report reaching me now reveals that around 8:00pm people suspected to be herdsmen again invaded Igangan and shooting for over 30minutes. Some said they were Custom men as they wore Custom uniforms but they were chased by local hunters but have killed some people. “They also passed Igboora and continued shooting and it was reported people have died in Igboora too including one Amotekun operatives “Further reports later as nobody knows what is going on in the major streets. “It was reported that the Commander of Amotekun in Ibarapa Central has been killed.” When contacted an Amotekun operative in Igangan explained the quick intervention of local security operatives forced the assailants to retreat after killing some residents as they escaped through the Abeokuta axis. Last month, suspected herdsmen invaded the town overnight, killing many people in the process.