The Federal Government on Thursday appointed a former chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Prof Attahiru Jega and former Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma as Chairmen of the Governing Councils of the University of Jos and Bayero University, Kano respectively. Their appointments followed the re-constitution of the Governing Councils of 19 Federal universities and four inter-university centres by the Federal Government. Also appointed are: University of Benin (Dr Sonny Kuku Chairman); Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria (Malam Adamu Fika – Chairman); University of Ilorin (Malam Abidu Yazid – Chairman); Bayero University, Kano (Sen Udoma Udo Udoma – Chairman); University of Abuja (Prof Ahmed Mohammed Modibbo – Chairman); University of Nigeria, Nsukka (Chief Ikechi Emenike – Chairman); University of Maiduguri (Ballama Manu – Chairman); Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Efurun, Delta state (Prof Anthony Gozie Anwuka); University of Jos (Prof Attahiru Jega – Chairman); Federal University of Technology, Owerri (Sen Jack Tilley Gyado – Chairman); University of Uyo (Barr Njideka Bernedette Nwachukwu – Chairman); University of Calabar (Gen Martin Luther Agwai rtd- Chairman) and Modibo Adamawa University (Alhj Bashir Dalhatu – Chairman). Others are: Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (Ibrahim Ida – Chairman); National Open University of Nigeria (Peter Okebukola – Chairman); Nnamdi Azikiwe Univeristy, Awka (Prof Sulyman Alege Kuranga – Chairman); Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi (Bukar Goni Aji Chairman); and Federal University of Technology, Akure (Amb Dr. Godknows Igali – Chairman). The government also presented the new Pro-chancellor and Chairman of Council of the Federal University of Health Sciences, Otukpo, Benue State. Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu who performed the inauguration exercise at the National Universities Commission (NUC), accused some Governors of hijacking the process of appointment of Vice-Chancellors for Federal Universities because of his (Adamu’s) lack of interest in the selection processes of new VCs for the institutions. Adamu noted that vested interest are responsible for the unimaginable crises in the selection processes of VCs for many Federal Universities, saying this meddlesomeness has led to unnecessary friction and tension in the universities. The Minister asked the Governing Councils to take charge and exercise their rights and not to allow outside influence in the selection process of new Vice-Chancellors of their respective institutions. Adamu warned the Council members that President Muhammadu Buhari, who is the visitor to the Federal Universities, will not hesitate to dismiss any Council found to be corrupt or incompetent. He commended President Buhari for approving their appointments, saying he had to literally beg some of them like Prof Jega and Sen Udoma to accept their appointments. Udoma, who spoke on behalf of Pro-Chancellors and Chairmen of Governing Councils, assured the Minister they would approach the assignment with all sense of responsibility and not disappoint the Federal Government for the confidence reposed on them.