President Muhammadu Buhari has charged the Nigerian contingents to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games to replicate the performances of past Nigerian Olympians. The President, who spoke yesterday  at the send-forth ceremony and unveiling of the official outfit for the team, held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, also encouraged the Nigerian contingents, saying “you stand on the shoulders of giants.” Represented at the ceremony by Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), and the President Recalled the exploits of past Nigerian teams, saying “you will also carry with you the encouragement of the great exploits of Nigerian Olympians before you.” The event also marked the formal handover of the Nigerian contingent to the Nigeria Olympic Committee and the unveiling of the team’s official outfit and kit. Buhari reminded the team of legends like: “Chioma Ajunwa who won the gold medal at the 1996 Olympics for the long jump and became the first black African woman to win an Olympic gold medal in a field event. “You stand on the shoulders of giants and with the quality and intensity of training you have received and your exploits during the qualification series for the Olympic Games, I am confident that by God’s grace, you will again make history and beat the best in the world.” Urging the team to promote the Olympian ideals, President Buhari said: Olympics is about fair play, honesty, teamwork, respect, and friendship. I trust that you will, as worthy ambassadors of Nigeria, represent our nation excellently.” At the ceremony were Federal Lawmakers, officials of the Japanese Embassy in Nigeria, 45 athletes and their coaches, officials of the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, as well as the Nigeria Olympic Committee, among others. Highpoint of the occasion was the formal handover of Team Nigeria to the Nigeria Olympic Committee by the Vice President and the Sports Minister Sunday Dare, and the unveiling of the official outfit and kit of the team. Earlier in his remarks, Dare said the athletes were ready to do the country proud and presented to  Osinbajo, the made-in-Nigeria kits for the Nigerian contingent. President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee, Engr Habu Gumel thanked the President and the Vice President for honoring Team Nigeria and expressed optimism that the contingent will not disappoint the country. Odunayo Adekuoroye, who spoke on behalf of the athletes, assured that the contingent is made up of discipline athletes who will make the nation proud during the outing.