Kaduna Governor Nasir El-Rufai has explained why the Federal Government is treating Boko Haram terrorists and bandits differently from the Nnamdi Kanu- led Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). El-Rufai said while Boko Haram terrorists and bandits don’t have a recognised and centralised leadership, Kanu is visible and central leader of IPOB based abroad working for dissolution of Nigeria. The Governor, in an interview with BBC Pidgin on Friday, was reacting to a section of Nigerians asking why bandits and terrorists in the North are not being resisted with the same swiftness as agitators in the south. He said: “I was very happy when he (Nnamdi Kanu) was arrested because, first he jumped bail, jeopardising his sureties. Secondly, a person that challenges the sovereignty and the authority of a state and incites violence; he refers to his own country as a zoo. “This should be a message to all these separatists challenging the authority of the Nigerian State to be very careful.” Asked why Boko Haram and bandits are not fought with as much ferocity as IPOB, he said: “No! No! No! No! People are comparing apples to oranges. Nnamdi Kanu is the leader of IPOB, a proscribed organisation. He is identifiable, in constant communication and everyone knows where he is. “Let’s take Boko Haram for instance. Shekau was in hiding and for the past 10 years and the military had been waging a war to get him. It is not like Shekau was in Saudi Arabia, sitting in one place, tweeting about the break- up of Nigeria or asking Boko Haram to go and kill Helen and Nasir el-Rufai. “Nnamdi Kanu is in one place while Shekau is waging guerrilla warfare. The insurgency is still going on and the Federal Government is not giving up. “Regarding bandits, they are not centralised under one leadership. Who is the head of the bandits? Who is the equivalent of Nmandi Kanu with banditry? “Bandits are just collections of independent criminals. It is a business for them. It is not a case of Nigeria must break up. “I want to challenge anyone to tell me the central leader of bandits in the same position as Kanu.”