Charges for ground handling for foreign carriers are the lowest in the West African sub region. This disparity has led to complaints by operators who insist that their inability to collect cost-reflective rates can affect safety. To reverse the trend, experts say regulatory intervention is needed to bridge the gap, KELVIN OSA-OKUNBOR reports.   The push to achieve an enhanced safety and security in the air travel value chain is gaining global traction as members of the aviation community – airlines, aviation fuel suppliers, ground handling firm, regulators and airport authority – make efforts to comply with  standards and procedures. The uniformity of these regulations is driven by standards and procedures put in place by either the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) or the global carriers’ regulator the International Air Transport Association (IATA). Oftentimes, these regulators do not fix the price on services rendered by aeronautical bodies to airlines and others in the air transport space. But the bodies provide a template that would guarantee service recovery charges to promote safety and security in air transportation. But, in Nigeria, operators and ground handling firms are lamenting the rates collected for the handling of aircraft belonging to foreign carriers. Sources close to the ground handling firms are worried that while operators in Nigeria collect between $400 and $1,139  for narrow body aircraft, $3,000 and $3,200 for wide body airplanes, other countries charge higher rates. While the charge regime for Nigeria is the lowest on the African continent, investigations by The Nation reveal that other countries such as Guinea charge $1,673 for narrow body aircraft with $4, 715 for wide body aircraft. Senegal charges $2,250 for narrow body airplanes with wide body aircraft rates going for $5, 259. Cameroon charges $1,400 for narrow body aircraft and $4,500 for wide body airplanes. Sierra Leone charges $2,250  for narrow body airplanes and wide body aircraft attracting $5,250. In Ghana ground handling charges go for $1,500 for narrow body aircraft whereas wide body aircraft attract the rate of $4,150. The ground handling rates in Nigeria have been running since the late 1980s and 1999 fuelling fresh concerns that the country is being shortchanged. According to experts, while Boeing 737, Airbus 320 Embraer Regional aircraft 145 and ATR airplanes qualify as narrow body equipment, Boeing 767, Airbus A330, Boeing 777, Boeing 747 and Airbus A380 qualify as wide body equipment. Investigations further reveal that the Federal Government is losing billions of naira from the lopsided ground handling charges compared to the regime in other African countries because ground handling firms, including Skyways Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc and Nigerian Aviation Handling Company (NAHCO) Plc pay five per cent of their gross yearly turnover to the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN). Former Managing Director, NAHCO, Mr Kayode Oluwasegun Ojo said the impact of inappropriate rates by ground handlers was having a ripple effect on the sector. He said: “If you charge for a service that is less than cost-reflective, it means you are not getting your cost back and in the long run, it will not be sustainable. Lack of sustainability for aviation has serious implications because aviation actually starts from the ground and you land back on the ground. It is the ground handling companies that do that. “If you are charging less than the cost, it means you are subsidising from somewhere and this will have an impact on the service you provide, equipment on the ground and others. “You know that most accidents/incidents in the industry actually occur on take-off and landing. So, it is extremely important that we take care of what happens on the ground and, in this case, via the ground handlers in charging the cost-reflective tariff. That means you can recover costs with some margins for hospitality, including being able to pay taxes to the government. Companies that make losses will not be able to pay taxes. “As you are aware, all the ground handling companies are locally-owned and there is employment implication for staff. If these companies are not making money, thousands of people will be out of work.” He canvassed price fixing as a way out of the quagmire. Ojo said: “As I said earlier, you must allow prices to be cost-reflective, but still show some levels of competitiveness. The telecom industry is a good example; operators compete around service and the call tariff’s difference is not that much. They have a minimum service level that they must provide. “There should be price fixing for narrow body and wide body aircraft. You should have a minimum level you can go, but don’t charge yourself out of business. If you are already operating below the bottom, honestly, it is not sustainable. There are implications on safety, security, job employment and the government. If companies are not making sufficient profit, it will affect the level of tax they will pay. “I will say this, again, anybody doing business must first recover his cost and this is simple to do. You must recover the cost of depreciation, tax, profit and others. Otherwise, inflation will catch up with you. “Clearly, the rates they are charging are not sustainable, but I may not be able to be specific on the right rates. What I think they are doing right now is subsidising other aspects of the business. That is not a sustainable model for business in the long run. Whatever that is not sustainable, you will eventually crash.” He said there was the need for the intervention of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). “I think the NCAA has a great role to play here; it should call people together – airlines and the ground handling companies, let’s jaw-jaw. My experience in the banking industry is that you collaborate before you start competing. “If Ghana is charging about $1,500 to handle narrow body aircraft and Nigeria is charging this little, then, something is wrong with our system. We must do something about helping our country and industry to grow. We have a huge market here and we must do something to boost the sector, starting from the ground handlers,” Ojo added. Former Managing Director, SAHCO, Alhaji Oluropo Owolabi said there could be economic, safety and security impact on inappropriate handling charges. He said: “This issue has been on for more than a decade and it is unfortunate that our government is sitting idle, acting as if this thing doesn’t affect them. It affects the government, foreign exchange, FAAN and even the NCAA being the regulator. It is a tripartite agreement. “When you fly straight, within the next 25 minutes, you are in Accra. Then, you ask how much they handle a wide and narrow body aircraft. It is different from what they are paying in Nigeria. In fact, it is a peanut. When you move further to other West African countries, you will see the disparities and they are unbelievable. Move to South Africa, Europe and America, the disparities are unbelievable. “We are suffering because there is no authority to stamp their regulation on these airlines and call the ground handling companies to order. “This act has, painfully, affected the revenue of the handlers, the take-home of FAAN at the end of the year. The total sales that we pay as remuneration to FAAN at the end of every year surely will diminish. It is what we take that we pay for. As we are losing, FAAN is losing and NCAA is not taking up its responsibility to ensure everything is being done correctly. “The question is, how much were you paying for air tickets 10 years, five years and even three years ago? Is it the same as you are paying now? Handling charges must move at par with what we are paying on tickets. “Don’t forget that the equipment we are using is imported and cleared by ICAO and IATA before we can use them.” He said the solution was not far from sight as the NCAA could step in to resolve the problem. He said: “NCAA needs to wade in because the government is losing on foreign exchange; these foreign carriers are taking undue advantage of the ground handling companies. “The NCAA should stamp its authority. There should be a minimum rate with sanctions to anyone that violates it and should be treated as a saboteur to the government. “Though the sub-sector is deregulated, the take-home of the government yearly is affected when appropriate charges are not collected. So, the government can’t keep quiet.” Chairman, Board of Trustees Association of Ground Handling Agents of Nigeria (AGHAN), Sam Oluwole, said there was the need for the government to address the lingering imbalance in ground handling charges. He said: “The bane of the sub-sector is the extremely low charges by ground handling companies in Nigeria, which are not commensurate with the quality of service that we render daily, the safety and security. There are three aspects that concern us at the moment; economic, safety and security of the industry. As far back as 1986, grand handlers were charging about $1,139 to handle a narrow body aircraft for instance, but regrettably, despite the crash of naira against the dollars and other currencies, some of the handlers charge as low as $300. Then a dollar was equal to N90,000, but today, the same dollar is about N500, yet we are charging low. “The airlines play on the infighting among the ground handling companies to pay them a token today, yet they are getting better services here than whatever they are getting outside the country. In Accra, Ghana for instance, they are paying about $2,000 for the same service, if not lower. “The Federal Government is losing a lot of revenue because the handling companies pay five per cent yearly turnover to the government and it is this money that they are using to acquire facilities, upgrade equipment, while the handlers train personnel and pay workers’ welfare packages and insurance. “We have been static over the years and because we have been static, we find it very difficult to maintain relevant standards. As you know, aviation is an international business with safety as our hallmark. If this continues, there is this tendency that one may want to compromise on safety if care is not taken. If the staff is not well-paid and the equipment is not ultra-modern and we start to cut corners, the resultant effect of this is that we may have an accident.” He canvassed appropriate rates by handlers, saying: “We need to work out something that will be a win-win situation for the airlines and ourselves. I mean something that will enable us to still be in business and provide adequate service to our customers. There are standards set by international organisations on this; IATA, ICAO all have standards. “There are terrorism activities going on around the world. What stops a terrorist to induce a worker who has access to restricted areas of the airport and has not been well-remunerated? That will not paint the image of our country in the right colours.” He called for regulatory intervention.” What we are trying to set is what we consider as a minimum handling rate, which will be observed by all ground handling companies.There should be a uniform rate, which the NCAA is going to supervise. The NCAA should be able to regulate this by ensuring that the Service Level Agreements (SLAs) are maintained and there is no undercutting. An airline goes to handler A, gets their rates and goes to handler B to cajole them to charge lower. “Whatever we are agitating for is not increment per se, but we only want to regularise the rates. Whatever we are charging is lower than what we did in the 1980s and early 1990s. We just want to be at par with other countries. That is where the NCAA will come in; to play their roles as regulators, just as we have in the banking industry where the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) regulates activities in that sector,” he said. Riding on the effects of low grounding charges and its implications for Nigeria, a former Chief Executive Officer, SAHCO, Chike Ogeah said it was time leading ground handling firms came together to fix the challenge. Ogeah said: “The two handling companies must work together. As long as those two handling companies are not working in tandem and setting the bars for themselves, knowing that the most important issue in the aviation business is safety. If they realise that, then they will not want to be undercutting themselves because that is where the greatest problem lies. “Because a ground handling company wants to get the bulk of the clients, gives services below its cost and that is dangerous. The rates are inelastic, it is open ended. There is a particular amount of client that everybody is trying to get because aviation is a specialised business, not a food stuff business. It is a specific business. So, by the time you look at passenger and cargo handlings, you will realise that you need to enforce your own prices, which must be standard and must be realistic to ensure that safety is not compromised. “It shows that something is wrong for Nigeria to have the lowest handling charges on the continent. NCAA as the regulator must sit down with the handling companies to come out with a realistic regime. ” It is ridiculous for Nigeria to charge as low as what they are charging now. It doesn’t make sense. I think the coming onboard of AGHAN will address that. The only way their survivals will be guaranteed is for them to charge right. Mind you, some of the companies are listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and they need to deliver to their shareholders.” Also, the spokesman of industry think tank and safety advocacy group, Aviation Safety RoundTable Initiative (ASRTI) Olumide Ohunayo said lower charges portends safety, security and economic implications for the country. He said: “On the ground handling side, a time will come when safety might be affected if they continue to run their services below the cost of production.’’ We cannot be different from the rest of the world. If the last approval was 1999, we are in 2021, which is about 22 years later. So, we need to look at that figure, considering that the foreign exchange rate has risen, the naira has continued to depreciate and has never appreciated since 1999 “There is no way that agreement of 1999 can be sustained in modern day and what we are doing now is that we are giving the foreign carriers profitability and shooting our own ground handlers on the foot. It is better that the regulatory authority and other agencies push forward this process, use whatever method that can bring about a competitive rate as compared to other countries. “It is obvious that the Nigerian handling companies are not cater for and not put into consideration at any point, despite the state-of-the-art equipment they deploy for services. They also do staff training and other services, which are not commensurate with the services provided. “There should be a benchmark of what is obtainable because we cannot price ourselves out of the region. We can pick the average rate in West African countries. If we go higher, we can allow the airlines to pull fares up and that may have a negative effect on Nigeria, but if we benchmark, the airlines will still come to Nigeria, and continue to operate because we have the population. “But, with what we have right away, it is the foreign airlines that are making money, yet, giving Nigeria the highest ticket fares with very low ground handling rate.The airlines have monopolised the fares and making outrageous gains at the expense of Nigeria and the ground handling companies. “For the ground handling companies, the most important thing is that they have formed an association to speak on their behalf. I think they should be more united in tackling this issue of handling rate. They should stand together and take this issue with the regulatory authority. The regulatory authority has no option than to support the ground handling companies in achieving and commensurate charges for ground handling to international companies and other ground handling companies. That will support growth in Nigeria “And for the ground handling companies, as they continue to push for this. They should not lower their standards, they should continue to get their certification and be members of all the international affiliated handling companies on safety and security. This makes it impossible for anybody to say they cannot pay or they cannot allow them to handle them. They need to continue to train, procure equipment and be members of international organisations. With that, they will be able to negotiate fairly what is obtainable in other countries within the continent.” The Chief Executive Officer, Aglow Aviation Limited, Mr Tayo Ojuri said a study shows that Nigeria offers the lowest ground handling rate in West Africa. He said  antecedents and ownership play a major role in the pricing structure and handling charges based on the fact that they evolved as government-owned entities and airline subsidiaries He said: “Fast forward to 2021, these ground handling companies are publicly quoted companies on the Nigerian Stock Exchange with strategic global alliances, enormous human capacity development, significant investment in the purchase of equipment and development of infrastructure in line with best international practice. “It is pertinent to note that a safe and reliable flight requires a whole range of ground services to be safely and completed on the ground between aircraft arrival and departure according to a common set of requirements that can be implemented worldwide in a standardised manner. With the growth of air traffic, ground operations have become complex. “To ensure safe, secure and commercial operations, ground handling charges need to be competitive and be a true reflection of cost of operations. “Appropriate charges for narrow and wide body aircraft by the handlers. ICAO Document 9562 highlights key considerations when determining ground handling charges. Ground handling charges shall be market determined through competition to ensure that they reflect the most cost-effective level for the provision of optimal ground handling services. Experience has shown that market-determined ground handling charges through competition provide the best outcome. “We reckon ample negotiation coupled with meaningful consultations with the airlines based on transparent information is necessary to verify that airlines are subject to cost-related and effective ground handling charges. A suggested middle ground will be to develop Minimum handling rates. “As the regulator and industry umpire, NCAA can be an independent observer during the negotiation to ensure the airlines and ground handling companies arrive at a mutual fee which will ensure a safe, secured operating environment which augurs well for the travelling public.”  