Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has inaugurated a new Governing Council for the Lagos State University (LASU). He admonished the members to use their experiences to impact positively on the management, policy formulations and smooth running of the institution. The members were sworn in at the Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja. Sanwo-Olu said: “I urge you to kindly consider your appointment and this inauguration as a call to duty and service to your fatherland. “The only way you can justify the confidence reposed in you is by working tirelessly to ensure that the existing peace and industrial harmony in the university is sustained, and even improved upon “As the supreme governing authority of the university, I charge you to prioritise the implementation of quality policies and programmes that will accelerate the pace of development and growth of the university to make it rank among the best in the world. “One of the key responsibilities of the council which require your urgent attention is the activation of the process for the appointment of a Vice Chancellor. “In performing this responsibility, I urge you to be guided by the lessons from past events and ensure strict adherence to relevant laws, guidelines and procedures…” Members of the Council are Sir David Sunmoni (Chairman); Mrs. Tolagbe Taiwo; Mrs. Moronke Williams; Mr. Tolani Sule; Dr Hakeem Adetugbobo; Mr. Anuoluwapo Eso; Mr. Adebayo Akinsanya; Mrs. Foluke AbdulRazaq; Prof. Shaffideen Amuwo and Mrs. Adenike Yomi-Faseun. Others are Mr. Adekunle Soname; Mr. Karl Toriola; Dr Ifeanyi Odii; Prof. Adedamola Oke (Acting VC LASU) and Mr. Emmanuel Fanu (Acting Registrar LASU). Sunmoni, who responded on behalf of others, thanked Sanwo-Olu for the opportunity to serve. He said: “I, on behalf of other members, assure you that we will do our very best, work assiduously to ensure we take LASU to the next level. This is a call to serve, and we accept the call. “LASU will be a varsity that all stakeholders and all of us will be proud of. We will work diligently, fairly and firmly to ensure we get the best from the varsity.” Governor Sanwo-Olu also swore in the Board of Trustee for the J.K Randle Center for Yoruba History at the Lagos House. Board members include Sanwo-Olu (Chairman); Mrs. Folashade Jaji (Vice Chairman); Princess Adenike Adedoyin-Ajayi (Secretary); Mrs. Olubunmi Osiewu (Treasurer); Polly Alakija; Chief Euzebio Damazio and Abdul Rafiu Adewale.