HEINEKEN has continued in its tradition to create even more engaging and exciting experiences for football fans around the world with the best entertainment in prestigious sports tournament using its partnership as official beer partner of UEFA EURO 2020. The UEFA EURO 2020 one-month long football fiesta is in its 60th anniversary. As a break from tradition, it is being hosted across 12 European cities:  Amsterdam, Baku, Bilbao, Bucharest, Budapest, Copenhagen, Dublin, Glasgow, Munich, Rome, St Petersburg and London. Nigerian consumers and football fans will be thrilled to an unforgettable viewing experience at the exclusive Heinekenfan park in Lagos during the final match between Italy and England on Sunday at 8:00pm Nigerian time. SeniorBrand Manager Heineken, Chinwe Greg-Egu, noted that the brand’s partnership with the European Championship had a significant impact beyond the continent. “The European tournaments are followed around the world and we see excitement from markets outside of this continent. Here in Nigeria, the tournament is followed passionately, our fans and consumers will no doubt have a feel of the thrilling football excitement just like the rest of the world courtesy of Heineken”. “Heineken has enjoyed an unrivalled relationship with football fans through our sponsorship of the UEFA Champions League. We are excited to be able to build the relationship further with the UEFA EURO 2020 partnership, meaning we are involved in the leading European club and international football tournaments” she said The Heineken partnership with UEFA EURO 2020 complements the brands other unique global platforms that includes the Rugby World Cup, Formula One, James Bond and the UEFA Champions League. With the UEFA EURO 2020 partnership, the brand has created even more engaging experiences for its fans with the global “Enjoy the rivalry” campaign, which aims to encourage fans to watch alongside their rivals. The campaign highlights how football can be so much better enjoyed alongside your rivals and with an ice-cold Heineken.