That Senator Felix Kola Ogunwale, a.k.a Jumokol is a charismatic personality and a crowd puller any day is not in doubt. That the Asiwaju of Iragbijiland, is a humane and down-to earth person with regards to the welfare of the lowly in the society is not an understatement. He is ready at all times to identify with the plight of the proverbial common man. For these sterling qualities and more, the drums were rolled out on his prompting, on June 26, 2021 to welcome decampees from APC to PDP in Boripe LGA, Osun State Ogunwale Iragbiji Country Home, venue of the event was jam-packed with his well-wishers and political associates from across Osun State to solidarise with the event. For record purpose, it should be emphasised, that Ogunwale has been a major financier of PDP in Osun State since 1998. He has, since 1980 been putting people up for political offices and offering services admirably to his people in Osun Central District in particular and Osun State in general. He was a pillar of strength and cornerstone for PDP in Osun through thick and thin, spending his resources to keep the party afloat for many years. It is also an incontrovertible fact, that Ogunwale was adjudged the best Senator from Osun State between 2003 and 2007, in the course of his duty tour of the senate. An era, when he ensured, that dividends of democracy got to the electorate transparently and on regular basis. It was therefore, a carnival-like ceremony, when hundreds of former APC faithful in Boripe LGA on Saturday, June 26, 2021 decamped to PDP. In their various defection speeches, the former APC members, said they were happy to be back home to PDP where their good fortunes lie. They described PDP as an all-embracing party, where justice, fairness and equity reign supreme. The decampees, described their duty tour in APC as years of leave of absence from PDP. The defectors said, they trusted absolutely in the unfailing leadership of Senator Kola Ogunwale and other leaders of PDP in Boripe LGA to make their sojourn in PDP a worth-while endeavour. They promised to work relentlessly to give the PDP a resounding victory in the 2022 governorship election. The decampees, described Ogunwale as a pillar of strength and a shining light for PDP since its inception in 1998, affirming, that they resolved to team up with the leadership of Ogunwale in Boripe LGA, as a mark of their respect for his sterling political qualities of welfarism and large-heartedness. In his brief remarks, Ogunwale assured the APC defectors, that they would not regret their action, as the umbrella of PDP is large enough to accommodate them to enjoy life more abundant, just like the old members. He intimated the decampees, that there is no room for discrimination in PDP as all members are of equal status.  Ogunwale enjoined the new members to go to their various units and wards and work very hard for the success of PDP in the 2022 governorship election, which is around the corner. The Asiwaju of Iragbiji admonished all PDP members to continue to play politics without bitterness and avoid confrontation in all its aspects. He said, PDP is for love and progress. The State Chairman of PDP in Osun State, Sunday Bisi, while receiving the defectors assured them of unfettered access to the party’s good tiding of life and openness in spreading political opportunities to all with the fear of God. Hon. Sunday Bisi, enjoined the new members to avail themselves the opportunity of obtaining new voters card or re-validating same through the on-going INEC registration exercise, as that is their power to vote for PDP governorship candidate in 2022. Hon. Sunday Bisi assured the new members, that they would be firmly accommodated in the party’s scheme of affairs, without let or hindrance. While the defection ceremony was at feverish pitch, the Osun PDP governorship hopeful- Senator Nurudeen Ademola Adeleke sent a goodwill message and felicitated heartily with the defectors. Senator Ademola Adeleke called on all PDP faithful in Osun State to continue to conduct themselves peacefully and hold high, the untainted flag of PDP, which he said, symbolised concord, friendship, amity observance of rule of law, victory and true stewardship to the electorate. Senator Ademola Adeleke assured the Iragbiji gathering of men and women of peace and integrity, that their labour shall not be in vain. Like other speakers at the event, Senator Ademola Adeleke advised new and old members to go and register through the on-going INEC Voters’ Registration that commenced on June 28, 2021. According to Senator Ademola Adeleke, voter’s cards remain the weapon of victory at the 2022 governorship election, in which PDP shall coast home to victory in a landslide manner through the grace of God and the affection of the electorate for the party. Senator Kola Ogunwale has since donated some branded vehicles to Ademola Adeleke Campaign Organisation as a token contribution to the success of PDP at the 2022 governorship election, promising to do more as his resources permit him. 