  There are over 22 million petrol generators in the country powering about 26 per cent of households and 30 per cent of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), aWorld Bank has said. The report further said the net capacity of these generators is eight times more than the national grid. The report entitled: ‘Resilience through reforms’, the World Bank noted that due to unreliable and insufficient electricity supply, businesses and wealthy homes depend mostly on generating sets. These challenges, the World Bank noted, is due to substandard infrastructure, which have become extremely urgent to improve and expand the power network, if quality supply of electricity is to be attained. The report, released on June 16, under the Power Sector Recovery Programme to kick off the new Nigeria Development Update (NDU), also identified operational inefficiencies in the system as the cause of the massive financial as well as economic losses. For instance, the body observed that yearly, the country’s economy loses between N7 trillion and N10 trillion to epileptic power supply, notwithstanding the various interventions of the government for efficiency in the sector. This figure is said to represent five and seven per cent of the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). This is why the World Bank also stressed the need for a holistic approach that integrates comprehensive measures to address Nigeria’s power problems sustainably. The body is convinced that for government to address the economic challenges bedeviling the country, it must take cognisance of the power sector, as this presents it an opportunity to tackle long standing challenges and give the economy a boost. “To address the economic challenges that have arisen from the oil price shock and COVID-19, in July 2020, the Federal Government launched a N23 trillion ($5.9 billion) Nigerian Economic Sustainability Plan (NESP). But any economic recovery programme will be severely challenged by minimal access to electricity, an insufficient power supply, and a financially unviable power sector.” the report read in part. The NESP lays out an ambitious package of policy measures and programmes to stimulate activity and create jobs through investments in agriculture, roads, renewables, and housing. Yet, the report noted that for the country to achieve universal access to electricity by 2030, the country would need to connect 500,000 to 800,000 households yearly. “Both grid-extension and off-grid solutions will be needed to provide timely quality services to unserved and underserved households and businesses, especially as the country recovers from the impact of the pandemic,” it submitted.