Gombe State Governor, Inuwa Yahaya has said that the influx of defectors from opposition political parties to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) cannot lead the country to a one-party State. Yahaya, who is the Chairman of Anambra State Governorship Primary Election Appeal Committee, spoke with newsmen at the National Secretariat of APC Friday in Abuja after a crucial meeting of the Committee. He faulted fears expressed by the opposition that APC was pushing the country to a one-party State and predicted that more political parties would be formed to join the existing ones, so long they meet INEC’s requirements and constitutional provisions. According to Yahaya, “A party that is in control necessarily has to attract people that are ready to give their support and they are coming because they realize that APC is more solid, more on the ground and really more transparent and open in terms of how it deals with everybody; the high and the low. That is why they are coming, so we welcome them, and anybody that says no, need to have a rethink because the party is about people, and all politicians are invited and welcome to any party that they think belongs to the right track. That is what APC is.” Asked if the country was not heading towards the one-party system, Yahaya quipped: “No! no! no!. Anybody could go to register a party provided he meets the constitutional provisions and the regulatory requirements of INEC. There are parties and there will still be more parties. So, why one party? I think that will never arise. Not in Nigeria.” Earlier, the Chairman of the appeal committee assured all aspirants of his committee’s resolve to unite all members of APC involved in the election into one big happy family because the state is being governed by a different party. “For us to form a Government in Anambra state we need to work in unison, we need to work together, so we need the understanding and cooperation of each and everyone, both leaders and followers of the party.” He urged all the contenders that have any reservations or misunderstanding with the result to reach out to his committee so that issues arising from the Anambra APC governorship primary election can be addressed, observing that winning a primary election is not enough without winning the main one. “We have already gotten petitions from the aspirants and we shall trash them and find a solution to all claims or observations made by the constants. Five petitions are with us right now and we are given time within which we shall conclude with them.” Inaugurating the committee, Chairman Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC), Governor Mai Mala Buni tasked the members to be just and expeditious in their assignment. Represented by the CECPC National Secretary, Sen. John James Akpanudoedehe he said, ” the five-member committee is expected to hear all appeals arising from the conduct of the Anambra APC Primary Election in line with the provisions of our Party’s Constitution and Guidelines for the nomination of candidates.” He urged those who were not satisfied with the processes to approach the committee in confidence that they’ll get justice. Chairman of the CECPC, Governor Mai Mala Buni had last week approved the appointment of Governor Inuwa Yahaya as Chairman of the APC Primary Election Appeal Committee for the Anambra State Governorship Election alongside Sen. Julius Ucha, Hajiya Maryam Mamu Salifu, Alh. Bukar Ali Dalori and Dr. Ijeoma Arodiogbu will serve as Secretary.