Sometimes when a society finds itself engulfed by violence and political irrationality, it is often better to take a peep into the past in order to have a fuller prospective view of what may lie in store. When history repeats itself, it is not due to “history” but due to the persistence and recurrence of human follies and what has been called the eternal cycle of human stupidity. What follows are excerpts from a piece in 2014 commemorating the centenary of amalgamation of the Southern and Northern protectorates of Nigeria. “With the equipoise of contending regional titans and their perfectly weighed prejudices and preferences, it was impossible to unify and homogenize the emergent national elite. By the same token and logic, it was impossible for a supreme Nigerian leader to emerge and prevail. The stage was then set for a prolonged and protracted siege on the state by the major nationalities. Chief Obafemi Awolowo , arguably the most gifted and administratively capable of them, identified the major problem of the nation as feudalism in the north. But ignoring the political realities and contending cultural milieu, he chose to attack the problem frontally by attempting to bypass the northern feudal lords to reach the people directly. This panicked the old north. It was said that once on a campaign trail, the Sardauna coughed up dust and phlegm and then exploded that Awolowo would have to pay dearly for this grave insult of forcing a prince to campaign to his own subjects. With the west on fire and the entire nation roiling in a political cauldron, was a coup inevitable? Virtually so. It was also in keeping with the norms of the time. Unlike now, it was the time when the men on horseback were viewed as an alternative modernizing elite. Ahmadu Bello’s error of judgment arose from his equating a feudal fiefdom with a nation-state that was not of his making and the attempt to impose the norms on people of radically divergent worldviews. There was bound to be a collision of altars and a national tragedy when this worldview came into fatal contradiction with a fiercely republican ethos that had no truck with a feudal pecking order. Yet by virtue of the same cultural logic the mutiny by mid-ranking officers of mainly Igbo origins was so politically clueless, so motivated by bloodthirsty and irrational vengeance, that it became part of the national problem. As we slouch towards another epic political gridlock chillingly reminiscent of fifty years ago, it is clear that what Nigeria needs is a new national elite that will draw up a fresh charter for the nation. A National Conference, sovereign or otherwise, might remove the constraints if it addresses genuine fears and grievances, but it will not give us a new elite, except in circumstances of tumult and turmoil. But unless we find the will and the willpower to create Nigeria anew, the fat lady will soon come on stage.