Lagosians have been charged to take responsibilities of looking after their roads to compliment government’s continued effort to rehabilitate road defects across the state. This charge was given by the General Manager of the Lagos State Public Works Corporation (LSPWC), Olufemi Daramola an Engineer in a media chat in his office while briefing on the operations of the Agency. According to Daramola, maintenance work carried out by the Agency sometimes come under threat as a result of some negative activities of the public such as pouring oil by mechanics and other negative attitudes. In its bid to address the situation, he said the corporation is ‘’reinvigorating its advocacy campaign to sensitise the public man-made causes of road damage with a view to inspiring the people to take ownership of the roads’’. Habits such as burning of items on the road, discharge of waste water on the road, removal of manhole covers, excessive axle load, cooking on roads, indiscriminate cutting of roads and dumping of refuse in drains are all part of reasons why roads cannot last their supposed lifespan’’; he said. He pledged that some roads such as Fatai Atere, Cappa , Fagba, Osolo way will receive attention urgently as they progress. Speaking on the preparedness of the corporation to discharge its duties even in the rainy season, the General Manager hinted that his Agency has evolved a culture of working round the clock, adding that night operations have become permanent features of its modus operand. On the impact of rain he said: “ He said though weather conditions have some impact on road maintenance activities generally, the corporation is prepared to take full advantage of dry periods in-between to carry out maintenance operations. He also said that weather forecast are usually considered in planning work schedules while efforts are concentrated on cold mix asphalt to address pot-holes. He pledged that the agency will continue to support the corporation to rapidly attack road defects, especially on strategic roads with high vehicular movement where pot holes and failed sections slow down movement, thereby impacting negatively on economic and social activities in the state. For this reason, he added, the Agency has sustained its effort to provide various forms of interventions in combating road defects which includes palliative works, routine maintenance and total rehabilitation. He said : “The Corporation has worked on a total of 385 roads across the state from January 2021 till date. Among the 385 roads, 100 strategic roads have been rehabilitated, while routine maintenance was carried out on over 268 roads and 17 roads were maintained using palliative approaches. The Corporation hopes to work on additional 400 roads before the year ends. Some of the strategic roads done so far include: Aye/Isolo , Mushin-Isolo Local Government Area, Ileshomi Street, Oshodi LGA, Ado Badore, Eti-Osa LGA, Dailey Street, Shomolu LGA, Odogbolu Street, Surulere LGA, Keffi Street, Obalende, Lagos Island LGA. Others are Jakande Estate Road, Alimosho LGA, Afolabi Street, Ikotun, Alimosho LGA, Old Otta Road, Powerline Junction, Orile Agege LGA and Etunreren Street and Ikorodu Samuel Ayetutu road.