Rearrested leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, has told his lawyer that he was actually arrested in Kenya, detained for eight days and tortured by the authorities there before he was extradited to Nigeria. The lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, met Kanu yesterday for the first time since he was brought to Nigeria on Sunday. Ejiofor had been granted permission earlier yesterday by the Department of State Security (DSS) to see him. But the Kenyan government, through its High Commissioner in Abuja, Dr. Wilfred Machage, yesterday vehemently denied involvement in the arrest and extradition of the IPOB leader. Machage dared anyone with facts of his country’s involvement in the matter to come forward with them. Ejiofor, in a statement on his Facebook wall yesterday after his meeting with Kanu, said his client was abducted by Kenya’s Special Police Force at the country’s International Airport on June 18. In the statement entitled ‘Update on meeting with MNK today, 2nd July 2021’, Ejofor said: “My Client – Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, was actually abducted by the accursed Kenya’s Special Police Force on the 18th of June 2021 at their International Airport, and consequently taken to an undisclosed residence under dehumanizing conditions. “He was tortured and subjected to all forms of inhuman treatment which worsened his health condition. “He was illegally detained for eight good DAYS in Kenya before being transferred to their Nigerian counterpart. “He was purportedly investigated on a bogus charge while in their custody, ostensibly awaiting to be handed over after their findings proved him innocent of all the spurious allegations. They later beckoned on their Nigerian counterpart to take over. “Kenyan Government was deeply involved in the abduction, detention and ill-treatment of my client before the illegal handover to their Nigerian counterpart. “A scan of his heart showed that the heart has enlarged by 13% due to the dehumanizing treatment meted to him. There will be need for immediate proper medical examination and attention for him. “Mazi Nnamdi Kanu conveyed his goodwill message to all IPOB family members worldwide, and craved for your unrelentless (sic) prayers. “We are going back to the Court for the needful. Other details cannot be entertained here. “His fortified legal team will address these infractions at the proper forum as we progress. Other details on our legal strategy may not be made public. “With Chukwuokike Abiama on our side, Victory is assured. For if God Almighty be for us, who can be against us? “#freeMaziNnamdiKanu#” But the Kenyan government yesterday denied any involvement in the arrest of Nnamdi Kanu and declared that “it does not want to be dragged into Nigeria’s internal affairs.” It challenged anyone with facts of its involvement in the alleged arrest and extradition of Kanu to come forward with such. Kanu’s brother, Kingsley, was the first to allege that the IPOB leader, who jumped bail in 2017, was arrested in Kenya and extradited to Nigeria on Sunday. He asked the British High Commission in Nigeria to ensure Kanu’s release from custody. Speaking on the issue yesterday, Kenya’s High Commissioner in Nigeria, Dr. Wilfred Machage, said the claim was fictional, imaginary and deliberately concocted to fuel antagonistic feelings among certain section of the Nigerian people. The envoy who expressed his anger over the claim also said his country enjoys good diplomatic relations with Nigeria and wants to sustain that. He therefore begged that his country wants to be left out on issues that bother on Nigeria’s internal affairs. The visibly angry ambassador, who read a prepared text, said: “These allegations are fictional, imaginary and deliberately concocted to fuel antagonistic feelings among certain section of the Nigerian people. “I want to challenge anyone with facts relating to this alleged arrest in Kenya to present those facts. This includes when, where, how and who was particularly involved in the alleged arrest. “We are also disturbed, dismayed and astonished by the unfortunate statement on the alleged arrest in Kenya which was carried in today’s Nation Newspaper. The government of Kenya is particularly appalled by the spurious, derogatory and libelous mention of the name of our dear President on this matter as has been reported in THE NATION dated 2nd July, 2021. “I, as the High Commissioner of the Republic of Kenya to the Federal republic of Nigeria, wish to categorically emphasise that our two countries, Kenya and Nigeria, have and continue to enjoy cordial diplomatic relations with both the Federal Government of Nigeria and its great accommodating and amiable citizens. “Kenya is committed to sustain this historical bond of friendship between our two governments and the peoples of our two countries. We wish to further cement our diplomatic relations with a view to ensure mutually beneficial relations between our two countries. “In conclusion, on the case of the alleged arrest in Kenya of Mr. Kanu, I wish to categorically state that we are not happy at this ridiculous attempt of dragging the name of Kenya and HE. President Uhuru Kenyatta on this matter of arrest and extradition of self-claimed IPOB leader.”