The Federal Government has offered insights into the operation that led to the rearrest of detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. It said some countries and intelligence agencies, with which it has obligations, assisted to arrest Kanu. But the government did not name the affected countries or intelligence agencies. Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed who spoke with reporters in Abuja simply described those countries and Intelligence agencies as those with which Nigeria shares obligations. He said: “Finally, there have been speculations on how this re-arrest was pulled off and in which country the hitherto fugitive leader of the proscribed IPOB was nabbed. “What we can tell you, once again, is that the re-arrest was made possible by the diligent efforts of our security and intelligence agencies, in collaboration with countries with which we have obligations. We continue to respect and honour the obligations. ” He said Nigeria had been on the trail of Kanu for two years. According to him: ” It will interest Nigerians to know that for over two years, our security and intelligence agencies were on the trail of the proscribed IPOB leader as he lived a five-star life across several countries, travelling on chartered private jets, living in luxury apartments and turning out in designing clothes and shoes. “Of course, as we all saw, he was wearing an attire made by Fendi, a luxury Italian fashion brand, when he was arrested.” Mohammed explained that many security agencies worked to effect the arrest of Kanu. He added: “As you are aware, the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Mr. Nnamdi Kanu, has been rearrested and repatriated to Nigeria to resume his trial. “This was made possible through the collaboration of Nigerian security and intelligence agencies. “Kanu, who is facing an 11-count charge of treason, treasonable felony, terrorism and illegal possession of firearms, among others, jumped bail in 2017 and left the country. “On Tuesday, Kanu was re-arraigned in court and ordered to be remanded in the custody of the DSS, while the case was adjourned till July 26-27, 2021 “Gentlemen, the Federal Government wishes to commend the Nigerian security and intelligence agencies, who collaborated to re-arrest the proscribed IPOB leader in one of the most classic operations of its type in the world. “We commend the professionalism, diligence, patriotism and painstaking efforts of our security and intelligence agencies. “We also thank the sister international agencies that collaborated with us to pull off this arrest.”