For about 10 years, stakeholders in the insurance sector have been struggling, albeit, unsuccessfully, to grow the sector’s premium income from N490 billion to N1 trillion. But the Director-General/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, insists that the N1 trillion premium target is achievable, if stakeholders embraced collaboration. The professional with more than 30 years’ experience also shared her roadmap to achieving the target with Insurance Correspondent OMOBOLA TOLU-KUSIMO.   The Director-General/Chief Executive Officer of Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA), Mrs. Yetunde Ilori, is, arguably, one of the leading lights in the insurance sector. With a successful practice that spanned over 30 years, Ilori, who retired from AXA Mansard Insurance Plc., has, under her charge as NIA DG, preoccupied herself with growing the sector’s premium income from N490 billion to N1 trillion. The premium income stood at N490 billion as at 2019. And plans by various stakeholders to achieve the N1 trillion mark have stretched for about 10 years without much progress. Expectedly, the N490 billion is considered minimal, unsatisfactory and worrisome by Ilori and, indeed, other key stakeholders, including the regulator and operators. However, for Ilori, the N1 trillion premium income is achievable. “The N490 billion growth is minimal and we are not satisfied with where we are. I believe it can be improved upon and our N1 trillion target achieved, if all hands are on deck by all stakeholders in the industry. It will take collaborative effort of stakeholders within the industry. The operator, regulator and even the government have roles to play,” she declared. She said although, the NIA was coordinating its members at its level to achieve the target, the Nigerian Insurance Commission (NAICOM), which is the industry regulator, has a major role to play by putting operators in the place where they should belong. “If we go back to the document, we will know what we should do or not do. In fact, we need to go and revalidate that document because a document of last year may no longer be relevant this year,” she said. The insurance amazon was referring to the 2012 document by world-renowned Management Consulting Firm McKinsey &Company, which, working with the regulator and operators, charted a course to be followed to realise the Nigerian insurance sector’s N1 trillion premium income target, triple the number of employment in the sector, as well as boost its contribution to the  Gross Domestic Product (GDP). The NIA later came up with a roadmap to achieve the same target; NAICOM also had its own roadmap. However, Ilori said “it is now time to harmonise the positions in these roadmaps. This is where we have to be. We need to revalidate these reports and chart a way forward. And I am so sure we can get to do the things that we promised to do. It only needs collaboration and not a fragmented industry.” Continuing, the NIA chief said: “We should ask what are the things we are supposed to do that we are not doing and how can we start doing them. We need coordinated plans or programme. We should ask ourselves what has happened in the plans that we had and not followed through with them because sometimes it’s not just about coming out with new plans. “Also, the regulator and operators need to have a conversation around the issue. We can disagree and at the end look at who has a superior argument, not just because you are the regulator or operator, but in the interest of the industry.” Collaborating with other sectors To hit the target, Ilori also believes that collaboration with other sectors is key. She said, for instance, that despite the much-talked about financial inclusion, operators in the insurance sector were just paying lip service to financial inclusion. “We need to partner with the banking sector that has done it. It is not that they are where they want to be; they still see that there is a gap to be bridged. But we can leverage what they have done to make their customers allow their agents to sell micro-insurance products for us such that insurance gets to wherever they have taken financial services to and become a one-stop-shop,” she said. She added that the NIA was doing a lot to ensure that with its Nigeria Insurance Industry Portal (NIIP), people can buy all the compulsory insurance from anywhere in the country. I think that when we do all this and then people have adequate money and they deploy it into what they can carry, then we will see a lot of changes and achieve the N1 trillion target,” she said. Ilori is also looking at re-enacting another Insurance Act, with enforcement as the focus especially on the low hanging fruits, which are motor third-party insurance and other compulsory insurances in the country. “Yes, it shouldn’t be about enforcement alone, people should see value in what they are buying and I believe value can be seen if we improve in the way of continuous education by everybody,” she stated. According to her, there is need to let the public know that insurance is a necessity with benefits. “Sometimes, you need to help people to get to where they are supposed to be. Sometimes, without enforcement people just take things for granted,” she emphasised, pointing out, for example, that in 2019, the Lagos State Government began automated verification of all that a motorist needs to put in place, which saw a spike in motor insurance business. As Ilori also observed, “We have this mentality and culture that we can cover ourselves and that even if anything goes wrong, our family or friends will rally round without necessarily exploring the mechanism of insurance. It is true that we need people because that is our culture, but there is an institutional mechanism that can come to the rescue if anything should happen to you.” She stated that if all agencies like the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIO) at state levels collaborate with us and see the reasons and the benefits therein for them, enforcement will be easy. “I believe that if they see the figures, they will get involved. The way people treat insurance is that they can’t afford it whereas they can afford it. Because what they cannot afford is to lose assets or business they use their life to build,” Ilori said. The NIA DG also said she believes that recapitalisation is something that has to be done. According to her, recapitalisation is the first pillar in NIA’s roadmap document. “So, we expect to see after a recapitalisation exercise, which is currently in court, no matter how it is done, a situation whereby there is consolidation. We expect to see stronger companies that can live up to their obligations which will become more encouraging to the insuring public,” she stated. The 60-year-old mother of three, who has never hidden her intention to see a better  industry driven by a fearless and committed leader, is also a pastor. Her husband, was the late Kunle Ilori. In 2010, she took up the challenge of caring for the flock he left behind as a Senior and Lead Pastor. In March 2011, she set up the Kunle Ilori Life Foundation to assist women, particularly widows. Recently, she wrote a book entitled: Memoirs of a Widow: Behind the Veil. It was not her first. 