At 60, life still goes on for Tunji Bello, political scientist, journalist, humanist, lawyer, politician, administrator and faithful and highly dependable disciple of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. The eminent journalist and Lagos State Commissioner for Enviroment will be locked in sober reflection today as he celebrates his six decades of existence. It can be said with justification that Bello may have silently achieved what others who are a century old are still striving for. He is, to say the least, politically relevant; in the enduring court of his highly esteemed political leader, in the entrenched ruling party at state level, in the dynamic government midwifed by the formidable platform, and in the progressive family at large. There may be no elaborate ceremony. Bello will be bombarded with felicitations from far and near; from family and friends, fans, associates, media practitioners, top political leaders and statesmen. At the nucleus family level, the celebrator, his wife, Prof. Ibiyemi, and promising children will raise up their hands in supplication to the Almighty Allah, the sole giver of life, for sound health, fruitful existence, fulfillment, and a meaningful opportunity to be on the fast lane to self-actualisation. Expectedly, Bello may convert the moment into a veritable opportunity to assess the journey so far and make realistic projections for the future. The picnics that may follow tonight will be a low key event. Generally, the major feature of the birthday is thanksgiving to God. What Bello is celebrating, in a moral sense, is not only a fairly long earthly journey, but also the worth of existence;  the import and impact of character, either as a journalist, lawyer, technocrat, consultant, media administrator or political actor. Put succinctly, it is what Yoruba would call virtue or “Omoluabi.” Thus, the achievement of media valour, and its accompanying fame and influence;  his meteoric political rise, as it were, his career progression as a public servant and ultimate capacity for sustaining a high public image have their foundation in his subscription to a life of virtue, principle, hardwork, integrity, honour and dignity. Bello is a product of a home of culture and etiquette. Since he cherished that good background, he resolved early in life never to tarnish the good name and reputation of his father’s household. At the University of Ibadan, his school mates recall his campus profile; a humble, focused, serious minded and goal oriented social science student. But, he was also a moderate campus socialite and a charismatic figure in student unionism. Bello was politically conscious. He never sat on the sideline. He appreciated the import of leadership. Therefore, he contested and won election as Union Government Vice President on merit, following consultations with the various segments of the studentry and mobilisation of liberation-conscious activists in those glorious days of ideological student unionism. It is therefore, evident that the student-political scientist and emerging pro-democracy crusader was involved in the efforts that set the stage for strong activism that heralded the collective struggle that culminated in the delimitarisation process and enthronement of civil rule. Bello also obtained a Masters Degree in International Law and Diplomacy from the University of Lagos, Akoka, in 1987. Little did he know that he was heading for journalism. An encounter with the business mogul, the legendary Aare Ona Kakanfo Moshood Abiola, was the defining moment. He was later to serve as Personal Assistant to the businessman-turned politician. Instead of the initial plan for a banking career, Abiola steered Bello into journalism. The starting point was The Concord newspaper, where he learned at the feet of thorough bred professionals and mentors, including Uduak Ezzien, Ben Onyeacholum, Duro Onabule and the highly cerebral Editor Dele Alake, who later became Lagos State Information and Strategy Commissioner. He was a features Writer. later, an Assistant Features Editor. Through  dint of hardwork and devotion to professional excellence, Bello rose through the ranks in the crowded newsroom, becoming the Political Editor at 27. Much confidence and trust were reposed in him by his superiors. Later, he became the Sunday Editor. He was once a Staff Writer with St. Petersburg Times, Florida and the US and World Report, Washington DC, United States. His strength as a writer, then and even now, lies in his power of ideas. Self-confident, brave and bold, he spoke truth to power through his pen. His weapons of incisive wit, knowledge of the polity, credible sources, courage and resilience were professionally deployed as he oozed out highly objective stories, features and analysis on contemporary political issues that shaped the polity in the late eighties, nineties and in the first decade of this millennium. In the course of his career as a journalist, he never compromised the ethics of his profession. Bello, in the course of his career, mentored many reporters who later became editors. In that customary mad house called the newsroom, he was never a bully.  He was credited with a good listening ability, calmness and sound judgement. A progressive journalist, Bello became a moulder of opinion who commanded respect beyond the bar of journalism and politics. He also cultivated the high and the mighty through his social skills, loyalty, candour and decency. He never used his pen and position in the media to pull down people, but to uphold the truth and build the nation. As the Chairman of Editorial Board of Thisday Newspaper, Bello also deployed his experience to the newspaper’s effort at shaping public opinion and contributing to national development. The offer underscored the management’s belief in his exposure, depth, versatility and professionalism. Despite the media workload and busy schedules, the political scientist still managed to pursue a degree in Law. The feat attended to his focus,time management and devotion to a life time ambition to be counted among the members of the Learned Profession. Bello’s media activities as an admirer of Senator Bola Tinubu, who became governor of Lagos State in 1999, were noticeable. He was among the young technocrats from diverse fields who offered support to the administration in certain technical areas where they  willingly deployed their expertise. From the media angle, his capacity to deliver on strategic tasks with enthusiasm, speed and precision could not be glossed over. It may have been a major attraction which culminated in the decision to invite him to join the administration in 2003. As Lagos State Commissioner for Environment, Bello became an environmentalist and urban renewal curator. It is a highly technical and sensitive ministry which only a workaholic can effectively handle. On his shoulders rested the responsibility for environmental sanitation and curtailing the threats of erosion and dislocation in a metropolis reputed for indiscriminate refuse disposal. After serving as Environment Commissioner, his next point of call was the Signage Agency, which he turned around. In 2015, he became the Secretary to Government. Two years ago, he returned to the Environment Ministry for the unfinished business. The hunt for talent led to the discovery of the journalist who has made great impact in public service. As a member of the  Executive Council, fondly called the cabinet of talents, Bello commanded respect for his experience and credibility. At council meetings, he is agood debater; highly constructive, frank and sincere. His colleagues in the council perceive him as an asset, a stabiliser, barometer, a link among the progressive administrations, and a witness to the tradition of continuity that has made Lagos the epic progressive centre. He had warmed himself to his leader by sheer fidelity. With time, he graduated from  being an aide to a confidant, a close adviser, an associate and a permanent member of the Inner Circle. It may also be important to emphasise that as an important member of the Bourdilon Court, Bello has never offered Ahitophelian counsels to the great leader. As a long standing member of the State Executive Council, Bello has contributed immensely to the implementation of the 24-year Development Plan designed by the Tinubu administration to catapult the state to the horizon of progress and prosperity. He is also successful at the homefront. A man of excellent gait and commanding presence, Bello is highly personable; a lady’s delight. But, the lot fell on the eminent scholar and Lagos State University (LASU) Acting Vice Chancellor to hook him. The marriage of the love birds is another contribution to the cause of monogamy in the modern world.