The Theatre Arts and Motion Picture Practitioner Association of Nigerian (TAMPAN) has suspended Nollywood actor Yomi Fabiyi indefinitely over his latest movie ‘Oko Iyabo’, which protrays the Baba Ijesha sexual assault saga. The suspension was contained in a letter signed by Yemi Amodu, TAMPAN’s Director of Research and Documentation. The movie, which aired on YouTube on July 4, 2021, featured characters with same names of the individuals involved in the case including actress, Iyabo Ojo whom the story apparently centred around. ‘Oko Iyabo’ sparked outrage on social media as many Nigerians called the TAMPAN association to discipline Yomi Fabiyi over its release. Shortly after, the association summoned the movie producer for questioning over the controversial movie. But the association, in a statement, said Yomi Fabiyi had been suspended indefinitely for gross professional misconduct and unethical practices. TAMPAN said it found Fabiyi guilty of misconduct, including attempting to cause social crisis with the film, using the real names of the people involved and factual events without their consent. TAMPAN pointed out that except the work of art is a ‘Cinema Verite’, no one is allowed to use a real name(s) of another person (s) in a feature film. This, it argued, has negatively impacted the reputation of the association. While Yomi Fabiyi was suspended indefinitely, his co-director, Matti was suspended for three months. “Having listened to the detailed defence of Mr Yomi Fabiyi, who is the Producer/Director of the controversial film ‘Oko Iyabo’ and his Co-Director, Mr Dele Matti, the Ethic, Conflict and Resolution Committee hereby found them guilty of professional misconduct and unethical practices. “Although Mr. Yomi Fabiyi insisted that it is his fundamental human right to use his creative talent to produce films that will tell his own account of the trending issue, but his Co-Director admitted his fault and regretted his involvement in the film,” the letter reads in part. 