Despite the fresh two weeks window granted for registration and revalidation of members by the National Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo State, the crisis in the party in the state persists, as Senator Rochas Okorocha’s group insist on fresh registration exercise that will be supervised by the Daniel Nwafor led executive committee. The former Imo State governor made this demand after a meeting with some members of the APC Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) at the party Secretariat in Abuja on Tuesday evening. Okorocha who led a group known as Imo APC Pioneer Group to the meeting told newsmen that there was no membership registration in the State as the Daniel Nwafor led executive were allegedly not allowed to carry out the exercise, insisting that “any registration that doesn’t take Daniel Nwafor as the Chairman of the party is illegal.” Though Okorocha failed to mention those behind the alleged illegality, it was widely reported that the former governor and his group have not had their membership revalidated due to supremacy faceoff between him and Governor Hope Uzodinma. The lawmaker complained that things were not going right with the party in the state and cautioned that the party should follow the path of rule of law, do the right thing and avoid any untoward consequences to the party as it gears up for congresses. “We are here because of what is happening in Imo state. Primarily, things are not going right in the state as it affects the party. We are concern about the upcoming congresses. Certain things need to be put in place before Congress as it affects registration and others. “There has been an issue about the elected executive of the party in the state. The elected executive members have not been allowed to function. We are here to bring the party’s attention to it. And we know that our party is a law-abiding party. A party of rule of law. We have come to ask the party to obey the court judgement that established the right executive in the state which has not been upturn by any court. That court judgement said Daniel Nwafor executive is the authentic and elected member of the executive. “The judge ruled that not even the NEC of the APC can dissolve it. And the judgement has been there up to the Court of Appeal. And there has not been any other court judgement. High, appeal court judges have shown that the authentic exco is led by him (Nwafor). And without him, the Congresses will be illegal. We have come to remind the party as a law-abiding party to please obey the court judgement. And ensure that the court judgement on the party stands.” Okorocha maintained that the just concluded nationwide registration never took place in the state. According to the lawmaker, “as far as we are a concern, there is nothing like that take place. That is why you are seeing many people who have not registered. There is no registration going on in Imo state as far as I am concerned.” But when reminded that the National Caretaker Committee of the party has granted two weeks windows for members who are yet to register to do so, Okorocha quipped, “any registration that doesn’t take Daniel Nwanfor as the Chairman of the party is illegal. Although Mr. President had announced that all elected excos should transform into Caretaker Committee. And he (Nwafor) qualifies to be there too. Any action being taking in Imo state that is not recognizing Daniel Nwafor is at its best illegal and should not stand on anything.”