Anchor Insurance Company Limited was registered in June, 1989 and licensed by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) in October 1989 as a general business (non-life) insurance outfit. The company, thereupon, commenced business in November of the same year. It started operations from its registered office in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital and later, for strategic reasons, joined its fellow underwriting outfits in Lagos. Consequently, while the company has the Victoria Island office in Lagos as its Business Head Office, the Uyo office remains the organisation’s registered office. At the moment, Anchor Insurance Company Limited has expanded to not less than eighteen branch office networks located at strategic cities across the country. The company has constantly been showing strength in timely claims administration, superior customer experience delivery, product innovation and yearly bottom-line performance. The company’s gross premium for 2020 went up to about N6.8 billion while its total assets during the same year was well above N13 billion. The Board of Directors is expected with proper details of the company’s positive performances during its Annual General Meeting (AGM) fixed for July 29, 2021. As an organisation that foresaw the place of technology in driving business, Anchor Insurance Company Limited pioneered the use of digital technology in selling the Third-Party Motor Insurance and was the first insurance company to introduce the Loss of Employment Insurance Scheme in Nigeria. In May, 2019, the nation’s insurance sector regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) issued a circular to insurance companies on raising their capital base. Anchor Insurance Company Limited has since received a letter from NAICOM acknowledging the company has met its requirements for the first phase of the recapitalisation exercise. The company which is known for obeying regulatory rules has already gone far with plans and actions to successfully go through the final phase of the exercise. As it recapitalises, Anchor Insurance is not merging with any other organisation to keep its brand identity intact. The Board of the company is composed of accomplished turn-around professionals from different business fields whose experiences have continued to ensure the organisation consistently puts its best foot forward. The Management Team which is headed by a young intelligent professional and sharp reference item in the Nigerian insurance business space comprises well-rounded and result-thirsting individuals from different lines whose passion for getting things right at first attempt has stood the company out as a phenomenon in the nation’s risk-bearing sector. Having earlier been decorated with the Fastest Growing Insurance Company of the Year award, among others, Anchor Insurance Company Limited in 2020 added another belt to its ratings when it was honoured as the Insurance Company of the Year 2019 by Daily Independent newspapers. This was in recognition of the fresh breath the company has brought into people-friendly insurance products creation, risk management, claims administration, corporate governance matters and corporate social responsibility activities. These are developments which have engendered a positive conversation for the company and the nation’s insurance practice in general. Anchor Insurance offers general insurance businesses, among which are Property Insurance, Engineering Insurance, Liability/Bonds Insurance, Marine Insurance, Group Personal Accident, Goods in Transit, Oil & Gas, Fire and Special Perils Insurance, Retail/Personal Line Insurance, Motor Insurance, Aviation Insurance, Loss of Employment Insurance Scheme, Agriculture Insurance and Travel Insurance, to list these few. It maintains strong re-insurance and treaty arrangements and it is a member of international, regional and local insurance organisations such as African Insurance Organisation (AIO), West African Insurance Association (WAICA) and Nigerian Insurers Association (NIA). All details about Anchor Insurance Company Limited, products and services, policy purchasing and claims processes are on its website: www.anchorinsuranceng.com. The Company can be reached on info@anchorinsuranceng.com, 014540100, 09060000763, 09060000764.