Hundreds of youths and supprters of Yoruba Nation Agitator Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho on Thursday morning stormed his Soka residence where five persons were reportedly killed during an attack in solidarity. The fierce-looking and hostile youths were heard expressing shock and dismay over the attack in clusters. It was gathered the gunmen who allegedly came in military camouflage arrived the residence around 1am. The attack, The Nation learnt, lasted about three hours. The youths, who were initially hostile to journalists at the scene, were later persuaded by another leader nicknamed Gadaffi to allow media men do their job. Unconfirmed sources hinted at least five persons were killed in the attack. The assailants alleged to have carried out the attack came in five army branded hilux vehicles. Some of the victims, according to unconfirmed sources, include a wife of Sunday Igboho, a Muslim cleric said to be praying when he was shot and a female associate simply identified as Lady Kwere. It was gathered an insider might have aided the attack as there were no indication of forceful opening of the entrance gate into the sprawling building or evidence of the attackers scaling the electric fence. When The Nation visited the Soka residence, it was observed that bullets shell littered the premises. The main building and six other apartments in the compound were ransacked with blood stains on different parts. A small cat was also seen killed in the compound. Many windows glass were shattered, furniture damaged with gunshot holes in different parts of the buildings. The attackers were said to have taken away corpses of the victims and all injured in the attack. Opinions were divided on whether Sunday Igboho was around during the attack. While some said he was not in town, others said the Yoruba Nation agitator mystically disappeared from the residence to evade being arrested or killed. The youths, who wore sombre look inside the compound and different parts of the street stretch, blamed the military for the attack. The Nation observed blood stains in different parts of the building with some persons suspected to have been killed in at least two different bathrooms in the adjourning apartments. A jean shirt with blood stain was also seen on the floor in the premise beside a pool of blood. It was suspected some of the victims would have been shot and dragged into one of the apartments. 