ANNONYMOUS: I want to remain anonymous. Is it possible for you to get the table on the new minimum wages of pensioners for us? PTAD: Kindly inform the pensioner to direct his complaint to the National Salaries and Wages Commission who issued the circular on the increase of pension. RAPHAEL: I am Raphael. I retired from Jos Steel Rolling Company in 1993, on grade level 12/1. Since then, PTAD has been under paying me. I lodged several complaints during verifications, but no solution till now. Thank God for having you at the point of my solution which is visible and assured. My cumulated arrears are over 20 years. You are my saviour in this matter. Kindly help me. PTAD: Advise pensioner to scan and send his pensioner verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Pensioner to also provide his contact phone number to enable us contact him. OBI: I am Obi. I resigned from the  Federal Housing Authority in 2005, after 14 years of service. In February this year, I submitted photocopies of my documents as a prerequisite for the verification at PTAD headquarters Abuja, but I am yet to be invited. I really don’t know what to do next, as I am yet to be put on pension payroll. PTAD: Pensioner to provide his contact phone number to enable us contact him and schedule him for verification. He can also contact PTAD on 09-4621700 to request for a verification CHIDI: My name is Chidi. My mother, Mrs. Augustina, has not been paid any pension for over 15 years. Although it is a long story, which is partly not the fault of PTAD. But PTAD has taken over payment of  pensioners, including my mother as well as her group in Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), Enugu District. I would like to know when the pensioners (Mrs. Augustina inclusive) in NRC, Enugu District that were part of the mass retrenchment in 2005 by former president Obasanjo administration, start receiving their monthly pension like others? Many of her colleagues are dead and some incapacitated due to hunger, hardship, trauma, sickness. That Mrs Augustina still alive is only by the grace of God. More so, this is against the backdrop of the legal dynamics between her group and NRC, Enugu District, with excruciating feebleness and available financial support won the case. Please Mrs. Augustina (my mother) wants to know what is delaying them from receiving their pension till date. PTAD: If the pensioner has been verified by PTAD, advise her to scan and send her pensioner verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Pensioner to also provide her contact phone number to enable us contact her and advise her further regarding her pension. ADESETAN: My name is Adesetan, I am a state pensioner with federal share. I retired on May 2, 2008. I have been receiving my monthly pension, but my federal share of N46,408.46 has not been paid. Kindly assist with the prompt payment. MOSES: My name is Ogundele. I will like to inform you that the minimum wage for 24 months is not correct. I was paid N64,304,44. So, increase per month is N6,192,19. Some of my colleagues that are on the same grade as me were also short paid. Kindly help see that I am correctly paid. PTAD: Advise pensioner to scan and send his verification slip and complaint to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. DANLAMI: Thanks to your newspaper for your responses to the plight of pensioners. It is very sad that since NITEL verification of January 2018, former NITEL staff and I are yet to benefit from the pension payments. Death can come at any time. Therefore, please continue to help us. God bless you abundantly. Kindly help me. PTAD: Pensioner’s complaint sent to the Operation Department for their review and further action. Please advise pensioner to provide his contact phone number ISHOLA: My name is Ishola. I am a Federal Government’s pensioner  (federal). I received my pension till last December when I was paid N50,000. Later I received a message that I have been over paid and that they would deduct the over payment. This was billed to end by April 2021, with some balance to claim, but nothing was paid into my account. Help me look into my matter. PTAD: Inform pensioner that his over-payment recovery has been completed. He was put back on the payroll in May 2021. He is advised to confirm the payment from his bank IZAH: My name is Izah. The minimum wage increase sent for 24 months is incorrect. I was paid N64,306,44, whereas the increase per month is N6,192,19. I have been short paid. Kindly help to see that the short- payment is amended and paid back to me. Thanks. PTAD: Advise the pensioner to scan and send his pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable the department review what was paid to him. He should provide his contact phone number. DINNEYA: I am a pensioner with the Joint Admisions Matriculation Examination Board (JAMB) since last October. My pension has not been paid even when I had attended the verification conducted in March 2021. My landlord has given me quit notice. I cannot feed my children any longer. I am sick and I don’t have money for medical treatment. Please I need your intervention and help. PTAD: The department is  working to resolve his complaint. However, he can scan his verification slip to our e-mail complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us follow-up on it.