  SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant (also known as lineage 6.1.617.2.) has found its way into Nigeria, the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed yesterday. It said a case of the variant was detected in a traveller, following the routine travel test made compulsory for all international travellers and genomic sequencing at the NCDC National Reference Laboratory in Abuja. NCDC Director-General Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, who confirmed the detection, said the World Health Organisation (WHO) recognizes the Delta variant as a strain of concern, given its increased transmissibility. The variant, which has been detected in more than 90 countries, is expected to spread to others. It has also been linked to a surge in cases in countries where it is the dominant strain in circulation. There are ongoing studies on its impact on existing vaccines and therapeutics. Ihekweazu further stated that as part of Nigeria’s COVID-19 response, NCDC has been working with the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), African Centre for Genomics of Infectious Diseases (ACEGID) and other laboratories within the national network, to carry out genomic sequencing. “This is to enable the detection of variants of concern and initiate response activities”, the NCDC boss stated. All data on variants from Nigeria have been published on GISAID, a global mechanism for sharing sequencing data. Given the global risk of spread of the Delta variant, positive samples from international travelers to Nigeria are sequenced regularly. The Federal Government, through the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC), has initiated several measures to reduce the risk of coronavirus spread. The introduction of travel restrictions from countries where there is a surge in cases associated with the variants of concern is one of such measures. The national travel protocol which includes compulsory seven-day self-isolation and repeat tests on the seventh day after arrival, have also been put in place to reduce the risk of spread of the virus.  Ihekweazu said in a statement: “It is very important that this is strictly adhered to, to prevent a surge in COVID-19 cases in Nigeria. “Given the high transmissibility of the Delta variant and following its detection in Nigeria, NCDC urges all Nigerians to ensure strict adherence to public health and social measures in place. Proven public health and social measures such as physical distancing, frequent handwashing, and proper use of face masks, prevent infections and save lives. “The COVID-19 vaccine is safe and effective and offers protection against the disease. “Additionally, states are urged to ensure sample collection and testing for COVID-19 is accessible to the public. “Public settings, such as schools with accommodation facilities, workplaces and camps, should utilise the approved Antigen based Rapid Diagnostic Test (RDT) for rapid testing of their population. ”Although we have seen a low number of COVID-19 cases in Nigeria in the last eight weeks, it is incredibly important that we do not forget to be careful. The surge in cases in countries across the world and Africa is an important reminder of the risk we face. “Please protect yourselves and the people you love by adhering to the known public health and social measures, getting vaccinated if you are eligible and getting tested if you have symptoms”. The recommended control measures to limit the spread of the Delta variant continue to be tested, following the existing public health guidance and abiding by the current travel and public restrictions. The daily positive COVID-19 figures were on the rise yesterday as the NCDC announced 110 new cases. Lagos State accounted for 88; Rivers (12); Akwa Ibom (four); Jigawa and Ogun (two each) and a case each in Kano and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The total number of confirmed cases, according to the NCDC data stood at 168,110, out of which 164,408 have been discharged and 2,122 deaths recorded. 