Ex-bbnaija house mate, Rico Swavey, has triggered controversies after he argued Afrobeat singer, BurnaBoy won a Grammy due to the fact that he doesn’t have baby daddy drama. The BBNaija Double Wahala Season 3 edition participant argued focus was responsible for Burna Boy’s victory. In his insta story where he also urged fans to work hard as anything is possible, Swavey wrote: “Shit just popped outta my head right now; Burna Boy doesn’t have any baby daddy drama but he’s got Grammys.
“Remember to put in hardwork this week. Anything is possible.” Social media users have aired diverse opinions on his observation.
Some have stated that Rico Swavey’s assertion is utterly baseless and quite frankly, senseless while using the opportunity to take a swipe at him. Others have expressed their stance on the matter by stating the singer is absolutely right. While a few noted he may just be trying to shade Davido. evelyn____xx stated: “Doesn’t even relate at all. So what about those that are not from Nigeria but won Grammys especially the US their celeb and baby mama drama is 5&6 and they still won Grammy.” queen_jay_bee wrote: “This is senseless to me , what has having baby daddy drama got to do with winning Grammy.” olive__fashionstore asked: “Wetin concern baby mama drama with Grammies now Rico? Just rest in Jesus name.” its_ekaette said: “Sm1 said, Rico had no baby daddy drama too yet, he couldn’t win BBN that year.” marlianmusicfanpage stated: “Wizkid got Grammy and has a baby drama don’t be a confusion to the world.” theimmaculatesoul wrote: “True,stay focused.” Blackcatechist said: “Rico is right but if you think he’s wrong, then you’re right.” loveli_leo wrote: “Even tho what you’re saying is true but you too dey talk rest abeg……..do you have any baby daddy drama ???? Why didn’t you win BBN????” cax_xandra stated: “Hmmm if you want to talk to him talk to him directly don’t go through the corners.” phat_chyna wrote: “Don’t be shy, just call davido’s name.” chinny_005 asked: “Are you trying to shade Davido??”