The management of Transcorp Hotels Plc has introduced a digital hospitality platform, Aura. Speaking at the platform’s unveiling, in Abuja, the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo described it as uniquely top-notch. Aura is Nigeria’s equivalent of Bookings.com, which enables members of the public to make reservations for hotels, apartments, spas, restaurants, and even photographers. Osinbajo, while unveiling the app in Abuja, said it connects people to quality accommodation, great food, and experiences to treasure across the country. He described the Aura app as an “excellent innovation” that would boost the nation’s hospitality industry. The vice president, who narrated his personal experience with App, said he was quite intrigued by the concept of Aura, adding: “I actually went to the website to better acquaint myself with the service. I downloaded the app on my phone and on my iPad and I found the dashboard was quite easy to navigate.” He stated that of particular interest to him was the fact that “there are copious offerings of hotels, short let apartments and restaurants and I have found the response interesting.” Osinbajo, who applauded Transcorp Hotels for launching the Aura app, observed: “The unique offering here is that Transcorp Hotels is putting its huge reputation behind helping customers choose the best accommodation. “I think this is great and it will help revive the hospitality industry especially after the downturn in the aftermath of COVID-19”. “I would like to commend the Transcorp team led by my brother and the man of many ideas, Tony Elumelu.” In her remarks, the Managing Director/CEO of Transcorp Hotels, Dupe Olusola, said “Aura will create jobs and help diversify the country’s economy”. She explained that Aura is a digital hospitality platform that gives people the opportunity, at the touch of their fingertips, to book exciting accommodations, restaurants, spas and other hospitality derivatives at all locations in Nigeria. Aura, Olushola added, is an opportunity to diversify the economy, an opportunity to create jobs and employment, and an opportunity to develop domestic tourism and leisure travel. She added: “There is nothing that has been done like this before in Nigeria and our plan is to go beyond and to Africa and take on the world.”. According to her, Aura app will be helpful to many people who have invested in real estate and have left it fallow and are not actually making money from it. She stressed that “Aura provides an opportunity for you to list your property and be able to make money from it.”