 Amidst what he described as ‘geometric population explosion without a corresponding socio-economic development’, former President Olusegun Obasanjo has, for the umpteenth time, drawn attention to the need for better management of the population challenge. The former president, who spoke during a mentoring session with students of some selected schools across the country tagged “Raising the next wave of innovative leaders through entrepreneurship” warned: “We have moved from 120 million to over 200 million. We have added the population of France to our population and if we continue the way we are going, by the year 2050, we will be third largest country in the world. “If we still continue, by the year 3000, we would be the largest country in the world. What are we going to do to handle that? How are we going to handle that population? If we do not start getting it right now, we will not get it right by the year 2030”, he was quoted to have said. We share in the former president’s broad concerns. If anything, the prognosis, going by current indices, is, to put it mildly, frightening. We refer here to the rate of population growth variously put at between 2.6 and 3.2 per cent per annum, which means that the current population is expected to double by 2050 – barely three decades from now. As if the situation is not concerning enough, other socio-economic indices point to a dreary future. Even with the best of efforts, food sufficiency has remained a mirage. Only last October, the Permanent secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Abdulkadir Mu’azu, at a Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) workshop painted a gloomy picture in which Nigeria is said to be spending an estimated $5 billion annually to import food items, of which between $1.2 billion and $1.5 billion goes into milk and dairy products. As for other welfare items like housing, potable water, classrooms or even basic healthcare; all of these have remained not only in short supply, supplies are being outstripped by the population surge. Efforts to change the infrastructure narrative are known to have been constrained by paucity of funds and corruption. Not forgetting the equally dreary statistics of out-of-school kids currently put at 13.5 million, the unemployment rate currently standing at 33 per cent (youth unemployment is said to be above 50 per cent) and then of course, the 86.9 million said to live in extreme poverty. Then, our stuttering economy characterised by a weak industrial base and a fragile agricultural sector – compounded by the parlous infrastructural situation. To describe the situation as anything but grim is to understate the depth of the problem. The situation is, indeed, close to a crisis point. On the one hand, we have millions of idle youths out there, not out of an unwillingness to work, but because the jobs are simply not available. And these are aside the millions of Almajiris with neither inclination to the formal school system nor even the most understanding of what is required to survive in a fast-changing economy. In the latter class are Okada riders that have, over time, become the blight in major cities as they struggle to eke out an existence from the commercial motorcycle business. Without the economy delivering sufficient numbers to take in these army in record numbers, surely bigger trouble lies ahead. Yet, bad as the situation appears to be, it is hardly the time to yield to despair. In a clime where religion and culture tend to favour large families, we do recognise why an attempt at population control will, in all likelihood be resisted; still, with proper education, coupled with active and sustained engagement with stakeholders, particularly the religious and traditional leaders, some of the current misgivings on the issue can be overcome. It is something that the government should not shy away from. What to do with the huge army of unemployed youths is however even more critical. Whereas the opportunities in the Nigerian environment remain boundless, the missing factor has always been the dearth of critical skills, or rather, the poor preparation of our youngsters for the new, emerging economy. This is one area that both the federal and state governments can actually make a big difference, through training and retraining of the youths for the emerging economy. Every kobo spent to equip young Nigerians with such skills would be worth the trouble.