  The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria (IPMAN), Western Zone, has directed depots and petrol stations to go about their normal business and ensure free flow and hitch free of supply and distribution of petroleum products across the zone. The Zonal Chairman IPMAN Southwest, Alhaji Dele Tajudeen, gave the directive in a statement  in Lagos. He urged members to stop creating panic over fuel scarcity as there is sufficient product in the depots. He said the zone depots comprising Ejigbo Satellite, Mosinmi, Ore, Ibadan and Ilorin, which make up of the Southwest zone, has sufficient products, noting that the association was not considering any strike. Tajudeeen said there was no need for panic over fuel scarcity threat by the national body, as the NNPC depots across the states had sufficient petroleum product and were discharging. The Southwest zone chair reaffirmed the commitment of the association toward supporting the Federal Government’s efforts on effective and efficient distribution of petroleum products across the country. He stressed further that IPMAN had so far reached an agreement with other marketers for better synergy in making the product available in the Western zone. “IPMAN, which controls 80 per cent outlets, has more advantage in distributing and dispensing in both urban and hinterlands in the country. In line with the Federal Government’s efforts at ensuring efficient petroleum products distribution across the country, IPMAN members have opted for a seamless distribution of petroleum products,’’ he said. He noted that such synergy among members with the Federal Government would present a common front that would advance the interest of the group and ensure smooth distribution of the products across the country. “While we support Federal Government and NNPC/ PPMC to achieve their objectives of products supplies we will continue to do our businesses legitimately without fear or favour. We are passionate about Nigerians’ plight and we will not add to the suffering of the people. We therefore advise our principals to employ means of dialogue rather than exposing our members to public embarrassment. Once again you have assurances of all stakeholders in South West of our commitment to place the country above our personal interest,” Tajudeeen said. It would be recalled that the National body of IPMAN last week threatened to halt operations over ‘police harassment’