  Traditional rulers in Yorubaland, under the aegis of Forum of Yoruba Obas, have condemned the invasion and the killing of two people at the home of Yoruba Nation agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho. The Obas said the issue, if not well-managed, could further polarise the oneness and unity of the country. They said the killing by the security officers led by the Department of State Security (DSS) is unwarranted and unjustifiable, describing it as a violent breach of the fundamental rights of the deceased. The monarchs called for the immediate release of those arrested, with adequate compensation for the family of those people who were murdered during the operation. They also called on President Muhammad Buhari to direct a discrete and holistic investigation of the issue. The traditional rulers spoke after their meeting through a statement signed by the association’s President, Molokun of Atijere Kingdom, Ilaje Local Government, Ondo State, Oba (Dr) Samuel Adeoye and Olukotun of Ikotun Ile, Kwara State, Oba (Dr) Abdulrasaq Abioye, who is the the general secretary.  The monarchs said: “We strongly condemn in its entirety the invasion and the gruesome murder of the people at Sunday Igboho’s house on the1st July, 2021. “We believe that the killing by the officers of the DSS is unwarranted and unjustifiable a violent breach of the fundamental right of those who were killed by the overzealous officers at Sunday Adeyemo’s residence. “We hereby call for the immediate release of those arrested at his residence. We demand that there must be adequate compensation for the family of those people who were murdered during the operation. “We equally in the same vein call on President Muhammad Buhari to cause a discrete and holistic investigation on this volatile issue.” On the state of the insecurity in the nation, the monarchs said: “Insecurity in Nigeria today has reached an alarming crescendo that triggers a great concern in our minds and other Nigerians. “This is not unconnected with the unending cases of insurgency and banditry in the North, closely related with kidnapping and other violent cases, communal clashes in the Middle Belt. “We commend the giant step taking by the Southwest governors to put in place a security outfit ‘Amotekun’, which has undoubtedly assisted in great deal in curbing insecurity that we have been experiencing in the South West. “It is irrefutable today that the fear of Amotekun is now the beginning of wisdom for marauders, kidnappers, armed robbers and bandits in the Southwest part of Nigeria. This is highly commendable.” Other traditional rulers at the meeting include: The Elerinmo of Erinmo Ijesa, Osun State, Oba (Dr) Michael Ajayi; Alagbado of Agbado, Ogun State, Oba Adedayo Sogbulu; Paramount Ruler of Odo Ayandelu kingdom, Lagos State, Oba Aderibigbe Asunmo among others.  