The Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC) has urged workers to do their documentation six months to their retirement. It stated this during the 20th Pre-Retirement documentation Seminar. The virtual event was attended by the Permanent Secretary, Civil Service Pension Office, Mr Oluwole Onasanya, who enlightened prospective retirees on the gains of early and proper documentation, health care, financial prudence and independence after retirement. Onasanya, who represented the  Commissioner for Establishments, Training, and Pensions, Mrs. Ajibola Ponnle, congratulated the prospective retirees on their preparation towards disengagement from active service. She commended LASPEC for their consistency towards ensuring that retirees were attended to. She said: “LASPEC has done tremendously when it comes to preparation and presentation on retirees’ bond certificates. In the last two years, they have maintained consistency and prudence and they have continuously ensured that Lagos State remains the only state where pension administration matters are working effectively.” Mrs. Ponle stressed that the Babajide Sanwo-Olu administration is centered around ensuring that retirees were paid promptly, adding that it is ensuring that pending payments were offset to facilitate the pay-as-you-go mode of payment for them. She stressed that the governor was committed to the welfare of the workers and pensioners across the state. LASPEC’s Director–General, Mr. Babalola Obilana stated that the purpose of the seminar was to guide staff members  of the civil service to enable them exit smoothly. “Having spent a significant amount of productive years working for the state government, it is imperative that transition to retirement must be stress free. “Today’s programme was put together to educate you on the necessary documentation required for you to access your accrued rights and pension after you retire. The programme will provide valuable information on how to plan your personal finances in retirement, knowledge of investment and estate planning, and health tips to promote healthy living,” he said. LASPEC’s Executive Director, Finance and Investment Mr. Olumuyiwa Oshin, advised the prospective retirees to practise what they had learnt so that their exit would be easy.