 The University of Lagos (UNILAG) has asked its students to vacate the halls of residence by 12noon today to check the spread of the COVID-19 on the campus. The Senate of the university took the decision to close the hostels during an emergency meeting held yesterday. The closure follows some students testing positive to COVID-19 A statement released by the Information Unit of the university noted that classes for the rest of the second semester of the 2020 academic session would hold virtually until July 26. The statement noted that students who tested positive to the virus recently have been sent to health facilities while contact tracing was in progress. The statement reads: “The University of Lagos commenced physical classes at the end of May 2021 when the positivity rate of the COVID-19 infection dropped to about one per cent. The University Management continued to enforce the COVID-19 protocols in all the teaching and learning spaces as well as the student halls of residence.  “In addition, the COVID-19 vaccination was made available to the staff and students through the support of the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council. Lately, some students have tested positive. These students have been sent to the appropriate designated facilities in the state and contact-tracing has enabled us to identify those who have had exposure and directed them to isolate. “The situation is, indeed, worrisome, especially noting the reluctance of the majority of students to comply with the COVID-19 prevention protocols. “To avoid the escalation of cases on campus, the University Senate at an emergency meeting held on Wednesday, 14th of July 2021 approved that all students vacate the halls of residence by 12.00pm on Thursday indefinitely. Lectures for the rest of the semester will continue to be delivered virtually with effect from 26th July 2021.” In a circular to students, the Dean of Students Affairs, Prof. Ademola Adeleke, told the students to park all personal belongings as the hostels would be locked indefinitely.  