Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has highlighted the qualities which President Muhammadu Buhari’s successor should possess. The governor also reflected on the national question, saying that the solution to insecurity does not lie in state police, but community police. Bello, a chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), said the choice of the next president in 2023 should be shaped by five factors. These factors, in the governor’s view, are youthfulness, courage of conviction, ability to restore security, capacity for management of diversity and equity. Bello spoke at the maiden GYB seminar for political and crime correspondents, held at Transcorp Hilton, Abuja. He was accompanied by the Secretary to Kogi State Government, Dr. Folasade Ayoade, Information Commissioner, Kingsley Fanwo, some federal and state legislators from the Northcentral state, and other aides. Also at the event were Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) President Mustapha Isa, President of the Nigerian Union on Journalists (NUJ) Chief Chris Isiguzo, and Editor-In-Chief of Leadership newspaper, Azubuike Ishiekwene. Alluding to the importance of youthfulness as a criterion for choosing the next president, the 46 year-old governor said: “Natural force and physical energy cannot be abated if performance is to be elevated.” Bello also emphasised courage as a criterion for fitness to rule, saying: “A clear capacity to be zealously affected in a good matter and to lead with courage and foresight in the pursuit of the overall best interests of the people.” On security, which has been a major challenge in the last one decade, the governor emphasised that proven ability to enforce security, unity and peace in a large territory with a difficult terrain should be considered. Bello, who also identified equity as a factor, pointed out that the presidential slot should either go to the Northcentral or Southeast. He stressed: “Only the Northcentral and Southeast geo-political zones of this country have not held the Presidency or Vice Presidency, the two highest offices in the land, since return to civilian rule in 1999. All talks of zoning must be the handmaid of equity or we are merely playing dangerous politics and healing the wounds of the country deceitfully.” Acknowledging the agitation for zoning to the South, Bello said zoning should not dethrone merit and equity as salient criteria. He pointed out that zoning is neither in the 1999 Constitution nor the constitution of the party, adding that it is a sentimental issue. He said zoning or ‘turn by turn’ would contradict modern best practices in succession. “The Nigeria of today deserves the best, the best captain to pilot the ship of ship to the required destination. Merit, and not zoning, will solve the problems of Nigeria. President Obasanjo was from the Southwest. Did that solve the problem of Southwest? YarAdua from Northwest, may his soul rest in peace; Jonathan from Southsouth and Buhari from Northwest. Did it solve the problems? I am not saying they have not tried their best,” he said. Noting that insecurity and a lot of crimes are politically motivated, the governor said “what is important today is community police. The time has come to refocus on modernity, industrialisation and new and smart ways of doing things. While we are planning for ranching, animal husbandry, we should be able to accommodate one another. Open grazing is outdated, obsolete and archaic. But we cannot overnight stop open grazing. Majority of the cattle is owned by people like us.” On his achievements, the governor said he has improved the lot of Kogi State through the implementation of his ‘New Direction Blue-print.” He said his performance during the first term earned the confidence of the electorate who gave him the second term mandate. Bello gave his administration a pass mark in the areas of security, civil service reforms and management of the Covid-19 pandemic.  He said: “We had made a tremendous progress, although we still have a long way to go.” Welcoming participants, Mrs. Ayoade praised the governor for what she described as his giant strides in education, youth and women engagement, job creation, infrastructure development and pension reforms. The NUJ president, Isiguzo, highlighted the roles of the media in nation building, urging them to live to expectation. The NGE president, Isa, advised journalist to demonstrate patriotism and uphold balance, originality and objectivity as they report events in national interest.