Title: The Mariner, journal of the Association of Nigerian Authors, Bayelsa State Chapter. Editor:   Dr. Ebi Yeibo Edition: 2021: Issue No. 9, June 2021 Reviewer: Edozie Udeze  The Izon nation has always been one of the earliest progenitors of Nigerian literature.  From early beginning, writers of Izon descent had come out smoking with avalanche of literary offerings to celebrate their heritages and point the way forward for Nigerian literature.  This is what has been consistently espoused in the magazine, The Mariner.  The Mariner is the official journal of the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) Bayelsa State Chapter, published to celebrate, eulogize and expose in details the very sentiments, elements and factors that define, propel, project and embellish the stories that come out of the Niger Delta areas of Nigeria. In its latest edition boldly titled The Leaving Legends, emphasis is focused primarily on the founding fathers of the literature of the Izon nation, a people always bristling with ideas, cultures, stories that make literature ever interesting.  These literary icons, and oldies, are: Gabriel Okara, JP Clark and some others who have departed the shores of the earth but have left behind countless number of literary pieces that will forever remain evergreen.  The magazine also mirrors stories in the areas of essays, poems, short stories, plays, reviews, news, name it. Concentrating more on the leaving legends this time around, the editorial page rendered by the magazine’s editor, Dr. Ebi Yeibo, said: “in this edition of The Mariner, Frank-Opigo explores the details of the extraordinary and inspiring lives and accomplishments of these icons of the verbal arts in the cover story…  Clark – Bekederemo’s work stands out… what is more.  It can be used to have assumed a specific historic significance in the evolution of Nigerian and indeed African poetry in English, for, it is indisputable that his early efforts were central to both the thematic reorientation and profound transformation of idiom that led to the decisive advance that the new poetry came to represent”… As for Gabriel Imomitimi Okara, he is a pioneer modernist “poet in Anglophone Africa.  His poetry privileges African folklore and imagery in a definitive and luminous way.  His innovative and experimental novel The Voice (1964) gave him a prominent and permanent place in African literature, as it fashions out a new linguistic idiom to interpret the African bilingual and bicultural environment in a bid to bail out the continent (and its literature) from the language dilemma that was seemingly inextricably foisted on it by imperialism”. In his tributes, which are well-loaded, to celebrate the lives and times of these progenitors, Engineer Emmanuel Frank-Opigo, a seasoned writer and one of the forerunners of ANA in Bayelsa State, concentrated attention on his personal contacts, encounters and experiences with the authors.  His article goes deeper into their ideologies and philosophies not only about life as writers, but on how to make literature stick in the everyday lives of the people. Opigo wrote: “In the 7th edition of The Mariner (June 2017), we featured two literary giants that just exited the stage: Elechi Amadi and Simon Ambakeremo.  We spoke of then the ravishing class.  As the years roll by, that first generation continues to ease into Elysium…  Souls of poets dead and gone, what Elysium have ye known?” As ANA marks its 40 years of existence tottering up and down, up and down, writers will continue to exist, new ones must continue to emerge, writing is forever alive.  Yes, the works of the oldies will live on and on till eternity.  Literature is an everlasting legacy; its writers also remain alive in the conscience of the people.  Opigo’s tributes as elaborate as they are, also mirror the immortality of these leaving legends.  They have left, yet they are alive still in the works they have rendered for the society.  He said: “John Keats died at 24.  But we are grateful that our legends are leaving at ripe old ages, even though we wanted them around us just a little longer”. Therefore, “the grip of J.P Clark and Gabriel Okara on our literary imaginations will last a life time, no matter how ANA fortunes go up and down, up and down”.  And so he goes on once more to salute Chief Christian Otobotekere, the traditional ruler of Tombia town, another firebrand poet, a member of ANA, who at 96 years of age still bristles, bubbles with ideas and registers his literary ideals on the sands of time. Besides his proverbial love for writing, “this is one king that never lost the common touch.  He relates with peers the same way he relates with children.  And many of you can attest to the thrill when you get such unmerited attention from a father or even an unknown person…  Therefore ‘common touch’ is a well-known characteristic of His Royal Highness, King Christian Atani Okpofaa Otobotekere, who not only gives lavish dinners but insists on his guests spending the night in his palace…” There are short stories as well as plays and poems, all of which celebrate the richness of the Niger Delta literary heritages in all spheres.  Essays on diverse issues dot the magazine.  The stories however attest to deep norms and nuances of literary values of all sorts.  Children are also given opportunity to write short stories and awards are given to winners.  Nigeria is rippled with ideas; all they need is for people, keen writers, to watch closely and then have stories written out of these.  This is what happens in The Mariner.  It is like a compendium or an encyclopedia of stories; literary harvests, that keep readers busy from top to bottom, all gripping. The portions done in Izon language spell love, beckoning on the people to embrace what is theirs.  No language or local dialect should be destined to die.  Every language is put on earth by the Creator for a purpose, for everything God made is beautiful, purposeful and fulfilling. Most of the short stories celebrate life; life in its very epitome.  They highlight the ugly, the beautiful and in some other cases, the awful.  All these blend together to give life all its engrossing meaning and purpose.  The offerings show that ANA in Bayelsa is purposeful, taking care of writers across ages.  Most of the contributors in all the genres are fresh hands, rearing to go.  These are young, well-groomed writers ready for now and for the future.  The stories are well-told; as the poems come with echoes of profound messages, anecdotes, innuendoes, on the quibbles of this nasty enclave; this recalcitrant society. But then the works of the older writers here show clearer qualities and standards.  It all shows that writers, like the old wine, appreciate with time and constant practice. In all, however, The Mariner needs to spice its pages with pictures and illustrations to break the monotony of the stories.  Pictures also encourage literature.  They breathe, bristle, glitter and glimmer with attention, interest and intriguing fascination.