THE post-apartheid South African state may have birthed in 1994.  But its supremacy over individual whims and caprices, no matter how powerful or deluded, just arrived in 2021 — 27 years later.  That is the historical significance of the June 29 jailing, for contempt of court, of South Africa’s former president, Jacob Zuma. Indeed, from the humane and charismatic Madiba, Nelson Mandela, to cold and antiseptic Thabo Mbeki, to warm but near-toxic Jacob Zuma, it had been a bumpy ride for the new rainbow democracy, that taught the globe new lessons in peaceful and civil resolution of disputes, no matter how virulent, intractable or complex. Still, Mr. Zuma, in or out of the presidency, would appear the greatest threat yet to that union, with his “African Big Man” syndrome: a coinage, by The Economist of London, decrying the widespread penchant of African leaders to be bigger than  — if not supreme to — states they had the privilege to govern. This Zuma hubris would tend to explain the corruption allegations swirling his tenure as president.  Starker: it also explains Mr. Zuma’s flat refusal to appear before the Raymond Zondo Commission, probing the alleged corruption during the Zuma power years (2009-2018); though Mr. Zuma claims Deputy Chief Justice Zondo, the commission’s chair, holds a personal grudge against him, and won’t be fair — allegations Zondo denied and rejected. Things got to a head in February, when the South Africa Constitutional Court (the apex court of the land) ordered Zuma to appear before the Zondo Commission or risk being held for contempt. But the former president was brazen, in both refusal and defiance.  Not only did he spurn attendance at the inquiry, he shunned the high court’s contempt proceedings, no less contemptuously refusing to mount any defence.  To boot, Mr. Zuma wrote a 21-page blaster to the chief justice, claiming the courts were not only biased but were also carrying out political chicanery against him!  As a result, opposing lawyers asked the Constitutional Court to cite Zuma for contempt — an argument a majority of the sitting justices bought. “Never before has the judicial process been so threatened,” declared Justice Sisi Khampepe, acting Chief Justice of South Africa, as she read the 66-page majority decision that threw Mr. Zuma in jail for 15 months, for contempt.  “The only appropriate sanction is a direct, unsuspended order of imprisonment.  The alternative,” she warned, “is to effectively sentence the legitimacy of the judiciary to inevitable decay.” She continued: “If with impunity litigants are allowed to decide which orders they wish to obey and which they chose to ignore, our Constitution is not worth the paper upon which it is written.” Strong words!  But Justice Khampepe also accused Mr. Zuma of comparing the Constitutional Court to the apartheid regime, adding that his wild utterances “left this court with no choice”, especially given the former president could infect others to copy him and defy the courts.  Scary sentiments! But the acting chief justice’s take was not unanimous.  Dissent, from two judges, opposed the majority verdict on procedural basis.  “In my view,” the dissenting duo, Justices Leona Theron and Chris Jafta, declared, “the constitution does not allow private parties to obtain a punitive order of unsuspended committal in civil proceedings, even if they were acting in public interest.” Even then, Bishop Desmond Tutu, iconic figure and vocal collaborator with the African National Congress (ANC) during the anti-apartheid struggles, hailed the verdict: “We have arrived at a pivotal moment in our history, one of which we can all be proud.  In 1994, after hundreds of years of cruel injustice through colonialism and apartheid,” he recalled, “South Africans voted for a constitutional democracy, in which all are equal before the law” — a clear jab at the Zuma conduct. But again, that was no unanimity across the board.  Mzwanele Manyi, of the Zuma Foundation, told the South African Broadcasting Corporation: “A dark cloud has covered South Africa today”, claiming the court did not provide Mr. Zuma with equal treatment under the law.  Edward Zuma, Jacob Zuma’s son, also declared his father would not spend a single day in prison, if he (Edward) had his way, adding: “I’ve long lost confidence in our judiciary …” There then lies the implication of this epochal verdict, on an evolving polity.  To be clear: in law, the verdict is inviolable and unimpeachable.  Indeed, had most of Africa’s new polities had a courageous judiciary to nudge them into due process this hard way, Africa’s political, economic and developmental records could have been much better today.  A citizen, bigger than his or her country, should never ever be contemplated, if the result won’t be Africa’s near-basket case, in near-every developmental index. Indeed, had Nigeria evolved such a robust judiciary, the Obasanjo-era Justice Chukwudifu  Oputa Panel, modelled after the South Africa Truth and Reconciliation Commission of the Mandela era, would not have ended as such a joke, in which Gen. Ibrahim Babangida not only refused to appear but also used the courts to void the panel’s recommendations, as they concerned him. But Zuma’s case is even worse: attempting to taunt, cow and defang a relatively strong judicial system.  Former US Presdent, Donald Trump  and his supporters’ January 6 failed insurrection at the US Capitol, have proved strong institutions are ultimate protectors of democracy.  Among those institutions, the courts are crucial to civilly resolve disputes. So Zuma, as a former president, should preserve, not destroy democratic institutions.  He should also be a champion of systemic robustness for the general good.  Failure on both counts, thus triggering that disgraceful verdict, makes his case almost beyond redemption.  Which is why the  ANC should publicly censure him, for he is a ringing betrayal of the Madiba cause and guiding spirit. But as noble as that call is, it would appear easier said than done.  For one, Zuma, among the Zulu (South Africa’s single most populous ethnic group) stood firm for ANC, while fellow Zulus, under Mongosuthu Gatza  Buthelezi’s Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP), pursued mindless violence, at those crucial junctures of negotiations to end apartheid.  That rare courage of conviction would appear to have earned him the presidency, despite Zuma’s clear character flaws. For another, ANC today is not the ANC of pre-1994.  In there are power blocs, not exactly driven by the public good.  Though President Cyril Ramaphosa is sworn to tough anti-corruption fights, in which Zuma and likes are endangered (but still powerful) species, he must always look over his shoulders to ensure he still commands the loyalty of the majority.  Else, he could find himself stumbling, late-term, as did Mbeki and Zuma, his predecessors. But whatever it takes, President Ramaphosa must summon uncommon tact and statesmanship, laced with iron will to do good by the republic, to ensure the Zuma verdict is carried out, as timely warning to other “African big men” who might fancy themselves above the law. Yes, he might lose a few comrades in the ANC mass movement.  But for those few, he would have secured the soul of the republic, where everyone is equal and treated fairly before the law.  That is an exciting model for the rest of Africa, even if Zuma’s hubris would make him, a former president, the self-offered, high-profile sacrificial lamb.