The manufacturing sector is gradually gathering some momentum after the dislocation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the crash in oil prices. However, to sustain the tempo in the remaining half of this year and beyond, real sector operators say key policy reforms are imperative to support and sustain macro-economic stability, including prioritising infrastructure and pro-manufacturing policies that will encourage scale and lower unit cost of production. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  The manufacturing sector may soon return to the path of sustained production. After the double shock of the COVID-19 pandemic and the crash in oil prices from early 2020, which literally put the sector on life support, the hitherto constrained economic activities have gradually started picking up. Oil prices, which, at some point, slumped to as low as between $27 to $28 per barrel, throwing the economy into serious fiscal confusion, have also started rebounding, with Brent crude hovering between $73.08 and $74 per barrel, last week. On the strength of these developments and, of course, deliberate interventions by the economic managers, Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 0.51 per cent (year-on-year) in real terms in the first quarter of the year. According to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the Q1 2021 growth rate was higher than the 0.11 per cent recorded in Q4 2020. This, according to the Bureau, was indication of a slow, but continuous economic recovery from the shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic. With the gradual rebound of the economy, various economic actors, particularly members of the Organised Private Sector (OPS), are focused on what needs to be done to sustain the momentum and achieve full recovery in the remaining half of the year. For instance, while Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) described the NBS report as “A welcome departure from the negative growths witnessed in the past quarters,” they, however, noted that the prevailing economic conditions remained challenging. MAN Director-General Segun Ajayi-Kadir, therefore, said key policy reforms were imperative to support and sustain macroeconomic stability, for instance. He said the macroeconomic environment remained inclement, manifesting in high and rising inflation rate, double digit lending rate and unfavourable exchange rate parity and has constrained the manufacturing sector’s performance. Indeed, the rising exchange rate of the Naira to other major currencies, particularly the dollar, has been a pain in the neck of manufacturers and Nigerians generally. At about N500/$, the competitiveness of manufacturers has been badly damaged, forcing not a few manufacturing industries to reduce their product sizes or increase the price. The situation has also put severe strain on consumers’ pockets. The MAN chief, therefore, expects the fiscal and monetary authorities focus on stabilising the macroeconomic environment, going forward. He also said it is imperative that the government, working with the private sector, ensured that the manufacturing sector’s performance is enhanced through pro-manufacturing policies that will encourage scale and lower unit cost of production. In a statement, he said the harsh regulatory environment as well as infrastructure deficit has continued to induce high business operating cost in the economy. As a result, the manufacturing sector persistently suffers low-price competitiveness. Given the struggling state of the manufacturing sector, which Ajayi-Kadir described as “worrisome,” he said government should intensify its intervention initiatives and follow through on the cost reduction aspect of the ease of doing business initiative. “There is urgent need to create a friendlier operating environment and deliberately support the productive sector in a strategic manner, setting priorities along the line of improved infrastructure, competitiveness and stronger industrial linkages,” he said. The Director-General, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, also said a continuous increase in the cost of production would impede the growth of the real sector. “Business concerns will attempt to pass-on some of these costs to consumers by increasing their prices, demand would drop, and the vicious-cycle will continue,” he said. The NACCIMA DG, therefore, said: “Our counsel to the government remains the implementation of policies (even if it is in the short term) that increase the productive capacity of the real sector, as well as the disposable income of the general populace.” According to him, this is the time-tested approach to achieving sustainable economic recovery. Soaring inflation as well as the rising cost of food is also a major issue, which the NACCIMA boss and indeed, other members of the OPS want government to focus on in the second half of the year with a view to halting its upward trajectory. Amb. Olukanni said, for instance, that action should be taken to address the underlining causes of rising inflation particularly insecurity. He told The Nation that insecurity, which is spreading across the country, has dire consequences for agricultural production especially by the small farm holders across the food belt of the nation. Because of pervasive insecurity, many of the farmers are either not able to engage in active farming or evacuate their farm produce. Pointing out that business and productive activities only thrive in a safe and secure environment, Amb. Olukanni said an enduring solution must, therefore, be found to the problems of banditry and other sources of insecurity across the country. He also said the low productive capacities in various sectors of the economy have been due to the recent massive power outages and consequential effect on electricity supply to homes and industries especially Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). He, therefore, recommenced the need to expedite action on the energy component under the Federal Government’s Economic Sustainability Plan (ESP) as part of the strategic options designed to address the energy crisis. MAN President Mansur Ahmed brought the reality of the nation’s infrastructure deficit nearer home when he said: “We cannot achieve competitiveness without the provision of infrastructure such as good road networks and electricity…” According to him, modern industry competitiveness depends to a great extent on provision of adequate and efficient infrastructure. “From the availability of power and energy to transport and logistics, the role of infrastructure cannot be overemphasised…” he said. Manufacturers are also likely to intensify their push for priority allocation of forex to import inputs that are not locally available and for which there are no immediate plan or resources to produce locally, as well as removal of the identified hurdles to accessing the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) N1 trillion COVID-19 stimulus package. According to MAN, the N1 trillion COVID-19 stimulus package and other funds created by the CBN at liberal lending rate have not been adequately accessible to manufacturers. It accused Money Deposit Banks (DMBs) of making it difficult for manufacturers to access the facility. MAN said the banks have been prevaricating and claiming that they have not received the framework for the administration of the facility from CBN. The CBN had in a bid to assuage the high cost manufacturing environment and improve the competitiveness of Nigerian manufactured products, created several development funding windows with “single digit” interest rates to support real productive businesses including manufacturing. But in a statement made available to The Nation, Ajayi-Kadir said MAN observed that most of its members who applied were not able to get it. He said according to the CBN, only 76 companies have received N300 billion, which translates to 30 per cent, in one year, saying according to its members, “the banks are claiming that they have not received the framework for the administration of the facility from the CBN.” The MAN chief said no doubt, “development funds are critical to driving manufacturing investment and by extension, production, because the single digit interest rate for development funds far contrasts with the more than 25 per cent rate charged on commercial banks’ lending.” “The various CBN funding windows are commendable but the poor implementation hinders the attainment of the noble objectives of these funds. Manufacturers hardly access these funds,” he said, adding that “Going forward, MAN proposes ardent enforcement by the CBN to ensure that the PFIs and DMBs grant transparent and effective access of its intervention funds to manufacturers. “This is especially with respect to the N1trillion manufacturing and import substitution facility, the N220 billion Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund (MSMED), the 100 billion Health Care and Pharmaceuticals Support Funds and N300 billion Real Sector Support Facility (RSSF)” He also said there should be specific guidelines and timelines for the effective and complete disbursement of the intervention funds, as well as a periodic report of the status of implementation to the CBN to ensure progressive monitoring. “In addition, PFIs and DMBs who fail to diligently and timeously disburse all the funds allocated should be sanctioned. As the umbrella organisation of manufacturers in Nigeria, MAN hereby indicates its interest and solicits CBN’s consideration to be part of the monitoring process,” Ajayi-Kadir said.