Although a few events will kick off July 21, 2021, the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games opening ceremony is slated for July 23. The organisers have introduced five new sports for the events expected to end August 8, 2021. While baseball-softball may come off as a reintroduction, Karate, surfing, sport climbing and skateboarding are entirely new additions in the history of the games. The games will feature 339 events across 33 sports with Tokyo, Japan playing the hosting even though a number of sports and events will take place at venues outside the Japanese capital. The competition is due to take place across 41 different venues, including the Japan National Stadium, Tokyo Stadium and the Yokohama Stadium. 15 new gold medals will be awarded at the next Olympics for 3×3 basketball, BMX freestyle, and mixed-gender events with the aim of boosting equality. Below explains the five new sports coming to Tokyo 2020: Since both sports are hugely popular in Japan, the Tokyo 2020 Organising Committee used its status as                  host country to include baseball and softball on the programme once again as the International Olympic              Committee (IOC)’s Olympic Agenda 2020 allows each hosting nation the chance to add sports to the                      programme for that edition. The six teams will play in a single round-robin format, playing five matches each at the 34,000-capacity                 Yokohama Stadium and in Fukushima. The top two teams will move on to the gold medal game. It will feature Kumite and Kata events, with 80 athletes overall competing, 60 in the former and 20 in the                latter, with a 50/50 split between men and women.  Each round will start with the presentation of the athletes, followed by an observation of the routes. In lead, athletes attempt to climb as high as possible on a wall measuring more than 15m in height and                6m overhanging within a fixed time. In bouldering, the objective is to overcome the most problems on a climbing route in the least number of              attempts on 4.5m-high structures over a set period of time. The ranking is decided by the number of                      problems overcome.