The winner of Season Six, of the recently concluded ‘Nigerian Idol’, Kingdom Kroseide, has gained educational scholarship from the Bayelsa Government. Gov. Douye Diri made the disclosure on Friday, when he received Kingdom and his team at the Government House, Yenagoa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that before his emergence as the winner, he was a 200-level student at the Federal University, Otuoke (FUO), in Ogbia Local Government Area, of Bayelsa. Diri said that the government would henceforth bear the responsibility of the 24-year-old talented singer’s education at the FUO, where he is a student and up to a master’s degree level if he so desired. Diri advised youths of the state to put in their best in whatever they were doing to be successful in life. The governor said: “In appreciation of the honour you have brought to the state, I hereby announce that you are on the scholarship of the Bayelsa State Government. “As you finish your first degree and if you so desire to proceed for a Masters degree, the scholarship would also cover your programme. “You are also appointed as an ambassador of the youth of Bayelsa State. “Let me use this opportunity to call on youths in the State to see Mr Kingdom Kroseide as a role model; as one who, out of hard work and the grace of God has brought honour to the state. “I am sure that putting yourselves in legitimate careers, you would bring honour, not only to yourselves but also to your state and country,” he said. While appreciating Kingdom for the honour done to the state, Diri advised him to strike a balance between his academics and his career. He said that with proper education and the grace of God, he would excel in his chosen career even outside the shores of Nigeria. He also advised Kingdom to continue to use his music to glorify God to move to greater heights. The governor noted that Kingdom’s success story was that of all Nigerians. He thanked the Nigerian Idol judges, the Nigerian Military School Old Boys Association and Nigerians for their different roles that led to the Bayelsa-born contestant emerging as winner. He also urged the relevant ministries and agencies to put modalities in place to establish a music school that would harness the musical talents that abound in the state. Earlier, Kingdom Kroseide, attributed his success to the grace of God and hard work. He thanked the state government, people of Bayelsa and Nigerians for their support that enabled him to win the contest. In separate remarks, representative of the Amananaowei of Angalabiri Federated Community, Chief Peres Peretu, and Kingdom’s manager, Felix Kroseide, thanked the state government and everyone that supported and voted for him to win. Peretu specifically appreciated Diri’s leadership style of uniting and galvanising the support of the people to enable them to achieve great feats. (NAN)