 When Ethiopia’s prime minister, Abiy Ahmed, sent the national army into the northern Tigray Province early last November, the goal was to deliver a quick, sharp lesson:  You do not provoke the federal army, one of the most powerful in Africa, and you do not defy the Federal Might. The deployment followed charges that Tigrayan forces had attacked a military base in the region, and had staged regional elections in defiance of Addis Ababa.  The operation, Abiy Ahmed said, would be over in a day or two, mission accomplished. The expedition developed into a full-scale war that dragged on for nine months.  By the time the guns fell silent two weeks ago, with the precipitate withdrawal of federal forces from the regional capital Mekelle, hundreds of thousands had been killed or wounded, an estimated two million persons had been forced to relocate, hunger and starvation ravaged the region, and yet another humanitarian disaster was looming on the African continent. There is no way to finesse it:  A scrappy guerrilla army led by Debratsion Gebremichael, formerly a key figure in the Tigrayan-led coalition that ruled Ethiopia for several decades, had inflicted a devastating blow on the national army.  That is a bitter pill for Addis Ababa.  Ethiopian prisoners of war experienced their own humiliation, too.  As they were paraded in their thousands through the capital, residents mocked them, taunted them, and jeered at them. The humiliating defeat is going to render Ahmed’s hold on power increasingly tenuous and undermine the deft management and political stability that have fuelled Ethiopia’s recovery from a prolonged civil war and made its economy a glittering example in Africa.  The ravaged Tigrayan economy and the humanitarian crisis will also make swift rebuilding difficult. The sprawling refugee camps constitute a potential super-spreader of the coronavirus (COVID-19) disease and will compound the tragedy unfolding in Tigray if urgent intervention is not forthcoming. The pause in fighting offers a good opportunity for international mediators to bring the warring parties together to negotiate a return to amity.  The Africa Union has the principal responsibility for mediating in the conflict, especially in identifying forthrightly areas of contention, narrowing them, and helping build an enduring working consensus. The United Nations should be a facilitator in the peace process, and in mobilising humanitarian aid for the millions who have been displaced internally.  The World Health Organization and international humanitarian agencies like the Red Cross, the Red Crescent and Doctors Without Borders, should step in quickly to reduce human suffering. The warring parties must also demonstrate a will to cohabit peacefully.  Tigray should eschew the triumphalist impulse that led its leaders to parade captured Ethiopian soldiers through the capital and make them objects of ridicule.  Such acts hardly square up with the Geneva Convention on the treatment of war prisoners.  More crucially, they generate bitterness and make reconciliation more difficult. Ethiopia for its part should restore power and internet services that it shut down in the heat of the conflict. That gesture will amount to a demonstration of the goodwill that must undergird the peace process.