The Apapa Command of Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has collected a total of N336 billion for the first half of the year. The Command also recorded N272.3 billion worth of goods in export in the same period. The Command’s Comptroller, Yusuf Malanta Ibrahim, explained that the half-year collection represent a 61 percent revenue collection above the N227 billion collected between January and June 2020. He attributed the feat to improved compliance, diligent trade facilitation and creation of a one stop shop to make trade in the port more seamless, adding that compliant traders also enjoy fast track that quickens the exit of cargoes which he reckons saves time and costs. He added that the system put in place are in line with set standards of the World Customs Organisation (WCO). On anti-smuggling, Ibrahim said a total of 10 seizures with duty paid value of N442 million which comprised tomato paste, used clothing, unregistered pharmaceutical products and other imports. “This unprecedented record is a great validation of our new approach to revenue drive. It is also fitting to emphasise here that this volume of revenue has never been recorded in the history of the flagship command of NCS. “Consequent upon the above and in line with the provisions of the extant laws, trade guidelines and enforcement of government fiscal policy, the command was able to strengthen its anti smuggling operations against economic saboteurs through timely, credible intelligence driven network which led to the seizure of 46 containers between January to June 2021 with duty paid value of N27.6 billion “All these importations are contrary to the provision of sections 46 and 47 of Customs and Excise Management Act CAP C45 LFN 2004 and Customs and Excise Notices No.1491. This spectacular achievement was made possible by our commitment in ensuring collections of appropriate revenue, robust stakeholders engagement and seamless facilitation of compliant trade Ibrahim further revealed that going by the Command’s statistics on exports, goods worth N272.3 billion have been exported through Apapa port between January and June 21. “These exports include Agricultural goods such as sesame seed, ginger, hibiscus flower and other mineral resources. The total tonnage of the said export stood at 1.6 million tones with FOB value of $103 billion. He urged stakeholders in the sector to imbibe the culture of compliance as part of their standard operating procedure because it will reduce the time and cost of doing business. A Federal Commissioner with the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC), Dr. Adekunle Wright, commended the customs for revenue collection. Wright said the NCS has been instrumental in supporting Federal Government’s drive for non oil revenue. Ibrahim said the impact of customs collection in the country’s economy cannot be taken for granted.