Operator of the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two (MMA2), Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited (BASL), has advised travelers and others using the terminal to follow the rules guiding the picking up and dropping of passengers at the terminal. The rules, the company said, are aimed at restoring sanity to the Drop-Off Zone area of the terminal. It said part of the strategic moves to ensure that safety and security of all terminal users are not subjected to undue risk. In a statement yesterday in Lagos by its Group Corporate Affairs Manager, Mr. Mikail Mumuni, BASL said a number of factors necessitated the resolve to enforce the rules on the original design of the terminal, which include operating the Drop-Off Zone strictly for what it is meant for. The statement explained that the Drop-Off Zone was designed to cater for out-bound passengers and other terminal users only while inbound or arriving passengers are meant to use the Arrival parking area and the Multi-Storey Car Park. It stressed that both outbound and inbound passengers were not meant to cross path. BASL said in the light of recent happenings around airport facilities across the globe and consistent with the company’s position of always complying with international best practices, the management had concluded plans to enforce the rule. The company said this would further guarantee passenger safety and avert potential security threats. The Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) also recently issued rules guiding the dropping off and picking up of passengers at all airports nationwide. BASL Acting Head of Business, Mr. Raphael Uchegbu, who spoke on the development, noted that airport facility anywhere in the world is a highly efficient industry where there is zero tolerance for security and safety breaches. Uchegbu said: “The business of aviation is a highly sensitive one and BASL is a highly efficient company. The proposed enforcement is in line with BASL’s policy of giving no room for lapses, especially on matters relating to passengers’ comfort, safety and security, since the commencement of operations at MMA2 14 years ago.” Also, BASL’s Head of Parking Services, Mrs. Ajoke Yinka-Olawuyi, noted that the enforcement of the rules would improve seamless passenger facilitation and bring about new experience at MMA2. The unit head said creating sound traveling experience for passengers at all times is the hallmark of most modern airport facilities around the world, including MMA2. “Our services are top-notch and from time to time, we work hard to create quality experience for our esteemed customers. Particularly with issues revolving around safety and security, we try as much as possible to operate our facility in line with laid down guidelines, and international best practices,” she said. The enforcement, according to BASL, is expected to begin on July 12.