THE Federal Government has said it is discussing with some developers in the country to fulfill President Muhammadu Buhari’s pledge to build low cost houses for teachers in rural communities. Registrar of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Prof Segun Ajiboye disclosed this in an interview ahead of the commencement of Teacher Naija – a reality television show organised by Ubaka Enuagwuna. The registrar said the Council is working with state governments to implement the incentives approved for teachers by President Buhari. He said: “The federal government has commenced immediate implementation of all those revitalisation components of the approval given by Mr. President which deals with teachers’ careers, 65 years and welfare of teachers and housing for teachers in rural areas. We are talking with some developers who are interested in building low cost houses for teachers in the rural areas. We are looking for opportunities to make sure that we implement all the incentives approved by Mr. President.” Convener of the show, Enuagwuna said the 20 teachers from different schools will participate in the show. He said winners will go home with N2 million, while the first runner – up will go home with N1.5 million while the second runner – up will receive N1 million. Enuagwuna said the organisers are working with some unnamed organisations that will give scholarships in Post – graduate diploma in Education for all the 20 teachers that will participate in the show. “Because we want to eradicate quackery from the system and we want every teacher in any school to be professionally qualified and we know that that is what TRCN is all about – to professionalize every teacher,” he said. Meanwhile, the federal government has thrown its weight behind the television show, saying it will promote professionalism and welfare in the teaching profession. Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, who gave the endorsement, expressed delight that the Reality TV show, which started in 2019, would add value to the teaching profession as well as ensure teachers get the desired respect.