Controversial actor and movie producer, Yomi Fabiyi has denied his latest movie, ‘Oko Iyabo’ was banned. The Nation reported that Fabiyi and ‘Oko Iyabo’ since its debut have continued to receive massive criticisms and intense backlash from colleagues, fans and social media users over its theme, storyline and names of characters. The heated controversies also made TAMPAN summon Fabiyi for questioning seeing it was produced and co-directed by him. Amid the controversies, colleagues and several fans of the actor tasked themselves with the responsibility of reporting ‘Oko Iyabo’ on YouTube so it could be pulled down. The move was reported successful as social media users noted the movie cannot be found on the online video app anymore. Reacting to this, Yomi Fabiyi has refuted the notion that ‘Oko Iyabo’ was banned or taken down because of strings pulled by colleagues and social media users in general. The actor stated that the marketer and himself decided the movie should be stepped down only as a sign of respect until they can provide sufficient explanation as to the theme, characters and content of the movie. He noted that every other claim surrounding the movie being stepped down are all false. Taking to his Instagram page, Fabiyi shared a post that reads: “The movie “OKO IYABO” is not BANNED oh! Stop SPREADING FALSEHOOD. The marketer choose to PRIVATE out of respect.” The post was accompanied with a lengthy caption that reads: “OKO IYABO movie is NOT BANNED, stop spreading falsehood and rumours, the marketer and I decided to step it down as a sign of respect until we can adequately explain ourselves. I understand most genuine and decent reactions. Quite obviously there is no perfect movie and any movie can be subjected to criticism. It is an expression and constitutional right of the maker. “The main STORYLINE is about YOMI FABIYI and IYABO, a few other true-life stories and fictions. The only scene that traverses on the girl is the one in circulation now whose original version is everywhere online several months ago. The movie never discussed or undermine the quest to protect or fight for justice for the victim, the case or changed the narratives to mock anybody, they are fabrications just to discredit my person. “Movie-making is make-believe, we as Filmmakers enjoy the liberty to tell TRUE LIFE STORY, PAST EVENT or cook up for the purpose of expressing ourselves. “The scene paraded and condemned was the only scene that is needed to explain the connect and struggle between both actors(Iyabo & Yomi) with different personalities. Original names were used as Iyabo herself did. “Most that are condemning the movie have NOT seen the full movie. And it won’t shock me if they choose to judge based on isolated scene. I am not perfect but I don’t behave that way. I just feel it is dignifying not to judge on what you can’t verify the full and authentic story. I will keep fighting for Human Rights which include the rights of the girl, accused, the society etc. “Censor’s board who has the constitutional right to process approval and rating of movies in Nigeria MUST see the full movie, allow fair defence and will only advise on adjustment based on the potential ratings available on the entire content. Ban of any movie must be a direct threat to National Security. “So guys, no part of the movie ever did what they are painting, I have a long-standing filming reputation. Don’t give those waiting for my mistakes so they can attack me negatively and wickedly online or otherwise opportunity. As God exists, this too shall pass and I will be vindicated one way or the other soon. Thank you all. Yomi Fabiyi.”