 Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO) Plc, the newly formed holding company for Guaranty Trust Bank plans to leverage on the opportunities of its holding company structure to evolve into a one-stop financial conglomerate, offering clients services and products across the financial markets. At a commemorative closing gong ceremony to mark the listing of the shares of GTCO at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited and to unveil the company’s new brand identity to the investing public, GTCO said the restructuring has opened up opportunities for addition of new services and products. Group Chief Executive Officer, Guaranty Trust Holding Company (GTCO) Plc, Mr. Segun Agbaje said the company was very excited about the opportunities that have opened up to it with the restructuring, particularly because diversifying income base has always been a major priority. “As we venture into this new phase, we look forward to leveraging technology and introducing new business lines – including payments, asset management and more – that go beyond the needs of institutional or wholesale clients to improve retail clients’ access to the financial markets,” Agbaje said. He commended the management of the NGX for its unwavering support in listing GTCO on the Exchange. GTCO officially listed its shares on NGX on June 28, 2021 following the restructuring of Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) Plc. At the time, the shares of GTB were officially delisted from the market and GTCO’s entire issued share capital of 29.43 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each were listed on the NGX. Chief Executive Officer, Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited, Mr. Temi Popoola, congratulated the board and management of GTCO for its successful restructuring. According to him, given the recent completion of demutualisation of the Exchange and the emergence of its new structure, there are many similarities between NGX and GTCO, particularly outlook on the use of technology to advance business operations; the burgeoning opportunities in the retail market; and the importance of good governance in the corporate space. “Today, we reiterate our commitment to being a trusted partner to GTCO and other listed companies and issuers as we continue to build a platform that allows our listed companies, investors and other stakeholders to maximise value in our market,” Popoola said. Also present on the trading floor of NGX to sound the gong and bring the day’s trading to a close were Mrs. Osaretin Demuren, Outgoing Chairman, GTBank Nigeria; Mr. Ibrahim Hassan, Non-Executive Director, GTBank Nigeria; Mr. Hezekiah Oyinlola, Non-Executive Director, GTBank Nigeria; Mrs. Cathy Echeozo, Former, Executive Director, GTBank Nigeria and Chairperson, NGX Regulation Limited; Mrs. Miriam Olusanya, Executive Director, GTBank Nigeria; Mr. Babajide Okuntola, Executive Director, GTBank Nigeria; Mr. Seyi Osunkeye, Non-Executive Director, NGX Limited; Mr. Kamarudeen Kareem Oladosu, Non-Executive Director, NGX Limited; Mr. Yomi Adeyemi, Non-Executive Director, NGX Limited and Mr. Jude Chiemeka, Divisional Head, Trading Business, NGX Limited.