The Police have held two identical twins and others for gang-raping girlfriend and sending the nude photographs of the victim on Facebook in Osun State. The Nation gathered that the victim, attempted to commit suicide following the dastardly act perpetrated by five suspects. The suspects; Olabode Kehinde, Olabode Taye and Bakare Yusuf were apprehended by the police. The trio were dragged before Osun State Magistrate Court sitting in Osogbo on Friday on six counts of conspiracy, unlawful carnal knowledge, indecent assault, breach of peace and damage of reputation of one the victim. The police prosecutor, Inspector Temitope Fatoba explained to the court that, “the three defendants and others now at large sometime in March 2021 at about 7pm at Oke-Abuja area, Iragbiji conspired among themselves to rape, indecently assault, defame the character of the girl and conduct likely to cause a breach of peace and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 516 of the Criminal Code Cap 34 Vol. Il laws of Osun State of Nigeria 2002.” He noted that the defendants did with intent to injure the reputation of the victim posted on social media photographs of the girl her nakedness after being sexually assaulted, thereby exposing her to hatred, or ridicule, or damage to her reputation. The three defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge against them and their counsel, Najite Okobe applied for their bail orally on the most liberal term. However, the police prosecutor opposed the prayer for bail, saying, “the victim is still under medical check and the offence is rampant in the society now. They have been on the run; the police have to track them before they were arrested. There are still other two suspects that the police are looking for. If they are granted bail, it will jeopardize the effort of the police. There is likelihood for them to jump bail. It will even send a wrong signal to the member of the public.” The magistrate, A. O Daramola ordered that they should be remanded in Ilesha Correctional Center, till August 16, 2021 and transfer the case to Iragbiji Magisterial