The Department of State Services (DSS) has granted detained leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) access to his lawyer, Ifeanyi Ejiofor. Ejiofor made this known in a statement on Friday. He said: “Thankfully our effort is yielding the desired result. We have just received a communication approving our visit to our Client- Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. Shall keep the world posted on the outcome, immediately after the meeting, later in the Day. God is with us.” Ejiofor had on Thursday protested an application for audience with his client had not been approved. In another tweet late Thursday, Ejiofor said he had met with the IPOB leader. The tweet reads:” Update on meeting with MNK today, 2nd July 2021: “My Client – Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, was actually abducted by the accursed Kenya’s Special Police Force on the 18th of June 2021 at their International Airport and consequently taken to an undisclosed residence under dehumanizing conditions. “He was tortured and subjected to all forms of inhuman treatment which worsened his health condition. He was illegally detained for eight (8) good DAYS in Kenya before being transfered to their Nigerian counterpart. “He was purportedly investigated on a bogus charge while in their custody, ostensibly, awaiting to be handed over after their findings proved him innocent of all the spurious allegations. They later beckoned on their Nigerian counterparts to take over. “Kenyan Government was deeply involved in the abduction, detention and ill-treatment of my Client before the illegal handover to their Nigerian counterpart. “A scan of his heart showed that the heart has enlarged by 13% due to the dehumanising treatment meted to him. There will be need for immediate proper medical examination and attention for him. “Mazi Nnamdi Kanu conveyed his goodwill message to all IPOB family members worldwide, and craved for your unrelentless prayers. “We are going back to the Court for the needful. Other details cannot be entertained here. “His fortified legal team will address these infractions at the proper forum as we progress. Other details on our legal strategy, may not be made public. “With Chukwuokike Abiama on our side, Victory is assured. For if God Almighty be for us, who can be against us? #freeMaziNnamdiKanu#” Kanu has been in the custody of the DSS since he was arrested and repatriated to Nigeria on Sunday to face trial after jumping bail in 2017 for charges bordering on terrorism, treasonable felony, and illegal possession of arms among others. His trial will continue from the 26th and 27th of July 2021 at the Abuja Federal High Court.