 LIFE of founder of Senior Pastor of  Word of Life Bible Church, Pastor Joseph Ayodele Oritsejafor, Helen, has been awarded the prestigious honorary Doctorate Degree of Science (D.Sc.) Honoris Causa in Leadership and Corporate Governance by the European American University, Commonwealth of Dominica. The author of the book, “You Too Can Become a Success”, was recognised for her lifetime commitment to creating and ensuring a firm and impactful international influence of service throughout the globe. The awards, which took place at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, at the weekend, saw Mrs Oritsejafor being recognised for her years of industrious leadership. The degree was well-deserved, as Dr. Oritsejafor is well known for her vast experience in business for many years, as well as her philanthropy. She is the MD/CEO of several conglomerates, including Eagle Heights International Schools, Eagle Flight Microfinance Bank, Eagle Bureau de Change Limited, African Broadcasting Network TV Station, Eagle Wings Secured Insurance Brokerage Limited, and Eagle Nest Guest House etc. Receiving the award, Mrs Oritsejafor said leadership cut across all aspects of life, with each individual being the starting point. She pointed out: “We need to embrace leadership in totality to enable the youths and the aged to experience true leadership and enjoy the dividends of democracy.” She dedicated the award to her husband,  Pastor Oritsejafor, and also to those who have lost hope, encouraging them to remain committed to their set goals, despite the prevailing socio-economic or political circumstances. Mrs Oritsejafor advised that being focused with immense determination would lead to actualisation of dreams for a successful life, in any field of human endeavour. On the involvement of women in governance, the renowned philanthropist posits that the aspect of womanhood is not prioritised. She said if more women are in power, there would be a more decentralised system and organised structure that will encompass the different human elements for a progressive nation. This, she said, is because of the motherly nature of women. She, therefore, urged women to stand out in their endeavour to bridge the gap in gender inequality. On her goodwill to many Nigerians, the Ekiti-State-born philanthropist recently provided financial support to small and medium enterprises (SMEs), which were badly affected by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic for them to grow their businesses, among other initiatives.