 Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad yesterday assured stakeholders and telecoms industry investors of the security of their multi-billion dollars investments in the country. Muhammad said stakeholders, investors and telecoms consumers had nothing to fear as the judiciary would ensure speedy and transparent dispensation of justice on telecoms issues. However,  Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Umar Danbatta said the Judiciary should be prepared for imminent increase of litigations on ownership of online content and materials. “It is envisaged that with the increase in the amount of online content, as well as the economic value attached to it, there will be conflicts as to ownership of online content and materials. “It is necessary that your Lordships are well prepared for the imminent increase in litigation in this area,” Danbatta said. They made the remarks while addressing delegates   at the opening ceremony of the National Workshop for Judges on legal issues in telecommunications organised by the NCC and the National Judicial Institute (NJI) at the Transcorp Hotel,  Abuja. Muhammad noted that the telecoms sector had grown over the years with more service providers making the sector competitive and prone to abuse. The CJN,  who was represented by Justice John Nya Okoro of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, said the telecoms sector has experienced a significant increase in the number of service providers which makes the sector more competitive and prone to abuse, some of the risks to consumers has resulted in a number of disputes and challenges which invariably ends up in courts for adjudication. According to him, the growing need for consumer protection in this sector is increasingly becoming complex for courts and the regulator in the converged setting of today, which includes issues related to e-transactions such as e-commerce, e-payment, and e-banking, all creating a major challenge in the sector. “Be that as it may, this workshop essentially avails the participants an opportunity to rub minds on current challenges confronting the telecom sector.  “ I have no doubt that this forum will further equip Judicial Officers with the legal and technical skills required for adjudicating disputes in this special area of the law, and in so doing, keep them abreast with global best practices. “I must commend the Nigerian Communications Commission for rising up to the occasion in its bid to protect consumers from unfair practices by service providers. “The Judiciary on its part will not rest on its oars, as we will continue to interpret the relevant laws in line with extant provisions of the Law. “Let me assure you that the Nigerian Judiciary is committed to the development of the telecommunications sector and will spare no effort in ensuring transparent and speedy dispensation of justice. In this light, investors and stakeholders in the sector will be assured that their assets and investments are secured, “ Muhammad said. In his address,  Danbatta said the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector grew with about 6.3 percent in the first quarter of 2021 indicating that economic diversification in Nigeria can be achieved as quickly as possible. He said:”The increased reliance on Telecommunications, as well as the growth experienced in the sector has introduced some issues of legal connotation which will be deliberated upon by various experts during the course of this Workshop. One of such is the ownership of online content and materials. “It is envisaged that with the increase in the amount of online content, as well as the economic value attached to it, there will be  conflicts as to ownership of online content and materials. “It is necessary that your Lordships are well prepared for the imminent increase in litigation in this area. “Also with an increase in the number of transactions and businesses taking place in the online space, it is also expedient for your Lordships to be exposed to the peculiarities of adjudicating conflicts in this era of digital presence and online identity. “ The aim of this forum is to further build the capacity of our distinguished Judges with practical insights on these emerging issues in the field of telecommunications. “This year’s theme of ‘Adjudicating in a fast paced World of Technology and Digital Presence’ is not only apt but it actually captures the areas where our traditional ways of life are most challenged. “Hopefully, this Workshop will illuminate these challenges and proffer ways to meet the dynamics of the changing times.” 