 Any objective and honest assessment would rate Kaduna State under the Mr Nasir el-Rufai administration reasonably well in terms of public sector reform initiatives, infrastructure provision and social service delivery, particularly in education. It is thus sadly ironical and inexplicable that it is for the wrong reasons such as pervasive insecurity, industrial unrest and social disharmony rather than its positive accomplishments that the state is often in the news. For instance, barely a month ago, the state was virtually brought to a standstill for nearly a week as national leaders of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) joined the state chapter of the congress in a warning strike and public demonstration against the alleged large-scale sack of workers by the state government due to the financial crisis that has hit virtually all states in the country. The situation was degenerating to a total breakdown of law and order with the governor and labour leaders exchanging incendiary rhetoric until the Federal Ministry of Labour and Productivity brought both parties to the negotiating table to restore normalcy. Unfortunately, negative news from the state made the headlines, once again, in the last week of June when two students of the state-owned Kaduna State College of Education, Gidan Waya, Jema’a Local Government Area, were reportedly shot dead by security operatives as they joined their colleagues in a protest against an increase in their school fees. The aggrieved students were demanding a reversal of the decision to increase the institution’s fees from reportedly between N25,000 and N33,000 to N75,000, which the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) described “as insensitive, unreasonable and unrealistic”. It is indeed only natural to sympathise with the contention of the students that many of their parents were among teachers, local government staff and state workers disengaged by the state government, struggling to survive and who thus would be unable to pay the fees increment. Some of the others were peasant farmers deprived of their source of livelihood as a result of incessant clashes between herdsmen and farmers, leading to widespread disruption of farming communities. At the same time, the plight of the state government is understandable against the backdrop of the sharp fall in oil revenue, which constitutes the bulk of funds on which all levels of government depend, as a result of non-diversification of the economy over the years. Even then, Kaduna is not the only state that finds itself in this dilemma and is even relatively better off fiscally than a number of other states which have not experienced the level of public anger and disenchantment by aggrieved sections of the public affected by harsh economic austerity measures. It would appear that Kaduna’s case is worsened by the temperament and governance style of Mr el-Rufai. The governor obviously does not believe in mediation, consultation and dialogue in his interface with the diverse publics he has to deal with as a leader. Yet, these are the ingredients that make for mature and wise leadership which make it easier to manage and contain difficult situations. The all-too-often combative, aggressive and abrasive speech and conduct of the governor is ill-suited to making people willing to understand and accept the necessity for government to take harsh but unavoidable measures in times of crisis. Even when this has to be done, the leader must not act in a gloating and uncaring manner but must demonstrate empathy with the pain of those at the receiving end of its policies, such as retrenchment from work or increase in the  cost of social services. After all, the protracted economic crisis which has negatively affected all levels of government, including Kaduna, is largely due to the acts of commission and omission by successive governments over the years, and the responsibility should not be shifted to the people who are only the victims. It is regrettable that two precious lives have again been lost in a crisis that could have been avoided with more tact, wisdom and emotional intelligence on the part of government and the school authorities in negotiating the fee increase with students and parents. The claim by the state police  public relations officer, ASP Muhammed Jalige, that the clash between the protesting students and security agents arose because the former blocked the convoy of a military sector commander on the Gidan Waya-Kafanchan federal highway and allegedly injuring him, sounds lame and untenable. This is another incident where armed security agents unprofessionally used disproportionate force against unarmed protesters exercising their constitutional right in a democracy. We call on the Kaduna State government to investigate this incident with a view to bringing the culprits to justice and also ensuring adequate compensation for the families of the deceased.