Despite COVID -19 pandemic shocks, the sector is soaring with activities to boost  the logistic value chain. It has witnessed a flurry of activities with acquisition of newer airplanes by new and existing carriers, amid increasing complaints of obsolete and inadequate airports and air navigation facilities, writes KELVIN OSA – OKUNBOR  The global aviation industry is yet to recover from the shocks of the on- going pandemic, which has affected the turning of the wheels of the logistic value chain. Significantly, air travel  is struggling to get back to pre-pandemic era following huge dip in passenger and cargo figures wrought by the fear of infection on board airplanes. Despite a raft of measures put in place by health, airworthiness and aeronautical authorities to encourage air travel, the wheel of the industry is grinding slowly to attain accelerated rebound. In the last six months, the sector has witnessed a flurry of activities bordering on the good, bad and ugly. N5b Intervention Fund Like a silver lining in the cloud, the Federal Government in the period under review  facilitated N5 billion intervention fund to indigenous carriers to cushion the effects of the pandemic on their operations. This move was greeted with ovation in the sector, but stakeholders, including the industry think tank group; Aviation Safety Round Table Initiative ( ASRTI ) described it as a dip in the ocean as they had looked forward to N27 billion Stimulus Package designed to bail out the sector from the ravaging shocks of the pandemic. Significantly is the sledge hammer on AZMAN Air by the industry policeman – Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), for gross and serial violation of safety regulations. To put it simply, the NCAA suspended the operations of the airline and subsequently grounded the five Boeing 737 aircraft its fleet to pave the way for a safety, technical and economic audit of its operations. Director-General of NCAA, Captain Musa Nuhu said AZMAN Air was sanctioned for gross violation of safety regulation following series of burst tyre on landing involving  airplanes in the fleet of the airline. Though the carrier had cast aspersions on the reputation of the NCAA and its leadership following allegations of bribery, the airline later recanted. The NCAA had described the incidents involving AZMAN Air as an accident waiting to happen. General Manager, Public Affairs, NCAA, Sam Adurogboye, said the regulator was constrained to suspend the airline. Three incidents The NCAA said the airline had at least three serious incidents, including burst tyres, within six weeks, such that the NCAA could not continue to allow such unprofessional conduct to persist without taking decisive action. The general manager said the alarming trend of tyre failures, in combination with improper tyre maintenance procedures by the airline, were a clear and strong indication of an accident chain formation in its final stages at Azman Air. He further explained that there was an urgent need to break the accident chain, before aN avoidable national tragedy occurred, adding that it would not allow avoidable accidents to happen in the sector, due to the airline’s persistent professional misconduct. “Over a period of about six weeks, Azman Air Boeing 737 aircraft, operating scheduled passenger flights, were involved in three separate incidents, resulting in damage to the aircraft, in each case, but with no loss of life, for which it was grateful to God”, NCAA said. The 19-page audit report by the NCAA found AZMAN Air culpable of many safety infractions, including not being in compliance with the management personnel for commercial air transport, poor provision of resources and discharge of the duties of the Accountable Manager. The audit report said: “The DFO exhibited a lack of understanding of his duties and responsibilities as contained in the Operations Manuals. The report also stated that Azman Air imited was found to be in violation of Nig.CARs 18.10.3 on the submission of monthly financial health reports to the NCAA. “This is evidenced in Azman Air’s failure to meet up with the monthly obligation in submitting the required financial health report for months despite several reminders,” it stated. New entrants The industry also experienced the  coming of new carriers namely: Green Africa Airways, Cally Air, Cardinal Airlines, NG Eagle Airlines, United Nigeria Airlines, which commended operations a few months ago latching on the use of fuel efficient Propeller Embraer 145 airplanes. Besides, United Airlines, whose  Chairman, Obiora Okonkwo, said made entry into air transport to make a difference, the carrier acquired four aircraft. Apart from United Airlines, another start – up carrier: Cally Air, which is backed by the Cross River State Government also  acquired two Boeing  737 aircraft in partnership with Nigeria’s oldest carrier – Aero Contractors. Also, acquisition of brand aircraft has been on the burner following the delivery of three Embraer 195- E2 jets from the Brazillian manufacturer’s facility in San Jose to Air Peace. Considered the game changer in the industry, experts, including Minister of Aviation, Captan Hadi Sirika, described the acquisistions as the paradigm shift needed to refocus aviation business since the turn of the century. He said the brand new planes would  drive down maintenance and fuelling costs. There is also new entrant Green Africa Airways, promoted by a young entreprenuer- Babawande Afolabi, who has been driving the narrative of delivering the low-cost carrier concept into the airspace. Targetting young mobile professionals as workers and clientele, the carrier has acquired three ATR 72-600 series propeller aircraft to alter the stakes with air fares as low as N16,500 on a one-way trip. Also, some carriers, including Aero Contractors and Arik Air, have been in the eye of the storm following plans by the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) to float a new carrier from the carriers as its receiver manager. Sources hinted of a grand design to second workers of Arik Air into the prposed carrier – NG Eagle Airlines – which is on the verge of securing an Air Operators’ Certficate (AOC) from the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Threat by unions In the last six months, the industry has also navigated the corridors of controversies following threats by aviation unions – National Union of Air Transport Employees ( NUATE), Air Transport Services Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (ATSSSAN) and National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE), should the government  float the proposed NG Eagle Airlines by stripping Arik Air and Aero Contractors of their valuable assets and personnel. The unions vowed to stop AMCON from establishing Nigerian Eagle, if labour issues were not resolved. NUATE President, Comrade Ben Nnabue, said: “AMCON has shown that we are in a country that values assets more than the people  who work with the assets, whereas the people and workers created the machines and assets. Without the people, the assets will be useless. If they don’t resolve the problem of workers, the new airline will not take off. “We will picket Arik Air for three months. The mandate of workers must be taken by force. This battle has just started. We have told Arik Air to open up to us on the new airline, the management is dishones.” Also, the Secretary of the union, Ocheme Aba, said: “But, there are ominous signs that what should ordinarily be a lofty project will likely run into a heavy storm being created by a thoroughly fouled and convoluted industrial atmosphere at Arik Air. We consider it most unfortunate that an odd combination of AMCON’s egoistic, evasive and self-defeating tendencies on the one hand, and Arik Air’s unrelenting penchant for courting crisis on the other hand, as well as severally demonstrated lack of capacity/disdain for labour relations practice have evoked a perplexing atmosphere of forlornness in the airline. Under this atmosphere, it is  impossible to be hopeful of any good thing. Hence, our misgivings concerning NG Eagle. “We wish to use this medium to pose the following questions which expose the evil machinations in AMCON/Arik Air’s unholy craft and perfidy called NG Eagle. At present, AMCON is in receivership of two airlines – Arik Air and Aero Contractors – being a 60 per cent  shareholder in the latter. One should then ask why AMCON would be floating another airline. We smell a rat. “We decipher that AMCON’s unstated objective is to open a window of business opportunity as a way to recoup its heavy financial losses through the heavy debts in Arik and Aero. But, surely NUATE can’t be the only ones wondering what sort of business ingenuity there could be in running three airlines simultaneously. We have it on good authority that AMCON’s real intention is to sidestep the debt overhang, particularly in Arik air, while continuing to make money from the airline business without any real capital injection. This it intends to achieve by moving valuable assets of Arik Air, including human asset, into the new NG Eagle. “The questions are: What becomes of the carcass of Arik Air and its personnel after such evil wind? “While committing the societal aspects of this brazen effrontery to the court of public opinion, and urging urgent intervention by appropriate government agencies – Ministry of Labour, Ministry of Aviation, Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, etc – we have raised the labour aspects before the management of Arik Air as trade disputes. Should the Management raise itself to the needed open mindedness and heartedness then we are willing and desirous of resolving them amicably as expected of progressive social partners. Then we shall welcome NG Eagle with our Solidarity Song and pop champagne. “But, in the event that the reverse of the above is the case, then we shall sing our Solidarity Song as a call to the struggle to fight for the rights of Arik Air’s long-suffering employees. The ball is in their court,” he said. The sector has been struggling to cruise to higher altitude as the number of aircraft flown abroad by indigenous carriers for major maintenance checks, including C- check are yet to return to the country apprently because of challenges of securing slot as well as accessing foreign exchange for the prohibitive operation. Chairman, Air Peace, Allen Onyema said the carrier has over 20 aircraft stranded abroad for maintenance checks. Besides, Air Peace, other carriers have reduced their flight frequencies owing to the shrinking number of their aircraft. Operators said the reduction in the frequencies of flights to various destinations by the airline is due to coronavirus and its effects on aviation globally. According to  Air Peace ‘s  Chief Operating Officer, (COO), Mrs. Toyin Olajide, COVID-19 devastated airlines worldwide. She explained that Air Peace had several aircraft out on C-check maintenance abroad before COVID-19 and were caught up with the lockdown web globally, forcing the suspension of aircraft maintenance. The maintained aircraft did not come back at the scheduled time. The industry was upbeat as NCAA  unveiled plans to review regulations for private jet operators  amid threat by the Nigeria Customs Service to impound jets without payments of relevant charges and obtaining of requisite approvals. NUATE  pointed out  how the minister failed to deliver projects such as the suspended national carrier, aircraft leasing company and national aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) facility. Nnabue noted the union’s frustration over the unjust treatment meted to workers by the Salaries and Wages Commission and the Head of Service. He said: “We have persistently pointed out the folly of a one-man-show in the governance of the sector. As we all know, there are no governing boards for all the agencies in aviation, and the CEOs being direct employees of the Minister of Aviation, and the minister being the chairman of all the so-called Interim Boards, the affairs of the entire aviation industry has been contrived to be totally in the hands of one man.’’ But, the dip in the ocean intervention would not assuage mounting complaints of obsolete airport/ air navigation equipment by pilots and air traffic controllers associations. 