 The Federal Government has approved the appointment of 42 traditional rulers as chancellors and 27 other individuals as pro-chancellors of some Federal universities and inter-university centres. The government said the decision was in line with the establishment of new universities and meant to replace deceased chancellors. Education Minister Adamu Adamu, who announced this at a media briefing in Abuja, said the chancellors are expected to promote morality and peaceful co-existence in the country. Some of the traditional rulers include: Oba Rufus Adeyemo Adejugbe Aladesanmi III, Ewi of Ado-Ekiti (Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University, Bauchi); HM Obi Ofala Nnaemeka Alfred Achebe, Obi of Onitsha (Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria); HRM Oba Aremu Gbadebo, Alake of Egba land (Alex Ekwueme University, Ndufu-Alike, Ebonyi State); HM, Oba Ewuare II, Oba of Benin (Bayero University, Kano); HRM King W. S. Joshua Igbugburu X (CON), Ibenanwei of Boma Kingdom (Federal University, Dutse, Jigawa State); HRM Professor Joseph Chike Edozien, Asagba of Asaba (Federal University Gashua, Yobe); HRH Ezeogo Ewa Elechi, Isu-Oha I of Ohaisu Kingdom (Federal University, Gusau Zamfara); HM Shekarau Angyu, Masa Ibi Kuyon II, Uka of Wukari (Federal University, Lafia, Nasarawa State); HRH Alhaji (Dr.) Mohammadu Abali Ibn Mohammed Idris, The Emir of Fika (Federal University, Lokoja, Kogi State) and the Attah of Igala (Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Ekiti State). Others are: HRE Ebidem Ekpo Okon Abasi OTU V, Obong of Calabar (Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta); HRH Oba Babatunde Adewale Ajayi, Torungbuwa II, Akarigbo of Remo land, (Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Effurun, Delta State); HRH Alhaji Umar Kabir Umar II, Emir of Katagum (Federal University of Technology, Akure); HRM Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi, Deji of Akure (Federal University of Technology, Minna); King Dandeson Douglas Jaja Jeki, Amanyanabo of Opobo Kingdom (Federal University, Dutsin-Ma, Katsina); Sir Adamu Baba Yunusa, Ona of Abaji (Federal University, Wukari, Taraba State); HRM Eze Cletus Ilomuanya, Obi of Obinugwu (Federal University, Birnin Kebbi); HRM Igwe Ambassador Lawrence Agubuzu, Ogbunechendo, Ezema Olo Kingdom, (Federal University, Kashere, Gombe State); HRH Jutsice Sidi Bage Muhammad I, Emir of Lafia (Federal University, Otuoke, Bayelsa State); HRH Alhaji Abubakar Shehu Abubakar III, Emir of Gombe (Michael Okpara University of Agricultural, Umudike) and HRM Okuku Uwa Umoh Adiaka III, JP, Paramount Ruler/Ekporikpo of Obot (Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola).  Also appointed Chancellors are: HRH Agabaidu Elias Ikoyi Obekpa, Och’Idoma IV (National Open University of Nigeria); HRM (Dr.) Da Jacob Gyang Buba, Gbong Gwon Jos (Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka); HRH Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, Etsu Nupe (Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife); HRH Dr. Rilwan Suleman Adamu, Emir of Bauchi (University of Abuja, Gwagwalada); Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari, Emir of Ilorin (University of Agriculture, Makurdi); HRM Prof. James Ortese Iorzua Ayatse, Tor Tiv (University of Benin); HRH Alhaji Aminu Ado Bayero, Emir of Kano (University of Calabar); HE Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar III, Sultan of Sokoto (University of Ibadan); HRH Alhaji AbdulMumini Kabir Usman, Emir of Katsina (University of Ilorin); HRH Alhaji Ahmed Nuhu Bamalli, Emir of Zazzau (University of Jos) and Alhaji Abubakar Ibn Umar Garbai El-Kanemi, the Shehu of Borno (University of Lagos). Others are: Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi III, Alafin of Oyo (University of Maiduguri); HRM Oba Adeyeye Enitan Babatunde Ogunwusi, Ojaja II, the Ooni of Ife (University of Nigeria, Nsukka); HRH Muhammadu Ilyasu Bashar, Emir of Gwandu (University of Port Harcourt); HRH Alhaji Adamu Abubakar Maje, the Emir of Hadejia (University of Uyo); Alayeluwa Oba Rilwanu Babatunde Osuolale Aremu Akiolu I, Oba of Lagos (Usamanu Danfodiyo University); HRH Alhaji Attahiru Mohammed Ahmed, Emir of Zamfara (University of Health Sciences); HRM Maj.-Gen. Felix Mujakpero (retd.), Orodje of Okpe Kingdom (Nigerian Army University, Biu); HRM King Alfred Papapereye Diete-Spiff, Amanyanabo of Twon Brass (Nigerian Maritime University Okerenkoko, Delta State); and Eze Eberechi N. Dick, JP, Eze Udo I of Mgboko Ngwa, Amaise (Federal University of Agriculture, Zuru). Adamu said: “Mr. President has, following the establishment of additional universities, approved the appointment, reassignment of chancellors to 43 Federal universities. The exercise is intended to also replace deceased chancellors of some Federal universities… “Let me reiterate that the chancellors shall be presented to the university community at an investiture ceremony to be organised by the university for the purpose or during the next convocation ceremony when the investiture will precede the conferment of degrees at convocation.” He said the universities include Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Bauchi; Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria and Federal University, Lafia. The minister recalled that governing councils of 13 Federal universities were inaugurated early this year. Some of the schools and inter-university centres include The Nigerian French Language Village, Badagry and University of Benin (UNIBEN) and University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN).