Great Nigeria Insurance Plc is a composite entity licensed by the apex regulatory body, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), to underwrite both general and life insurance businesses. It commenced business in 1960 with over 60 years of insurance underwriting, financial advisory and real estate investments which has enabled the organisation to exclusively master the business terrain and develop skills that gave her an edge in service delivery and total customer delight. Great Nigeria Insurance Plc has continuously arranged very adequate reassurance treaties with a consortium of reputable reassurance companies both locally and internationally providing the entity with the required capacity to underwrite risks placed by its valuable customers. The ownership of the company is made up of diverse shareholders from wide range of individuals and institutional investors with a robust Board of Directors of distinguished personalities who have distinguished themselves in their respective fields of endeavour. The company has invested in the best of people and technology, improving on processes, growing its market share and thereby expanding its balance sheet size. The company continuously strives to be amongst the top players in the insurance industry. It has consistently lived its business philosophy encapsulated in its values PEPTIP (Professionalism, Empathy, Passion for Customers, Team Spirit, Innovation and Precision). The company’s commitment to customers’ delight remains unshakably assured as facilities have been put in place to ensure improved efficient services driven by state-of-the-art information technology to facilitate efficient and reliable system of prompt claim settlement as well as meet our underwriting obligations. The company’s Head office is located on 8, Omo-Osagie Street, off Awolowo Road, Ikoyi, Lagos with Regional, Branch and Agency offices spread across the country. The Company is committed to meeting and surpassing the expectations and aspirations of its shareholders and stakeholders alike as the Company remains focused on her strategic objective of accelerating the growth of the Company through asset base, revenue and profitability in the years ahead.