 My daughter may never live a normal life as a woman.” That was the chilling lamentation of Aisha Abdullahi, whose five-year-old-daughter was subjected to inhuman torture and maltreatment by her stepmother. Adamawa State Police Command spokesperson Suleiman Nguroje accused the “wicked stepmother,” Aisha Mohammed, 18, a resident of Wuro Patuji village, Mubi South Local Government Area, of “using hot iron (rod) to torture and inflict injury on the private parts of the baby because she discharged urine on her bed.”  She was arrested following a report by the mother of the victim and a female lawyer. This is an obvious case of child abuse, which the World Health Organisation (WHO) defines as “all forms of physical and/or emotional ill-treatment, sexual abuse, neglect or negligent treatment or commercial or other exploitation, resulting in actual or potential harm to the child’s health, survival, development or dignity in the context of a relationship of responsibility, trust or power.” According to WHO, “Violence against children includes all forms of violence against people under 18 years old, whether perpetrated by parents or other caregivers, peers, romantic partners, or strangers.” This is yet another tragic case that reflects the rampant instances of child abuse across the country. In all cases, child abuse causes pain and suffering for the child. Notably, the immediate physical effects of child abuse can be relatively minor (bruises or cuts) or severe (broken bones, hemorrhage, or even death). The long-term effects of child abuse on physical health and development significantly include impaired brain development.  In some cases, it causes important regions of the brain to fail to form or grow properly. Apart from possible immediate adverse physical effects, child abuse is strongly associated with many chronic physical and psychological effects, including subsequent ill-health in childhood, adolescence and adulthood. It has been established that child abuse usually leads to physical ailments for victims in adulthood such as allergies, arthritis, asthma, bronchitis, high blood pressure, and ulcers. It is noteworthy that, in 1989, governments across the world adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which promised all children the same rights. The Convention lists what countries must do so that all children grow as healthy as possible, can learn at school, are protected, have their views listened to, and are treated fairly. In 2019, the world celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was seen as an opportunity to reinforce the campaign for collective efforts to protect children from violence, abuse and neglect, including a re-commitment to increase investment in child protection services. A report launched jointly by UNICEF and the Federal Government, under the leadership of the Federal Ministry of Budget and National Planning and the Federal Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, revealed that about half of the Nigerian children surveyed experienced physical violence by parents, adult relatives, direct or indirect caregivers or community members, before they reached 18. The findings of the study pointed to the strong need for increased funding of interventions by the government to reduce violence against children in Nigeria. The abuse of the little girl in Adamawa threatened not only her growth but also her life. It is disturbing that it involved the girl-child, though all cases of child abuse are unacceptable. The cost of inaction concerning violence against children is high, as it affects their health, education and productivity. The victim should be given the best medical treatment possible, with particular focus on her mental health, to ensure that the experience does not have negative psychological effects on her for life. It is ultimately a moral issue, and the moral perspective underlines the need to eliminate all forms of violence against children. The child abuser in this shocking story lacked a moral perspective, and should be punished for the extreme and inhuman punishment she meted out to the child.