The Group Managing Director, Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe has said the bank believes that Public Private Partnership (PPP) is crucial in buildings sustainable economy and  making life easier for the the people through quality services. Speaking in Lagos at the commissioning of Access Bank office annex at the Ikoyi Passport Office in Lagos, he said the bank has for years, partnered with the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) due to its believe in PPP and creativity. He said: “For us, immigration is key to economic development and protection of Nigerians, prevention of illegal immigrants as is done in first world countries. Customer services is very important and we are bringing quality services to NIS as  a key partner”. He said the facility will not only aid the NIS in the execution of its duties, but ultimately add value to the lives of Nigerians. “We recognise the importance of the NIS to national development, and are thankful for the sterling leadership of the agency, led by Muhammad Babandede, The Comptroller General Nigeria Immigration Service for driving positive reforms policies that will foster the safety of our nation, increase the attractiveness of Nigeria to foreign investors and once again position Nigeria as a strong player in the global economy,” Wigwe said. He said Access Bank will continuously contribute to the effort of the government in providing the requisite infrastructure for parastatals to execute their responsibilities effectively. “A couple of years ago, Access Bank donated some office equipment to the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS), Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA) Command and today, we will be commissioning an office annex. Indeed, this is one of the many Projects Access Bank has done for Nigeria Immigration Service and the fourth commissioning in Ikoyi passport office.  This is due to the excellent services we’ve enjoyed from all the Passport Control Officers (PCOs) that have worked here in Ikoyi and also our strong commitment to CSR,” he said. “This is a symbolic feat as it is testament to our growth as an institution on its way to becoming Africa’s gateway to the world. We are pleased to be making this contribution and I hope that this lays down a pointer to other corporates in the execution of public-private partnerships.” Also speaking, The Comptroller General Nigeria Immigration Service, Muhammad Babandede, said Access Bank has used its resources wisely by partnering with the agency which makes great impact in the lives of Nigerians. He said the agency is looking having closer business partnership with the bank adding that the agency is committed to having more portals for payment. He said the agency has under his leadership brought about creativity to NIS, including the visa on arrival policy that requires people to pay on online and get visa on arrival in the country. He said timeline for passport renewal is three weeks while fresh passport application will take six weeks.