IFADA: Thanks for this platform that allows concerned citizens to express their worries. What is responsible for people not getting their lump sum one year after retirement? This was not the  intent of the Pension Reform Act 2004. Somebody retired in June 2020 and uptil now, the lump sum has not been paid, and also the monthly stipend. What is going on? NNANNA: l am a contributor with Crusader Sterling Pension. I am 48, former banker but now in private practice. Please, how can I access funds from my contribution? I accessed 25 per cent of my contribution six years ago when l lost my job. Kindly put me through. Thanks. OKECHUKWU: I am a retiree with the Joint Admissions Matriculation Board (JAMB). Since last October, my pension has not been paid. Even after I attended the verification conducted in March 2021, my penison was still not paid. My landlord has given me quit notice. Also, I cannot feed my children. Besides, I am sick and doesn’t  have money for medical treatment. Please I need your intervention. GEGERE: I retired from the Delta State Civil Service in 2016.  Since then,  Crusader Sterling Pensions has not added any increment to my pension payments. I am worried hence this complaint. Kindly follow up with my complaint. IVARA: I retired from the Nigeria Police in 2015. Payment was made to pensioners in other federal establishment under the Consequential Adjustment to pensions benefits arising from the implementation of new minimum wage on April 30, 2021 and the arrears took effect from April, 2019 and payment commence from May, 2021. I want to know if the position police retirees/pensioners are not considered? Are we not pensioners? MRS ANEKE:  I want you to help me get my late husband’s pension. I am suffering with five children and no house to stay. Aviation authority sent us out of the official quarters on August 3, 2019, after my husband ‘s death in July 2018. Worse still, I do not have a job. I am appealing to you to help me. You are my last hope. PenCom requested for my husband’s PIN number in my complaint that you published earlier and I have been sending it but nothing has been done. I want to hear from them. DR DUMNAMENE: I am from Rivers State.Kindly assist me to wipe my tears by implementing my monthly pension that was stopped  last year due to double PIN. I was referred to ARM Pension from Fidelity Pension for recapturing, which I did. I don’t know why it is still lingering. Your assistance is needed. Thank you. MBAH: I sent my 25 per cent request to Fidelity Pension since last December. But I am yet to get it. Please assist me. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene. Therefore Nnanna, Ifada, Okechukwu, Gegere, Ivara, Mrs. Aneke, Dr. Dumnamene and Mbah should look out for the newspaper next week for responses from PTAD. DOKUN: My name is Dokun, next- of-kin to the late Farinmade whose PFA is Premium Pension. He worked at Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) from September 18, 1992 to June11, 2010, before his death. He was on Salary Grade: GL 08/8. I wrote to the PFA and they said ‘work-in-progress on payment’. But up till now, I am yet to get any payment from them. Note that the last letter dated May 31, 2006 to the deceased from PenCom, following my letter. It disclosed that NIPOST N36,485:60 was paid into his pension account from July 2004 to February 2006. All documentations had been done in Abuja office of PenCom office since the death of Farinmade, but nothing has been heard since. Kindly help me get my late brother’s entitlements. PenCom: A search on the Commission’s database indicates that this is a non-existing entry. This means that no official report has been made on the deceased to the Commission. However, you are advised to return to the PFA and re-submit relevant documents for onward submission to the Commission. EYO: My name is Eyo. I was on Grade Level 12 at the Nigeria Immigration Service when I retired on November 25, 2019. My PFA is Premium Pension Limited. Please, madam, nothing is written about Premium Pension Limited, my pension administrator, in the paper. Since I retired, my benefits are yet to be ready. PenCom: Information from our database indicate that your Accrued Rights and Pension Contributions have been paid into your Retirement Savings Account. You may liaise with your PFA to check the status. ANONYMOUS: Thanks for what you have been doing for pensioners. May God Almighty continue to be with you. Kindly help on this issue. If a pensioner collects his lump sum, say after five years and he/she has some financial challenges, can he or she collect from the balance of the lump sum and reduce his or her monthly pension? PenCom: Lumpsum withdrawals are collected only once. The Pension Reform Act (PRA,2014) does not provide for the use of the RSA balance to cater to financial challenges, rather the RSA balance is utilised for monthly pension through the expected life span of a retiree.