Social media users have disagreed with a gender-based post by Afro-pop singer, Yemi Alade. They expressed disapproval over the songstress’ depiction that women face more obstacles than men. The award-winning singer and performer shared an image via her Instagram page depicting men and women on a race track. However, the image displayed several obstacles such as pots, pans, laundry lines, washing machines etc on the track lines of the women while the men had no visible obstacle in front of them. While being positioned on their different tracks, the women had their heads tilted sideways as they had their eyes set on the men while the men were faced forward and focused.
The self-acclaimed Mama Africa urged people to support females as they encounter too many obstacles along life’s journey while also noting that men do encounter theirs even though the photo is meant to encourage the women more. The ‘Johnny’ crooner wrote: “Sometimes the Obstacles iN OUR WAY might be your LACK OF SUPPORT,your constant need to dismiss us for the satisfaction of your ego,your ignorance about the CONSTANTS in our lives ; hormones and biological occurences that keep us alive and functioning ,your silence when we are in need or in danger,,your need to makes us prove ourselves Again and again and again and AGAIN.  “Sometimes the Obstacles aren’t are put there by other females, to err is human. “This is obviously a one-sided picture with only the perspective of a woman being considered.
Men ALSO have Obstacles but indeed this Is a woman’s perspective. “Support More Females Whenever you can. Start with your mothers, sisters, friends neighbours. “Be kind today.” Noting that the singer’s bias isn’t accurate, social media users took to the comment section to make known their disapproval. Popular dance instructor, Kaffy said; “As much as this is our reality as women I do believe that men struggle too, it might not be something we see and can relate with as women but most men have struggles that pressure their minds, clouds judgements and form the personality which culture, society, upbringing played major roles, not to forget some of which we women also add to the confusion list. I am not against the post don’t get me wrong o I just think it’s missing elements in the man’s path. A lot of women with all these obstacles still get ahead in life and achievements more than men, wonder why? They definitely are battling something too.” _petsart wrote: “This is far from the truth. Are you trying to say the road for men is a smooth one? Funniest thing I’ve seen today.” kxng_gwuap stated: “This doesn’t make no sense like men don’t have obstacles?” emmanuel_worthwhile said: “I Disagree With You, Is Not Because You Are A Lady, I Don’t Why You Guys Don’t Give Men Accolades They Deserve, Stop Giving Women All The Credit, Speak Truth About The Men Too! Men Provide Almost Everything In The House, So If A Man Buys Clothes For You, You Still Expect Him To Wash It For You??? Men Support Alot!” myque.1 wrote: “Disputed. Oh the road so free for male. Highest false I’ve seen so far. Regular chores is the least hinderances so don’t just say.” canmind23 stated: “Delusional.”