The Police in the Federal Capital Territory Abuja have begun an investigation into the alleged rape of a girl (name withheld) by a security operative attached to the wife of Ekiti Governor, Erelu Bisi Fayemi. According to the statement on Tuesday by Ekiti Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Olawale Fapohunda, the alleged rape occurred on Monday, July 5, 2021, in Abuja. Fapohunda said the matter, which has been reported at Criminal Investigation Department (CID) FCT Command, was undergoing investigation, adding that further action will be determined by the outcome of the probe. He assured the police of the government’s unwavering readiness to cooperate with the investigation team in ensuring a thorough and transparent investigation into the matter. While reiterating the commitment of the current government’s resolve to tackle sexual-related offences in the state, the Commissioner bemoaned the prevalent cases of rape, saying the Ministry of Justice was prosecuting 121 cases in various courts across the state. This, he, said had prompted the Governor Kayode-led government to put together additional mechanisms geared towards curbing sexual violence in the state. According to the Fapohunda, “Hindering Prosecution’ has now been proposed to be an offence in the Ekiti State Criminal Law Bill, 2021, which is now before the Ekiti State House of Assembly. “Under this heading, it will be a criminal offence for any person to seek to hinder or unlawfully influence the office of the Attorney-General to discontinue certain criminal matters including Rape, Sexual Assault and Child Defilement. “The punishment prescribed is 5 years imprisonment on conviction. Persons in the habit of writing letters of discontinuance in rape matters are specifically invited to take note. “The Ministry of Justice has proposed an amendment to Gender-Based Violence Prohibition Law 2020 (as amended). The amendment seeks to protect persons who report cases of Rape, Sexual Assault, and Child Defilement. “By the provisions of the proposed amendment such persons will be included in the Whistleblowers’ Protection Programme of the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice.”