Bandits in the early hours of Thursday killed two officers of the Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS). They carried out the attack around 12:05 am at Kadobe village in Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State. The officers killed were Umar Bagadaza Kankara and Lawali Dutse. The Nation correspondent gathered there was a gun battle between the immigration officials and bandits. Scores of bandits were reportedly killed while others sustained gunshot wounds. A soldier, who was among the reinforcement sent to the area, also sustained gunshot wounds on his thigh. He was said to be receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre, Katsina. One of the immigration officers, who spoke to The Nation on condition of anonymity, said the service has a base at the village where the incident occurred. He confided the area was usually considered safe haven for herdsmen and their animals. He said: “The herdsmen had brought their cattle there for pasture and for security, having considered that Immigration also has a base there. “But the bandits decided to attack the place yesterday night after several efforts to do so in the past had proved abortive. “The people in the community said they also saw strange faces lurking around in the evening of the incident but they refused to alert the security on the situation’’. “When the bandits attacked, they started shooting sporadically at our men and our men fired back also. They killed two of our men, but we killed several of theirs too’. “Several of the bandits sustained gunshot wounds and were able to escape with the bodies of their slain members and also managed to rustle cows belonging to the herdsmen. “Soldiers who were in patrol on the streets had rushed to the area in reinforcement and there was serious gunfire exchange in which one soldier was shot on his thigh. ‘’The bodies of the slain officers has been handed over to their families for burial.” Spokesperson for Immigration in the state, Illyasu Kasimu, declined to speak on the incident, stating he was not authorised to speak on the matter.