 WASHINGTON -based Paschal Okechukwu Mbawuike, Vice President Emeritus of Cohen and Woods International, a Washington based, Africa focused consulting firm, is the man behind a peace initiative for his country Nigeria. Mbawuike says the Diaspora and Homeland gathering via zoom, holding mid-September, is another effort aimed at finding an answer to a more peaceful, secure environment for investment and job creation in Nigeria. Nduka Nwosu in New York reports: The rise, rise and the astronomical rise of Paschal Okechukwu Mbawuike has become a case study for students in many business, graduate schools. This is because, because and because of the role Mr. Mbawuike has played dating some three decades ago. Recall before Covid, recall before 911, drug epidemic was a problem around the world and Lagos was a traffic point from Thailand, Southeast Asia; and because of this, the US government sanctioned Nigeria under the Sani Abacha Administration. The national carrier, the Nigerian Airways was sanctioned from flying into New York and this became a hardship since Nigerians required a transit visa from Europe to enter the US. As a result of this hardship Paschal arranged a secret meeting between the then Nigerian national security adviser Ismaila Gwarzo, and Mr. Kim, a former CIA Station Chief with a former Senior FBI Narcotic Officer. According to Paschal, “the National Security Adviser (NSA) Gwarzo instructed Peter Igbinedion, the then managing director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) to meet with us and give access to the team. Igbinedion did an excellent job facilitating meetings and giving the US officials room to do their inspections by instructing the Airport Manager to work with the team. They were given adequate  time to look at all the operations on and beyond the Murtala Mohammed Airport. Also recall that during the early stage of the Olusegun Obasanjo Administration there was complaint on the poor quality of the Nigerian currency and this was because of the poor ink production. The Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc needed to improve its printing quality. Paschal met with the then managing director of the Mint, Col Ibrahim Dasuki trying to sell secure ink to him. That meeting was brokered by Abubakar Rimi, the then chairman of the Mint and a close friend of Paschal. There had been an earlier attempt under the Sani Abacha Administration to sell the same secure ink to the then National Electoral Commission (NEC) whose chairman was Chief Sumner Karibi Dagogo-Jack. Unfortunately, that move was scuttled when Abacha died. Mbawuike has really emerged to become Nigeria’s favourite son in Washington, a strong man in governments around the world, a true ambassador at large. Furthermore, Mbawuike has over the years become the man to go to in Washington when you need access, a man that cannot be ignored, a man who is against you breaking any law, who will never break any law himself but will persuade you to bend the rules to accommodate his interests; he is a wonderful salesman indeed, the man who over a decade was behind Ambassador Herman Cohen, the African crown prince and king maker in Washington. Paschal has worked so hard, a man who swears he would never allow Nigeria to break up, having sat countless hours in club houses, navigating Africa’s rough waters In a rare chat, he had sworn to use his contacts to bring peace through diplomacy, and through a peace summit coming up in Washington mid-September. He has called for a dialogue among Nigerians. “We will hold a peace summit in September,” he discloses. He already has, working with friends and colleagues, secured the endorsement of his mentor and ‘Oga’, former military president General Ibrahim Babangida. “This peace conference will include former Heads of State and stakeholders, politicians and Nigerians from all walks of life, coming together to brainstorm on the way forward,” he explains. Mbawuike reveals he has made countless phone calls across the country enlisting support for this important dialogue. Knowing that the insecurity in Nigeria is caused by unemployment, he has called the private sector to stimulate the demand for job creation. “Job creation in Nigeria and elsewhere is not the role of the government, it is the role of the private sector,” he stresses while insisting that Nigeria needs, not one Dangote but a hundred Dangotes to employ youths who are coming out of universities. “In this regard I have called on the elite to form a Club for Growth to drive the economy and spur the employment in Nigeria especially in infrastructure,” he insists. He adds: “Plans are on to reach out to Africa’s richest man Aliko Dangote, Zenith Bank chairman Jim Ovia, Chairman of UBA and Tony Elumelu Foundation and Heirs Holdings, Tony Elumelu, Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Access Bank Plc., Herbert Wigwe, Paschal Dozie, former chairman of MTN and Diamond Bank, a namesake, a man I first met in 1985 in Washington and adores dearly, Senator Ifeanyi Ararume, Chairman Exclusive Stores Limited, Dr. Rufai Isiaka, Group Managing Director DE SIM Group of Companies Nigeria Limited, and Alhaji Abdulsamad Rafiu, Chairman BUA Group. “ The others include chairman of Air Peace, Allen Ifechukwu Onyema, Chief Chidi Anyaegbu, chairman of Chisco Transport, who has recently floated an airline, Peter Obi, Gbenga Olawepe Hashim, a dynamic young man and “another good friend,” a close friend of Mbawuike and Wale Tinubu, the dynamic Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Oando Plc The rest are Chief Femi Otedola, MTN Nigeria, MTN Foundation, Dr. Innocent Chukwuma, chairman of Innoson Motors, Dr. Cosmas Maduka, chairman Coscharis Motors, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, Chairman of THISDAY and Arise Media Group as well as Senator Ben Murray-Bruce, chairman of Silverbird Group, who Mbawuike calls brother Ben, a wonderful man. Mbawuike has also enlisted the support of Professor George Obiozor, a former Nigerian Ambassador to the US and President General Ohanaeze Ndigbo. Mbawuike wants to use this opportunity to congratulate him on his new leadership and pledges total support for him. Mbawuike has also enlisted the support of Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, a national leader. He has also enlisted the support of the Middle Belt Forum and lastly the support of his godfather Senator Jeremaiah Useni, former FCT Minister and the Sardauna of Nasarawa and Plateau states. Paschal Okechukwu Mbawuike is described by friends as a quiet rain maker. He has severally won accolades as a wonderful salesman so much so he goes by the appellation: Mr. Wonderful. Mbawuike has sworn he would use his contacts to bring peace to the polity. “The idea behind the summit,” he adds, “is to call for a dialogue among Diaspora Nigerians and those at home- stakeholders whose thoughts, actions and materials can help lift the country from the precipice of poverty and insecurity by creating jobs that can take our idle children out of the streets and keep them busy at work where their creativity would be utilized for the good of the country.” Mbawuike adds: “Unemployment creates room for insecurity. Once the youths are busy exerting their energy creatively, there would be less tension employed for destructive purposes.” According to him, Ambassador Cohen and Ibrahim Babangida have had collaborations in the past while trying to secure peace in some troubled countries of Africa. As US Ambassador to Senegal, Uganda and Congo, Cohen brokered peace in Liberia, Sierra Leone, Mozambique, Ethiopia and Eritrea, an exposure and experience that led to his writing a number of books including: Intervening in Africa: Superpower Peacemaking in a Troubled Continent, The Mind of the African Strongman, Conversation with Dictators, Statesmen and Father Figures, as well as United States Policy Toward Africa, Eight Decades of Real Politick, amongst others. He continues: “Infrastructure development is the hub developed and developing economies are employing to create jobs. The Obama Administration used it just as the Trump Administration did. Right now, massive infrastructure development has been proposed by the President Joe Biden Administration as the employment growth soars to over half a million monthly. “Yes, it is true that under the Muhammadu Buhari Administration, infrastructure development in the area of railways is a step in the right direction; he needs to be congratulated; the CBN Anchor Borrower’s Programme is another. Well done Mr. President. Having said that, we need a huge investment by the private sector in these projects and many more, just to help industrialise the economy and provide more jobs. Infrastructure investment is a huge leap into the future.” Expectedly, Mbawuike resonates with the notion that he is a key stakeholder among Nigerians in the Diaspora and a Washington power broker with an impressive home support, whose network can go a long way to help find answers to this home bred problem. The Vice President Emeritus for over a decade sat on the crest of a leading corporate entity, Cohen and Woods International, a Washington based Africa focused Consulting Firm, founded by Ambassador Herman J. Cohen, former Assistant Secretary of State for Africa, under former President George Bush One. According to him, the Biden Administration is seeking to revive the US-African decline, which peaked during the Trump Administration; now with the revival, it is creating room for many US investors looking in the direction of Nigeria and other African countries to do business. As he put it, Cohen and Woods has emerged to be the consulting firm to go to in this new dispensation. Recently Stephen Hayes, former President of the Corporate Council on Africa, joined Cohen and Woods International as the chief executive officer; also, the firm enjoys close relationships with former US Ambassadors to Nigeria in the likes of Robin Sanders, Howard Jeter and Ambassador John Campbell. “The US-Nigeria relations are indeed getting interesting,” Mbawuike concludes.