The incoming District Governor, Rotary International, District 9110, Rotarian Remi Bello has identified education as a main focus for the 2021/2022 Rotary Year, which began today Thursday. He stated that said the intervention tagged ‘Adopt a School’, is aimed at improving the infrastructural condition and learning environment, as well as providing minimum basic hygiene requirements in the face of ravaging COVID-19, across a minimum of 30 adopted primary schools in the various zones of the district. Rotarian Bello who spoke in Lagos said District 9110 is divided into 12 zones between Lagos and Ogun States noting that Rotary Clubs or Zones are to choose a public primary school to adopt, do a need assessment, evaluate and execute the project at an estimated value of N3, 500,000 per school. He said the project is to cover areas such as provision of clean water, sanitation and hygiene, provision of sick bay, renovation of existing structures, provision of reading chairs and tables, writing aids, and provision of or equipping a small library. According to him, the project, which will cost N105 million, will span across at least two areas of Rotary seven areas of focus: basic education and literacy; and water, sanitation and hygiene. “The project is therefore qualified for Rotary International Global Grant, which we are to pursue.” He disclosed that the district has awarded scholarship worth N100, 000 each to 153 indigent but brilliant students to pursue their tertiary education. Rotarian Bello who will be formally installed as the District Governor on July 3, also announced plans to embark on the District Economic Empowerment Programme (DEEP), where a total of 200 beneficiaries would be given an interest free loan of N100, 000 so as to alleviate the prevailing economic hardship of the downtrodden in the society. It will all help the beneficiaries to send their children to school. He said a total of N20 million is required to fund the DEEP. Among dignitaries expected at the event include the Governors of Jigawa, Lagos, Ogun and Oyo States; the Olubadan of Ibadan Land; the Alake of Egbaland; Oba Saheed Elegushi. The occasion will be chaired by Ashiwaju of Remoland, Solomon Onafowokan. The mother of the day will be Chief Mrs. Onikepo Akande, two time former minister among others.