Hundreds of Damaturu residents on Tuesday trooped out to benefit from the free medical services and outreach organised by Sector 2 of Operation Handin Kai, Nigeria Army, Damaturu, Yobe State. The event, which was conducted at the palace of the Emir of Damaturu, His Royal Highness Alhaji Shehu Hashimi Ibn El-kenemi was to mark the 2021 Nigerian Army Day Celebration (NADCEL) by giving back to the community as party of Army-civilian relationship. Commander Headquarters of the Sector 2 Joint Task Force Northeast Operation Hadin Kai, Brigadier-General Adamu Nura explained that the event is a week-long activity that has already commenced by the Chief of Army Staff with a press conference in Abuja followed by Juma’at prayers and interdenominational church services across the Nigerian Army formations. “The theme for this year’s Nigerian Army Day Celebration is to have a professional and ready Nigerian Army, a prerequisite for a successful operation. This is not too far from the Chief of Army Staff’s vision which is to have a professional Nigerian Army ready to accomplish the assigned mission within a joint environment in defence of Nigeria. “Today, we are here at the Emir’s Palace to carry out medical outreach to the less privileged to bridge the gap between the civil societies for more collaboration with the community. Our services here today are free which include out-patients consultation treatment, treatment of common ailments and diseases, health education, distribution of insecticide, distribution of mosquito nets and blankets and HIV counselling and others,” Brig-Gen. Nura said. The sector commander emphasised the importance of regular medical checks by citizens. He also called on the people to continue to cooperate with security agencies by providing useful information that will fish out the bad people in the community. He assured that the Nigerian Army will continue to work hard towards ensuring peaceful co-existence. The Emir commended the military and other security agencies for their efforts in the restoration of peace in the region and the country in general. He also pledged to, on behalf of his people, continue to work with the ministry for the peace of the state. Some of the beneficiaries who spoke with our correspondent were grateful to the Army for the free medical services obtained. The highlight of the event was the presentation of long-lasting insecticide mosquito nets, and blankets, among others. A cripple, Abdul Mamman was presented with a wheelchair.