Angst and despair filled the air on Friday in Abuja as former Provost Marshal of the Nigeria Army, Major-General Hassan Ahmed, was laid to rest 24 hours after his assassination by yet to be identified gunmen at Abaji in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The army general, a member of 40th Regular Course, was killed in an apparent ambush while on his way from Lokoja to Abuja on Thursday night. His sister, who was in the vehicle with him, was abducted by the gunmen while his driver escaped. Earlier on Thursday, bandits killed two soldiers, wounded some others and abducted some people at Unguwar Lalle in  Sabon Birni Local Government Area of Sokoto State. The soldiers were felled while trying to repel an attack by bandits. Ahmed was buried with full military colours and compliments at the Guards Brigade Cemetery, Lungi Barracks, Abuja, in accordance with Islamic rites. Present were family members and colleagues including the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, who described the death of Ahmed as a great loss to the army and the nation at large. Yahaya described Ahmed as a fine officer with a high sense of commitment to the course of the army and service to the nation. He said it was the will of God for the officer to die at the time he did, adding that nobody knew when and where he or she would die. Yahaya said that the living only had the responsibility to pray for the repose of his soul and support the family, promising that the army would continue to stand by the family of the deceased. “For us who are behind, we owe it a duty to take care of his family and be with them in this trying time. “The army has provisions in our laws in terms of entitlements and other responsibilities and we fulfill that. “Beyond that, the army, under my watch, will improve on those provisions and will be with the family of the late general and all others who have also paid the supreme price. “Ahmed was a friend and colleague and we have been together for a long time. He was a very dutiful, responsible and professional officer but everyone has his time. “On behalf of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army, we heartily condole with the family of late Maj.-Gen. Ahmed. “May his gentle soul rest in peace and may God grant us and his family the fortitude to bear the loss.” In the burial citation of the late general, the Chief of Policy and Plans (Army), Maj.-Gen. Anthony Omozoje, said that Ahmed was a thoroughly trained officer. Omozoje said the late Ahmed served in different capacities before becoming the provost marshal of the army. He said the late senior officer was the Director of Veteran Affairs (Army) before his demise. The Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, and representatives of other service chiefs and the Inspector General of Police also attended the burial. Announcing Ahmed’s death yesterday, the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig.-Gen. Onyema Nwachukwu, said the incident occurred when the senior officer’s vehicle was attacked by gunmen while transiting along Lokoja–Abuja road on Thursday. His words:“With a heavy heart, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Faruk Yahaya, Officers and Soldiers of the Nigerian Army regret to announce the passing on of Maj.-Gen. Hassan Ahmed, a former Provost Marshall of the Nigerian Army. “A delegation from the Army Headquarters led by the Chief of Policy and Plans (Army), Maj.-Gen. Anthony Omozoje, has visited the widow and other members of the bereaved family. “Members of the Nigerian Army Officers’ Wives Association (NAOWA) led by the Deputy National President, Mrs Stella Omozoje, have also visited the family to condole with them.” Ahmed is the third serving/retired military officer to be murdered in the last three years. First was Brigadier General Idris Alkali (rtd) who was lynched by a mob at Guchwet village in Shan district of Jos South Local Government area in September 2018. His body was discovered in an abandoned well in the village about two months after he was declared missing by the army. He was on his way to Bauchi from Abuja after his retirement. Two months after, a former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh, was shot dead when his vehicle was attacked on the Abuja/Keffi Road while returning from his farm in Nasarawa State. In July 2020, Captain G.S.M.Abubakar, attached to the 353 Artillery Regiment, Ojo Barracls, Lagos, was shot dead on the Okene-Lokoja highway after running into a blockade mounted by bandits. He was on his way to the Armed Forces Command and Staff College, Jaji, Kaduna State. Earlier in September, 1992, policemen at a checkpoint at Falomo, Lagos had shot one Col. Israel Rindam dead after he stepped out of his car to ascertain the cause of traffic jam at the checkpoint. Two soldiers killed in gunshot exchange with bandits The two soldiers were killed at Unguwar Lalle in Sabon Birni Local Government Area of Sokoto State while trying to repel an invasion of the area by bandits. Seven other soldiers were wounded, according to Premium Times. The bandits reportedly swooped on a primary healthcare centre in the village and took away three health workers. The remaining healthcare centre staff escaped.