Motorists, commuters and residents in Lagos were on Friday thrown into difficulty navigating their way through the metropolis following hours of heavy rainfall. The Nation observed cars and properties were submerged following the heavy downpour. Some of the worst affected areas include Mushin, Oshodi, Ladipo/PWD, Agege, Gbagada, Iyana-Ipaja and few other areas. A similar scenario was noticed at Mile 2 Oke on Apapa-Oshodi Expressway. Some parts of Ikeja, including Awolowo Way, Oba Akran and Ikeja-Along on Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway were also affected.  Many Lagosians in the affected areas had to deal with struggling to return back home from work amid heavy traffic caused by the floods. Some others were forced to seek alternative routes. Heavy-duty articulated vehicles, convoys, security vans were also trapped in the gridlock. The flood water swept some debris in its path, causing some drains and drainage channels to become blocked. Some residents in the areas were seen evacuating water from their houses while others attempted to clear narrow water channels and unpaved drainages around their neighbourhoods. Also, several residents took to social media to share pictures and videos of their areas. A banker, Kemisola, who works on the Island and lives in Iyana-Ipaja, explained that she got to spent long hours in traffic. Another Lagosian, Adebayo who lives in Ajah, noted that the rain made it hard for commuters to get a bus to their various destinations as there were fewer buses with inflated prices on the road. The National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has urged residents of Lagos State to observe safety precautions during downpours. Acting Assistant Zonal Coordinator, NEMA Southwest Zonal Office, Ibrahim Farinloye, said in a statement: “Once the rainwater gets to half of the wheels, it sweeps off your vehicle, kindly park and move on to higher ground for safety. “The rainwater must have risen above our ankles, once it happens like this the flood has the capacity to carry you off.” The NEMA boss warned people living in buildings with signs of danger to report to the appropriate agencies for assistance. “Residents of Lagos Island, Eti-Osa, Alimosho, Amuwo Odofin, Ikeja, Ojo, Kosofe, Apapa, Epe, Oshodi-Isolo, Shomolu, Surulere and Ajeromi /Ifelodun LGAs are advised to be more careful when it rains,” he said.