A member of the House of Representatives Rimamnde Kwewum (PDP, Taraba) has asked national chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus and National Working Committee (NWC) to save the party from political extinction by resigning their positions. It said this will pave the way for true reconciliation and reorganisation of the party. Shawulu said the gale of defection in the party occasioned by internal crisis was weakening its capacity to serve as a viable alternative to the All Progressives Congress (APC). The lawmaker, who represents Donga/Ussa/Takum Federal constituency of Taraba State, said it was evident the present leadership was leading the party in the wrong direction. In a letter titled “In the interest of our party, democracy and the people of Nigeria: Time to do the needful”, the lawmaker said it was unfortunate rather than take measures to reposition the party, the leaders were involved in what he described as “trips to Afghanistan”. According to him: “You, and indeed, all members of the National Working Committee should make such a sacrifice in the interest of the PDP, Nigeria and democracy. “I plead with you sir to show leadership today and in the interest of the party, your good name, and the future of Nigeria to resign immediately as National Chairman. “The 2023 elections are just two years away, with a few off-cycle governorship elections in a few states getting underway in a few months. “The party needs time to reorganise, reconcile feuding members and prepare to campaign with well-prepared and articulated programmes to rescue Nigeria from the present morass. “It bears restating that time is not on our side. You and the current national working committee members will be unable to lead the reconciliation process because you are unfortunately enmeshed in several current controversies.” He added: “Dear Chairman, Sir, events in the last two years call for sober reflection and sacrifices by both the leadership and membership of the party and it is necessary you set the ball rolling, so that the party will come back to life and be seen as a viable alternative to the ruinous APC. “Then, will its doors be seen to be open to the millions that want to come into the party to mobilize Nigerians to take back the country from the iniquitous forces that have seized it by the jugular. “This was the obvious wish of opinion of party members and leaders when Dr Adamu Muazu resigned as Chairman of the party. Your good self-took over to enable the party regain momentum. “Presently, without discounting the efforts and sacrifices you have made, it is obvious that our party is in far worse circumstances than when Alhaji Adamu Muazu fled the scene. “You cannot fail to note that our party lost both the 2015 and 2019 elections, and we have fewer members in the National Assembly than we had in 2015. “And, as well, our outing during the 2019 National Assembly leadership contest was so disastrous that even members of the public may be wondering whether our party still has members in the House of Representatives and the Senate. “Beside the gale of defections from the party which may continue to haunt us, our party is so divided in many states that without reconciliation we may not stand any realistic chance of winning the forthcoming elections.”