One of the kidnapped students of Nuhu Bamalli Polytechnic, Zaria who regained freedom on Thursday, Saturday told of the humiliation their captors subjected them to in their den. The student who does not want his name in print for security reasons said they were made to sleep in the open and under rain for 10 out of the 28 days they spent in the bandits’ den. That was after they had been given a ‘welcome treatment’ of severe beating with cable and cudgel. More excruciating was the pain inflicted on them by the iron shackles with which they were every night to prevent them from escaping. He said at some point, he almost gave up hope of surviving the inhuman treatment he went through. He said: “We handed everything over to God when we realised that there was no way we could escape from the bandits’ camp. In fact, trying to run away was like endangering your life, because there were other camps in the forest whose operators would just capture you as a fresh victim. “We were made to and fetch water from a stream which is like a kilometer from our camp, but they wold escort us to and fro with guns. So, when we understood the terrain, we realized that  going to the stream to fetch water without our abductors was even risky for us  because that would have exposed us to being kidnapped by members of other kidnap gangs. “Each time we went to the stream to fetch water, members of other gangs would just shoot into the air when they noticed our movement and our own escorts would respond by firing into the air too. So, that signified that if there were no such response, the other people would simply understand that we had escaped from somewhere and just capture us.” Besides, he said they were routinely threatened with death during negotiation between their relations and the kidnappers for ransom. Explaining how they were kidnapped, he said the bandits struck  at about  10:30pm on the 10th June and “they started marching us into the bush around 11:00pm, some of us without shoes and clothes.” He added: “we arrived a deserted community around 7:00am the following day, after walking through the forest throughout the night. “After arriving in that community, they called their colleagues from their camp to bring bikes. They then carried us on the bikes and we travelled for like another two hours before arriving at the camp. “They know the terrain very well, so they move at dangerous speed through the bush. Some tumbled and the victims got injured. At that point, I was so eager to even get to their camp. “When we got there, they dropped us off and one of them said they should arrange welcome tea for us. I was happy because at that time, we were already very hungry, not knowing that they were talking about  welcome beating. They beat us with cable and sticks that day. But, after that day, they didn’t beat us again except when we did anything that angered them. “For the first 10 days, we were sleeping in the open. We were drenched  by rain and exposed to cold, mosquitoes and other dangerous insects. So, on the 11th day, we (the captives) just decided to build a hut for ourselves. We got all the materials from the forest there and built a hut, though assisted by those assigned to be guarding us.” He said their captors were from the same group who abducted people from the Leprosy Centre in Zaria, saying that the victims met them in the camp. He said: “when we got to the camp, we met only one lady with our captors. Then with the nine of us from Nuhu Bamalli, we became 10. But by the time we were released, we left I think 11 or 12  people in the jungle. “The mother of the lady we met paid a ransom of N2.5million too, but instead of the bandits to release her, they held the person who brought the ransom too. They even collected the bike of the Okada rider that brought him. So, we became 11 in the camp before they now brought the 10 people who were kidnapped from the Leprosy Centre. So, we left all of them there.” Speaking about the feeding, the survivor said, the gang leader brought a bag of foreign rice, beans and oil on their first day on camp, which they later finished, but he brought another one immediately. “We used to cook for ourselves. The ladies among us handled the cooking, while we fetched water and firewood for the ladies. Those guarding us used to cook too when they were hungry.” He said the forest was full of criminals including the kidnappers and those supplying them with food, drugs and ammunition.