 The Osun State Government and a world-famous Ifa priest and Araba of Osogbo, Chief Ifayemi Elebuibon on Wednesday sued for peace and religious tolerance as the traditional worshippers kicked over pressing murder charges against masquerade’s custodian, Chief Kayode Esuleke and three others. The Nation report that there was a clash between the masquerade adherents and Muslim faithful at Kamarudeen Mosque where a cleric was shot dead and several others injured. Suspects from both sides comprising of Chief Kayode Esuleke, his son, Ifashola, Chief Imam of Kamarudeen Mosque, Kazeem Yunus and other five suspects were arrested by the police. However, seven suspects have been arraigned before an Osun State Magistrate Court, Osogbo on the offences of assault, public fight and vandalism which they were all granted bail except Chief Kayode Esuleke who was reportedly indisposed. The president of the Traditional Religion Worshippers Association of Osun State (TRWASO), Dr Oluseyi Atanda during a press conference in Osogbo, stated that “Baba Esuleke and his family should not be framed up for murder committed by an unknown assailant.”  He said, “The office of Attorney General must be upright and consistent with their charges and actions. We must desist from making a mockery of the court system. The shooting was unfortunate but, up till now, it is difficult and almost impossible to establish the source of murder weapon or postmortem to prove the killer.” He implored the State Government to urgently summon a peace meeting and religious harmonization process. Meanwhile, the delegates of the Osun State Government led by the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Hon. Obawale Adebisi had a meeting with the traditional worshipers on the premises of Chief Ifayemi Elebuibon to sue for peace and assure fairness to the parties involved. Hon Adebisi after the meeting, while addressing the newsmen said, “We are here to appeal to traditional worshippers over the issues between them and the Muslims that government is in perfect control of the situation that they should not demonstrate, it is a case we can resolve between ourselves, which will be done. My message to the traditional worshippers is to remain peaceful, trust the government and allow the government to take the normal steps to resolve the matter.” Similarly, the world-famous Ifa priest and Araba of Osogbo, Chief Ifayemi Elebuibon, said, “The outcome of the meeting is very peaceful and we hope the government will listen to our plea because the traditionalist worshippers are peace-loving people, they love the city and culture. On many occasions, we have been abuse in mosques and churches and we never raised an eyebrow. “We are appealing to all religious worshippers to be peace loving, let us allow peace to reign and settle the matter amicably, the Ministry of Justice should do justice to the matter.” 