 What started as a play and crash landing on a couch at the tender age of three, has taken Uche Eke to the big stage in sports – the Olympic Games. Having learnt how to do a backflip on a friend’s trampoline, the young Eke decided to take it to the next level by performing a flip from his family’s couch. After landing on his head, his mother noticed his skills and decided to enrol him in gymnastics to channel his innate athleticism into a safer environment. Now at 23, the young Eke has grown in the sport and is now the face of gymnastics in Nigeria being the first athlete to win a gold medal at the African Games in the sport for the West African nation. Going beyond competing at continental level, Eke has taken his trade to the world when he competed at the African Championship in Cairo, Egypt and his all-around bronze medal earned him a continental quota spot at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games as the first Nigerian gymnast to participate in the Olympic Games. “I’m striving to be Nigeria’s first Olympic gymnast,” Eke told BBC News Africa recently. “When I won at 2019 All-African Games and got to hold up the green and white flag, that was my first time holding it up in first place, and everyone, like Nigeria, the whole crowd, was just chanting my name, it was an amazing feeling. It just made me feel even closer to Nigeria and just makes me want to do more.” Tokyo 2020 will mark a new chapter for Eke, who depends solely on his parents’ support to fan his gymnastics career this far. As a student-athlete at the University of Michigan, Eke stood out at both undergraduate and graduate levels. Already aware of the big stage he will be competing in Tokyo, Eke said: “I’m on a new goal now,” Eke further told AIPS. “I’m thinking about competing at the Olympics. I’m motivated and ready to go. There are some routines I want to do and I have to push and fight to get to that level to do it and the progress I’m making right now is really good. “My goal is to complete those routines and hit them to my best ability and if I do it how I want and dream it to be, then I’ll be able to make top eight, which is making the final. That’s my goal. Overall, no matter what happens, I want to be at least top 25 in the world,” he enthused. Eke’s first appearance on the global stage was at the 49th FIG Artistic Gymnastics World Championships in Stuttgart, Germany in 2019, where he participated in three events and got his best rank of 102nd in pommel horse. “I don’t like how that competition went at all,” he admitted. “Having that feeling, after competing, that I gave all I had, performing the best routine I can to the best of my ability, that’s what I’m hoping to do at the Olympics. “I’m not nervous. I’m excited to just lay it all out, swing as hard as I can, as cautiously and as freely. I have support from Nigeria now, people watching and wanting me to do well, and that’s what I thrive upon.” Born and brought up in Maryland, USA to a Nigerian father and American mother, Eke’s maiden outing for Nigeria was in August 2017 and in 2021, he has become the country’s most decorated gymnast. In his debut for Nigeria, Eke won a gold medal in South Africa, and in 2019 in Rabat, Morocco, he secured Nigeria’s first African Games gold medal in gymnastics. However, it was the experience at the Olympics qualifiers in Cairo that would remain memorable for him. “I pinched myself, ‘am I dreaming?’ I really did it!’” Eke recalled the moment he secured his ticket to Tokyo. “Then I quickly re-watched the video that I made right before, like in the bathroom, saying, ‘this is the day to see if I’m an Olympian or not’. “I always do like these quick video snippets of just me in a bathroom mirror saying, let’s watch this after and see if I’m happy or sad. So I watched it and I was happy. It was like literally 20 seconds, and then people came up to me and started jumping. I was just super excited,” he added. Eke cannot underestimate the huge support from his family especially after picking his ticket to Tokyo.  “My father is not the type to scream, my mum probably would have jumped on me or something. But I saw the happiness in his face after my qualification for Tokyo.” Few minutes after securing a ticket to Tokyo, the first video Eke saw on social media was posted by his older brother Daniel. “He was like: ‘That’s my brother. He just made it to the Olympics. We’re going to Tokyo!’” Eke explained, adding that Daniel “always believed in me even when I had my doubts”. Acknowledging the vital role played by his brother, Eke said Daniel had to give up on pursuing a professional career in American football, adding that Daniel is one of the reasons the pandemic failed in its attempt to halt his gymnastics ambitions. “When Hurricane Katrina hit in 2005, my family from New Orleans came to stay with us in Maryland for several months. Due to the ensuing resource constraints, my brother had to quit football so that I could continue competing in gymnastics. He knew how important the sport was to me, but when he retired from football, he told me I could never quit,” Eke wrote on his official website. Among the six men’s artistic gymnastic events; floor, pommel horse, vault, rings, parallel bars and horizontal bar, Eke’s favourites are pommel horse and horizontal bar. “Those are the ones I feel like I have the best chances for individual event finals,” he noted. Eke’s gold medal in Morocco was won in the pommel horse event and he could have secured gold on horizontal bar if not for the mistake he made: “So I’m just making sure I don’t make that same mistake ever again.” The parallel bars apparatus is also Eke’s strong point and he settled for a bronze medal in the event at the African Games in 2019. However, Eke is also working hard for the other three events so he could also take a shot at reaching the men’s individual all-around final as the men’s qualification at Tokyo 2020 is scheduled for July 24, a day after the opening ceremony, at the Ariake Gymnastic Centre. On the possibility of winning gold in Tokyo, Eke simply said: “I’m speechless. I imagine it, you know. It would be like ‘wow! I put my whole life towards this and I did it. If I get a gold medal I’m coming straight back to Nigeria with it, and I’ll say we are building a gym now.” Eke has pledged his commitment to the development of gymnastics in Nigeria and he hopes to be an inspiration to the country’s younger generation of gymnasts while also attracting investments to the sport. “I want to get into branding; I want to find some sponsorship. I want to help excel in gymnastics not just for myself but for everyone,” he noted. Even After the Tokyo Olympic Games, Eke is still eager to compete at the 50th   FIG Artistic Gymnastics World Championships and then the 2022 Commonwealth Games in Birmingham before considering quitting the sport. On his recent visit to Nigeria, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, applauded Eke, for emerging the first ever gymnast from the West Africa region to qualify for the Olympic Games. Dare assured Eke that the Ministry will give all the necessary support by taking over his preparations for Tokyo 2020 Games. “Nigeria Sports Development is on a new trajectory driven powerfully by individual athletes with excellent performances and no person better symbolizes or sign-posts the future of our sports development than this young 23- year old youth, Uche Eke.  “Watching his documentary on BBC and CNN over and over, I knew this determination came from his heart. I then realised that if most of our youth can immerse their successes within Nigerian just like Eke, who said he loves the Nigerian flag, then his highest form of patriotism should resonate with all,” Dare said. “When it comes to sports, what drives excellence is the spirit of patriotism that makes you want to excel for your country.” “I want to congratulate you first because you have brought to form the nexus between education and sports which is what America and Europe preaches, graduating with a first class from University of Michigan while also excelling in gymnastics. “Two years ago you won Nigeria our first ever Gymnastics Gold Medal at the 2019 All African Games in Morocco and now the first gymnast from the West African region to qualify for the Olympics. This shows your discipline, consistency, dedication and determination which has brightened our journey to the Olympics. We are proud of every young one who is putting our nation on the world map in sports.” Eke who was accompanied by his father Daniel Eke thanked the minister for his support, while assuring that he will remain focused. “Each time I go out there to compete, seeing the President of the Gymnastic Federation of Nigeria, I feel the whole of Nigeria is with me. I appreciate the Minister for all he is doing for the Nigerian youth and sports development. I pledge my commitment to remain focused at the Olympics and I’m going to make Nigerians proud,” Eke said. Yet despite his involvement in sport, Eke is excelling in academics. Eke graduated from UMSI with a 4.0 GPA in his UX design studies and earned a Margaret Mann Award recognizing exceptional academic ability and professional promise — all while training with Michigan Gymnastics to represent Nigeria in the 2020 Olympics. At the same time, Eke said he was “falling in love with computing” in a very organic way, trying to learn how to hack and manipulate computer games with his older brother. Interests in computer science stuck with Eke as he grew up in Brookeville, Maryland, and his father encouraged him to pursue computer science engineering in high school. After learning how to balance competition with coursework while earning his BSE in computer science engineering, Eke decided to stick around and go for a master’s at Michigan after his senior year ended in 2019. At first, Eke said he was only interested in applying to the master’s program in computer science engineering — until he started examining his goals and talking to professors in both the Masters of Science in Engineering (MSE) and Masters of Science in Information (MSI) programs. “My end goal isn’t for me to be a hard-core programmer,” Eke said. “I love to talk to people; I love to express my feelings for programming and to break it down to people. I like to create that shared understanding, because I have high technical skills from computer engineering and then within the MSI degree I’ll have the program management skills, the UX front-end skills and conversational skills.  “I also wanted something different,” he said. “I already have an engineering degree. I don’t like sitting there learning the same thing over and over. I like being brought new knowledge, so MSI fit perfectly with me, and I really love the community here.” Eke has also been able to offer support to fellow UMSI students as a graduate student instructor (GSI) while training and maintaining his perfect 4.0 GPA. After his experiences as a student athlete trying to keep up with coursework on the go, he’s been able to empathize with the struggles of remote learning while working with students during the pandemic. Leveraging technological tools like Zoom’s screen sharing functions has made it easier, he said. And someday, after his gymnastics career is over, he hopes to utilize his MSI degree working on apps that center and benefit users as well. “Starting January 2022, I want to be working with my degree because I really do love programming and project management, so I want to use my skills as much as I can,” he said. “I want to do software engineering and mobile app development.” “That’s exactly what I want to do, this class is exactly my career path and this is what brought me into MSI,” he said. “That’s everything I dreamed of my work life being, where you can talk to the client as well as program and deliver something to the client using agile methodology.” And as he approaches the biggest moment of his athletics career, Eke considers the legacy he’s built so far and what he wants afterward. “I know that I’m ready to start life. I’m just saying ‘life’ because it’s a whole different lifestyle,” he said. “If I compete in the Olympics, I will most likely go to the World Championships. But there needs to be a point where I know that I’m done, and I want to leave that legacy that if I can do it, everyone can.” 