Former President Olusegun Obasanjo on Friday inaugurated a 1kilometre flyover at Ikot Oku Ikono, Uyo constructed by the administration of Governor Udom Emmanuel. Obasanjo, who was special guest of honour at the commissioning ceremony, said completion of a 1kiliometre flyover during the prevailing global economic recession was worth celebrating in any part of the world. He commended Emmanuel for initiating and completing the project before the stipulated two years. He stated the Governor has lived up his professional background as a sound manager of finances and economy. The former President said that he did not make any mistake in 2019 when he supported the Governor for a second term in office as he has not let him down. ”My performing Governor, my action Governor . About two and half years ago when I came here and you asked the good people of Akwa Ibom State to give you a second opportunity to lead the state and you told me what you have done and what you have in mind to do. I didn’t hesitate to tell Akwa Ibom people to support you. ”In time of scarcity, that is when you know a good a manager of resources. Your success does not stop with your economic and social development to your people but it would be measured by your succession because success without a good a succession is hollow. “I pray and pray again that you would have a good successor,” the former President said. He described himself lucky to have seen the flyover built along Olusegun Obasanjo Way, a road previously named after him in 2016 by Victor Attah’s administration. Governor Emmanuel said the execution of the project was a not a show of affluence but prudence in the management of the increasing dwindling resources. According to him, at the last Federation Account meeting, a little more than $1 billion was shared to more than 200 million Nigerians. ” When people see us commission projects like this, they think we have money. We don’t because it is now extremely difficult for some Governors to even pay salaries. So we are not celebrating excess wealth but a result of creativity,” he said. He promised to award contracts for reconstruction of the adjourning roads and bypasses damages by the diverted vehicular traffic while work on the flyover was ongoing in the past two years. The Governor also said his administration would kickstart the inauguration of several dual carriage roads such as Ikot Ekpene-Uyo Road and Eket remodelling project. Commissioner for works, Prof Eno Ibanga, explained the project commenced on July 15, 2019 and since it was billed to be completed in two years, the State had even surpassed the deadline because COVID-19 disrupted its progress for several months.