  Troops have stormed Kaduna forest in search of Emir of Kajuru Alhaji Alhassan Adamu and 10 members of his family kidnapped at the weekend. The emir’s abduction is another in the series of abductions in Kaduna in the last one week. The situation has turned Kaduna to epicenter of abductions in the country, especially of school children. Last week, the state police command said more than 250 school children had been kidnapped in the state in the last one year. In addition to the troops combing the forests, the police command said they are expecting the Inspector-General of Police Tactical Unit to give them technical support. A statement by the spokesman of the Kaduna State command, Muhammed Jalige, said: “The Kaduna Police Command through the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Kajuru, Kaduna is in receipt of an unfortunate report on the kidnap of the Chief of Kajuru, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Alhassan Adamu in the early hours of today, 11th July 2021. “The incident occurred about 0234hrs when armed wielding bandits in large numbers invaded Kajuru town, shot sporadically and gained access into the Chief’s residence where they abducted him and 10 members of his immediate family to an unknown destination. ”Notwithstanding, the Joint patrol of the Police Mobile Force (PMF), conventional Police, and the Nigerian Army attached to Kajuru LGA are currently engaged in search and rescue mission around the forest for a possible rescue of the victims while IGP’s Tactical units have been contacted for technical support.” A source close to the Emir had told journalists that some of the abducted persons  were  aides of the Emir . He also said  that  the Emir summoned a security meeting on Saturday in which he disclosed a threat to kidnap him. However, two nurses kidnapped 80 days ago from Idon General Hospital in Kajuru local government regained their freedom.  A  family member of one of the nurses confirmed their release to journalists yesterday. He said the  bandits collected   N10.5 million, two motorcycles, five mobile phones, and airtime worth N6,000 as ransom. “We received the good news on Saturday that they have been released at Idon but we’re yet to receive them,”  he added. But it was gathered that the nurses are in sound health at an undisclosed facility in the state. In Ogun State, five persons  were arrested by the Police   in connection with  the abduction  of an – eight-year-old boy,  Sadiq Abass. The Nation also  gathered  yesterday that a  Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Elijah  Wada,  who was kidnapped by Boko Haram in Borno State    was freed last Thursday. Elijah was abducted June 30, 2021, along the  Biu/Damboa road where he mistakenly followed while on his way to Damaturu, Yobe State. A cleric, who spoke unanimously said: “The news of the freedom of our brother is true. We thank God for his life. We are grateful to God for the cheering news.” No official statement has been issued by the Catholic Diocese of Maiduguri but some parishioners welcomed his release via social media platforms. Another official of the church told The Nation that the Bishop will soon communicate with the press on the matter. In Ogun State, the police  arrested Abdul  Umar, Falalu Abubakar, Danjuma Bako,   Idris Lawal and Fauziya Falalu in connection with the abduction of Master Abass. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state,  Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement yesterday. He  said that detectives   stormed the hideout of the suspects arrested them and rescued the boy unhurt. Abass’ father, who gave his name simply as Rilwan, had told the Police that the kidnappers demanded N3.5 million  as ransom from him.