Super Eagles Captain, Ahmed Musa’s decision to play for Kano Pillars, his home club before hitting fame and fortune abroad, seems to have injected new life into the Nigerian local league.  The stands are getting packed again, reminiscent of the 1970s to 1990s. Though Musa’s Kano Pillars encore is stop-gap  — to keep match fit, pending the time he signs another lucrative foreign contract — his move has been hailed as both salutary and patriotic. Still, the crowd upsurge has come with worrying and condemnable hooliganism, with Musa himself in the vortex of one of such ugly incidents. On June 13, a Sunday, Musa’s Pillars were hosting Akwa United.  The match was goalless until the 85th minute, when the homers scored a goal, that seemed would gross them the three points.  But the referee ruled it as offside — and hell broke loose! Irate home fans, gunning for the match officials, invaded the pitch. In the ensuing  melee, Musa and co scrambled into the safety of the dressing room!  That somewhat aborted the match.  But after playing the remaining five minutes the next morning, it still ended goalless. For that outrage, the League Management Company (LMC), organisers of the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL), fined Pillars N5 million (for breaching COVID-19 protocol), N2.5 million (for dangerous and unruly behaviour) and ordered a deduction of three points, from their tally, at the end of the season — all subject to good conduct, for the remainder of the season.  Otherwise, they risk more severe punishment. The second incident, two weeks later on June 27, was much worse: for it resulted in bodily harm of players.  Plateau United home fans, upset that visiting Enyimba FC of Aba were cruising to a goalless draw, pounced on the visiting team, after the final whistle.  When the dust cleared, the Enyimba duo of Danladi Timothy (defender) and Sabirou Bassa-Djeri (goalkeeper) were wounded — one hit on the forehead. “Please, what type of football league will allow this to happen, merely because the visiting team got a draw?” the Abia State government, home state of the club, queried on its official Facebook page.  The unasked question: had they won, what worse fate would have awaited the away team? Savagery in football, which though is an emotional game, must be totally condemned and decried by all. On the Kano Pillars incident, Musa expressed a similar reservation: “In a bid to be patriotic or represent our home country,” he explained, “some of us decided to play for the league with pleasure … It is imperative to add that a lot still needs to be done to keep our football growing …” Yes — and the first thing is to scale up security on match days: to root out all forms of violence and hooliganism.  Better security is first preference: matches must never end up in chaos.  But if prevention fails, then teams, home or away, whose fans exhibit unsportsmanlike conducts, must face sanctions, so severe such conduct becomes absolutely unattractive. In the 1970s and early 1980s, English ball fans exported into mainland Europe rare but widely decried football violence, powered by booze.  But via technology, most of these match-day barbarians were weeded off the stands, so much so that English football has regained its soul.  Both the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) and the LMC may explore similar technologies.  If that means banning, for life, these violent characters, so be it. But beyond match-day violence, players’ welfare must be paramount.  Crowded stands could have had their downside in crowd violence. But prospects are also there: packed stands are tantamount to packed markets.  If well managed, increased revenues from spectator takings and stadium advert panels, not to mention TV sponsorship earnings (always part of the deal), could give players, coaches and other support staff the income they crave and deserve. The present sorry situation where many players and coaches don’t know when their next pay would come is depressing and absolutely unacceptable.  Football is business and it should contribute its fair share to the GDP.  Better management and funding should also translate to better and safer travel arrangements; and better insurance packages for players, not to talk of retirement packages for their post-football years. Thanks to the likes of Ahmed Musa — like the late Rashidi Yekinni before him — Nigerian stadia are roaring back to life.  But this local football renaissance should come with better management of that business, better security on match days, and of course, better officiating — which were largely missing in yesteryear local football.  This mix could well deliver prosperity for the ball market folks, across the board.