Africa’s rapidly-growing cities and food markets with a turnover of up to $250 billion yearly offer the largest opportunity to consumers. But ensuring food safety in them remains a challenge, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Africa’s rapidly-growing cities and food markets with a turnover of up to $250 billion yearly offer an opportunity for consumers. But for consumers to take advantage of the huge opportunity, there is a need for improved urban food systems governance, and food safety regulations and enforcement. According to the International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI), Africa suffers from the highest per capita rate of foodborne illnesses in the world. It added that food products sold in formal marketplaces and retail outlets are not safer than those sold in informal markets. “Improvements in urban food safety will require intentioned investments in domestic market infrastructure and improved awareness of the shared responsibility to provide safe food by regulators and value chain actors.” One of those who have expressed concerned about the standards of food safety in urban markets is  the founder, Safe Food and Feed Foundation, Prof Dele Fapohunda said. A global report said an estimated 600 million in the world fall ill after eating contaminated food and 420,000 die yearly, resulting in the loss of 33 million disability adjusted life years (DALYs). Buoyed by this and other reports, Fapohunda has been campaigning for improved safety regulation and enforcement. According to him, safety in the urban food market should be one of the key areas of focus in public health, as the food supply chain deals with safeguarding the system from the introduction of hazardous microbial and chemical agents. To address this, he suggested: “Improved extension services, regulations to attain and sustain standards, capacity building for food producers and processors. Regulations are to include strict monitoring that will embrace recalls and rejects. Solutions that can allow on- site testing will facilitate standards.” World Bank Consultant, Prof Abel Ogunwale agreed. While he canvassed more efforts to improve the competitiveness of small-scale farmers, the university don maintained that government must enhance quality and safety standards in a variety of crop value chains, sold in urban markets. He stressed: “They should enforce food safety regulations in all urban markets, and apply fines on defaulters to ensure compliance.” Food safety plays an important part in the aeroponics approach to agriculture, according to the Team Lead at Eupepsia Place Limited (Soilless Farm Lab), Samson Ogbole. For him, the aeroponics grown greenhouse vegetables have an inherent food safety advantage compared to open field farming. With more frequent foodborne illness outbreaks linked to conventionally grown leafy greens, retailers and shoppers are looking to him to deliver a reliable supply of fresh, clean and safe produce year round.  Consequently, there are ongoing measures aimed to improve food safety in urban markets across Lagos State. Recently, the government dislodged 10 more illegal slaughter slabs and animal markets at Ayobo, Ipaja; Oko Filling, Ikorodu; Odoguyan Road, Ikorodu; and Mangoro, Old Abeokuta Expressway axis of the state. The  Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms. Abisola Olusanya, explained that the exercise was in continuation of the state government’s sanitisation and reform of the red meat value chain with the goal of producing wholesome meat for the consumption of its citizenry. She said during the exercise, which was carried out by men of the Monitoring, Enforcement and Compliance Team of her ministry, no fewer than 21 live rams, 13 live goats and 4.5 tonnes of meat carcass were confiscated. Olusanya added that the confiscated meat carcass was donated to the Bab-Es-Salam Home, GRA, Ikeja; the Real Woman Foundation, Magodo; and the Love Home Orphanage, CMD Road, Magodo, Shangisha. The commissioner noted that seized animals would be auctioned at the Mobile Court of the Lagos State Task Force on Environmental Sanitation and Special Offences Office with offenders prosecuted, stressing that there would be no option of fine to serve as deterrent to others. “During the week, officials of the Monitoring, Enforcement and Compliance Team (MEC) of the State dislodged four illegal slaughter slabs and animal markets at Ayobo-Ipaja, Odogunyan and Maya in Ikorodu, and Mangoro, Old Abeokuta Expressway. “During the operation, 21 live rams, 13 live goats and well over 4.5 tonnes of meat carcass were confiscated and the meat carcass, after being certified safe for consumption, were donated to orphanages and correctional homes. “We will recall that the State’s Monitoring, Enforcement and Compliance Team resumed its activities on Monday, 19th April, 2021 in continuation of the State Government’s sanitization and reform of the red meat value chain with the goal of producing wholesome meat for the consumption of its citizenry. “It has been observed that animals slaughtered at these illegal slaughter slabs are not inspected by veterinary officials, as a result, the wholesomeness cannot be vouched for; hence the need for officials of the MEC Team to continue the dislodgement exercise,” Olusanya averred. The Commissioner also enjoined those who breed animals within their residences to restrain and prevent their pets from roaming the streets as these animals not only constitute a nuisance to public health, but also destroy the aesthetics created by the State Government to beautify the City adding that any stray animal confiscated by the MEC Team would be auctioned. Olusanya, therefore, urged animal health practitioners, cold room operators and meat shop operators to register with the Veterinary Services Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and obtain their licences, stressing that quackery would not be tolerated.