The new management of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has assured Nigerians of its resolve to steer away the agency from its controversial past and build a new future in line with the Employees’ Compensation Act of 2010. This assurance was given by the new Managing Director, Dr. Michael Akabogu, when he reacted to last week’s indictment of the agency by the Senate for allegedly misappropriating N84 billion. Akabogu said: “The cardinal focus of this new management is to ensure proper conduct of the affairs of the agency as the only way to restore the confidence of the Nigerian public in the administration of  funds, in accordance to its mandate. “Any deviation from this well laid path to efficient and honest stewardship is a return to the dark days, which we collectively assured President Muhammadu Buhari and the people of Nigeria, through the minister of labour and employment, the day we were inaugurated, that we shall sacrifice anything to guard against,” he said. The NSITF boss said the recent development has nothing to do with the current management, which according to him, has charted a fresh direction to make good out of the bad record of the agency. He said: “We are creating a new future for the NSITF. What the Senate Public Account Committee did is in exercise of its statutory oversight function but it is equally important to inform the public that what the committee probed is a cumulation of financial violations by successive management  that ran the agency between 2012 and 2020. This is important to clear ambiguity and forestall wrong finger pointing. “It is also essential that note is taken of the fact that some of the shortcomings which the Senate raised in its findings such as the unapproved salary structure, has been redressed in 2019 when the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission gave its approval to the structure. “As a matter of fact, the infractions that formed the basis of the indictment by the Senate are negative trails of financial breaches which also have been variously probed since the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation raised its flag in 2015. “The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has probed and taken former chairman of the board and five other senior officials including the then managing director and three directors to court while recovering huge sums of money and property. Other indicted staff members were removed from office. “There was also the Administrative Panel of Inquiry led by C.K. Awotu, set up by the minister of labour and employment in 2017 which made far reaching recommendations. “And the Presidential Joint Board and Audit Investigation Panel of 2020 which also led to the sack of the immediate past managing director, three executive directors and other members of the senior management team. So, there are no new sins being investigated, just as we commit to the enthronement of transparency and accountability in all we do,” he said.