Obi Cubana has been trending following the show of affluence on the occasion of his late mother’s funeral and burial ceremonies. The 46-year-old nightlife boss, who lost his mother in December 2020 and recently had her immortalised with a pendant and neckpiece worth $100,000, succeeded in announcing his village to the world. · The popular businessman, Obi Cubana was born Obinna Iyiegbu on 12th April 1975 in Anambra and hails from Oba in Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State. · Obi Cubana is the fourth child and last son of his parents. · He attended Central Primary School where he obtained his First School Leaving Certificate. He obtained his West Africa Secondary School Certificate at Dennis Memorial Grammar School. · Obi Cubana graduated from the University of Nigeria Nsukka in 1998 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science. · Obi Cubana’s career started in 2006 as he founded a Club called Ibiza Club in Abuja as he sought to satisfy fun seekers. · Following the remarkable success he made from Ibiza club, he established Cubana, a hospitality club that provides all-round entertainment and satisfaction in 2009. · Cubana was first established in Owerri, Imo State. Today, it has spread across various states in the country including Lagos, Abia and Enugu. · He is chairman of Cubana Group and works with like-minds to aid the further growth of the Cubana Group like Paschal Okechukwu, who is the General Manager of Cubana, Owerri and others. · He is currently working on Cubana Dubai and Cubana Real Estate. · He is married to Ebele Iyiegbu, aka Lush Eby who is a lawyer by profession and they are blessed with four kids whom are all boys. · The socialite has worn several awards and recognition across the country including “Democracy Heroes Award” 2018 as “Democracy Entrepreneur” of the year, “Ghana-Nigeria Achievers Award” as “Inspiring Personality Award, 2017 and several others. · The nightlife boss owns several mansions across the country with couple of exotic cars from Mercedes Benz 4matic S40, 2 Lexus LX, Bentley and others. · Obi Cubana’s net worth is estimated at $500,000,000. · The motto of his business is “The World is Yours.” · His clubs across the country are worth over $2billion.