 SIR: Patriarchy is still alive and kicking in Igbo land. There are many instances or examples that prove that patriarchy exists in Igbo land. Inheritance of properties by children of a deceased man is patrilineal rather than matrilineal. And, in spite of the Nigeria’s apex court ruling that female children are as entitled to inheriting their father’s properties and belongings as the male children, the patrilineal way of inheritance still subsists. To see a female governor in Nigeria is a rarity, now, although few had become governors of their states by default; not by securing thumping governorship victories at the polls. In Anambra State, we still remember the circumstances that threw up Dame Virgy Etiaba as governor, briefly. Now, the next Anambra State governorship election is getting nearer with the passage of time. And not a few people, including tested and experienced female politicians, had thrown their hats into the ring with regard to the next Anambra governorship election. And Chief Mrs. Uche Ekwunife, a lawmaker in the National Assembly, is one of the female politicians who want to rule Anambra State. In the past, Ekwunife had worsted renowned politicians in electoral battles to prove that she is a political big cheese. That Uche Ekwunife didn’t win the PDP governorship ticket attests to the fact that patriarchy reigns supreme in Anambra State. Even if she had won the PDP governorship ticket, she would not have been acceptable to the Anambra populace and electorate based on the fact that she is a woman. A lot of Anambra natives, including highly educated women, are wont to say that Anambra is not ready for a female governor; that women are the weaker sex; that the leadership of a state is meant for men; and not women, whose urine cannot travel in a jet straight line. Others would advise her to return home and take charge of the culinary and domestic duties there as a woman’s place is in the kitchen. This asinine misconception of the roles of women in a modern society is a hindrance to the emergence of a female president in Nigeria and female governors in the states of the federation. We are apparently still trapped in the provincial cocoon of cultural conservatism and seized with atavistic mindset that a woman cannot become a governor in Anambra State. But Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has become the Director General of the World Trade Organization (WTO), and Chimamanda Adichie, a globally recognized novelist, is already in reckoning for the Nobel Prize for Literature someday. The successes of the aforementioned women should embolden the ilk of Ekwunife and Chidi Onyemelukwue to strive hard and break the political glass ceiling and become the next governor of Anambra State. Their governorship electoral victory at the polls will go a long way in weakening the asphyxiating grip of patriarchy on Igbo society. Uruowulu – Obosi, Anambra State