  Tears flowed and tributes continued to pour yesterday at the Synagogue Church of All Nations (SCOAN) in Ikotun, Lagos State, as the late Founder of the church, Prophet Temitope Balogun (T. B.) Joshua, was laid in state. Joshua died after a church service at SCOAN on June 5, a week to his 58 birthday anniversary. He will be buried today. The lying-in-state was part of his burial rites as announced by SCOAN. The church’s leaders had told reporters on June 29 that July 5 to July 11 would be dedicated for a series of Joshua’s “laying to rest” activities, tagged: Celebrating the Life and Legacy of Prophet Joshua (1963 to 2021). The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports hundreds of people from different cultures and countries lined up yesterday to pay their last respects to the SCOAN founder. The Manager of Super Sport, DSTV, Mr. Felix Awogu, told reporters that the late Joshua had been a major financier of sports in Nigeria. He said the preacher pulled the national team out of a financial crisis during the 2013 Nation’s Cup. According to him, the prophet donated a huge sum of money to the national team to support the project. The Founder of Belema Oil Producing Limited, Mr. Tein Jack-Rich, and his wife, Elizabeth, described the late prophet as a kind and great philanthropist. Pastor Modesta Montero from Ecuador said the SCOAN founder helped his community to rebuild a school that was destroyed by earthquake. He said the late Joshua donated $400,000 to the school and built an information technology centre for the community. Montero added that Joshua taught him that “Christian life is practical and should be lived out of love for others”. NAN reports that there was a large crowd outside the church premises as people waited patiently for their turns to see the prophet for the last time. The programme was anchored by two comedians, Mr. Gbenga Adeyinka and K. C. Brown, who invited special attendees to the podium to speak about Joshua’s life. Also, in a tribute, Joshua’s widow, Evelyn, said her 31 years of marriage to the late prophet was not without trials. She said that her husband taught her to understand that trials strengthened children of God.  “For gold to become gold, it must pass through fire,” she said. Evelyn recalled her husband’s dedication to his ministry, saying: “You grew the church from an eight-member assembly sitting on a mat to the level we are today. “You grew me to be the woman I am today. I stand here today to say thank you for choosing me, caring for me and nurturing me. “Thank you for being a good father to the children, thank you for shielding me from those who were bent on soiling our lives; you were undeterred.” She said that her husband spent his life on things that would outlive him. Evelyn said her husband’s death was peaceful, but regretted that he would no longer be seen on earth. The late prophet’s first daughter, Mrs. Sarah Joshua-Moshi, said her father taught her everything she knew about the Word of God. She said her father created time to care for her and her siblings. “He told me that the work of God is beautiful. Indeed you lived a life of sacrifice till your last moment on earth. “I will truly miss your conversations with me. I will truly miss your wisdom,” she said. His son-in-law, Mr. Brian Moshi, said the late Joshua lived an exemplary life of service to God and humanity. Moshi said that his father-in-law could do many things at the same time. “You were a great teacher, yet a good student, a lion, yet a lamb. “I have doubted so many times if you were human; you never waited for tomorrow to accomplish what could be done today,” Moshi said. A number of foreigners attended the event. Pastor Jorge Arevalo from Honduras and a Ghanaian, Mr. Ebenezer First-Quao, read a biography of the late SCOAN founder. In the biography, they read how the late prophet attained great heights from a humble beginning.  