The capital market remained resilient in the first half, with more than N5 trillion in capital raising. The completion of the demutualisation of the stock exchange system highlights paradigm shifts in operating environment, but a far-running bearishness at the secondary market leaves investors with gaping holes. Improvements in regulatory environment, new product development and technologies provide a balance view of a reassuring outlook. Deputy Group Business Editor, Taofik Salako reports  The capital market was a mixed-grill in the first half with increased primary market activities and improved operating environment counterbalanced by a trillion-dragging bearishness in the secondary market. Riding on the back of market-wide advancement in technologies, which allows almost full remote operations of the market, the capital market continued to operate unhindered, despite the continuing COVID-19 restrictions.  Supporting growth Preliminary reports indicated that some N5 trillion were raised during the six-month period by governments and companies, more than a double of total capital raising in 2020.The capital raiser cut across several asset classes including debts and equities and from several issuers, including the Federal Government, state governments and companies. A breakdown of the fund-raising entities showed five broad categories- Federal Government, state governments, quoted companies, fund management finds and special purpose vehicles (SPVs).  The first half 2021 primary market performance further illustrated resilience of the capital market to continued to provide critical funding in debts and equities to governments and companies, after the market braced the COVID-19 lockdowns and disruptions in 2020 to pool more than N2 trillion funding. The domestic debt market has been most supportive of the government’s efforts to bridge deficit financing, in the face of fluctuating revenue and foreign investors’ apathy. Every month, the federal government issued its Federal Government of Nigeria Savings Bonds (FGNSBs), providing a predictable pattern of debt capital inflow. With other short-term to long-term issuances, the Federal Government accounted for the largest part of new issues. Other public sector issuers included Lagos State Government and Kogi State Government. Corporate issuers included BUA Cement, Fidelity Bank, Flour Mills of Nigeria, Transcorp Hotel and Sunu Assurances Plc. There were also many maiden issues by companies including debt issuances by Me cure Industries and Emzor Pharmaceuticals.  Bears on prowl Rising inflation, declining disposable incomes and consumer purchasing power, currency risk and foreign investors’ nervousness, however, stoked a sell-off that saw investors in quoted equities losing N1.24 trillion within the six-month period ended June 30, 2021. Benchmark indices for Nigerian equities showed average negative return of -5.869 per cent, equivalent to net capital depreciation of N1.24 trillion. The first half performance counteracted average full-year return of 50.03 per cent recorded in full-year 2020, when investors netted capital gain of N6.483 trillion. The benchmark All Share Index (ASI) of the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited, which s widely regarded as Nigeria’s sovereign equity index and a barometer for measuring pricing trend and investors’ mood, closed the first half down by 2,363.44 points to 37, 907.28 points, as against the year’s opening index of 40,270.72 points. Expectedly, aggregate market value of all quoted equities at the NGX also declined from 2021’s opening value of N21.057 trillion to close the six-month period at N19.760 trillion, representing a drop of N1.297 trillion or 6.16 per cent. The difference between the ASI and market value was due mainly to unadjusted impact of delisting of some quoted companies during the period. There were fewer safe havens for investors across the sectors of the economy. The two highly influential sectors of banking and industrial manufacturing underperformed the overall average value index.  The NGX Industrial Goods Index and NGX Banking Index recorded six-month returns of -8.09 per cent and -6.92 per cent. Nigeria’s largest and most active stocks are listed under the industrial goods and banking sectors. The NGX  Lotus Islamic Index- which tracks the emerging alternative Islamic finance market, depreciated by 5.53 per cent while the NGX Consumer Goods Index, which tracks major consumer goods manufacturers dropped by 0.31 per cent. With running apprehension over Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) currency management amid sundry emerging market risks, foreign portfolio investors continued to show apathy to Nigerian securities, continuing the running deficit of more outflows than inflows. Total foreign portfolio outflows of N107.22 billion, for the five-month period between January and May 2021, the latest available figures, outpaced foreign portfolio inflows of N91.32 billion during the period. The naira depreciated by an average of N34.08 or about 7.5 per cent against the dollar while the country’s foreign exchange (forex) reserves declined by about $3 billion within the six-month period. The naira dropped from its opening rate of N380 per dollar, at official market, to close first half at N410.16 per dollar, a depreciation of 7.3 per cent. Expectedly, it simultaneously depreciated from N465 to dollar to N503 to dollar at the parallel market, a drop of 7.6 per cent. Foreign exchange (forex) reserves which stood at $36.37 billion on December 31, 2020 closed June 28, 2021 at $33.4 billion. The decline at the secondary equities market was also partly driven by gradual recovery at the fixed-income markets, luring inflation-scare investors to the safety of increasingly attractive sovereign issuances and other fixed-income assets. Inflation rose from 15.75 per cent last December to 17.93 per cent this May. Most analysts attributed the decline to the tough global and national macroeconomic conditions, with national reforms tracking below expectations. Chief Executive Officer, Sofunix Investment and Communications, Sola Oni, said the performance of the stock market in the first half year was moderated by foreign investors’ apathy following devaluation of the naira and inflationary pressure as well as insecurity. “The extent to which the challenges of the first half are addressed will determine transaction mode of the second half. But discerning investors who seek professional advice from their securities dealers will always recoup his investment, regardless of the nature of the operating environment,” Oni said. Managing Director, Highcap Securities Limited, Mr. David Adonri, said the stock market was on self-correction in first half after the rally last year. “That rally was baseless and provoked by expansionary monetary policies of CBN and NESP. With recovery in the debt market, there has been a sustained correction in equities despite improving macroeconomic conditions. “This correction will fizzle out in due course but the ambitious debt financing program of FGN can truncate this expectation,” Adonri said. Market Analyst and Stockbroker, Calyxt Securities Limited, Mr. Tunde Oyediran  said the market might witness further decline, in the absence of any coordinated policies to address the challenges. “Except for deliberate government policies and actions that will address the lingering security challenges and its attendant problems, the market may experience further drop. But towards the year end we may experience market recovery,” Oyediran said.  Paradigm shifts The completion of the demutualisation of the defunct Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) from a mutual, member-owned company to a public limited liability company highlighted major changes in the operating environment in the first half. Under the demutualisation, a new non-operating holding company, the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc (NGX Group) was born with three operating subsidiaries: Nigerian Exchange Limited (NGX Limited), the operating exchange; NGX Regulation Limited (NGX REGCO), the independent regulation company; and NGX Real Estate Limited (NGX RELCO), the real estate company. The first half saw the momentous completion of the final stages of the demutualisation; including allotment and listing of shares and the effective take off of the new operating structure.The demutualisation process was launched in 2002 with the approval-in-principle of the conversion by the council of the Exchange. On the back of the successful demutualisation, NGX Group launched a campaign to project its new positioning and commitment to the African financial markets. Themed, The stock Africa is made of, the campaign amplified NGX Group’s new brand identity and spotlight the growth potential of the African continent. Group Chief Executive Officer, NGX Group Plc, Mr. Oscar Onyema, said the campaign was designed to reinforce the message that the Exchange is fully equipped and better positioned to champion the development of new and improved experiences for the benefit of domestic, regional and foreign stakeholders. The NGX had earlier launched a full automated securities listing system that allows submission and processing of application for securities listing, in a major effort that enhances the liquidity and cost efficiency of the market. The e-filing portal, known as X-Filing, came on the heels of recent upgrade to the NGX Issuers’ Portal, X-Issuer. X-Filing is a fully integrated, secure web interface designed to enable the submission and processing of securities listing applications online. The portal provides stockbrokers and other accredited sponsors with a simple, efficient and convenient way to submit securities listing applications on behalf of issuers as well as enable the Exchange to process the applications online, saving time and resources. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) also granted NG Clearing Limited approval to launch clearing and settlement of Exchange traded derivative products, as the financial markets’ Central Counterparty Clearing House (CCP). NG Clearing’s role as a CCP in Nigeria’s financial ecosystem is to ensure safety of the market by managing counterparty credit risk, which in turn, reduces systemic risk in the Nigerian capital market, by guaranteeing settlement of trades. NG Clearing was promoted by the NGX Group and Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc along with key stakeholders including Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), Access Bank Plc, Consonance Kuramo Special Opportunities I, Coronation Merchant Bank Limited, Greenwich Trust Limited, Union Bank of Nigeria (UBN) Plc, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc and Association of Securities Dealing Houses in Nigeria (ASHON). The emergence of CCP paved way for the forthcoming launch of West Africa’s first Exchange Traded Derivatives (ETDs) in Nigeria. A derivative is a contract between two or more parties whose value is based on an agreed-upon underlying financial asset or group of assets. Common underlying instruments include bonds, commodities, currencies, interest rates, market indices and stocks. Nigerian Exchange Limited has received approval for seven derivatives contracts from the SEC towards the end of the period. The approved contracts included Access Bank Plc Stock Futures, Dangote Cement Plc Stock Futures, Guaranty Trust Bank Plc Stock Futures, MTN Nigeria Communications Plc Stock Futures, Zenith Bank Plc Stock Futures, NGX 30 Index Futures, and NGX Pension Index Futures. With these approvals, NGX is inching closer to launch West-Africa’s first Exchange Traded Derivatives supported by NG Clearing in risk management. Chief Executive Officer, NGX, Mr. Temi Popoola, said the launch of the derivatives market aligns with commitment to build a market that thrives on innovation and responds to the needs of stakeholders in accessing and using capital. “We are, therefore, excited about the prospects of deepening Africa’s position in the global financial markets through ETDs, as well as enhancing liquidity and mitigating against price, duration and other financial risks that may arise from sophisticated financial transactional activities,” Popoola said. SEC also directed existing investment crowdfunding portals and digital commodities investment platforms to register their operations with the Commission or cease operations by June 30, 2021. In a tough regulatory action, the apex capital market regulator took over and appointed interim management team for the troubled DEAP Capital Management & Trust Plc. The appointment of interim management by SEC was sequel to the resignation of the entire board of DEAP Capital Management & Trust. During the period, the NGX also started the implementation of an amended regulatory framework with unequivocal and tougher rules and sanctions against diversion of investors’ funds, unauthorised use of investors’ deposits and mingling of investors’ funds with other operational funds. The delisting of four companies: Evans Medical Plc, Nigerian-German Chemical Plc, Roads Nigeria Plc and Unic Diversified Holdings Plc over poor corporate governance and failure to comply with extant rules at the stock market also showed illustrated the market’s focus on investors’ protection. The four companies were removed from the daily official list of the NGX with effect from Monday, June 14, 2021. The companies were delisted under the compulsory delisting window of the Exchange.  However, many companies also sought voluntary delisting, underlining the clamour for additional incentives to encourage listing. The transition of Nigeria’s largest financial services institution, Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank) to a holding company structure highlighted a new competitive trend in the banking industry, with many other major banks awaiting final transition to the holding structure. For the Nigerian capital market, the first half showed resilience but it was a mix of ups and downs, reflecting the ever-changing market cycles.  