 There would be déjà vu feelings and heightening excitement as the eagerly awaited 16th Round of the 2021 Higher Institutions Football League (HiFL) gets underway this month. Organised by PACE Sports and Entertainment Marketing Limited in collaboration with the Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) with  Nivea Men and Minimie as sponsors, the HiFL has brought fun to lovers of collegiate sports in Nigeria since its launch in 2018. At the start of this on-going edition,25 teams spread across five groups participated in the qualifiers to produce a cast of 16 teams including KSU Steelers, UNIMAID Desert Warriors, FUTMINNA Transformers, ABU Nobles and LAUTECH Hunters. Also in the mix are  FUTA Tigers, UNIBEN Royals, AAUA Luminaries, IAUE Minders and UNN Lions. The remaining schools are BUK Stallions, UNICAL Malabities, UNILORIN Warriors, OAU Giants, UAM Tillers and the UNILAG Marines. “People are becoming more interested in the HiFL and that is cheering,” OAU Giants’ coach Chike Egbunu explained. “Many were sceptical about the HiFL three years but now, the competition is gaining popularity and everybody wants to be a part of it.” Egbunu further praised the organisers for the continued progress of the HiFL: “I like the discipline surrounding the organisation of the HiFL and in this regard, I love the fact that if there are only ten teams that met the criteria at deadline they are ready to go ahead. “ Also,  I love the atmosphere so much and the games. The standard was tight, the competition was keen and the interest has been  high. “I like the officiating too because if the officiating was not fair and the home teams  lose, there would have been mayhem and it is interesting that two of the teams that hosted the qualifiers did not  even qualify but  nothing happened because the officiating was very fair,” he added. Yet Commenting on his teams qualification, the coach of the UNN Lions’ coach Ike Chijioke is more than pleased about his side’s passage to the Round of 18, adding the organisers had performed creditably well by sorting out the logistics of the participating teams. He said: “We are happy to be among the final 16 teams because it was not an easy thing especially when you are working with the students unlike clubs that are meant to train day-in-day-out. “We trained regularly towards our qualification and I’m particularly impressed that the organisers made available the necessary logistics to facilitate the success of the competition.” Meanwhile, coach of another Round of 16 contender,KSU Steelers’ Omachoko Idakwo, has praised both NUGA and Pace Sports , adding the  HiFL have exposed the students as well as serving as basis for friendship across all divides. “The students were happy participating in the qualifiers, even some of them are humbler than they were before the competition,” he hinted. “With the support of the Vice Chancellors of all the universities for the HiFL, the students will enjoy themselves, it will go beyond this because the friendship and the contacts they are making through their participation in the HiFL will be  good for them in the future.” Ahead of the explosive Round of 16, IAUE Minders’ coach  David Egbiri said his wards are girding their loins with their participation in the Port Harcourt League. A review of the activities of players in the league shows that most of the coaches are already looking beyond HiFL to ensure that while their players get fit, they are also exposed to other opportunities to grow their carrier. For instance, Coach of IAUE Minders David Egbiri, informed that “We are looking forward to the Round of 16 with optimism,” he said. “We are currently playing in the Port Harcourt League in order to keep the team in tip-top shape for the forthcoming 16th Round of the HiFL.”