A former Edo State’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Osagie Obayuwana, has declared that the re-arrest and continuation of trial of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Nnamdi Kanu, will not worsen the already-tensed security situation in Nigeria. He made the declaration yesterday in Benin, the Edo state capital, while interacting with select reporters. Obayuwana, who is also the National President, Committee for the Defence of Human Rights (CDHR), however, maintained that the IBOB’s leader remained innocent, until proven otherwise. He said: “If Nnamdi Kanu has any question to answer, he should face the trial and be cleared for once, while those who have what it takes to exonerate him should be prepared to do so. The fragile security situation in Nigeria is not an excuse not to proceed with his trial. All those who believe in the innocence of Nnamdi Kanu, who are supportive of his cause, should be prepared to go to the venue of his trial (Federal High Court, Abuja) to defend him. It is supposed to be a public trial. “Nelson Mandela had the opportunity to talk about what motivated him for the liberation struggle, while he rebelled against the system that indicted him in South Africa. We know how the case turned out. So, we are looking forward to a historical trial, a trial of the century. I believe that Nnamdi Kanu has a team of lawyers that will put up a defence that is available to him. Kanu should not be kept in the custody of the Department of State Services (DSS) or in prison for a long time than necessary. “The law requires proof beyond reasonable doubt. There are witnesses that are believable and credible, who are prepared to testify and be subjected to the rigours of cross examination. Nnamdi Kanu will also have the opportunity to defend himself and also call witnesses. So, it is going to be sensational. At the next adjourned date, the prosecution team should be ready to proceed, call witnesses, come forth with documents believed to be sufficient enough to prove the allegations that they have levelled against him.” The ex-attorney-general also stated that the issue of Kanu’s dual citizenship had nothing to do with his trial in Nigeria, while warning that the British government should not be dragged into the sensitive matter.