No fewer than 50 persons have been killed in fresh attacks by bandits in Zamfara and Kaduna states. Forty people were reportedly killed on Thursday in attacks on five communities in Faru district of Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The attacks were said to be the latest in the series of deadly assaults on the state’s rural communities by gunmen. The affected villages include Gudan Baushi, Gidan Adamu, Tsauni, Gudan Maidawa and Wari. The bandits were said to have stormed the communities on motorcycles and shot indiscriminately at the residents. Ten persons were also confirmed killed in Kaduna State by bandits in the early hours of Friday in Warkan village of Zangon Kataf LGA, as well as Kakkau area of Chikun LGA. Kaduna State Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Samuel Aruwan who confirmed the incidents, also said that, killing of other citizens in Kibori, Katsit and Afana in Zangon Kataf local government area, and Amana Kasuwa of Igabi LGA had equally been reported. The Security Commissioner also said that, five youths from Kafanchan town of Jema’a LGA were also reported missing on Friday  by the security agencies. In a statement he issued Friday evening, Aruwan said, “The governor of Kaduna State, Malam Nasir El-Rufai has condemned killings and disappearances of citizens in Zangon Kataf, Igabi, Chikun and Jema’a local government areas of the state. According to him, “Security agencies had previously reported killings of citizens in Kibori, Katsit and Afana in Zangon Kataf local government area, and Amana Kasuwa of Igabi LGA before reporting the killing of nine persons today Friday 9th July 2021 at Warkan village of Zangon Kataf LGA, and one person at Kakkau area of Chikun LGA. “The governor condoled the families that lost their loved ones and wished the citizens who sustained injuries speedy recovery. He also directed the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency to urgently assess damages at Warkan village and provide relief materials to the affected citizens. “The disappearance of five youths from Kafanchan town of Jema’a LGA was also reported today by the security agencies. “The governor appealed to the affected families to remain calm as security agencies are investigating the incidences. “As l am talking to you, security personnel have taken over the village trying to ensure confidence in the hearts of the people and to avert any further attack by the bandits.”