The Director-General, Lagos Chamber of Commerce & industry (LCCI) Dr Muda Yusuf has bowed out of the Chamber. This follows his retirement on the expiration of his tenure of office, having meritoriously served the Chamber for a total of 24 years with the last 13 years being in the capacity of Director General. Dr Chinyere Almona has been appointed to take over from him. LCCI, in a statement signed by LCCI President, Mrs Tiki Mabogunje described Dr Yusuf as an astute economist of repute who joined the services of the Chamber over two decades ago and rose to become its Director-General through hard work and unrivalled dedication to duty. According her, Dr Yusuf is a respected public commentator on macroeconomic issues, regulatory environment, economic reforms, policy and institutional reforms, trade policy issues and investment climate matters.  He has led numerous policy reform and engagement sessions on the business environment, investment climate issues and the ease of doing business in Nigeria’. The LCCI president said Dr. Yusuf will surely be missed by staff, members of the Chamber, partners, collaborators, the diplomatic community, and stakeholders in the media space for his sound economic and analytical prowess, which has contributed immensely to the effectiveness of public policy advocacy and the development of the economy. According to her though Yusuf has retired from LCCI, he is definitely not tired of contributing his quota to the prosperity of Nigeria, as the economic powerhouse of the African continent. “We shall continue to benefit from his expertise as he moves to the next stage of his endeavours,” she said. She said the appointment of Dr. Almona is an added value to the well-established profile of the Chamber. According to her, the new DG holds a Doctorate Degree in Business Administration from Business School Netherlands and brings with her, about 30 years of diversified experience through her various work experience roles. According to the LCCI president in her previous position, she led the Africa Corporate Governance Programme of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), which provided a wide range of corporate governance reforms across 13 African countries. She said as a published author, and an international speaker, the new DG will further transform and reposition the Chamber, in this season of the ‘new normal’, and enable it to maintain its position as a leading voice of the organised private