The federal government has launched a sensitisation programme called ‘National Policy on Inclusive Volunteerism for Nigeria’ in the northwest region to complement efforts in tackling challenges. At least 50 volunteers were drawn across the northwestern states during a two-day workshop held at Tahir Quest Palace, Kano. The Volunteerism programme was established in 2003 but suffered network across states. The Muhammadu Buhari administration has reawakened it with the aim of drawing volunteers across the country to complement the efforts of the federal government in tackling the myriads of socioeconomic, political and security challenges confronting the nation. In his address, the Permanent Secretary, Political and Economic Affairs Office, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Andrew David Adejo, said “the Nigerian government recognises volunteerism as a potential force and veritable tool capable of complementing government efforts towards national development. “Volunteerism is a universal human phenomenon that contributes important social and economic benefits to society. It is in this regard that the government has approved a comprehensive National Policy on Inclusive Volunteerism and its Action Plan for implementation. “The policy provides guidelines and direction for effective management of volunteerism in Nigeria. The government is also establishing a robust national volunteer database to be domiciled in the office of the SGF. “This workshop provides the opportunity for soliciting the support of public and private stakeholders to key in for effective implementation of the policy as well as mobilising volunteers to embrace the task and services for development under a guided policy framework.” Represented by Mrs. O. Dada, Adejo said the database will provide information on volunteerism in the country as well as a platform for registration and profiling of volunteers which could be easily deployed to render their services in various areas of needs. The United Nations Volunteers (UNV) Country Coordinator, Veronica Obiuwevbi, said there were currently over 8500 UN Volunteers serving with more than 50 United Nations partners worldwide. “And there are about 86,000 Nigerians registered on UNV global talent pool. Today, UN volunteers are working with 16 UN partners in Nigeria. And the 21st century practice of volunteerism is more sophisticated, scientific, development-driven and motivated by results,” she added. Secretary to the State Government of Kano, Alhaji Alhaji who, through a representative, declared the occasion opened, thanked the office of the SGF for selecting Kano among several equal deserving venues across the country to host the programme. Some of the participants said they have volunteered to assist the federal government in the area of tackling insecurity. Dalhatu Yusuf, another volunteer who came from Zamfara State, said he will assist Buhari’s efforts in the area of revitalising the nation’s economy, through local crafts.