An industrialist in Aboh, Ndokwa East Local Government Area of Delta State, Chief Tony Amechi, has described the Deputy Senate President, Ovie Omo-Agege, as the best experience for Delta State and the Niger Delta since democracy berthed in Nigeria in 1999. He was reacting to a statement credited to the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Edwin Oboh. Amechi described Oboh’s statement as disrespectful, mendacious and reckless. Oboh had described Omo-Agege as having a tendency for dictatorship and autocracy. But Amechi said the statement was ‘the most uncharitable thing to say about a man who is a senator beyond Delta Central district, winning where many lost’. The industrialist, who is the Onwa of Umusadege Utagba Uno, said: “Chief Oboh is unknown in Delta politics. His comment is lacking in moral rectitude. As a supposed retired senior civil servant, Chief Oboh ought to exude restraint in a manner that shows he is a technocrat. “In as much as the party needs to file its rough edges preparatory to the 2023 general elections, it is not enough to drag the person and Office of the Deputy Senate President to disrepute. It takes a man vast in the niceties of honour and respect for constituted authority to understand the need for decorum when the Office of the Deputy Senate President is in focus.” Amechi called on the party’s national leadership to intervene in the crisis rocking the party in the state. According to him, leaders in the state have their unfettered channels of communication outside what ‘ill-informed characters like Chief Oboh know’. He said leaders with dissenting views should lay their cards on the table for the progress of the party towards achieving victory at the polls in 2023. The industrialist urged Deltans to ignore ‘the vituperations and insurrections of the enemies of the people of Delta State’, saying as a high chief in Ndokwa, he is a witness to the leadership of Omo-Agege who ‘has achieved more than what governments of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) could not achieve for 23 years. 