It is with great sense of responsibility and duty as a concerned citizen with passion for the progress and development of our Local Governments and the sorrowful state of our rural communities that I refer to the above subject matter authored by Abdulrahman Yunusa form Auchi, Edo state. The write up dwelled on one of the most timely, burning issues in Nigeria and secondly corresponds with the on-going Constitutional Review and thirdly with the President Muhammadu Buhari’s burning desire and efforts to reform the Local Government system, and lastly the current agitations and security challenges bedeviling the country. The writer was specific and straight to the point. He indeed hit the nail on the head. Thanks for such courage, truth, bravery and awaken clarion call. To further buttress the issues raised and to educate the populace and call on the National Assembly and State legislators to have the fear of God and do the needful, the following compelling and profound recommendations are hereby made based on national agitations, experiences, observations, struggles over the years by the Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees, harsh realities on ground, daily security challenges, call by Traditional rulers at the Special National Security Summit organized by the Federal House of Representatives, President Muhammadu Buhari’s genuine effort to reform the system and indeed the yearnings of the majority of the populace for rapid socio-economic and political development that can better the lots of the grassroots. Most importantly, there should be the inclusion of Local Government in the general provisions of the constitution as one of the federating units of the Nigerian federation, with its establishment, composition, powers, functions and tenure all spelt out. The current bill seeking for more powers to strengthen Local Government Administration system as a third tier of government in the national assembly has passed second reading. The NASS have the overwhelming support of the rural populace and all proponents of local government reforms in Nigeria as the bill is due to be passed to theNational Constitution Review Sub-Committee. Furthermore, Local Governments should now be made to publish their monthly federation allocations, monthly expenditure, State/Local Government Joint Account tables every month. They should institute stewardship and accountability forum in each Local Government on quarterly basis. It is undebatable that all higher institutions in most of the states are financed and sustained by Local Government as counterpart funders. This is evident from State/Local Government Joint Account tables over the years, including certain state government agencies, corporations and parastatals. In addition, the State/Local Governments Joint account should be scrapped and funds be paid directly to Local Government accounts. Also, to be scrapped is the State Independent Electoral Commissions which is greatly abused by almost all the governors. It is common knowledge that huge funds are siphoned from the State and Local Government accounts in disguise for conducting elections. The governors believe that it is always far better to conduct elections through massive rigging than not to conduct it all. Another very important thing worthy of noting is the poor quality of Local Government Council officials (Council Chairmen and Councilors) as most of them especially in the North, are inexperienced, half-baked and semi-illiterates who lack integrity, knowledge, honesty and work ethics and accountability. Most councilors can hardly read and right and were just handpicked so that they can always do the bidding of the government at the expense of the electorates. What a tragedy? Where are the compassion, faith and action in governance and religion? It is widely alleged that State governors always threaten members of the State legislatures not to pass the Local Government Autonomy Bill and whoever attempts or does may risk impeachment or denial of the party’s ticket to re-contest election. Some may even be blackmailed or suspended from the party and the house. Thank Governor Umar Fintiri of Adamawa who came out openly and boldly during the 1999 Constitution Review Public hearing at Gombe International Hotel, Venue of the Adamawa, Gombe and Taraba States Public hearing, to support Local Government autonomy. Bravo to him. Most Governors claim prompt or up to date payment of staff salaries as achievement. One wonders if salaries are not a right and if the workers can work without feeding and survival. And again as if salary is the only instrument or input for effective performance at the Local Government. They deliberately neglect other vital factors that include enabling environment, resources, political commitment, leadership styles and motivation that all account for effective performance. Lastly, there should be provision of uniform performance indicators; collation and publication of judicious utilization of public funds allocated to Local Governments for overall development of our dear country, Nigeria. Whatever security related problems the country might be facing today, most of which are ethno-religious and/or socio-political in nature, germinates from the level of poverty, exploitation, deprivation and unemployment, anxiety, hopelessness, gloom, frustration, anger, lamentations and despair among the citizenry, to which the Local Government administration and traditional institutions have been subjected. The national assembly and the State Houses of Assembly should fear God and do the needful and note that every case or endeavor will be finally judge by God.