The Federal Government has put six States and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) on red alert to contain spread of a third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. This was contained in a statement by the Presidential Steering Committee (PSC) on Sunday in Abuja. The PSC called on citizens, especially Muslims, to be mindful of their conducts during the Eid-el-Kabir festivities, especially regarding gatherings. It also assured the AstraZeneca vaccine is potent against the virulent Delta variant of the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement signed by Chairman of the PSC and Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr Boss Mustapha, named Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau as the most at-risk spots. According to the statement, the alert became inevitable as it had been observed that cases of infection had started rising again in parts of the country. It, however, added that the Federal Government has stepped up surveillance at the various ports of entry to prevent further importation of the disease, especially from the already flagged countries like India, Brazil, Turkey and South Africa. “The PSC, however, warns that all States of the Federation should heighten their state of preparedness and continue to enforce all protocols put in place, given the renowned greater ease of spread of the Delta variant. “These steps are critical as we begin to see worrisome early signs of increasing cases in Nigeria. “The PSC shall continue to minimize the risk of importation of Variants of Concern into the country by strengthening surveillance at all points of entry (POE), enforcing extant quarantine protocols and sustaining the current restrictive measures against travelers arriving from India, Brazil, Turkey and South Africa. “The PSC felicitates with the Muslim Ummah on the occasion of the Eid-el-Kabir celebration. “It however, urges all State Governments and religious leaders to be mindful of the potential for wider spread of the virus during large gatherings. “The PSC, therefore, recommends the following preventive measures for a safe Eid-el-Kabir celebration:
a) Decentralization of Eid Prayer to neighborhood Friday Prayer Mosques (outdoor);
b) Suspension of Durbar activities; and
c) Observation of limitations on all indoor gatherings. “Nigerians and all residents are reminded to stay safe, always,” parts of the statement read.