Several Nigerian celebrities have subscribed to body enhancements and many have opened up on the journey towards the enhancement of different parts of their body. From liposuction to butt and boobs implants, some ex-housemates of the popular reality TV show, BBNaija, have taken steps to enhance at least a part of their body after participating in the show.  SAMPSON UNAMKA writes about five former housemates of Big Brother Naija who have gone under the knife after their exit from the reality television show.  Gifty Power Body Part: Butt BBNaija 2017 Gifty Brian aka Gifty Power tops this list. The beautiful reality TV star-turned actress, video vixen, and model, decided to enhance her butt after her participation in the second season. The mother of two, who hails from Anambra State, went under the knife for a more protruding, rotund, and enhanced butt. The result, according to her, boosted her confidence. Gifty once took shots at ex-housemate Lilian Afegbai for condemning individuals that have gone under the knife to enhance any part of their body.  Ahneeka Body Part: Butt BBNaija 2018 Iwuchukwu Maryann Ahneeka aka Ahneeka participated in season three of the BBN reality show tagged ‘Double Wahala’ edition in 2018. The 27-year-old engineer, scriptwriter, presenter, and entrepreneur in April 2020 had liposuction and a Brazilian butt job is done. And unless one is told, it is hardly obvious that she has had bodywork. It was gathered that Ahneeka had gone under the knives of a popular plastic surgeon, Dr. Aranmolate Ayobami aka Dr. Laser.   Princess Body Part: Hips BBNaija 2018 Princess Linda Onyejekwe aka Princess made her mark during her stay in the ‘Double Wahala’ edition of the BBNaija reality show in 2018. Princess is one of the female ex-housemates who chose to boost their self-confidence with a butt enlargement. The ‘Double Wahala’ edition ended in April and in July the media personality went under the knife to enhance her body features.  Khloe Body Part: Butt BBNaija 2018 Abike “Khloe” Abiri aka Khloe is another housemate who had undergone cosmetic surgery to enhance her butt. Khloe participated in the ‘Double Wahala’ Edition of the BBNaija in 2018 alongside Princess. She, however, is not one of the housemates ashamed of getting the body of her dreams as she had confirmed getting a plastic body in several of her Instagram posts. Khloe however had her surgery in 2020, two years after she participated in the show. She readily flaunts her hot banging body in most of her bikini wear.  Venita Body Part: Boobs BBNaija 2019 BBNaija ‘Pepper Dem’ star Venita Akpofure was widely referred to as Veezeebaby on the entertainment scene having made a name for herself as a video vixen. Venita after the show went under the knife for a boob augmentation. Venita had her surgery at Quartz Clinic in Istanbul in 2020. After the surgery, the former reality TV star and mother of two on her Youtube channel spoke about her experience in and recovery after going under the surgical knife.