The Belgian had a tough time at Old Trafford but he has proven himself one of the best strikers in the world with his exploits at San Siro A car stopped at a set of traffic lights in the centre of Milan last Sunday week. There was a man hanging out the passenger-side window waving a blue and black flag around singing ‘Campeones’ over and over again. A boy approached and asked, incredulous, “Are you really Lukaku?” And it was. The one and only Romelu Lukaku. The newly-crowned “King of Milan”. And Serie A champion. uch a title means the world to Lukaku, as it’s been a long time coming. He may have won a Belgian title as a teenager with Anderlecht in 2010 but the striker hasn’t lifted a single trophy since. He had been a member of the Chelsea squad that won the FA Cup and the Champions League in 2012 but he refused to even touch either piece of silverware. “I didn’t deserve to because I was not on the list,” Lukaku told Het Nieuwsblad. “I don’t touch a trophy I don’t deserve.” He scored plenty of goals in the Premier League, of course, but has since admitted that there were times when he threw in the towel too easily.  His two-season stint at Old Trafford proved particularly trying. He was mocked over his first touch, dismissed as one-dimensional, accused of being overweight. Lukaku made it clear to Manchester United he wanted out in the summer of 2019. He’d had enough of the flak, the frustration, the failure. He needed a change of scenery. It was “now or never”, as far as he was concerned. And there was only one place he wanted to go, one man he wanted to work with. Antonio Conte first tried to sign Lukaku back in 2013, while in charge of Juventus. The forward still remembers clearly how precisely the Italian coach explained how he would play under him. Or maybe that’s just because Conte told him again in 2014. And again after taking over at Chelsea in 2016. “If you become strong with your back to goal,” Conte kept telling Lukaku, “you will be unstoppable.” He wasn’t wrong. Conte has fought many battles with his employers during his time as Inter coach and his most important success was convincing the Suning Group to spend €80 million (£74m/$90m) on Lukaku in the summer of 2019. “Only I know what I had to do to get him,” the Lecce native told reporters last year. Once he finally got him, though, the challenge then was convincing Lukaku to change his game. The imposing striker had not enjoyed being asked to serve as a traditional target man at Manchester United. “I need to face the goal,” he told the Lightharted Podcast. “That’s when I’m dangerous.” Conte, though, was adamant that Lukaku could become a much more rounded centre-forward if he took his advice on board. And, luckily, Lukaku was willing to listen.  When he arrived at Inter, he was advised against doing weights. That wasn’t easy for a guy who had been bench-pressing 100kg at 15 years of age, but he embraced a new fitness routine, and a new diet.