 Following a ban on open grazing, the Federal Government may support states to create ranches, it was learnt at the weekend. The support may come under the 10-year National Livestock Transformation Plan (NLTP). Also, it was gathered that the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) is fully backing the ban on open grazing. A source in the NGF said the forum had taken the decision since March. The source said: “The National Economic Council in January 2019 approved the National Livestock Transformation Plan to check the movement of cattle, boost livestock production and end the country’s herder-farmer conflict. “So, the ban on open grazing by Southern governors was not new to the Federal Government. The Northern Governors Forum had passed a similar resolution in February and this was followed by a decision of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum in March. “What happened in Asaba was a mere re-echoing of an existing agreement by all the stakeholders. This noise about the ban on open grazing is just a storm in a tea cup. “The Federal Government will support states with ban on open grazing in line with the NLTP which is already behind schedule in implementation. Seven states were initially shortlisted for  pilot scheme to develop ranches . “They are Adamawa, Benue, Kaduna, Nasarawa, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara. These seven states were expected to create  seven breeder ranches and seven semen banks. Altogether about 56 facilities were expected to be developed.  “As a matter of fact, the Federal Government  has committed to fund 80 per cent of the transformation proposals submitted by participating states. “Willing investors and donors are also expected to collaborate with the Federal Government and states on funding. “The NLTP is a programme that will outlive President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration because the target is 119 ranches by 2028.” A governor, who spoke in confidence, gave insights into the resolution of the Southern governors in Asaba. He said: “We are expecting the Federal Government to unveil its support plan very soon. It is in the interest of all of us to find a permanent solution to farmer-herder conflict. I think if we adhere to NLTP focus, we should overcome the crisis within 10 years. “One good thing is that the ban on open grazing has had the endorsement of the Northern Governors’ Forum since February. You can ask Governor Simon Lalong, who is the chairman of the forum. The Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) in March passed a resolution in March supporting the ban on open grazing. “At the meeting with Miyetti Allah in Akure, the same herders’ group endorsed the ban on open grazing. “I think what was new about Asaba meeting had to do with the 17 Southern governors coming together for the first time to discuss mutual issues. “The session was not a gang up against the North or anybody because after all the 19 Northern governors have also been meeting  over the years. “And if you look at Asaba declaration, we touched on rising unemployment, rising insecutrity and other national issues.”