PharmAccess Foundation, the World Health Organization (WHO) and others health sector stakeholders have joined voices in advocating increased funding and financial risk protection for the health sector in Nigeria. This call was made at the ‘Fourth Annual Legislative Summit on Health’ in Abuja, which began from Sunday May 23 to Tuesday May 25, 2021. The event brought together legislators, government officeholders and health organizations, both international and national. The objective of the annual legislative network summit is to propose the enactment of laws that will effectively leverage statutory functions of the legislature in Nigeria for improved health financing, toward effective and efficient utilization of the resources for Universal Health Coverage. The theme of this year’s summit was “Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and Health Security (HS): Two Sides of a Coin for an Efficient Health System.” Speaking at the event, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Health, Senator Yahaya Ibrahim Olorigbe, called on the federal government to implement its promise to allocate 15% of the national budget to the health sector so as to boost it. He said: “The demand of the sector from the government, both at the federal and state level, is what was agreed in Abuja in 2001. That is at least 15% of the national budget was agreed to be allocated to the health sector however since then, we have not achieved that. That is simply what we are asking for.” He further explained that the motive of the Summit is to amend and strengthen necessary legal frameworks on health so as to bring about quality, equitable and affordable basic minimum healthcare package for all Nigerians. Also speaking at the event, the Country Director of PharmAccess Foundation, Njide Ndili expressed her delight at the opportunity for the government and other significant stakeholders to synergize and work towards strengthening the healthcare sector. She stressed the importance of digital innovations to help improve accessibility. She also spoke about leveraging technology to aggregate funding and local resource mobilization, to build the capacity of the regulators so that their laws will provide an enabling environment for innovators. She added that “without government commitment to funding healthcare, achieving UHC by 2030 will be impossible.” The Vice President of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented by the minister of state for health, Dr Olorunnimbe Mamora, said the attainment of universal healthcare coverage is one of the government’s top priorities. He said: “This administration is committed to the achievement of universal health coverage to provide a richer basic minimum of a package of health services to meet common healthcare needs of all citizens.” Also adding his voice was the representative of the European Union to Nigeria, Mr. Alexander Gomez, who stressed the importance of Nigeria collaborating with the WHO and the international committee on projects that will promote comprehensive health reforms. Other organizations represented at the summit include the United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Global Health Advocacy Incubator (GHAI), Nigeria Healthwatch, amongst others.