  President Muhammadu Buhari has announced today work-free for members of the Armed Forces. Buhari  also directed that  the national   flag be  flown at half-mast in honour of the late Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other military officers and men who died in a plane crash in Kaduna on Friday. During a telephone conversation, the President assured Gen. Attahiru’s widow, Fati, and the others that the “nation will never forget the supreme sacrifice of your spouses.” First Lady Aisha Buhari visited Fati to commiserate with her. Secretary to  the Government of the Federation (SGF)  Boss Mustapha said in a statement that the President directed that  the national flag be flown at half-mast in all public buildings, facilities, and official residences. Mustapha said:”His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, President and  Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, Federal Republic of Nigeria, has authorised that the national flag should be flown at half-mast in all public buildings, facilities, and official residences with effect from Monday 24th to Wednesday, 26th May 2021. “This approval is to honour the memory and services of the late COAS, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, 10  senior military and service members who lost their lives in the plane crash on Friday 21 st May 2021. “The President has similarly approved a work-free day for members of the Armed Forces on Monday 24th May 2021.” The President, during his telephone call to Mrs Attahiru, according to a statement, gave  the assurance that   Nigerians  would  “continue to appreciate and support the fearlessness with which our courageous soldiers are confronting the threats facing the nation.” The  statement  by Senior Special Assistant to the President Mallam Garba Shehu quoted  the President as describing the late COAS  as an outstanding soldier and institution builder, who  fought valiantly for Nigeria, until he breathed his last.  The statement  added: “In a telephone conversation Sunday evening with Mrs. Fati Attahiru, the wife of the late COAS and the spouses of the other deceased officers through her, President Buhari hailed the sacrifices of the military men, who lost their lives and the Armed Forces in general, saying that Nigerians will continue to appreciate and support  the fearlessness with which our courageous soldiers are confronting the threats facing the nation. “He gave the grieving spouses assurances that the nation will never forget the supreme sacrifice of their spouses, urging them to take solace in the surge of extraordinary feelings of emotions across regions, religions, and tribes all over the country in appreciation of their sacrifices. “The President who had earlier given directives to the Defense headquarters and the Ministry of Defence to do everything a government can do to provide comfort and ease the hardships of the families of the deceased prayed to Almighty God to repose their souls and grant their families the fortitude to bear the losses. “Mrs. Attahiru, on behalf of the rest of the families thanked the President for the love and care he has shown to them.” Mrs. Buhari on   her verified Twitter handle @aishambuhari, announced her visit to the widow of the  COAS. She described the death of Attahiru and others as a monumental loss to the nation. The First Lady wrote: “I paid a condolence visit to the Family of the Late Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen.   Attahiru. “The death of the  COAS and the other military officers aboard the ill-fated aircraft is a monumental loss to their families and the nation at large.” 