 How Emmanuel Oguajiofor Okala (born May 17, 1951), went from an Onitsha local champion to a national sports icon, in eight short years (1972-1980), bears restating. The famous “man mountain” was wow-ing local ball fans, as incredible goalkeeper of Onitsha Red Devils FC (1966-1970).  But then came the 1971 decision to set up Enugu Rangers, a football club that teemed with Igbo essence and vitality: an excellent mobilisation platform, via sports, in a post-war Nigeria. Then came 1972 when at 21, Okala broke into the Green Eagles; and grabbed the No. 1 shirt, for the 2nd All Africa Games, Lagos, in 1973.  That started Okala’s road to fame. His team mates, among others: Victor Oduah (captain), Jossy Dombraye (of Sharks FC, Port Harcourt), the Stationery Stores of Lagos pair of Yakubu Mambo (who scored the first-ever goal at the new National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, on December 4, 1972, in a 3:0 defeat of Mali, in an international friendly); and school boy sensation, Haruna Ilerika, aka “master dribbler” and “the tailor”, among many gushing monikers; and Sunny Oyarekhua, of Police FC aka “machine team” of Lagos: Nigeria’s leading scorer at the All Africa Games. That team would triumph, winning the football gold: Nigeria’s first-ever continental silverware. “Tallest” — standing at six-foot-six — formidable and threatening in goal, stood out in that victorious pack. Then, 1980 — and another record: the African Cup of Nations (AFCON) win on home soil in Lagos — the very first time Nigeria would win the cup, after coming close twice: Ethiopia 1976 (Bronze) and Ghana 1978 (Bronze): and Okala was part of it all. The 1976 championship showed Nigeria as a rising African footballing power.  But for alleged suspect officiating, Nigeria could have won the final round-robin league, with Haruna Ilerika and Mudashiru Lawal sparkling; and Sanni Mohammed (right) and Kunle Awesu (left) voted continental best wingers.  Again, Okala was rock solid in Nigeria’s goal. In 1980, it all came together in Lagos: Nigeria, African champions, for the very first time!  Although Otto Gloria, Nigeria’s Brazilian coach preferred Best Ogedegbe, who had lived in Okala’s broad shadows, to man the goal, Okala was in that glorious squad.  When in the final match against Algeria, Okala played in the closing minutes, he sent the stands into a frenzy! Again, with Okala were Muda Lawal, Segun Odegbami, Captain “Chairman” Christian Chukwu, Felix Owolabi and elastic winger, “Chief Justice” Adokiye Amiesimaka, among others. Between 1972 and 1980 (when he retired from the national team) and 1982 (when he retired from Rangers, settling in thereafter, for some support and coaching roles), Okala contested for club and country, with mixed results. In 1975, Rangers reached the final of the then African Cup of Champions Clubs (now African Champion League) but lost both legs 1:3 (0-1 in Conakry; 1:2 in Lagos) in the finals, against the enchanting Kamaras of Hafia FC of Guinea. But in 1977, Rangers would triumph in then new African Cup Winners Cup (now African Confederation Cup), dethroning arch-rivals, IICC Shooting Stars of Ibadan, who were defending champions, having won the second edition of the tournament in 1976, grabbing the record as the first Nigerian side to win a continental club diadem. In the same 1977, however, Okala would suffer perhaps his bitterest national team disappointment, when Godwin Odiye aka “World 6”, rock-solid defence partner with Captain Christian Chukwu, under pressure against Tunisia, headed into his own net. The palpable grief and shock were clear, in ace commentator, Ernest Okonkwo’s cry: “Ladies and gentlemen, Odiye has scored against Nigeria!  Nigeria has scored against Nigeria!” That not only ended Nigeria’s quest for the 1978 World Cup in Argentina, it drew the curtains on the era of Yugoslav Tihomir Jelisavcic, aka “Father Tiko” (1974-1978), whose gutsy players, of whom Okala was a brilliant metaphor, became the collective John the Baptist come to project the future glory of Nigerian football, before the actual “messiahs”. That golden generation, of Stephen Keshi, Rashidi Yekini, Peter Rufai, Austin “Jay-Jay” Okocha and co, peaked in 1994 (winning the AFCON title, for the second time, away at Tunisia), set the USA ’94 World Cup ablaze with their dashing, attacking play, though debutants; and also grabbed the football gold — the first time any African side would do that — at the Atlanta ’96 Olympics, in the same USA. Okala, in his career, interfaced with many goalkeepers: “seniors” Peter Fregene, with the reflexes of a cat; Joe Erico, Fregene’s great rival in the national team of 1968 that played in the Mexico Olympics; contemporaries like Best Ogedegbe and Eyo Essien; and “juniors” like Peter Rufai.  But none had the huge presence of the “Iroko in the net”. Wishing the near-mythical goalkeeper the very best of life at 70.