Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has described the late Pastor Dare Adeboye as someone who understood the dynamics and urgency of reaching the younger generation with the gospel. Osinbajo stated this in a tribute to the son of General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, who passed on last week. According to a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Office of the Vice President, Mr Laolu Akande, the Vice President said the late Pastor Dare lived a life filled with zeal, speed, and emphasized what was important and needed to be done at the right time. The Vice President’s tribute was read at a service of songs on Monday at the Redemption Camp by Pastor Bisi Akande, Pastor in Charge of Lagos Region 35. Osinbajo attended the event with his wife, Dolapo. Describing the attributes of Pastor Dare, the Vice President stated: “He knew what was important to do and to emphasise and he worked very hard, everywhere, with the zeal and speed of one who knew that we don’t have all day.” “He understood the dynamics and urgency of reaching young people with the gospel, especially because of their fundamental role in the sustainable growth of the church of God.” According to the Vice President, Pastor Dare was in many ways, a representative of the future of Christian ministry, “a new generation birthed in a period of great turbulence in ideas and doctrines, a surfeit of distractions, but committed to ensuring that the unvarnished gospel is preached to that generation.” He further said despite the late pastor’s position of privilege, “he was deeply and unpretentiously respectful, not just of elders and those in authority, but of everyone, even his subordinates.” Osinbajo noted: “Everyone has a story to tell of Dare’s warmth, compassion, friendliness and his open displays of affection for others.” The Vice President once again offered his condolences to Pastor Dare’s wife, Temiloluwa; his children, Oluwatishe, Ireoluwa and Araoluwa; Daddy and Mummy GO, his siblings, family members and the entire RCCG family. At the event were the former Ogun and Ondo Governors Otunba Gbenga Daniel and Segun Mimiko; wife of former Imo Governor, Mrs. Nkechi Okorocha and President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN)Bishop Wale Oke and several other dignitaries.