Lagos Police Command has debunked reports of alleged increased kidnapping in parts of the state. Residents of Lekki, Victoria Island and Ikoyi have for several weeks raised concerns about the activities of kidnappers who pick their victims in broad daylight and hold them hostage inside tinted vehicles until ransom was paid. The criminals were said to have preyed on victims around Admiralty Way, Lekki, Ozumba Mbadiwe in Victoria Island and Falomo area of Ikoyi. It was alleged when the families of the victims cannot raise the demanded ransom, the kidnappers would start contacting numbers from the victims’ phones to demand donations. Messages alerting residents on the new trend warned the kidnappers usually moved about in tinted vehicles and once they pick a victim up, they would transfer him/her into another vehicle where the person would be held until ransom was paid. Our Correspondent made efforts to reach victims who have been kidnapped in this manner but was told the families do not want to be in the news. A source close to one of the victims alleged to have been kidnapped on May 1, in Lekki, said she fled the country as soon as she was released. “The family wants the incident behind them. As I speak to you, the victim has left Nigeria. She fled as soon as she was released. The kidnappers collected N3m before they freed her. “She was just walking by on Admiralty Way when the kidnappers who were in a tinted RAV4 opened the door and dragged her in. Her family raised and paid N3m before she was released. I do not know if they reported to the police,” said the source. Also it was gathered another young woman was kidnapped in front of a popular supermarket in Lekki. The kidnappers were said to have immediately moved her into another vehicle and kept driving around until the N1.5m requested was raised. A source, who confirmed the incident, said her relative was also contacted to make donations for the release of the victim. “The girl works for a relative. She was kidnapped in front of a mall on Admiralty way. They requested N1.5m but her family said they only had N500, 000. ‘’So, they gave her phone to her and asked her to be calling people in her contact list to make donations else they will kill her. “She called my relative who happened to be her boss and he made up the money for her release. ‘’The kidnappers then dropped her at a popular filling station in the night. She was kidnapped in broad daylight,” she said. But the police command on Thursday denied there have been any kidnapping in any part of Lagos. A statement by spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said the Commissioner of Police (CP) Hakeem Odumosu described the news as untrue, insisting the Command has not recorded any case of kidnapping in the state in the recent past. According to Adejobi, there was only a case of “One Chance” which was reported on May 18 by one Joel Adegoke on behalf of one Adenike Kosoko, who boarded a private car at Admiralty Way around 7:30 pm. “Unfortunately, the two male occupants of the car turned to be One Chance operators that drove her around Lekki and Ikate, Lagos before she was dropped. “In the course of the investigation, it was revealed that she was dropped by the culprits same day before 12am at Ikate Area, Lagos State. “The hoodlums only used her ATM card to withdraw the sum of N110, 000 from her bank account. “The command, therefore, wishes to state categorically that it was a pure case of “One Chance” which the command has been tackling in the state and more efforts are being channelled towards eradicating the menace and other social vices in the state,” he said.