My name is Daniel Ayodele popularly known as The Global Daniel, born 20th September 1988 in Ajaokuta, Kogi state. I attended Glory and Praise Nursery and Primary School Kuje, Abuja, Obahoho Comprehensive high School Epinmi Akoko, Ondo State. I’m a graduate of Electrical/Electronic Engineering from Federal Polytechnic Auchi, Auchi. I further studied digital marketing and organisational value creation through leadership at the metropolitan school of business and management London. United Kingdom. I am a social entrepreneur, personal brand strategist, business coach, author, CEO and a philanthropist. Yes, I am currently the CEO at Ajoyo Global Touch Limited. Ajoyo is a digital marketing, capacity development, mini-importation, procurement and consulting company. In 2019, we rebranded, changing the name and became a Limited liability Company. We did not just change the name; we also upgraded our services, becoming one of the best startup companies in Nigeria particularly in the field of capacity development, procurement & Mini Importation. As a digital marketing company in Nigeria, we offer services such web development, social media marketing, personal and corporate branding, Products sourcing, procurement and shipping from foreign countries. As the founder and brand architect at Ajoyo Global Touch Limited, I am highly skilled and experienced in branding, E-commerce and digital marketing. The journey to becoming an author has been something on my mind since I left school. From nursing the ideas of writing a book that could be life changing for so many young entrepreneurs, to actually putting pen to paper, I am really glad that this dream is a reality. I am grateful and excited that I can help aspiring young entrepreneurs, students and working professionals not just to start thinking toward how to start profitable online businesses, how to brand themselves and their business but also helping them improve as well as achieving their goals. By the special grace of God, God has inspired us to write more than two books but the most recent ones are Digital Dominance and How to Brand yourself and your Business. Digital Dominance is a book that will open your eyes and give you an insight on how to achieve financial independence and self-development in the new gig economy. It is an easy read with valuable and important concepts, broken up into segments, with each chapter consisting of secret to success with digital working topics. If you want a new job or career or you want to demonstrate more value to customers or employers? Use today’s hottest social media platforms to build the powerful personal brand that gets you what you want! All you will get in this completely updated book, these books will help you use social media and networking to advance your career, grow your business, and land new job opportunities. From LinkedIn to Facebook, now including Instagram and SnapChat, this book is packed with new techniques and ideas that are practical, easy, and effective. It will show you how to supercharge all your business and personal relationships…demonstrate that you are the best solution to employers’ or partners’ toughest problems…become a recognized thought leader…and turn your online network into outstanding jobs, great projects, and a fulfilling, profitable career! While how to brand yourself and your business will help you create a lasting universal brand. Yes, a universal brand because when you think of a brand, the first thing that probably comes to your mind is the brand made on livestock. If so, you are on the right track as the branding of a product is not different in this sense. A successful brand sets your product apart from that of the competition and fulfils your desire for a brand that has the potential to expand your customer base while increasing your market share. The larger your customer base and market share, the more powerful your brand. Yet, there are many factors that go into making a brand successful just as there are even more considerations to ensuring it stays successful. How to brand yourself and your business will also teach you the basic steps about marketing and branding. Our target audience is entrepreneurs, students and working professionals who desire to create multiple streams of income. How will the books bring about a change in the digital and branding industry in Nigeria? These books will definitely bring a change to both the digital and branding industry because the internet has revolutionised the way we work. Workplaces and jobs are not what they used to be. Long gone are the days when everything was done by humans and paper was the only way of communication. Truth is, the digital economy is booming. Over the next coming years, you’ll most likely either be self-employed, running your own online business, or working for someone else who is running their business entirely or predominantly online. We are now entering the era of the ‘Internet of Things’ where almost anything can and will be connected online from waste bins in the streets that will notify the authorities when they need emptying to wearable devices and smart clothing that will tell you when it’s best for you to eat and when you’re most productive. Take a moment to imagine working for yourself on a daily basis, with no one telling you what to do. You can take on projects that appeal to you the most and feel proud as you watch them grow and add value to the market. If this is a scenario sounds more interesting to you than spending your days working 9 to 5 for someone else, then you likely have an entrepreneurial spirit. Perhaps you’ve always dreamed of being your own boss, but have feared to start your own business because you lack the time and money, and maybe you don’t feel like any of your ideas are good enough. Perhaps you’re afraid of setting out on your own because you’re afraid of putting yourself and your family at risk. However, the good news is that it has never been easier to become an entrepreneur as it is today. The Internet has helped to reduce most of the barriers to entrepreneurship. Today, you can start building your business while still working at your regular job and only investing an hour or two a day tending to your business. Plus, today you have access to a goldmine of information to help you succeed in the form of podcasts, books, blogs, etc. You can take advantage of others’ experiences and knowledge and use it to build your project much faster and safer than before. The only thing you need to be successful is a deep commitment to learning and the willingness to put some effort into achieving your goals. The cost to start and operate an online business is minimal, as is the financial risk. All you need to purchase to begin your company are a domain name and hosting service, which you can obtain for around $6 a month. For the rest, it will depend on what type of product or service you’re going to sell, but it is entirely possible to start your business with as little as $100. With an online business, you also are able to work from anywhere you want, whether you decide to work out of your home or head to a café or co-working space. You can choose where to live, and you have the freedom to organize your schedule almost entirely as you wish. The best part of it all is that you won’t be stuck in a cubicle all day long, or eat lunch at the office cafeteria, or spend hours stuck in rush hour traffic. And most importantly, your salary won’t be limited to what an employer is willing to pay you. Branding is complex. Many businesses in Nigeria don’t have a clue on what to focus on, or what to do to stand out. This turns their products into ‘common’ unheard products. Let’s face it. Consumers prefer buying from popular brands. Branding is, thus, very important. Otherwise, your small business will never make it past a five-year milestone. Nigeria as a country is drowning in brands. If you want your target audience to notice your brand, you need to stand out from your competitors. But then, how do you make your brand stand out? To be original, you need to find an angle that none of your competitors is using or has used before. Use it to develop a voice and an image that will define your business. That won’t be easy, but it’s a very important step if your brand has to stand out. You need to show your customers the human side of your brand, especially on social media. Of course, it’s easier to reply to your customers with generic corporate responses. But then, can that make your customers trust you? Of course not. They will actually see your business as a machine that has no soul. You need to show commitment to your customers. Invest your time and money to create a brand that shows you as a human and a friend to your customers, and not as a profit-oriented corporation. Do things they can relate to. Show them what happens behind the scenes. Spare some time, for instance, 45 minutes every day, to reply to your customers’ questions and concerns instead of replying with generic responses. This way, you’ll build trustworthy relationships with your customers. The most successful brands in the world, such as Google, Microsoft, Amazon, and Apple, stand out from the rest by ensuring their customers know that they understand all their issues. To make sure your target audience knows that you understand their issues, you need to create messaging that’s relevant for only one target niche. For instance, if you’re targeting working college students, you might want to mention a common problem, like how difficult it is to balance work and school work. This way, you create sympathy and make it easier for your target audience to connect with you. In the long run, it will increase interactions with your brand, which will, in turn, result in increased traffic and conversions. You’ll need to research your target audience demographics on an ongoing basis. Make changes when necessary because people change all the time. If there’s one thing every corporate leader or business owner should know about brands, it is that successful brands are always bold. When it comes to branding, risks normally lead to rewards. Stand-out brands are never afraid of trying or designing new techniques. They aren’t scared to take a stand on controversial issues facing their industry either. Of course, this is somehow polarizing and can possibly alienate a portion of their audience, but it encourages more loyalty to consumers who stick around with them. In any case, every brand has fans and haters. Remarkable goals and appealing messages are great, but you need to increase your brand’s visibility. People need to see your brand, so they can respond. Although some customers will trickle in via organic searches and other ways, you need to increase your visibility to build your reputation. There are several effective ways you can leverage to increase your brand’s visibility. They include content camping, advertising, a social media strategy, publishing articles about your products/services on newspapers such as this and promotion materials, among others. The fundamental factor is that you need a medium to promote your messaging. Otherwise, it won’t matter how captivating your messaging is. Apart from online through the Internet, you can increase your brand’s visibility by giving your customers branded t-shirts or caps with appealing messages. If you want your brand to avoid brand alienation, you need to remain consistent. You see, a consistent message doesn’t only convey who you are as a company and what you do for your customers, but also shows your professionalism. Consistency doesn’t end with messaging. You need to maintain the high quality of your services and products. It gives your customers a sense of predictability and familiarity every time they turn to your products. Image is very crucial when developing a brand that will stand out from the rest. However, it’s crucial to look beyond the image when developing a brand. You can create a stand-out brand by offering more value than your competitors. You can achieve this by simply offering better services or products than those offered by your competitors. Unfortunately, there aren’t many brands that can be this competitive without eating into profits. However, you can offer value in terms of more informative content and dedication to personalized customer services. What are the common challenges facing entrepreneurs and small businesses in this part of the world? Starting a business is a big achievement for many entrepreneurs, but maintaining one is the larger challenge. There are many standard challenges every business faces, whether they are large or small. These include things such as hiring the right people, building a brand, developing a customer base, and so on. However, there are some that are strictly small business problems. Nothing can hold a business back like money problems. This is even truer for small businesses. While larger companies have enough cash flow to keep up with payroll and keep the lights on, small businesses are often in a less stable situation. If one big client fails to make a payment, your small business may not be able to cover its bills. There are plenty of tales of small business owners giving up their own salaries in order to pay their employees and vendors. And, sadly, there are plenty more stories of small businesses failing because they ran out of funds. There are 30.2 million small businesses in the United States, accounting for 47.5% of all jobs.1 But that doesn’t mean finding qualified, hardworking employees is easy. In many instances, your small business’ benefits package won’t be able to compete with what large companies offer. Additionally, while large businesses can hire people for one specific task, you may need employees who can handle multiple tasks. You’re also likely to need people who have the personality necessary to succeed in a small business environment, where change is common. All of these factors can make finding the right employees challenging. It’s a common story: one day you’re celebrating landing a big client, and the next day you’re struggling to keep up with the new client’s needs. For small businesses, growth often comes with growing pains. In many instances, you have to make the choice between working long hours and asking your staff to do the same or finding ways to cut corners. Neither is a great solution, meaning that, ultimately, you will have to find a way to grow your business without hurting your business. Marketing, in general, can cause small businesses a number of problems. Advertising is expensive and word of mouth is slow-moving. The internet provides opportunities to find customers without breaking the bank, but many small businesses don’t do enough with their online presence. You probably know that you need a website, but is it SEO optimized? Does it utilize responsive design? Is it driving sales or is it nothing more than an online billboard? And your website is just one piece of your online presence. You also need to consider social media like Facebook and Twitter, and pay attention to review sites like Yelp where one dissatisfied customer can damage your reputation. Large companies have entire departments devoted to online activities, but small businesses often struggle to keep up with all the ways the Internet can help—and hurt—business. Yes, I think Nigeria’s youth will be ready with strategic investments that support human capital development, create an enabling environment free from restrictive policies, tapping into the global ecosystem in ways that provide remote opportunities for local talent beyond our borders and attracting foreign tech players as well as advancing initiatives that encourage innovation within the digital ecosystem. Just as I aspire to grow my business, I aspire to grow as an individual. This time in my life has forced me to mentally and physically push myself into places I’ve never explored and into constant reflection and self-evaluation. The great thing is, the lessons life can teach are endless and my time as an entrepreneur has seemed to speed up the process. Also, I have learnt as an entrepreneur which is one of my biggest secrets is that there is nothing that will grow you and your business more than the ability to say yes. This is probably the trickiest thing I’ve learned over the last few years because there is a big difference between believing in yourself and faking it until you make it. In my experience, in the beginning stages of growing your business you have to have the audacity to say yes to any opportunity that even vaguely resembles what you plan to do in the future. By doing this, you’ll learn to develop processes, sharpen your skills, and teach yourself problem solving and critical thinking. You have to be smart about it though, if you hurt someone’s business or break their trust you will officially lose them forever and damage one of your most valuable assets, your reputation. This takes a lot of self-awareness but once you develop that relationship with yourself, you can really capitalize on more opportunities that come your way. Gratitude practices still sound corny, but they’re definitely necessary. I would be lying to you if I told you that every moment since i left my banking job to become an entrepreneur was all sunshine and selfies, but it’s not. Shit gets hard. I’ve lost clients, lost friends, family, dealt with my version of anxiety, depression, identity crisis you name it. I don’t ignore these feelings by any means, however, I’ve found ways to focus my attention on the things that are going right in my life. The mere shift of your focus unlocks a completely different mindset toward whatever you’re dealing with and truly does help you feel happier, thus more productive. There is always something we can be thankful for: a roof over our head, a meal, a conversation with an old friend getting the seat somewhere next to the outlet when your laptop is running low on power. Honestly, if you can appreciate the little perks of the day, those big goals you’re trying to accomplish will come a lot easier.