The rains are here again. Rather than being a blessing, the rains have become a curse to many Nigerians, especially to coastal states and communities living along the bank of Rivers Niger and Benue. The federal government has issued a flood alert. Will the 2021 predictions go the way of others? TONY AKOWE reports  Since the devastating flood in Nigeria in 2012, it has become important for the government and its agency to make an annual forecast of possible flood and its impact in the country annually. Since the first forecast was made in 2013, the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency, working with other government agencies, has consistently warned the nation of impending flood across the country and in most cases, the intensity of such flood. Unfortunately, warnings by the agencies have often been ignored by both the people and state governments and their agencies. This year, the government has said not less than 121 local government areas across 28 states are at highly probable risk of heavy flooding, while another 302 local government areas across the 36 states and the FCT will experience some level of flooding. Flooding is categorised into river flooding, coastal flooding as well as flash and urban flooding occasioned by poor drainages, blocked drainages and poor adherence to town planning regulations. The United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and the World Water Assessment Programme (WWAP) said flooding accounts for 15% of all natural disaster related deaths across the globe. Floods have since become annual phenomena not only in flood plains, but also in urban and semi-urban areas. Experts link urban flooding to inadequacies of drainage channels that have become too small to contain excess runoff, the use of river channels as waste repositories thus clogging the channels, poor compliance with or non-existence of land use zoning/building codes, poor waste management practices, and removal of vegetation that create resistance and minimise flood impact. Coastal areas of Nigeria are not spared from flooding as they may be worst hit by flood this year. Interestingly, more states in Nigeria are increasingly suffering from annual flooding due to climate change and anthropogenic factors. Unfortunately, Nigeria is located downstream of Rivers Niger and Benue, and therefore abounds with water resources that become a menace by causing flooding and flood disasters, the worst of which was experience in 2012 when hundreds of lives were lost, thousands of citizens rendered homeless with property loss running into billions of naira including massive farm lands and crops when water was released from the a dam in Cameroon.  A close study of the predictions revealed that all the 20 local government areas in Lagos State (as against 18 in 2020) are likely to be affected with eight of them being at higher risk of heavy flooding. Apart from urban and river flooding, Lagos, Ogun, Rivers, Delta and Ondo states stand the risk of heavy coastal flooding. In 2020, similar predictions by the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency and advice to states and local government areas to take precautionary measure to mitigate the flood fell on deaf ears in most parts of the country. The consequence was the displacement of over 2.3 million people and the death of 69 others. The outcome was also the washing away of farm lands in Kebbi and Jigawa as well as livestock and other valuables. The agency has continuously expressed concern over disregard for town planning regulations leading to people building on flood plains. Minister for Water Resources Suleiman Adamu, who announced the 2021 prediction on behalf of the agency, said 121 local government areas in 28 states and the FCT as well as another 302 local government areas across the 36 states and the FCT will likely experience high and moderate flooding in 2021. Acting on information from the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency, the minister also said there would be heavy coastal flooding in Rivers, Cross Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta, Lagos and Ondo states. He stressed the need for concerted efforts to mitigate the impact of the expected flood. He said: “So far, the flood levels will be higher than in previous years, but will not attain the levels of the 2012 devastating floods. In summary, the 2021 AFO forecast indicates that 302 LGAs in 36 states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) will fall within the moderate probable Flood Risk Areas. It is expected from the forecast that 121 LGAs in 28 states will fall within the Highly Probable Risk Areas. The states contiguous to Rivers Niger and Benue are, without doubt, going to experience river flooding. These states and the number of local government likely to be affected include Abia (9), Akwa Ibom (2), Anambra (5), Bauchi (2), Bayelsa (5), Benue (3), Cross River (2), Delta (8), Ebonyi (4), Edo (1), FCT (2), Gombe (7), Imo (3), Jigawa (9), Kaduna (2), Kano (2), Kebbi (4), Kogi (9), Kwara (2), Lagos (8), Nasarawa (2), Niger (5), Ogun (3), Oyo (7), Rivers (12), Sokoto (7), Taraba (7) and Zamfara (1).” The list of states to be affected by one form of flood or the other in 2021 show that northern and coastal states are at a greater risk of flooding this year, with some states along the River Niger and Benue are also likely to be affected.  Adamu said flash and urban floods from heavy inundation were predicted to occur in some major cities, the severity of which would depend on the availability and adequacy of the drainage systems and adherence to urban planning regulations. He said: “The information contained in the AFO 2021 is a Clarion call to all stakeholders, policy makers, Federal, States and Local Governments, Departments and Agencies to rise and set up appropriate mechanism such as clearing the waterways and flood paths as well as maintaining proper water disposal management practices to curtail the ravages of the impending flood and threats of COVID-19. The year 2012 is a landmark in the annals of flood occurrence in Nigeria. It brought with it massive destruction of lives, property and critical national infrastructure. The need arose therefore, to put in place a proper mechanism to prepare Nigerians to confront the menace of this disaster of flooding, hence the coming into being of APO in the year 2013. The 2021 Annual Flood Outlook built on the successes of the previous eight (8) years forecasts by the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency. The outcomes of these forecasts have been the increased awareness by the citizenry with respect to measures that need to be taken before, during and after floods. This has culminated in the progressive reduction in the severity of flood and its harmful effects on lives and property. The timeliness in the release of these forecasts is quite commendable and deserving of every possible support by all of us.” He believed that man’s interaction with natural process has been both helpful and harmful to some degree, adding that the negative impact of man’s activities can be observed in the heightened climate change being experienced globally by way of rising temperatures, intensified rainfall, more destructive storms and floods. He maintained that the annual prediction by the agency is designed to create awareness of the inherent dangers of flooding and to inform people about locations that are prone to Flood risk at a particular time and encourage them to take appropriate actions. Drawing attention to the 2020 experience, the minister said: “The year 2020 saw the devastating impact of extreme flood across the country with practically every state of the federation affected in one way or the other. The flood affected 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), 349 Local Government Areas (LGAs) within the 36 States were affected and over 2,353,647 people were displaced with a record of 69 deaths. Kebbi and Jigawa States were worst hit with regards to agricultural lands and houses destroyed. Apart from the physical damages, other indirect losses are often overlooked. These indirect and intangible impacts are generally associated with disruption to normal life as well as long term health issues and stress-related illnesses. We must recognise that extreme weather and flooding extents do happen and that we need to be well equipped to respond to them. I am confident that our communities, infrastructure and businesses will be better protected if due attention is given to the information contained in this 9th edition of the Annual Flood Outlook.” The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Mrs. Didi Walson-Jack, said: “The overall objective of this event is to sensitise the nation (i.e planners, decision and policy makers, farmers, stakeholders) and the general public towards embarking on preventive measures to improve on safety and reduce potential damages to lives and property from predicted flood events.” She said the event was expected to provide ample opportunity for enlightenment campaigns in the media for better Preparedness on flood mitigation, control and management in flood risks locations across the country. She maintained that the accuracy of the predictions over the years have been fairly high and reliable, stressing however that “the focus is rather on prevention and mitigation of possible flood disasters by increasing the awareness of the populace and prompting them to take appropriate preventive, adaptive and mitigative measures”. The Director-General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), AVM Muhammadu Muhammed (rtd), stressed the need to strengthen multi-agency approach to disaster risk reduction in the country. Mohammed said: “To enhance flood forecasting and management in Nigeria, NEMA is currently supporting NIHSA in establishing three Automatic Weather Observation Stations which are at various stages of installation located in Nasarawa State University, Keffi, Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti and Federal University of Kashere, Gombe State. These stations will be used not only for hydrological predictions but also to train students in the field of Geography, Engineering, Agriculture, meteorology, climate change and other sciences”. He said further that “one of the lessons learnt during the 2020 flood after action review meeting is the need for proper utilization of our dams in the country. When dams meant for irrigation purpose are used for dry season agriculture, they acquire more capacities to hold more water in the rainy season. In addition, a timely controlled release of water from dams will reduce panic release of water during rainy season that can lead to further flooding.” The Director-General of the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA), Clement Nze  said government at all levels in the country must take necessary steps to avert a possible disastrous effect of flood in 2021. Nze said as the rains begin to set in, the country was gradually inching towards the peak of rainy season with its attendant flood incidents. He said Nigeria’s geographical location downstream of all the countries in the Niger Basin places it at the receiving end of disastrous flood and pollution from all countries upstream, adding that this explain why persistent flooding has become an annual event since 2012 when the country experienced its worst flood disaster. He argued that the annual flood forecast was to enable states and local government as well as individuals take concrete steps now to prevent the ugly flooding menace of the past few years including clearing of blocked drainages and canals, removal of refuse, weeds, water hyacinth and floats on water channels. People living along water ways as well as those having socio-economic activities in such areas should be encouraged to relocate o safer areas before the peak of rains, while there should also be an improved system for flood monitoring, flood forecasting and early warnings. He stressed that states must intensify soil conservation measuring techniques on the drainage areas to reduce soil erosion and encourage ecosystem protection, while also enhancing the enforcement of town planning code to allow for the construction of houses and drainage structures. He said further that while it was not possible to eradicate flooding, efforts should be made to either reduce or minimise it, adding that state governments must educate their people, insisting that states must make efforts to avoid a repeat of the incidences of 2020 which saw over 450,000 hectare of rice plantation being washed away in Kebbi state alone as a result of flooding. Nzeh  lamented that while the agency has continued to give early warning signs, many states in the country have failed to listen to the recommendations of the agency, adding that at the moment, Jigawa state has set up a committee that is working to reduce incidences of flooding in the state in line with recommendations from the agency. The NIHSA’s Director of Hydrogeophysics, Stephen Margima Jabo, said flooding has become a global phenomenon that has increased in frequency over the years. According to him, the effective management of flood risk should be a collective responsibility of all stakeholders from the federal, state, and local to individual levels, adding that the existing synergy between Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency, stakeholders and other collaborative agencies involved in flood management and disaster issues should be further strengthened. He said government at all level should also put in place measures for better town planning and effective land use zoning, effective flood disaster management in the changing environment, improved biodiversity and ecosystem management for the enhancement of rapid and sustainable development in the country. States, he said should create retention basins for harvesting flood waters downstream of major rivers particularly, where there is scarcity of groundwater thereby using flood waters for possible groundwater recharge and other uses. By so doing, the fresh flood waters will not be lost to the sea. The agency said among others that “stakeholders in the water sector should carry out river training activities and maintenance of drainage areas by the removal of silt and sediment deposits in rivers to improve their conveyance capacities and from dams, lakes and reservoirs to increase their storage capacities for the containment of the incoming floodwaters; there is need for construction of weirs, small reservoirs on tributary, streams and rivers for conservation of flood water to be used during the dry season thereby preventing desert encroachment, increasing irrigation food crop production, improvement of grassland areas, nomadic settlement, peace and sustainable development by relevant government agencies; intensification of soil conservation measuring technics on the drainage areas to reduce soil erosion and increase ecosystem protection among others; enforcement of Town Planning Codes in the country to allow for the appropriate construction of houses, and drainage structures and constantly freeing the waterways from obstructions and provision of adequate refuse dumping facilities by relevant authorities.”