General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Pastor Enoch Adeboye has urged Nigerians not to cry over the demise of his son, Dare. He rather called for prayers for his wife, Pastor Folu Adeboye, the widow, his children, grandchildren and the entire family. The Nation reports Dare, the third child of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, died last Wednesday in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, where he was based with his family. The 42-year-old was the Assistant Pastor in charge of Region (Youth) 35 before his death. The father of three daughters was buried on Tuesday. Adeboye, in a 10-minute, 55-second video, shared by his son, Leke Adeboye on YouTube as obtained by The Nation, thanked Nigerians for the massive show of love. “I want to thank each and every one of you, for this massive show of love, not just for Dare but for me, my wife, the widow, the children, the siblings “I am extremely grateful, I am only bringing you this brief message not just to thank you but to let you know that by the special grace of God, we are loved of God and because we are loved of God, we are more than conquerors.  “I want you to know that God who knows the end from the beginning, knew long before the foundations of the world that what has happened is going to happen. “And because His word is forever settled, He said all things work together for good to them that love God. We may not understand now, but what has happened is going to work out for good as individuals, as families and as a denomination.” Adeboye described his late son, Dare, as a “champion”. He said: “Cry if you wish but don’t cry for Pastor Dee (as Dare is fondly called) because he is resting in glory. Cry because you are the one still fighting the battle. “Anyone who has caught a glimpse of heaven will not be crying for Pastor Dee because there is no comparison between heaven and earth. But then fight courageously because, on the resurrection morning, we shall meet again. “I want you to know that God who knows the end from the beginning knew long before the foundations of the world that what has happened was going to happen. “And because his word is forever settled, he said all things work together for good to them that love God. We may not understand now, but what has happened is going to work out for our good. “In one of his sermons, Dare himself said God does not need a visa to pay you a visit or to do whatever he wants to do in your life. “And I have told you before death is not a function of age. Young people die, old people die, children die. And it is not about how long you live it is how well. Even Jesus Christ himself died at the age of 33. John the Baptist never lived to be 34 and yet he was the greatest. “We have lost a champion. You would agree with me on that. Let us consider him a seed that we have sown and let’s get ready for a special harvest. “I want us to join our forces together and produce many champions like Damilare that would go round the whole world and shake the world for the Lord Jesus. That is how we can honour his memory.” He added: “The church of God is marching on. It doesn’t matter what the devil is thinking now. “The devil was rejoicing the day the Lord Jesus Christ died on the Cross but he never knew what was coming. The devil was rejoicing when Job lost all his children but if only he knew what was coming.” he added.