 SIR: In Nigeria today, there is an unwholesome backwardness in economy, education, health and numerous other indices of progress and development. Saddled with this avalanche of challenges, the most worrisome, is the lack of peace in the country, which is undeniably the bedrock of every pillar that holds the fortunes of every society in quest of sustainable development. We all know that peace is the backbone of development. Therefore, when there is no peace in a country, nothing will likely wear the shape of greatness. It is only through peace that we can set and move our life in a pace that is devoid of any hindrances. In fact, only with peace we can think of a brighter today, therefore motivating the possibility of a promising future that bespeaks of heroes and heroines. However, we cannot continue with the current threat to the possibility of greatness so long as the country continues to wallow in today’s unfortunate scenarios. The wave of armed robbery, kidnapping, banditry, and other insecurity menaces must be put to a halt so long as we envision a peaceful society. There is hardly a day when there are no reported cases of armed robbery, kidnapping and banditry. In Nigeria, lives and property are no longer safe. To bring a solution to the menace of insecurity, which both directly and indirectly affects our progress and development as a country, we must ensure that we start with electing competent leaders that are ready to serve the country well without discrimination. That is, leaders that are ready to serve everyone irrespective of tribe, religion, or affiliations. Let everyone feel a sense of belonging. In the same vein, government at all levels should be serious about the safety of citizens. There should be no compromise. Anyone found guilty of any offences, especially those bordering on threat to peace, should be prosecuted. This will set an example as well as chastisement to those who might wish to threaten the security of other citizens. I strongly believe it is possible to eradicate insecurity. In the same vein, it is possible to avert threats to our country’s growth and development. But unless citizens are responsible and consider competence over any other unwholesome considerations; and the governments too that is bestowed with the trust of delivering nothing but the best appreciates the sanctity of that call, we will continue to wallow in even more disastrous situations. 