The Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) has called on employers of labour in the public and private sectors to pay more attention to workers’ welfare by investing more in occupational, safety and health (OSH) practices. This, it stressed, can be achieved by promoting and strengthening policies that prevent workplace disabilities. The admonition was given by the NSITF Branch Manager, Mainland Branch, Opeyemi Adekoya, when she led a road walk around Ilupeju in Lagos, to promote awareness about workplace safety. Yearly, the world celebrates the safety and health day to create awareness for stakeholders and the general public on the importance safety and health at work. The NSITF boss said effective national OSH policies and regulatory framework would give better response to crisis and emergencies in the future. On this year’s global theme: “Anticipate, Prepare and Respond to Crisis: Invest now in Resilient OSH Systems”, Adekoya said the COVID-19 pandemic had ushered in a new normal in all spheres of employment and sectors, making everyone vulnerable to its effects. According to her, the pandemic has emphasised the need for all organisations to anticipate crises as they occur without warning. Adekoya said NSITF workers embarked on road walk for advocacy and to sensitise the public to bring out the various challenges faced by the Federal Government, employers, employees and the society at large, on efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. She defined the Occupational, Safety and Health (OSH) systems as standards, measures and procedures set up by organisations to protect workers from hazards, unforeseen threats and risks. The crises include implementation of OSH policies, communication of basic OSH responsibilities to employers and employees. While urging organisations to prepare adequately for crises by setting up effective preparation strategies, she maintained that the OSH systems should encompass all working processes and procedures within the organisations, stressing that mechanisms such as sound inspection system should be put in place to ensure compliance by workers. According to her, organisations that are committed to the health and safety of their workers are also promoting the survival and growth of their businesses. “Organisations should allocate more resources to purchase the necessary safety gear, train workers to cope with the new risks and provide the relevant safety information workers need to stay safe. His will prevent the spread of the virus and other diseases in the workplace and also secure the health and safety of workers.”