A founding member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Chief Chukwuemeka Eze, has lambasted the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for calling for the removal of the Transport Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, over alleged unremitted N165bn operating surplus in the Nigerian Port Authority (NPA). Eze further derided the PDP for its failed attempts to link Mrs. Amaechi to contract racketeering at the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). The party chief in a statement in Port Harcourt, on Thursday, said the PDP lacked the moral rectitude to accuse anyone of corruption saying the party was disgraced out of power on grounds of incompetence, mismanagement of the commonwealth and general misadministration for 16 years. He said the PDP for 16 years adopted a corrupt governance model that successfully sailed the country into the gapping abyss of depravity with a shattered economy and forced the people into varying degrees of abysmal living conditions. Eze asked the PDP to keep quiet and allow responsible individuals and organisations to make comments on critical issues. He recalled how the country was sucked dry and the common patrimony looted without hints of remorse during the period the party steered the statecraft, stressing that the current APC administration was laboring to cleanse the stubborn stains splashed on the image of the country before the global community. Eze quarried the number of times the then PDP-led Federal Government summoned the courage to expose and beamed its torchlight on the corruption that characterised its 16 years of governance. He said only a serious government committed to crushing corruption could summon the courage to expose alleged corrupt practices involving its officials and order an investigation. He told the PDP that Amaechi was always ready to answer with verifiable records questions sought in the course of the investigation. Eze said the minister refused to make nominations into the panel but asked the Head of Service to make the appointments, even when President Muhammadu Buhari gave him the opportunity to constitute the panel. He described the PDP as a busybody with a gross deficit understanding of the overt and covert efforts of Amaechi in ensuring that the infrastructural revolution of the Buhari and the APC government was effectively implemented to guarantee jobs and evoke economic fillip to the benefits of everybody.