Mental health is essential to our overall well-being and important as physical health. It affects how we think, feel and act. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), mental health is not just the absence of mental disorder but a state of well-being in which every individual realises his or her potential, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully and is able to make a contribution to her or his community. Our mental health helps determine how we handle stress, relate to others and make choices. Here are some things you can do to care for your mental health: 1. SURROUND YOURSELF WITH GOOD PEOPLE You should be around people that support you and are always there for you when you need them. People with strong family or social connections are generally healthier than those who lack a support network. So it is very essential for you to surround yourself with your family members or even friends. We may talk to friends in confidence about things we wouldn’t discuss with our families. Friendship is a crucial element in protecting our mental health. They form one of the foundations of our ability to cope with the problems that life throws at us. 2. TRY NEW THINGS You can do away with some routines that you’re stuck on and just try out new things. You can take swimming classes, read a new book, start a blog. You can try a new restaurant or just try cooking new food. If you’re not too sure about it, you can invite your friends to tag along with you while you explore new things. 3. WATCH COMEDY SERIES Watching some funny comic movies, comedy series can actually help relax tension and help you get over depression. Research from experts have shown that laughter can boost your immune system, ease your pain, relax your body and reduce stress. 4. DO THINGS THAT MAKES YOU FEEL HAPPY Everyone gets sad sometimes at certain points in their life but you shouldn’t let that control you. It is okay to feel sad but do not stay sad for too long. Look for activities where you can meet people and network, make plans with your friends and supportive family members. 5. EXERCISE Exercise is important to keep us physically healthy but it can as well keep us mentally healthy. Research shows that people who exercise regularly have better mental health and emotional well-being. Exercise may also help in treating some mental health conditions, like depression and anxiety. For example, research suggests physical activity can be as effective as antidepressants for mild depression. It can boost your mood, concentration and alertness and may even help give you a positive outlook on life. 6. EAT RIGHT It is generally known that nutrition plays a major role in a person’s physical health but it directly affects emotional well-being, too. The relationship between our diet and our mental health is complex. However, research shows a link between what we eat and how we feel. Sticking to a diet of healthy food, helps set you up for fewer mood fluctuations, an overall happier outlook and an improved ability to focus. Studies have even found that healthy diets can help with symptoms of depression and anxiety. 7. SEEK HELP You can ask for help when you feel you need it, asking for help is not a sign of weakness so it should not be seen as such. Asking for help is actually a sign of strength. Talk to someone you trust, it can be a family member or even a friend that you trust. You can seek out a professional’s help as well, talk to a mental health professional in any medical facility near you or simply check out mental wellness pages that provide help and share useful information on social media platforms. When we feel mentally well, we can work productively, enjoy our free time and contribute actively to our communities.