Rain is one of the crucial elements in the Earth’s water cycle, which Is vital to all life on Earth. Rainwater provides a habitat for fish to live and nourishes the soil with enough water for vegetation. The rainy season can be pleasant sometimes; the cool weather, the perfect time to drink a cup of hot tea or coffee, a reason to wear coats and turtlenecks, enjoy snuggle time with loved ones but can also be irritating as it comes with illnesses such as flu, common cold, fever, malaria and others. The Lagos government in April alerted residents that the state will experience normal rainfall for 238 to 261 days in 2021. Fortunately, to stay safe during this period, there are some simple tips to adopt. 1. AVOID GETTING SOAKED IN THE RAIN Make sure to always carry an umbrella and rain coat to avoid getting soaked from a sudden downpour. Getting soaked in the rain can cause flu,cold, cough and other rain causing illnesses. Rain gears such as umbrellas, rain coats, rubber boots helps to protect you from getting soaked and shields you against cold or fever. Wearing rubber boots is advisable to protect yourself against possible viruses and germs that could be in the water. 2. WASH YOUR HANDS REGULARLY To keep you from getting cold, cough and flu, regular hand washing is necessary to prevent the spread of viruses and bacteria. Bacterias and viruses come alive during the rainy season and you can come in contact with them anywhere. Wash your hands as often as you can with soap and water. It is also advisable to carry a pocket-sized hand sanitiser with you when you go out. It is important to wash your feet and hands when you get home, especially after contact with rain or flood. 3. BE A WEATHER CONSCIOUS PERSON You need to stay up to date with the latest news on weather and weather forecasts to avoid going out when there will be a heavy downpour. You can monitor the weather through Radio,TV and the internet. Follow accounts that share useful information about weather and traffic updates, which might help you to get rid of flooded areas and find alternate routes. 4. AVOID TOUCHING ELECTRIC POLES AND WIRES Staying away from electric poles and wires is one of the most important safety measures for the rainy season. Do not touch wires that have fallen due to heavy rain or are dangling precariously from the pole. If you see wires lying in a puddle of water after rain, stay away from it as far as possible since stepping in it can possibly electrocute you. 5. KEEP MOSQUITOES AWAY Rainy season is the perfect breeding season for mosquitoes. They lay their eggs in pools of stagnant water so you must make sure to sweep away any stagnant water that is around you. Mosquito repellent spray should be used in the house,burn mosquito coils as well to keep the insects away. When you need to go outside,wear long sleeved shirts and rub mosquito repellent cream on your arms and legs. Use mosquito nets around your bed too. 6. STAY WARM It is usually cold outside when it rains,so wear warm clothes to keep your body temperature up. Cardigans, sweaters, turtlenecks and coats should be part of clothing during this season. They help you stay warm and avoid catching a cold. Remember to stay out of the rain too if you can. 7. TAKE A HOT SHOWER Taking a shower after getting drenched in the rain might sound absurd, however taking a hot shower will help raise your body temperature and also get rid of the germs and protect you from many infections but If you don’t feel like having a shower, try soaking your feet in warm water.