A member of the House of Representatives from Borno State, Abdulkadir Rahis, has sacked one of his legislative aides, Bukar Tanda, for allegedly describing the leader of Boko Haram, Abubakar Shekau, as a “true hero”. Following the reported death of Shekau last week, it was learnt that Tanda had taken to his Facebook page on Thursday to eulogise him for blowing up himself instead of being captured by Islamic State West Africa Province fighters. In the Facebook post that was eventually deleted, Tanda had reportedly said: “I admire and appreciate his courage to terminate his life. He lived a life of a hero and died a true hero. He did it in such a way that not even traces of his corpse will be found.” Following the write-up, Rahis, in a letter personally signed terminated the appointment of Tanda. The letter dated May 21, 2021 reads: “I wish to formally write and notify you of the termination of your appointment as my legislative aide, forthwith. “Your actions, utterances and opinion of recent are at variance with my interest, that of my constituency and our great party, the APC. “The letter also serves as a disclaimer to any action or position you took or wish to take, on any matter that may have the remotest connection with me as a person or my office.” The sacked aide in another Facebook post on Sunday accepted the termination of his appointment in good faith. Tanda, however, distanced himself from terrorism. The post was titled “NOT ALL STORMS COME TO DESTROY SOME COME TO CLEAR YOUR PATHWAY.” It reads partly: “I wish to greatly appreciate the very timely proactiveness and concern of the appropriate Security Service for inviting me and interrogating me in a highly professional and ethical manner. “My engagement with the security service team remains one of the best moment in this overflouted allegations against my personal integrity and reputation. I am very delighted that I was respectfully invited and interrogated. “All should note that I deliberately avoided to speak to the message that brought about this unfortunate division amongst ourselves and I will never discuss the content of the message. “My decision on not to speak on the message is basically on the ground that “Action can only be satisfactorily judged and or measured by Intention”. My intension was not geared toward sympathy or affection to Shekau. “In the Post, I only tried to be metaphorical and philosophical in my expression just as the Author of the Post did i.e. Ahmed Lawan Dalorima. “Despite the all that happened, I hold no grudge against anyone who have speak against or for. I took personal and unilateral responsibility for all that happened and accused nobody for any wrongdoing. “I have learnt a lifetime lesson and have now have clear idea of the companies to relate with. In this matter, I have acquired rare privilege of recognition which itself is a great honour. “To Honourable Abdulkadir Rahis, I cannot find the right words to express my appreciation for the opportunity to serve as your Aide and more importantly for the spirit of brotherhood you shared with me although our memorable years of togetherness. “Your decision to terminate my appointment is well accepted and in good faith and I found nothing wrong in your decision. I wish you all the best in your endeavors. Mighty Thanks to all for the calls, messages and sincere show of brotherhood spirit.”