In its commitment to service excellence, leading citizenship and permanent residency programme company, Dual Luxury World moves from its former office situated in Prince Bode AdeboWale Lekki phase 1 to a new office space located at Landmark Towers, Water Corporation Road, Victoria Island Extension, Lagos. The new office, which was officially opened April 2021 would serve the company better giving its business growth. The business expansion is attributed to the organisations partnership with RIF Trust Dubai to provide clients with citizenship and permanent residency solutions. Commenting on the new development, Founder & CEO Dual Luxury World, Faramola Adegunle, explained that the company decided to move into a new office to better serve its growing client base. According to him, “Service excellence is extremely important to us as a service business. Our effort to deliver quality and satisfactory solutions has increased as we have in turn experienced exponential growth in our customer base. It became imperative for us to move into an office that would not only comfortably accommodate our people, but more importantly, enable us build more convenient service experiences for our customers. It also affords us convenience in conducting business with our trusted partners. Speaking further, Adekunle noted that “since 2019, Dual Luxury World has partnered with the Dubai company to create a one-stop solution that provides investments for High-Net-worth Individuals to gain global freedom by investing in citizenship and permanent residency programmes”. Also commenting on the development Co-founder & COO, Tosin Arobieke said “It had become imperative for us to acquire a more conducive office, particularly with the increase in our customer base following our strategic partnership. With the partnership, we have consolidated our capacity to tailor bespoke citizenship and permanent residency solutions to our customers. The new office also helps us better serve the need of our clients.” Dual Luxury world over the years has recognised and provided solutions to the need of providing greater freedom to travel and asset optimization for High-Net-Worth Individuals.