  A former Oyo State Governor Rashidi Ladoja;   Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa; Northern Minority caucus in the House of Representatives and the Southeast Igbo Youth Stakeholders are in support of the governors’ resolution. They all spoke at different for and events. Ex-governor Ladoja said he believes that if the ban on open grazing is implemented, the rising insecurity in the country would, to a large extent, be curbed. Ladoja, at the Eid prayers at the University of Ibadan Prayer Ground, also told reporters that “religious intolerance is another problem Nigeria is facing.” He argued that open grazing was no longer sustainable as a practice, adding that the government needed to do more in terms of implementing the ban by the governors. Ladoja said: “I support the ban on open grazing. There is the existence of open grazing law even in Oyo State but unfortunately, we have not seen it implemented. Maybe now that all of the Southern governors have adopted it, the implementation will start in earnest. “All over the world, many countries don’t have open grazing. We should also adopt that. In Lagos, Speaker Obasa advised President Muhammadu Buhari to act on the requests made by the governors to end insecurity in the country. According to him, implementation of the requests would help in moving the country forward. “President Buhari should give a thought to the requests made by the governors, and also implement them for the country to move forward,” he said in a statement to mark the Eid-el-Fitr. Obasa expressed belief that the country would survive the security and economic challenges facing it and come out stronger.  Minority lawmakers in the House of Representatives from the 19 northern states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) said addressing   open grazing, restructuring, and other issues raised by the Southern governors remained the only solution to the worsening insecurity in the country. The lawmakers, therefore, called on President Buhari to immediately commence a process of national dialogue and restructuring as a way of addressing the general discontent among ethnic nationalities in the country. Their position is contained in a statement by Amos Gwamna, Solomon Maren, Rimande Shawulu, Mark Gbillah, Tajudeen Yusuf and Usman Sokodabo. They also asked the President to address the nation on the contending issues raised by the governors and supported by their lawmakers in the National Assembly. The lawmakers said:  “We, members of the minority from the north hereby call on President Buhari to heed the genuine advice of governors from the south and immediately address the nation to assuage frayed nerves. “The President should also put machinery in place for the commencement of the process of restructuring the nation and initiate a legislation to end open grazing, which has been at the centre of the lingering insecurity across the nation. “In order to regain the confidence of the majority of Nigerians, the President must begin to redress his skewed appointments, which have unfortunately divided the nation along ethnic and religious lines”. The   South East Igbo Youth Stakeholders also supported the Southern governors but advised them to come up with an appropriate legal framework to implement their resolutions. The group which called on the Federal Government to de-proscribe the Indigenous People Of Biafra (IPOB) as a terrorist organisation, also urged Southeast governors to liaise with the relevant stakeholders especially the youth, to arrest security challenges in the zone. The group comprises Ohanaeze Ndigbo Youth wing, the National Youth Council of Nigeria (southeast), the Nigerian Youth Congress (Southeast) and the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS, Southeast). In a statement by Chukwuma Okpalaezeukwu, the youth also called for full implementation of the recommendations of the EndSars panel report especially on youths. 