A viral video of Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo popularly known as Sunday Igboho, where he said he would not greet or sympathise with General Overseer of Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, over the demise of his son, Dare, has sparked outrage. Igboho stirred the hornets’ nest when he rained curses on any leader or cleric who refuses to support the secession agenda, saying God will kill their children and wives. The Nation reports Igboho’s aide, Olayomi Koiki, in the video had asked him (Igboho) to commiserate with Adeboye over the death of his son, Pastor Dare Adeboye. But the visibly infuriated Igboho asked if the man of God had declared his support for the Yoruba nation. He said: “Has Baba supported the Yoruba nation that we will now be greeting him? We don’t need to greet Adeboye. What is my own with that? We are not doing church here. This is not religion. “What we are doing is not about religion. Even our clerics are blocking our path. We don’t need to commiserate with Adeboye, what’s my business with that “Adeboye has never spoken about the Yoruba issue. Look at how huge his congregation is, why hasn’t he spoken for the Yoruba Nation? We don’t need to commiserate with him. “God himself will judge those who have not supported us, may He continue to kill their wives and children since they don’t want us to reach our promised land.” The viral video has set many tongues wagging especially on social media with many berating Igboho for using uncouth words and cursing leaders. Many others cautioned him for showing disrespect to the bereaved. David Ewetan said: “Death knows neither the strong nor weak, faithful or unfaithful… After he mocked a mourning father, hope Yoruba nation will save him and his family from their own death? Those words from him are void of class. Everything is not about politics.” Agbolade Segun stated: “When you believe too much in charms, you begin to lack empathy and misbehave… Thinking you’re something when you’re just ordinary dust. Lack of knowledge is a cancer.” Emmanuel Adejare argued: “Mr Sunday, you are not God, and Pastor Adeboye would never join words with you.. He is not stopping you from getting Yoruba Nation so why all this mess? My people perish bcos of lack of wisdom.. you are not bigger than God.” Dasola Adeyemo lamented: “This is just too much, not even at a grieving period like this. Not publicly announcing or talking on social media means one is not supporting Odua Nation. Pls bro mind your speech.” Adebayo Adejumo noted: “People should ignore this uncouth simpleton. This is not in our (Yoruba) culture to deride the bereaved and subject them to barbarity of this magnitude. “Even if The Adeboyes are his sworn enemies, it won’t amount to this vituperative recklessness. Does he, Igboho knows what would be of him the next second? This is what we get in a society that is so deprived of responsible characters.” Gabriel Omowonuola said: “You want Yoruba nation you relocated your wife and children to overseas. Bring them back to Ibadan and the rest of us go follow you.” Johnson Nwachukwu tweeted: “Honestly Sunday igboho miss fired in this one, even in a battle respect are accorded the dead on the enemy side because death smiles at all of us.”