I fought back tears on Sunday watching Pep Guardiola fighting back tears that rolled down his red-faced cheeks showing how important Sergio Aguero was to Manchester City. As the Guardiola interview continued, I sprang to my feet literally urging the interviewer to stop the chat in a bid to spare Guardiola the pain of talking about an irreplaceable striker. Guardiola was quick to tell his interviewer that Aguero was matchless and wasn’t part of any juggling in his team. Aguero can’t be juggled, Guardiola roared as he raised his tearful voice to celebrate the greatest scorer in the Citizens’ side with 183 goals. “We love him so much,” City’s manager said of Agüero to Skysports in a post-match on Sunday at the stadium. “He’s a special person. He’s so nice. He helped me a lot … We cannot replace him, we cannot. There are many players in this club – Joe Hart, David Silva [are others] – who helped us to be in this club. We have his legacy. He showed his quality in 30 minutes.” Yes, it was great watching Aguero finishing on the high for Manchester City especially after the penalty miss the previous week which drew the ire of most soccer fans of the Cityzens. The masterly manner in which Aguero cancelled out two Everton players for his first of two goals showed how gifted the Argentine is when in shape. Little wonder when he headed home Citizens’ fifth and his second on the day, the fans couldn’t but raise songs to celebrate a  legend for life that Aguero has become at Manchester City. For Aguero it was a decade of delight playing for the Cityzens, scoring 16 hat-tricks forcing the fans to roll out various Emojis and flyers when he scored the first of goals which took his haul for Manchester City to 183. Agüero’s goals extended his record for City to 260, and he finished on 183 in the Premier League to pull ahead of Wayne Rooney at Manchester United for the most in the competition for one club. He has agreed to join Barcelona until 2023. Speaking to the BBC, Guardiola said: ”Maybe he’s close to agreeing on a deal with the club of my heart, Barcelona. He’s going to play alongside the best player of all time, Leo Messi. I’m pretty sure he’s going to enjoy and make my club Barcelona stronger and stronger.” Aguero told his interviewer in a post-match session on Sunday that his move out of Manchester City to Barcelona was a business decision stressing that the Citizens had lofty plans of recruiting a new striker and Aguero didn’t want to be involved in any kind of mix next season. Does this mean that Aguero had issues with the club and its manager in spite of massive contributions leading to five titles in his decade stay in the blue side of Manchester. No surprises that Aguero’s final message was majorly for the Manchester City fans: “My message to the fans is: ‘Thank you. Thank you to the City fans for always supporting me. “When you feel the love from your fans, everything is a lot easier. It’s the same for anyone in any line of work – when someone believes in you, you do better. I owe a lot to the people at this Club because I have the City fans to thank for everything. “I remember being on the pitch and playing badly – games where I have played really badly – but it was incredible to see the fans still got behind me. I remember them shouting my name. I just want to say thank you and hope that they enjoy this moment. “I have always felt it (appreciation), even from Manchester United fans! I go out to eat and everyone always shows me a lot of respect. “It makes me really happy because I know that I have given my all for them. I have also met so many fans who are totally crazy about City, with tattoos, and I understand this kind of fan base for a Club like this one. “When I arrived here, I didn’t expect things to go as well as they did because I was the backup striker at Atlético Madrid. When I started playing here, I was very much a number nine. Things went really well. I didn’t expect it but luckily, I started feeling really comfortable at the Club and my teammates helped me a lot. “It made things a lot easier having players around me who were at such a high level with so much quality. It was a strange feeling at the beginning, but it didn’t take long before I was very happy here. “Now, looking at the numbers it’s like: ‘Wow!’ At the beginning, I didn’t think much about the numbers but now I feel so happy for what I have achieved at the Club and the goals I have scored. “We have won a lot of games. I leave here feeling very satisfied with what I have achieved here. In the last games, I will do my best so that I can leave on a high. I want all the fans who saw me play in the stadium to remember me for what they saw me do on the pitch. I always say that you enjoy yourself on the pitch because of the support of the fans. “Lots of players don’t stay here for as long as I have been here for. Manchester will always be one of my homes. I’m not going to live here anymore of course as I have other plans now, but yes it will always feel like home to me. “So, I want to say thank you to the fans and I hope that they enjoy the remaining games with the top players we have here. Right now, it’s me going but the others will leave eventually so it’s important to support them and enjoy every moment while they’re here at the Club.”  Antonio Conte Antonio Conte is no stranger to getting the best out of teams. In fact, Romelu Lukaku  wrote on his Instagram page that:”[In] 2014 we spoke for the first time and we have had a bond ever since.” ”You came at the right time and basically changed me as a player and made me even stronger mentally and more importantly, we won together! Winning is all that matters to you and I’m glad that I have had you as a coach. ‘’I will keep your principles for the rest of my career ( physical preparation, mental and just the drive to win…) it was a pleasure to play for you!  Thank you for all that you did. I owe you a lot.. @antonioconte.” The Italian was an instant hit at Stamford Bridge where he helped Chelsea win the Premier League in his first season but surprisingly got himself sacked the following season after a huge disagreement with the Blues management. A man of steel and pride like the Nigerian Igbo man. He returned to Italy with Inter Milan and wrestled the Serie A title away from customary winners Juventus. But before the celebrations settled, Conte walked away from the Nerazzurri’s after a disagreement with the club owners on transfer plans. He paid respect to the fans and walked away. “What a journey in these two years! Every day we have developed more and more strength, determination, will, and sacrifice, managing to break the logic of mediocrity in which we are surrounded. “No excuses, no alibis, but only work, work, and work, combined with respect and education. We brought the Scudetto back to Inter after 11 years, but above all, we brought Inter back to the place it deserves for its history and tradition. “THANKS to those who made this possible! Footballers, staff, President, managers, and all those people who have helped and supported us in these two years. “I would like to tell the Inter fans that in a very difficult period for everyone due to the pandemic, we have always felt their support and affection. “I will always carry with me the image of the Scudetto raised from the highest ring of San Siro with you celebrating. THANK YOU!” One thing is certain, Conte should get the chance to manage another big club.  Zinedine Zidane Zidane won three consecutive UEFA Champions League trophies for Real Madrid. He took his first sabbatical from football as a manager. Pundits, fans, and the French public were shocked when he returned to the Los Blancos for a second spell. He won La Liga for the second time in his coaching career breaking several records, including the number of scorers and maintaining their best league defensive record in 30 years, as 21 of his players managed to get on the score-sheet during the 2019/20 La Liga season. What’s next for Zidane? Could there be an opening at Paris Saint Germain (PSG) as Mauricio Pochettino is rumoured to be on his way to Tottenham Hotspur. One of the lessons from the trio’s exit from Manchester City, Inter Milan and Real Madrid are that they have quit when the ovation is loudest. Juventus have announced the arrival of Allegri for a second time hours after sacking Andrea Pirlo, who spent a season with the Italian giants. Antonio Conte, who left Inter Milan, after a title-winning season, is reportedly on the way to Real Madrid, who parted with Zidane.