Coalition of Civil Society Organization (CSOs) have condemned attempts by the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) to influence an increase of the official pump price of petrol from N162 to N385 per litre. They noted that such an increase will deepen the suffering of Nigerians, bring unbearable hardship, and further push the nation to a total breakdown. The President of the Ogoni Liberation Initiative, Dr Douglas Fabeke, made these known in Abuja during a press briefing with the support of CSOs. He said: “As you are already aware, there are desperate attempts by the Nigerian Governors Forum to pressurise the Federal Government of Nigeria and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to increase the official pump price of petrol from N162 to N385 per litre, and also there is an underground planned to influence Mr. President to remove the GMD NNPC for refusing to approve the N380 per litters and also His commitment to address all the bad things that happened in the system and make a sustainable change in the oil and Gas Industry. “Recall that on the 19th day of May 2021, the Nigerian Governors Forum (NGF) held a virtual meeting and adopted the recommendations of the report of a six-man committee headed by the Kaduna State Governor, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, recommending among other things that the pump price of petrol should be increased from N162 to N385 per litre. “Recall also that the referenced report and recommendations contained therein was presented to the National Economic Council headed by the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo at its meeting held on the 20th day of May 2021. “The Ogoni Liberation Initiative and other Civil Society Organisations describe this desperate attempt by the NGF as callous, inhumane, and a betrayal of the public trust repose on them by the electorates and vow to utilise every legal means possible to resist and revolt any attempt by the government to further deepen the suffering of Nigerians by increasing the pump price of petrol as this will bring an unbearable hardship to all Nigerian, and further push the Nation to a total break collapse of the system.” Citing the untold economic hardship Nigerians experienced during the lockdown period in the wake of the covid-19 pandemic, the group, therefore, described the move by the NGF as insensitive and callous. “We are disappointed at the action and attitude of the governors in taking such a decision that will have adverse effects on Nigerians. We condemn this move as insensitive and call on the federal government of Nigeria, NEC, and the NNPC to disregard this anti-people proposal of the NGF as its acceptance will further heat up the country. “The government should rather make the refineries in Nigeria work perfectly and also give opportunities for private investors to invest more in modular refineries in order to boost local production and supply, create employment and increase the revenue of the country,” he added.