 SIR: With the wild spate of kidnappings in the country, the National Assembly has been mulling the Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, proposed to deter family and well-wishers of victims from paying ransom to kidnappers. Nigerian lawmakers think the deterrence would plug the hole of kidnappings – an absurd idea. The bill stipulates a penalty of 15 years imprisonment for people whose family members or friends have been kidnapped, even when the police force is frustratingly incompetent. This approach of criminalisation needs to be reconsidered. Security, in general, has grown worse in Nigeria recently and has emboldened the kidnapping industry. Since January, hundreds of people have been kidnapped. It is projected to keep increasing. Academic institutions have been the major targets forcing over 600 schools to shut down activities for some time despite having lost almost a year to coronavirus lockdown and strikes. In the light of this, a significant problem with this bill, apart from it being outrageous, is its effectiveness. There still exists minimal means of checking the activities of kidnappers. To date, there has been scanty news of successful capture and prosecution of bandits/kidnappers or even rescuing of victims by security forces without payment of ransom. The helplessness means that to a great extent, the only means of rescuing kidnapped victims is to ransom them. Making it illegal for guardians to ransom their loved ones would push these transactions underground, causing the number of reported kidnappings to reduce drastically whilst the crime itself continues unchecked. The bill is also unfair. In a country in which the government has failed in its primary duty of protecting the lives and properties of its citizens, it is not only unfair but also uncalled for, for the government to prevent individuals from protecting their loved ones in the way they can. Perhaps, not letting abductors go scot-free without trying to track them and end their activities even after the release of the abductees when kidnapping first started gaining traction would have solved the problem at an early stage. However, security operatives can still be proactive in seeking out kidnappers and bandits. Quite understandably, this might be difficult owing to the institutional problems with the security agencies themselves. And the problem has grown to a scale that is not only difficult to solve but also problematic. Despite this, criminalisation is not the answer. Nigeria is in a security crisis that needs to be addressed as soon as possible. Without a doubt, something needs to be done, and, understandably, the House of Representatives wants to take action. However, it is just as important if not more important to consider carefully the potential effects of any action taken in a crisis.