The Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Mr. Tunde Mobayo has ordered the probe of a police officer, Agenoise Elijah and his four colleagues for unleashing terror on the principal of his daughter’s school. The Police Public Relation Officer, ASP Sunday Abutu stated this on Saturday in Ado-Ekiti in a statement made available to journalists. Elijah, was alleged to have gone, along with his colleagues to Mary Immaculate Girls’ Grammar School, in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital on Friday, to protest the audacity of the school authorities to discipline his daughter over a ‘barbaric’ hairdo. During the encounter, Elijah and his four colleagues allegedly molested the Principal, torn off the dress of a female tutor and seized the mobile phone of another teacher. It was learnt that the incident disrupted academic activities in the school and caused confusion which forced both the teachers and students to scamper for safety to avoid being trapped. However, the Police Commissioner had ordered thorough investigation into the matter, assuring that the police officers would not be spared if found guilty. The statement resds, “The Command is not unaware of the reported case of indiscipline at Mary Emaculate Girls’ School, Ado-Ekiti, where a Police Sergeant allegedly stormed the School alongside four of his colleagues “They were said to have harassed the teachers simply because his daughter who is one of the students was questioned about the style of her hair-cut which was not inline with the school directive. “The Command, wish to confirm that the Police Sergeant and his colleagues who went to the School to cause chaos have been identified and discreet investigation has commenced, as ordered by the Commissioner of Police and the officers shall not be spared if found guilty. “The Command is also working tenaciously with the State Ministry of Education to ensure that no stone is left unturned concerning the case. “The Commissioner of Police in the state is appealing to those who were victims of the officers’ misbehavior to be calm and patient as we shall ensure that the investigation process is not compromised,” the police spekesman said.