Nollywood actress Etinosa Idemudia has confirmed the abrupt end of her second marriage, which produced her daughter and lasted for barely six months. Celebrity blogger, Stella Dimokokorkus, had let the cat out of the bag in a post she shared via her Instagram page. She claimed the actress tied the knot in September 2020 and welcomed their daughter in December 2020. She however did not state the reason for the divorce in her post. Following the revelation by Stella, Etinosa has been forced to confirm the end of her marriage via a post on her Insta story describing the blogger as an old witch. The actress shared that the blogger publicised her pregnancy even when she chose to keep it private especially because of the complications that surrounded the conception and now has done the same to her marriage. Etinosa also slammed her ‘friend’ who she claimed leaked the story and advised that the celebrity blogger let her be moving forward. The actress wrote: “This ‘old witch’ again! I really didn’t want to reply but I feel you will never stop if I ignore. You were the first person to publicise my pregnancy that was barely trying to survive past first trimester due to its complications. I kept quiet. “Now again you have come and I know you have receipts else you won’t dare us to deny. I don’t blame you. It’s the close friend, the insider who is feeding you. “May God forgive that person. Everyone is going through something including you! Thanks for getting this burden off my chest. You tried. But please from now on, avoid me Stella. T for Tenx.” Meanwhile, social media users have reacted to the news of Etinosa’s crashed marriage. Most people have said it is wrong to get married just because a lady finds out she’s pregnant noting that a lady can never truly keep a man with pregnancy as he will eventually leave. Others have mocked the actress noting that she is now at the receiving end of the mockery she dishes out to people. Top on the list is actress Victoria Inyama. The movie stars have been at loggerheads for a while now. Recall in Dec 2020, when Idemudia announced the arrival of her baby, Inyama threw shades at her for being a single mum. In her response, Idemudia informed the actress that she was married and shamed her for being a single mum. victoriainyama wrote: “Awwwwwww ‘wetin concern married woman with single mother’……..Hmmmmmmmm….Life. Never mock a pain you have not experienced……It is well…..” olorifirstlady01 wrote: “Ladies stop thinking you can tie a man down with pregnancy oh, cos after childbirth the man will still leave you.” ray15th said: “Pregnancy should never be the reason why you’ll get married to someone. You can be pregnant and live apart.” bellgusta stated: “2 husband’s don pursue her….for she to use Bible smoke weed….I knew she was bad news.” i.am.teeey wrote: “Lol please nobody should come for me but Etinosa deserves all that she’s getting cos she’s known for laughing and mocking people’s pain. So let her enjoy what she constantly dishes out to others.” gucikuci argued: “Akuko….husband wey we no see….is that one husband.” oyeoku wrote: “Eti mama do you remember when you mocked your Ellie colleague? You even pointed -wetin concern married woman with baby mama?? Well your karma came early.” long_ass_day tweeted: ” A husband that wants to be invincible is suspicious already. When you marry, do it with your full chest.” assmarcello wrote: “Ah when you chook mouth in other people’s matter and don’t mind your own.” ceefy_greatness stated: “Moral of the story: Never mock a pain you have not experienced. Walk-in people’s shoes before you judge or tear them down. what_if_2020 said: “She dey always dey laugh single mothers and shame them….welcome to the club baby girl.”