  Hoodlums on Sunday night set ablaze six vehicles at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) headquarters in Enugu State. Security operatives foiled an attempt to set the building on fire but the foyer and other property were damaged. It came a week after another INEC office in Obollo-Afor in the Udenu Local Government Area of the state was razed. The Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Aliyu, in a statement by the Command’s spokesman Daniel Ndukwe, said an investigation had begun. “Yet to be identified armed miscreants on 16/05/2021 at about 2030hours attempted to set the Enugu Headquarters of INEC ablaze, but were stiffly resisted by joint security operatives, who swiftly mobilised to the scene,” the statement read. Aliyu said the State Fire Service put out the fire on the vehicles and two cushions within the premises. He ordered a beefing up of security at the INEC office, adding that his men were on the trail of the assailants. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman Information and Voter Education Committee Festus Okoye said the attackers “overpowered” the security men on duty before help came. He said: “Some unidentified persons overpowered the security personnel on duty around 9.00 pm and tried to set the entire building ablaze. “The attention of the security agencies, as well as the Federal and State Fire Services in Enugu, was drawn to the unfolding situation and they responded swiftly. “The attackers set the foyer ablaze, vandalised some offices in the main building and caused extensive damage to some of the Commission’s movable assets within the premises.  “Six utility pick up vehicles (Toyota Hilux) were burnt down while two more were smashed and damaged. The security agencies who were at the scene have commenced an investigation. “As we categorically mentioned in our earlier statements, the spate of attacks on the Commission’s facilities portend danger to national electoral activities. “The Commission is holding an emergency meeting with the Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) on Wednesday. “A further statement will be released ahead of another emergency meeting with heads of all the security agencies in the country under the auspices of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES).” African Action Congress (AAC) National Chairman Leonard Ezenwa blamed the attacks on the neglect of credible intelligence by the Commission and the security agencies. Between February 2019 and this month, INEC offices in Akwa Ibom (four), Abia (three) Anambra (two), Imo (two), Enugu (two), Borno, Ebonyi, Jigawa, Kano, Ondo, Plateau, Rivers and Abuja have been attacked. Ezenwa said had INEC and the Police heeded the party’s report about a plot to burn down INEC offices nationwide, the attacks could have been averted. The AAC held a press conference on March 10 in Abuja to warn about ongoing mobilisation to burn down INEC and attack other public institutions. “Our attention has been drawn to ongoing mobilisation to hide under the name of our great party to wreak havoc on and burn down INEC offices nationwide, attack other public infrastructure and cause mayhem across the nation,” the party had said.  Also on March 15, the AAC held another press conference to warn about the planned attack on INEC facilities. But INEC said there was no official correspondence regarding any intelligence on a plot to attack its facilities. Okoye said: “Honestly, I wouldn’t know. If such a thing exists, he ought to have informed the security agencies. The issue is that I am not aware if he wrote a letter to the Commission alleging these things.” The Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, also said he was not aware of AAC’s warning. He told our reporter: “Which office of the police did they alert? That narrows it down and makes my job easier. I have not heard about it. But I also don’t want to say it is a lie. “They might have alerted somebody; they could even have alerted a patrol vehicle on the street. They could have alerted a divisional police officer. “It depends on their knowledge of the workings of the police. I don’t know where the information was given and how to respond to that. We should find out who or which department of the police they alerted.”