 It is observed that peer group has influence on students. This is seen from the role played by the peer group in the life and learning of students; it is believed that students feel more comfortable and relaxed among fellow students. However, a student who is brilliant and surrounded by dull friends would possibly lose interest in learning. Peer group influence is more pronounced in higher institutions than secondary and primary schools, probably because children go away from home and stay in hostels  where parental supervision is extremely limited. The influence of peer group on the child is great, both in and out of the school, because there is the tendency for members to be comfortable with the group norms and values; and sometimes peer group influence may lead to social vices on campus. It is sometimes annoying seeing some youths studying certain courses because of peer influence, neglecting their own career and future. Moreover, what most of our students do not understand is that, the attractiveness of the group, the nature of conformity demanded by the group and the morals of the group determine whether a group is  likely to have positive or negative impact on the members. For instance, some  students take their tuition fees from their parents and used same  in purchasing clothes and shoes  as a result of peer influence. However,  there is no doubt that students who do not manage their peer group activities make lower grades in school than those who are not influenced negatively. Peer group influence also lead students to form cliques with nicknames and join clubs on campus. Every peer group has characteristics that are to be   considered before an entrant could be accepted or rejected. Some of these characteristics that are likely to make a child to be accepted to a group are status, friendship, sociability, among others. Formation of peer group may occur when frustration sets in as a result of family rejection, depression, adult and societal norms. Peer groups may impact a student’s academic performance either positively or negatively. The negative aspect which could be dangerous to students results in immoralities, absenteeism from lectures, stealing,   disobedience, laziness, disregarding school rules and regulations etc. On the other hand, the influence could lead to good and strong academic performance. For instance, the students could be influenced socially, mentally, intellectually, psychologically and all these boost academic performance such as; forming group reading, going to the library, anxious to join others in answering questions in the lecture room, and making friends with brilliant and mature students. Furthermore, positive influence provides a student with a considerable degree of emotional security, which helps in the intellectual development. It also enhances academic performance. To avoid negative peer influence, the home plays a crucial role. Unless the foundation laid by home is sound and solid, the school has nothing to build upon and the student may later become a problem not only to his parents but also the community. Therefore, the home that a child comes from determines his/ her way of life. However, students are expected to think and rethink before being influenced negatively or positively.