 Honda Motor Company has unveiled the 10th generation Accord, the midsise sedan VTEC turbo engine which debuts first-ever turbo-charged engine with series of pocket-friendly and enticingly valuable tech adds-on. Introduced into the local market by Honda Automobile Western Africa Limited, a subsidiary Honda Motor Company in Nigeria, the vehicle comes with new auto features and techs, featuring advanced new powerplant – turbocharged 4-cylinder engine with new 1.5-liter, 16-valve DOHC direct-injected turbo, dual Variable Timing Control (dual VTC) and VTEC that produces a peak of 180 horsepower 5,500 rpm and a torque of 233Nm@1600-5000rpm. Elegant and modern exterior detailing compliments the Accord’s new, more dynamic design. The bold and upright front fascia is highlighted by Honda’s signature chrome wing front grille positioned above a large main air intake and flanked by available LED headlights and LED fog lights. The chiselled hood features a distinctive and aggressive raised centre, and the deeply sculpted body sides enhance the visual length and strength of the lower body. Honda Automobile Western Africa Limited, Head of Sales, Marketing and Logistics, Remi Adams, said the latest Accord model was “all-new from the ground up and is built on a new platform with a lower, wider stance, a lighter and more rigid unibody structure hinged on a lighter and more sophisticated chassis; advanced new power unit with Accord’s first-ever turbocharged engine.” According to Adams, “The direct-injected 1.5-liter 4-cylinder turbocharged engine has a lightweight, low-pressure die-cast aluminium alloy cylinder head with exhaust manifold cast directly into the cylinder head, eliminating the need for a separate exhaust manifold. “A low-friction, silent-chain drives dual overhead cams and four valves per cylinder. The cam drive is maintenance-free throughout the life of the engine. To help further reduce weight, new thin-wall hollow camshafts are used and to benefit fuel efficiency, emissions and power, the turbo engine utilises sodium-filled exhaust valves.” He noted that the new Accord would enjoy added benefits in service so as to ensure adequate and timely servicing of the superb engine to get maximum efficiency. “For the first time, Accord will become the first Honda model in our Nigeria line-up to enjoy six-year free service for periodic maintenance parts up to 90,000km, whichever comes first. The benefits come as a complete package as it includes the cost of parts and labour. Furthermore, the Accord will also enjoy a five-year manufacturer warranty as opposed to the standard three-year warranty that any competitors can offer on brand new automobiles,” he said. This gesture, he said, was to ensure that good service culture is maintained and sustained so that users can totally enjoy the full performance of the Accord.