Low investment Information Technology (IT) infrastructure has made access a big challenge in the telecoms industry in the country, fourth national carrier, 9mobile said yesterday. Its added that the country, like many other developing countries, remains below the required level of investment in IT infrastructure that is necessary to achieve improved efficiencies and enhanced information flow for economic growth and innovation. Its Executive Director, Regulatory and Corporate Affairs, Abdulrahman Ado, who spoke on occasion to mark this year’s World Telecommunication and Information Society Day (WTISD), said it was, therefore, critical that efforts were intensified to invest in the infrastructure that promotes quality connectivity. With “Accelerating Digital Transformation in Challenging Times” as theme, 9mobile said in order to speed up Nigeria’s economic development and recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic in particular, there is a need to accelerate the country’s digital transformation.” This, it says, can be achieved with the deployment of digital infrastructure across the country. He restated the telcos commitment to drive the pace of digital transformation in Nigeria, through strategic investment in digital infrastructure. Ado said:  “Today, access remains a big challenge. Nigeria, like many other developing countries, remains below the required level of investment in IT infrastructure that is necessary to achieve improved efficiencies and enhanced information flow for economic growth and innovation. It is critical that we intensify efforts in investing in the necessary infrastructure that promotes quality connectivity. “At 9mobile we are constantly working towards bridging the connectivity gap as we work together with other stakeholders in the industry to provide innovative technology solutions that are life transforming.” WTISD is celebrated annually on May 17 to commemorate the founding of International Telecommunication Union (ITU) and the signing of the first International Telegraph Convention in 1865. This year’s forum provided a unique opportunity for the International Communication Union (ITU) members to continue in their quest for an accelerated digital transformation agenda that is all-encompassing, by promoting national strategies on ICT development across the world.