Multiple award-winning singer Davido and his first baby Mama Sophia Momodu held the most fabulous birthday party for their daughter Imade Aurora Adeleke as she turned 6 on May 16. The doting parents held a Coachella-themed party for their daughter, titled: “Imachella2021” which was filled with lots of amazing activities with many celebrities and their kids in attendance. Davido surprised his daughter Imade with a Dior bag worth N1.5 million to celebrate her 6th birthday. This designer bag comes a few days after he got his princess a Range Rover SUV for her birthday. Meanwhile, social media has been filled with several videos and clips from the party but one that has sparked up a lot of reactions is the one where the hitmaker is spotted fanning his baby Mama as she reapplied her makeup during the party. The two were spotted standing together while the “Fem” crooner was seen fanning her ensuring that she doesn’t break out in sweats. Reacting to the viral video, most people insinuated the duo look pretty good together and maybe on their way to making that permanent since Davido had finally broken up with Chioma. Others have said the “If” singer only co-parenting with his first baby mama while noting he did that to make the mother of his son jealous as he still loves her. jennifer_owiriwa wrote: “Sophia deserves it abeg… even with the whole Chioma thing then she was still cool with Davido.” realopeolofin stated: “I see some people say they are just co-parenting abeg!!! We know the truth if they are not on good mutual terms they won’t be in each other’s face like this..this one pass co-parenting only if we want to act blind and waka pass.” francisakamgbo said: “From my observation, Davido is doing this to make Chioma jealous cuz he love her though….., Chioma isn’t happy too cuz she love Davido as well and it is difficult for her to move into any relationship soon and even if she wanna do that she really need someone who will make Davido regrets his action but na to see the dude be the koko Make una no slap me oh.” official_perfectness wrote: “This strong connection amongst the duo is bound to be in existence as long as they had a Princess together.” debbie_adaorah argued: “I honestly feel Davido and Sophia are actually meant to be together…they obviously fit each other and they still stayed good friends ever since.” amycreatebeauty_collection wrote: “thechefchi Echoke ooo.the lamb is back to his original owner. That is a lesson to all women.” vosasnitch tweeted: “The truth is that Davido so much love SOFI and the child IMADE … that he couldn’t chose to go one with Chioma engagement ….. the choice is hard to take just put you self in their shoes what will you do if you are DAVIDO.” martha.braide said: “Ehhhhhhn ahhhh abegiii as Chioma don go make davido marry Sophia ooh see as dem fit.” symply_mira22 wrote: “Davido still love this his baby mama.”