Youths have again blocked the Mbiama axis of the East-West road to protest failures of the Federal Government to inaugurate the substantive board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (IYC). The Niger Delta youths led by the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, have been at loggerheads with the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, insisting that they would no longer tolerate the running of the NDDC through a sole administrator. On Monday, the President of IYC, Peter Timothy Igbifa, led hundreds of the youths to shut the headquarters of the NDDC at the old Aba Road. The youths had earlier locked the new headquarters of the commission at the Marine Base and the NDDC’s Rivers State office at waterline area. They performed some traditional rituals and sacrifices and pronounce curses on anyone, who would attempt to open the facilities without first inaugurating the board. Igbifa commended the youths for their commitment saying the #OccupyNigerDelta protest was initiated to protest injustice and unfair management of the NDDC. He further cleared the air on the Abuja meeting between some of his executive members and Akpabio insisting that he did not authorise it. He acknowledged that they were supposed to meet with some Ijaw leaders in Abuja and return to commence the protest but that following his absence, the leaders advised his executive members, who were present, to suspend all their activities and return home. He said: “My executive members were asked to return to look for their President by our Ijaw leaders, who insisted that the meeting would not go on without me. “They were already on their way home; some of them had even boarded the flight but suddenly they changed their mind and went back to hold another meeting with the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. “I didn’t authorise that meeting because I have vowed not to betray our struggle. I want to assure you that I wiill not betray you. What we are struggling for is beyond an individual. It is a collective interest of our region. We need a board and we need it now.” At Mbiama, the youths blocked the East-West road causing traffic gridlock and vowing to continue with their action until the inauguration of the NDDC board. They, however, removed the barricades after two hours and vowed to return to continue the protest. The youths advised motorists and commuters plying the road to either remain in their houses or seek alternative routes saying they would continue to blocknthe area until the inauguration of the board.