Ogun State Government has restated its commitment towards supporting innovative ideas that will foster development in the agricultural sector in the state. The Ogun State commissioner for Agriculture, Dr. Adeola Odedina said this while receiving the delegates of Catfish Farmers Association of Nigeria (CAFAN), in state secretariat, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta. Dr. Odedina who was represented by the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Dotun Sorunke explained that the association is showing at a period when the country is in need of farm products and assure the populace of government intervention in covering the deficit in the agricultural sector in the state. Dr. Odedina stressed that catfish farming is one sector contributing enormously to the economic growth of the state. “Your place in the agricultural sector is so important to us, we are holding you very high, and we are ready to do whatever you think the state needs to do for you. “You are an important partner to the state, so, be rest assured that the Ogun State government is in support of your association. Whatever you need to lift the association, Ogun State government through the honorable commissioner of agriculture is ready to give. “There will be more integration; we will need records of your members so that we can link them up with further opportunities. So be rest assured that Ogun state is ready to support you,” the commissioner stated. In a welcome address, the director of fisheries service in Ogun State, Mrs. Victoria Omolara Ojelade, charged catfish farmers to engage youths in their activities in order to improve production and sustainability. “I want you to engage youths, young graduates, students, so they can enlarge the production of catfish and whatever the challenges, they would overcome it, since they are partnering with the state government and department of fisheries.” In his remark, the Chairman of Catfish Farmers Association of Nigeria, Ogun State Chapter and Chairman Beulah Farms, Mr. Samuel Olubodun explained that the association is working assiduously towards complimenting the effort of the government in the eradication of hunger in the state and country at large. Olubodun buttressed that CAFAN contribute to the country’s DGP as they are working on importing catfish to western world for an exchange for foreign currencies and encourage the production of home grown feeds in the country. “The primary goal of CAFAN is to help the government in eradicating poverty in the state, by empowering the youth and women. “We are also in the process of home grown feedings, so as to boost the economy and have larger production of catfish in the state,” he said. 