 Two dismissed personnel of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) and two other suspected vandals have been arrested by operatives of the Force for vandalising and stealing a truckload of railway tracks and accessories belonging to the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) in Enugu State. Handing over the suspects and recovered items to the Enugu State Police Command yesterday at NAF Base, Enugu, the commander, 553 Base Services Group, Nigerian Air Force, Enugu State, Air Commodore Isaiah Taiwo, said the dismissed NAF men who acted as escorts and the other suspects were arrested around Airport Roundabout in Enugu by NAF personnel on internal security patrol. He listed the items recovered to include a truckload of railway track lanes and accessories; one pump action gun, two live bullets and a truck conveying the vandalised rail materials. The NAF commander said he handed the suspects over to the police for proper investigation and prosecution. He said, “On May 21, about 00:52a.m., two suspects, Mr Paul Obieze of 24 Ajayi Street, Opposite Medical Road, Benin City and Mr. Nwankwo Onyedika, a security officer to Utamazi unit at Mburu-Anusi in Enugu State, were arrested. “They were arrested around Airport Roundabout in Enugu by NAF personnel on internal security patrol with a truckload of vandalised rail tracks belonging to the NRC. “The two suspects were arrested alongside two dismissed NAF personnel who served as their escorts. “Further interrogation revealed that they were enroute Onitsha, Anambra State to sell off the stolen goods when their truck was intercepted.  “The suspects were subsequently detained at the Air Provost Wing of 553 Base services Group,” he said. According to Taiwo, NAF as a professional and disciplined force wishes to state clearly that it will continue to work assiduously with other security services to get rid of criminal elements in the society. Receiving the suspects and the recovered items, the state’s Commissioner of Police, Mr. Mohammad Aliyu, lauded the NAF internal security patrol team as well as the synergy that existed between the NAF and the Nigeria Police. Aliyu, represented by the Commander of the Commissioner of Police Monitoring Unit, SP Suleiman Jafaru, assured that due diligence and discreet investigation on the matter. “I am assuring you that we will go to the interior and follow this matter painstakingly to track down other fleeing gang members of the suspects arrested already,” he said.