The Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) has stressed the need to fully adopt digitalisation to reduce corruption. In this report, OLUWAKEMI DAUDA writes on why the Federal Government should support the Council in this endeavour for more service delivery.  Why are too many people still going into the nation’s seaports in this era of digitalisation? This is the puzzle the Executive Secretary, Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) Mr Hassan Bello, wants the stakeholders, operators, security, government agencies and port users to solve. At a press conference in Lagos, Bello said the port can be contactless with the use of computers. He noted that a non-contact port is the solution to many problems in the system. He listed these as delays, which lead to demurrage, diversion of money, corruption and revenue leakages. Bello kicked against a situation where many people would converge on the nation’s seaports to transact businesses that could be done from the comfort of their homes and offices. Human contact, in this era of global digitalisation, Bello said, is dangerous because it is non-efficient, causes delays and breeds corruption at the ports. He said digitilisation would make our ports more competitive, noting that the country had competitors in West and Central Africa sub-regions.  What is digitalisation? Digital technologies helps to change a business model and provide new revenue and value-producing opportunities. For ports to cope with changes in the global economy, meet growing demand and an increase in throughput of cargo, the ports and their stakeholders will have to strike new agreements on collaboration and standardisation on big data, which in turn, make port computerisation easier to achieve. Digitalisation, in the container handling context, is considered as a matter of the logistic chain, cloud and big data. While these are, undoubtedly, key aspects in digitalisation of container shipping, the system also transforms the processes and workers’roles within terminals, which has an impact on terminals’productivity. Digitalisation of quay operations impacts positively processes and roles and contributes to increased productivity.  Expectations Digitalisation is expected to cut the cost of doing business, corruption and sanitise the port environment. Before now, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Technical Unit on Governance and Anti-Corruption Reform (TUGAR), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) and the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) had assessed maritime operations to proffer solutions to the highly corrupt business environment. This led to the introduction of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and a Grievance Reporting Mechanism (GRM) to uphold the standards set by the SOPs and a web portal to administer the complaint collection and communication under the management and coordination of NSC as a one-stop shop to resolve grievances and to increase the levels of accountability of port officials in their adherence to SOPs. A maritime lawyer Dr Dipo Alaka, said the Federal Government and private sector investors were losing a total of $10.1 billion yearly to corruption due to lack of digitilisation at the ports. He urged the government to support the Council to deal with the menace.  Corruption at ports The NSC, it was learnt, recovered $14,000 bribe proceeds from officials saddled with boarding and inspection of vessels. Bello said bribes being collected from seafarers and captains of ships had become an international embarrassment to the Federal Government and the country at large. At a briefing on the first quarter of the year activities of the council in Lagos, Bello said the seaports have attained 70 per cent digitalisation. He said it was not easy to achieve this, adding that they had the scorecards of every terminal and shipping firms that led to the tremendous improvement. He said the 70 per cent digitalisation was lower than 90 per cent targeted by the council in the first quarter of this year. According to him, the council targeted 90 per cent digitalisation in the first quarter of the year, unfortunately, it did not achieve it although it was still pursuing it in earnest. “Most of the ports in the world are digitilised. Nigeria cannot be an exception. We cannot have a multitude of people going into the ports every day. Human contact at the ports is very dangerous. It is anti-efficiency and once there is human contact, there will be corruption and, then, delay. Some people don’t even have any business to go to the port, but you see them there, what are they doing? “We have been working with shipping companies and terminal operators to ensure we make the deadline we set for the first quarter, but we saw it was not feasible to attain 90 per cent digitalisation. What we were able to do on the average was 70 per cent, but digitisation of the ports is a process in the making. We want this to happen as quickly as possible,” he said.  The level of digitalisation On the level of digitalisation of shipping firms, Bello said, Grimaldi had 88 per cent; Ocean Network Express 76 per cent, and CMA CGM 63 per cent. He added that some of those that scored 20 per cent, had improved with the guidance of the council. For seaport terminals, Bello said PTML had 92 per cent, and in Port Harcourt, Intels, BUA and Wact had 70 per cent digitalisation each. “Where we are having problems is on reforms and claims processes, which is mostly manual, but we have some that scored 50 per cent. “Also, the second phase is the integration of systems for anybody can be online, but there is a need to integrate with the banks, for example, and even the Nigeria Customs Services, “ he said. He said digitalisation would promote cleanliness in the port environment as well as tackle illegal trading. “We are going to clear the whole port environment, we are going to work with the Nigerian Ports Authority and the Ports and Offences Act will be cited to clear the place. “You cannot sell food or diesel  at the port.  The port is a special place that requires the speedy execution of transactions. We cannot have people selling engine oil,” he said. He said for Nigeria to define its role in the transport sector, which would be very significant, there was the need to accommodate bigger ships in our ports and that was the role the Lekki Deep Seaport would play. “Most of the ports in the world are digitised. Nigeria cannot be an exception. We cannot have a multitude of people going into the ports every day; human contact in the ports is very dangerous. It is anti-efficiency and once there is human contact, there will be corruption and then delay. “Some people don’t even have any business at the port, but you see them there.What are they doing? “We have been working with shipping companies and terminal operators to ensure we make the deadline we set for the first quarter, but we saw it was not feasible to attain 90 per cent digitilisation. What we were able to do on the average was 70 per cent, but digitisation of the ports is a process in the making. We want this to happen as quickly as possible.” Problems An expert listed the problems in the reforms and claims processes, which are mostly manual.