 The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said yesterday that it was shocked and embarrassed at the defection of Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Ayade switched camps on Thursday after a meeting with an APC delegation in Calabar. He moved to his new party with numerous stalwarts of the party and members of the State House of Assembly, although the federal lawmakers from the state declared that they would remain in the PDP because the governor did not consult them. The APC itself yesterday announced that election into party and public offices would be thrown open to all old and new members at its forthcoming national convention in a bid to accommodate as many interests as possible. Reacting to Ayade’s defection yesterday, Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State said  PDP governors “are greatly shocked and embarrassed that he (Ayade) would  suddenly dump the party for APC” despite the strenuous efforts made by the PDP to keep him in its fold. Ishaku spoke to State House correspondents in Abuja. He said the PDP, through the Senator Bukola Saraki-led National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee, did a good job to make Ayade stay, but he had other reasons for leaving the party. He said: “Let me tell you, they (Saraki Committee) have done a good job, but it depends on the decision of an individual and what he actually hopes to gain. “You may have the best of intentions, somebody may not agree with you and so that is the point. I think it’s more of the governor’s decision, as it affects him, and nobody can hold brief on that. “I wouldn’t know precisely the governor’s thinking, because all of us are different. “All of us see PDP as alternative to APC and all the PDP governors are doing very well in their respective states. “For him to leave to APC, I don’t know the details of that. I have not seen him. But be that as it may, I believe that any democratic country must have an opposition; a viable opposition. And opposition in itself is good for democracy. “If you don’t have an opposition, then the government in power can go astray. So I believe in a vibrant democracy with an opposition. If we have an opposition, it is good. “As to the reason why our colleague in PDP will depart, I don’t know the details and I can’t hold brief for him. He can still talk for himself.  “But I want to assure you that all the governors in PDP are doing very well in their respective states. Possibly because we’re in opposition and the pressure is on us and we are doing the best we can.” He ruled out the possibility of more PDP governors abandoning the party for the APC. “I don’t see that happening. And like I said, even his own was a shock to some of us,” he said. More APC chiefs hail Ayade over defection More chieftains of the APC in Cross River State yesterday joined former Senate leader, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba (SAN) in hailing Ayade for switching camps. Joe Agi, SAN said the governor’s decision was “a welcome development for all progressive politicians.” He said the energy, clout, pedigree and “certain elements of incumbency that your presence is bound to bring to the fold will provide a robust anchor for the party in the state,” while his membership of the party “will not only create a fresh momentum in the party but will also position it to better leverage on the APC national structure for a more effective delivery of critical services and development milestones for our people in the state.” Agi was the flag bearer of the APC in the last by-election in the Cross River North Senatorial District. The PDP was declared winner by INEC but Agi challenged the declaration by INEC at the Election Tribunal and he is awaiting judgment. Also welcoming Governor Ayade , Hon. Alex Egbonna, who was the only elected lawmaker of the APC in the state during 2019 election, said: “It feels good to see that our dear state is now listed in the comity of progressive states. “Before now, I was like a lone child, being the only elected member of the party from Cross River. But today, the music has changed. “Other elected personalities have now joined the fold. The broom revolution has hit Cross River State and our people will be the greatest beneficiaries. “The coming into the APC of our governor and some members of the state house of assembly, National Assembly, political appointees, local government chairmen and all progressive minded Cross Riverians has opened up a new chapter for us as a people. “It speaks of better days for Cross River State in the days ahead.” Senator John Owan Enoh, the APC flag bearer who lost the 2019 governorship race to Ayade, said: “The historic nature of your entry into our party is not lost on every well-meaning Cross Riverian. It evinces hope and has lit the light of unbridled optimism in the minds of party members and the teeming supporters of our great party in the state and across the nation.” Senator Bassey Otu said Cross River “has no business playing politics of opposition. The APC in the state and the centre will galvanize the needed support and ideas that will quickly accentuate the developmental foundation you have put down for our state.” It’s a bold step, says chairmanship aspirant All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairmanship aspirant, Mallam Salihu Mustapha, also welcomed Ayade into the party. Said he: “It was the right thing to do at this auspicious time in the life of the people of Cross Rivers State and that of our country, Nigeria. “In the face of multifaceted national challenges as Nigeria is currently faced with, there should be a legitimate desire by all political actors to work together and chart a better path. “Governor Ayade has taken the first right step; I hope others who are as conscientious and courageous will also follow suit. “For Governor Ayade, the APC will be more than just a home. It is also going to be an ideological pathway. The APC offers him a decent and ethical platform to drive development through politics. The promise will begin to unfold in the days ahead.” We won’t follow Ayade to APC -C/River NASS members However, Cross River State federal lawmakers elected on the platform of the PDP declared yesterday that they would not follow Ayade into the APC. The lawmakers said the governor did not consult them before defecting and that even if he had briefed them, they would still not have moved with him.  The lawmakers, who called themselves legacy members of the PDP, reiterated their commitment to the ideals of the opposition party. Their spokesman, Senator Gershon Bassey, said Ayade’s defection would not affect the fortunes of the PDP in future elections, especially the 2023 polls. His words: “As far as I know, till date, the National Assembly caucus remains intact. I don’t see any of us leaving. We are legacy members of the party who have been in this party for the past 15 to 20 years. “So the short answer is no, we are not going anywhere. We were not consulted and I am not sure a lot of people were consulted.” Ayade’s defection regrettable, says ex-Gov Imoke Also speaking, a former governor of Cross River State, Senator Liyel Imoke, said the exit of the governor from PDP was regrettable but that it did not come as a surprise as it was not unexpected. Imoke added that the people of Cross River have stood with the PDP since 1999 and that they are not ready to join the governor in the APC. According to him, the people of Cross River State have expressed disappointment with the governor’s defection, having won three elections, including the governorship on the platform of the PDP. Imoke said: “Given the overwhelming support which he enjoyed under the PDP and the fact that PDP has undeniable strong grassroots in the state, we affirm that Cross River State remains a PDP state. “An overwhelming majority of Cross River State people are PDP members. Our key stakeholders, members of the national and state assemblies and strategic grassroots mobilizers, are still members of our great party. We as a party therefore remain virile and strong. “Our shell remains uncracked. The leadership of Cross River state under the aegis of PDP since 1999 has led the state to a pedigree of progression and seen to the attainment of all the lofty achievements the state has been known for. “Hence, the events of the last 24 hours in our state avail us an opportunity to restrategise and realign ourselves with the ideals of the PDP the state which was characterized by a trajectory of growth and development geared towards the path of greatness. “We therefore enjoin all Cross Riverians and the teeming members of PDP in Cross River State not to falter in the faith they have in the party. “While the current events may seem to present a glitch to the progress of the state, we hereby affirm our unwavering commitment towards serving the interest of the good people of Cross River state as we strongly believe that Cross River state shall be great again”. Other lawmakers present at the briefing were Senator Sunday Onor; Hon. Daniel Asuquo; Hon. Bassey Ekpo; Barr. Asuquo Eke; Chris Ngora; and Etta Mbora.