Ex-Big Brother Naija housemate, Erica Ngozi Nlewedim, popularly known as Erica or Star girl, has cried out she doesn’t get male toasters anymore. The ex-BBNaija star, in an interview with a podcast network, talked about her ‘relationship’ status and why it seems no man is approaching her. The actress was asked if she still gets attention from men following her new-found fame. Responding, Erica revealed men no longer approach her because they are “intimidated” by her success. Erica attributed the scarcity of male toasters in her life to her newly found fame and success. In the video shared online, the reality star said: “A lot of people are intimidated, so I don’t get toasters anymore.’ The social media personality went further to urge all her toasters to come back in what seem like a joking manner. She said: “All my toasters come back I miss you.” Although Erica joked over the statement during the interview but social media users are not finding what she said to be funny as they have reacted to her claim in a number of ways. According to social media users, most persons categorically spelt it out she had no right to make such an assertion as she isn’t the only successful woman in Nigeria adding that others still get admirers. Others have used the opportunity to bash her claiming it was her display while in the BBN house that is keeping men away from her. jennifer_owiriwa wrote: “Omo nobody is intimidated abeg, nah your display on tv Dey fear them.” aaeimed said: “I don’t think it’s bcos you’re successful, they’re zillion of successful women who get toasted all the time. So what could it be?” forlahbee tweeted: “Lol. Melinda gates wey just divorce sef, they’ve started toasting her.” theseunlah said: “ Rich people no rate you be that. Even the biggest girls dey get toasters.” ___sixpence wrote: “Or they know say you go curse there life until any small arguments.” tiahair_care stated: “The Guy who wanted to meet you on Twitter nko…. he wasn’t intimidated one bit ma’am…..You asked him to wait for your next meet and greet.” 03.20_1 said: “She’s gotten bread but no toasters anymore.” shes_merccc wrote: “Na ur character for bbn house cause am nothing like intimidation.” cyckes_tha.hybrid tweeted: “These people and trying to stay relevant, what sort of men? This one doesn’t know some men don’t even know her.” akaharaofficial wrote: “This one is delusional. So men don’t toast successful women again?” seun_phillips wrote: “Men are still wooing Genevieve, Linda Ikeja and other more/better successful women. But it’s you that own a home in Lekki and a car men would be intimated to woo. Madam no real man wants the drama around you or want to deal with your type. Enjoy your life.” kingjudeversion said: “You miss your toasters or you miss the simps who constantly gives you free attention and validation.” darlington.ginika.79 wrote: “Abeg getat ,when you go misbehave for bbn house ,who go want toast?”