The Consolidated Revenue Fund will be boosted by additional $700 million from gas revenue and lease renewal fees. About two million barrels of oil will, in addition, accrue to the country under the Oil Mining Lease (OML) 118. This revenue will be made possible because of the agreements signed yesterday between the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and Bonga PSC. Other benefits of the pact include: ensuring $6bn savings of arbitral liability on the Federal Government and unlocking 10 000 direct and indirect employment opportunities for Nigeria It will also help to re-balance fiscal terms and address global competition in prioritisation of investments by key players. The OML 118 with its straddle fields boast of the presence of the five Major Players in the deepwater space in Nigeria and globally. OML 118 is the first major deepwater development in Nigeria in the deepwater Niger Delta 75 kilometres from shore containing the Bonga fields at water depts over 1000m.  The fields are among the most prolific deepwater assets in Nigeria, boosting of almost 2 billion barrels of crude oil, up to 1TCF of gas, modest cost of operations and delivers a significant level of profit for the investors with a sizeable take for the State. The field also supplies gas to NLNG, another strategically important asset to NNPC and its partners. The NNPC in February 2019 signed Heads of Terms (HoT) with the OML 118 PSC contractors which formed the commercial framework for parties to settle their differences, create pathway for a sustainable brighter future and a reference point for resolving the industry-wide PSC disputes. The key feature of the terms of settlement include, clear terms on block ring-fencing, gas commercialisation terms, replacement of disputed tax credits for clearer investment allowances, trade-offs on in-block consolidation and cost limits, early lease renewals, assurance of fiscal stability for investors, protection of profit sharing schemes and settlement of disputed past, among others. The objective was that the HoT will translate to fully termed agreements including the Dispute Resolution Agreement and a new PSC Agreement for the OML 118 Contract Area. After two years, the parties were able to agree to strike full terms agreement including the new PSC and the Dispute Settlement agreement reflecting the major agreed terms of the HoT. 