  The Supreme Court has dismissed the appeal filed by the All Progressives Congress (APC) challenging the academic qualification of the Edo State governor, Godwin Obaseki. A five-man panel of the apex court, in a judgment yesterday, held that the appellants – APC and one of its chieftains, Edobor Williams – failed to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. Justice Emmanuel Agim, in the lead judgment, held that the appellants failed woefully to prove their case, having not provided any disclaimer from the school to the effect that the certificate, whose authenticity they challenged, was not issued to Obaseki by the institution. The court proceeded to uphold the March 18, 2021 judgment of the Court of Appeal, which earlier affirmed the January 9, 2021 judgment of the Federal High Court in Abuja, upholding the authenticity of the first degree certificate (in Classics) issued to Obaseki by the University of Ibadan (UI). The three-man panel of the Court of Appeal, led by Justice Stephen Adah, had in a unanimous judgment on March 18 upheld the argument by Obaseki’s legal team led by Ken Mozia (SAN) that the appeal by the APC and Williams was without merit. The Court of Appeal held that the Federal High Court, in its judgment by Justice Ahmed Mohammed, was right to have held that the appellants failed to prove their claim that Obaseki presented a forged certificate to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to contest the last governorship election in Edo State. In upholding the judgment of the Federal High Court, the Appeal Court further held that Justice Mohammed’s verdict was without ambiguity and that the APC did not prove its case. “The findings of the lower court cannot be faulted,” it held, and awarded N250,000 cost in favour of Obaseki, and N50,000 each for his political party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the INEC. Justice Mohammed had, in his judgment of January 9, described the attitude of the plaintiffs as lazy, saying they did not make any effort to cross-check from UI and the West African Examination Council (WAEC), the two institutions that issued the certificates they claimed Obaseki forged. He added that Obaseki did not only tender the original copies of his certificates – from primary to university level – he also called a Deputy Registrar from UI, who confirmed that the governor attended the institution and that the certificate he parades is genuine, authentic and was duly issued to him by the school. Justice Mohammed said: “Interestingly, all the plaintiffs’ witnesses admitted, under cross-examination, that none visited UI to verify the authenticity of the first defendant’s degree certificate.” Reacting to yesterday’s judgment, Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, said the judiciary is no longer bound by artificial limitations. He also described Nigeria’s judiciary as the referee of the nation’s democracy through enforcement of the rule of law to protect the minorities from the power of the majority, despite the attempts to tilt the playing field against the rules.  Shaibu, in an online statement by his media aide, Benjamin Atu, said: “The judgment of the Supreme Court today (yesterday) has shown that the judiciary does not lack teeth. “The rule of law is the strong pillar and rock on which Nigeria’s democracy stands. Every other foundation is made of sinking sand, because the judiciary is no longer bound by artificial limitations. “The Supreme Court displayed decisional and institutional independence, which underscores the ability of the judiciary to make decisions, free from political influence. “The judiciary constitutes the most important vessel in the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. “Politicians should be reminded that the Supreme Court is not a systematic instrument for the acquisition of political power. “The final judgment today (yesterday) has demonstrated to the world that the Nigerian judiciary is not a pawn in the hands of desperate politicians to realise their ambition. “The rule of law has prevailed and this has demonstrated further that no one can sit above the law. “Justice is the greatest interest of man and the ligament which binds civilised people together. “The extent to which the Nigerian judiciary is free to perform its roles and efficiently will determine how developed and deep-rooted our democracy will be.” Shaibu also hailed the judiciary for waging unrelenting war against arbitrariness, highhandedness, wickedness and injustice. Edo PDP, through its Publicity Secretary, Chris Nehikhare, urged members of the main opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to join Obaseki to make Edo great again. It said: “The judgment of the apex court is a testimony to the fact that Obaseki’s government was enthroned by the wish of Edo people and has the blessings of God. “With the finality of the Supreme Court’s judgment, we sincerely hope that APC and its leadership will be prepared to turn a new leaf of cooperation and collaboration in the building of a society where Edo people’s welfare will be the watchword.” Edo PDP also stated that the legal route had become part of the electioneering process, but noted that the people on the state, on September 19 last year, spoke loudly and cast their votes for Obaseki and PDP.