 COVID-19 deaths approaching 3,400,000 among 159,000,000 diagnosed cases and 1.15b vaccines worldwide; Nigerian cases approaching 166,000 and 2,075 deaths with 1m+ doses given. Learn from the Indian Epidemic! Mr President, recall reservists, recruit 200,000 now! We are at a crisis crossroads. But our problems started long ago. We were badly built. Some extended the hand of fellowship and equality, others enslaved and insulted them, taking too much for themselves. Mistrust, arrogance, greedy unity government, false federalism, rubbishing federal character, the political class mutating into an arrogant greedy corrupt rulership and its successor, the military, became rulers over conquered slaves, not leaders of a great country of proud citizens. Our hands are full with expected external enemies, fallout from the Libyan Peace Accord expelling mercenaries including battle-hardened Chadian anti-government groups as well as freelance mercenaries who hide and seek war, and often create conflict to keep employed. Clearly it is an unexpected outcome that ‘One man’s ‘Peace’ is another man’s ‘War’!  ‘Libya’s Peace = West Africa’s War!’ Currently there are thousands of experienced soldier survivors of prolonged guerrilla and door-to-door war who have access to current weaponry denied the underequipped armed forces of soon-to be targeted countries. Add to that the tsunami of maybe 100m West African current burgeoning generation of disenfranchised resident and migrant ‘youth bubble’ neglected by generations of failed politicians failing all UN indices of development  to provide for three generations, father to son and grandson. No power, water, roads, education, security! The citizens have been forced into too many corners, with, belt-tightening and falling currency values. Certainly, for the past 30-40 years, marginalised youth in Nigeria stood on the social side-lines, neglected, watching the politicians, civil servants and contractor-class grandstand at election time. These failed leaders, even when in court facing multiple multibillion naira theft and mismanagement of the citizens’ money charges, dance in and out of court, smiling on the media stage while living large and partying wildly. They still consume huge self-inflated budgets for Salaries and Perks, SAPping Nigeria dry while the youth’s own parents and grandparents struggle with decades of poor salary-value in the market, penury, denied wage increments, salaries and pensions all forcing them to under-educate the youth. The pauperised citizens cannot keep their progeny in schools of good status, truncating tertiary education ambition and failed to adequately feed, clothe, and pay regular rent for a dignified shelter. The fall in most Nigerians’ financial status, particularly from refusal of employers to pay as-and-when-due caused by unbridled and unchallenged government corruption neglect, led to falling social standards and social services and respect within the family. There is disruption in the African Extended Family Bank, in existence before Western banking was introduced. Children lose respect for unsalaried parents and take to crime, stealing even at home and in the community using motorcycles, giving honest motorcycle operators a bad name. The buying power of one government or private sector salary directly and indirectly prevents violence by feeding hundreds in private employment in the food chain from private youth-run transport, kiosk vendors, schoolteachers etc. This menace did not start today. The growing local menace of thuggery was built on the history of local gang, cult and political thug groups. Now abandoned by their political motivators and financiers, they have turned on the citizenry. How can they be ‘de-thuggerised’ and supported before they destroy us with no help from the deliberate epidemic of farm and community and forest invasions by AK-47 wielding herders, the Boko Haram and ISIS-WA, all key chequered original terrorist groupings already posing a real and present danger to a country of one ethnic group lopsided governance appointments and lethargic with a deaf governance system? How can sexual, drug, alcohol, human kidnapping  and human parts trafficking abuse be tackled quickly when SDGs are so neglected, the police systems are attacked and governments claim they cannot pay the already outdated ‘new salary structure’ of N30,000 minimum wage? The problem governments have is not the minimum wage for levels 1-4 itself but the huge adjustments to the other levels of salary fat cats in the level 7+. Government can help Nigerians. It must ‘MAKE THE NAIRA STRONG AGAIN: TARGET $50b by 2022’. Government likes weaker cheaper naira because the few dollars will buy more naira and pay more local debt and salaries. However, the stronger dollar is required to demonstrate a strong country. Increasing dollar earnings from oil prices in which Brent Crude is predicted to reach $70/b can be harnessed by the CBN to achieve $50b Foreign Reserves and higher. $50b is magic minimum confidence levels for a 60+yar old country and a stable strong naira. The political class must get the foreign reserves to this safety net $50b figure with an eye on $75b. We demand that government recruits 150-200,000 youth to make a 500,000 strong armed forces command required to face the threats to Nigerians. Government should urgently recall Nigeria’s Reserve personnel, RANAO etc, made up of recently retired armed forces and police personnel. These are already highly trained personnel who graduated for the ‘University of Nigeria’s Military Life’, many also ‘specialty trained’ abroad, at huge expense to Nigeria. It is security 1-0-1 that their current competence must be tested to gather intelligence, plan and execute commando and other attacks to curb the crisis of violence frightening every Nigerian. MR PRESIDENT, RECALL RESERVISTS, RECRUIT 200,000 NOW!! TARGET $50b FOREIGN RESERVES by 2022!