  Senate President Ahmad Lawan yesterday said security funding was not enough. He called for more “investment” in it, without which he said the economy cannot thrive. Lawan spoke at the Security Summit organised by the House of Representatives Special Adhoc Committee on National Security. The summit, earlier scheduled to begin on Monday, was shifted till yesterday in honour of the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 others who died in a plane crash in Kaduna. Lawan said: “I want to say here that Nigeria is at crossroads. The very essence of the existence of this country is under serious threat. “What started as an insurgency in 2009 or so in the Northwestern part of Yobe has now snowballed into a full-scale insurgency in the entire Northeast.” He decried the farmer-herder crisis in the Northcentral and the attacks on security agents and destruction of government institutions in the Southeast. “I believe that these are threats, not only to those areas but the entire nation. Our Armed Forces are doing their best.  He said: “It is also important that we provide more resources for our security agencies to enable them better tackle the criminal activities across the country and our armed forces can do that. But the fact remains that we have not enabled them enough. Speaker Gbajabiamila said Nigerians must work together irrespective of political, ethnic or religious differences to save the country. “It may well be that it is in the crucible of this battle for survival that we become a nation fully formed. Therefore, we must rise to the moment with passion and perspective. “We hope for peace and desire its benefits. Yet neither fervent hope nor heartfelt desire will suffice because the ends of peace require action. “As in the words of the former American President, Bill Clinton, ‘peace must be waged with a warrior’s resolve; bravely, proudly, and relentlessly. Secure in the knowledge of the single greatest difference between war and peace, in peace everybody wins.’