Women’s Consortium of Nigeria recently organised a community outreach to sensitise Iwaya women against sexual and gender-based violence. The event which was interactive took place in the palace of the Olu of Iwaya, His Royal Highness Babatunde Adegbenro Ajaga, his royal council has different stakeholders in attendance as they helped to proffer solutions to the many problems affecting women and girls. Atinuke Ogunbayo started with an overview of the organisation, achievements and priority issues at the moment. This includes working on human rights cases, sexual exploitation, rescuing victims of trafficking, providing shelters as well as reintegration for them. Mrs. Morenike Omaiboje talked extensively on Understanding sexual and Gender-based violence in her presentation looking at the different types of women in the society, the way men see women, challenges in relationships as well as how to surmount the odds. “In the past gender roles were seen as biological but things are changing. Men now function in roles that were seen to be for females. Gender roles are now interwoven but the truth of the matter is that violence affects women more”. The second presentation was taken by Mr. Olukunle Adeogun, the organizations director of operation and he stressed the need to respect one another in relationships, the community and the larger community. “ I would advise women to look out for the character of the man they want to marry. Anyone that tries to slap you or is violent before marriage would certainly beat you up in marriage. It is also important to be patient as well as use wisdom in every relationship”. Adeogun also talked about what he describes as, “Modern-day slavery’, looking at trafficking, the challenges and the new strategies, “The law does not allow this at all. UNODC says that one-tenth of the women involved in prostitution in Italy and other European countries are from Nigeria”. He adds that: Trafficking is now so bad that it now includes organ harvesting. Unfortunately; there are new victims and aspiring victims every day. That victim must not be you”. On her part, the wife of the Oba elect of the community, Olori Ajaga talked about her experience in public health and the importance of proper parenting. “I am a registered nurse. I started nursing at the age of 17 years and I practiced in Lagos and America. I, therefore, know a number of the things we are being taught today. In addition, there are a number of areas that I would like to share with the organizers that would be beneficial to all.” She goes on to add that: “I retired in America as an ICU nurse and I must say that it is important to monitor our children properly these days. The girl child is the most delicate; however we must also monitor the boys very well because we are in desperate times.