Ocheni: Good Day. My name is Ocheni. I submitted my late father’s file to his PFA since 2018 but nothing has been paid. The family is passing through hard times. Please help me PenCom: We have contacted the Next-of-Kin with the phone number provided. His father’s batch is yet to be paid. Payment will be made immediately funds are made available by the Federal Government. Anonymous: When can I transit to annuity to continue to enjoy pension for life? For instance, is there a time lag? PenCom: If the retiree is on programmed withdrawal, he/she can switch to annuity once yearly. Bello: My PFA is Sigma Pensions. I want to know when people that retired in April, last year will start receiving their pensions. PenCom: There is no timeline for the payment, but once funds are made available, payment will be done. Anonymous: The approval of my RSA withdrawal retirement benefits is not forthcoming for more than two months. My PFA keeps on telling me that PenCom is yet to give approval. Kindly find out the reason for the delay. PenCom: Please state the nature of request made to the commission as well as information such as your RSA PIN and your PFA to enable the commission respond to your question appropriately. Aliyu: My name is Aliyu. I am a staff member with the Nigeria Teachers’ Institute (NTI), Kaduna. I have a problem of wrongful remittance into another RSA with Premium Pensions, which was duly reported to both Premium Pensions and PenCom and no solution at sight. Please advise me. PenCom: You are advised to liaise with your pension desk officer to ascertain if your records are accurate. If they are, you are advised to liaise with the Office of the Auditor-General of the Federation if your organisation is under the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Information System (IPPIS). On the other hand, if your organisation is not under IPPIS, you are advised to correct your records with your employer and request them to forward a nominal roll to the National Pension Commission. Muhammad: Hello. My name is Muhammad. I did the documentation for the death benefit of our father since 2019 but the family did not receive any payment and we are going through hardship.  Please note: My father’s name: Kudu Bida; Place of work: Federal University of Technology, Minna before he passed on October 6, 2019. I am the next-of-kin to my father. His PFA is Sigma Pensions PenCom: You are advised to provide the RSA PIN of your late father for your complaint to enable us the commission resolve the matter. Biem:  I have observed over the years that The Nation and PenCom devote much attention to Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) and far less on Defined Benefit Scheme. For example, see The Nation of September 21, 2016 and  April 7, 2021 (Pages 36 and 11). I am a Federal Government pensioner (GL 12/9 with 22 years of service. PTAD should pay me. I challenge the Chairman National Salaries Incomes & Wages Commission, NSIWC over deliberate low increment of my pension 2003, 2007, and 2010. My careful, scientific actuarial calculations from 2003 to 2019 showed my pension loss of N658,1785:77. Secondly, is the failure and refusal to raise my pension of 2011, 2016, and 2019. All breach CFRN S. 173 (3) NSIWC to act. Pension is from Latin ‘pensi’. – Wikipedia. First world state pension law was in 1889 by Prince Otto von Bismarck for age 75. Some 100 countries have pension schemes. Nigerian pension is a legacy of British Colonial Administration from 1950, backdated to 1946. Recent pension policy reviews 1974, 1975, Civil Pension Decree No 102 of 1979 Military Pension Decree No 103 of 1979, CFRN 1979, CFRN 1999, Pension Reform Act 2004, Several pension circulars, especially 1975-2010, are instructive. Defined Benefit Pension is 30-100 per cent of last salary. Why does Nigeria not pay regular living pensions? – D.M. Biem Makurdi, BNS. Adigun: My name is Adigun and my PFA is First Guarantee.  The issue I want to discuss affects all contributory pensioners who were Osun State Government employees that retired between 2016 and 2021. None of these sets has received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The real problem is not known as we were being fed with lies by various concerned PFAs. Kindly advise us on the way to go. Ene: I am Ene. Please what are the rules and regulations of payment for Federal Government’s retirees? Secondly, I retired last month. When will my accrued right be paid? PenCom: The rules and regulation for paying Federal Government’s retirement benefits under the CPS starts by participating in the Commission’s pre-retirement verification and enrolment.The prospective retiree/retiree needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the necessary documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment center for his/her attestation. After the enrolment exercise, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But please NOTE that retirement benefits are paid subject to release of funds by  the Federal Government for payment of accrued rights.