 The  ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have  engaged in a fresh war of words over the  burning of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) offices in some parts of the country. The PDP yesterday said  the  APC was behind the fires at  INEC facilities because it feared losing 2023 elections. But the  APC said PDP’s  penchant for destroying democratic institutions was well documented. Describing the PDP allegation  as senseless and reckless, the  Secretary, Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee ( CECPC) of the APC, Senator James Akpanduoehehe,  said: “We cannot be at home and burn its house.” Akpanduoehehe, who went Biblical in his reaction, likened the allegation to the judgment of King Solomon in the case of two women claiming ownership of a child. “While the PDP is willing to split the baby to achieve their desperate and rejected plans for the country, the  APC is continuously doing everything necessary for the country’s progress and defence of our democracy, Akpanduoehehe said in a statement. He added that in “using lies and sponsored media attacks on the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government, the PDP has inadvertently shown its hands as sponsors of the politically-motivated attacks on some of our public and democratic institutions —  in a desperate bid to destabilise this government. “ PDP thinks Nigerians have forgotten its long and documented penchant for  eroding and destroying democratic institutions.  The PDP had in a statement   by its  spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, restated its earlier allegation that the APC had been promoting violence across the country. According to the  party, the burning of INEC offices was meant to create an emergency situation and frustrate the smooth conduct of the 2023 general elections. The statement reads: “It is despicable that having realised that it has no place in the 2023 elections, given its abysmal failure in governance, APC leaders are seeking to set our country ablaze and truncate our hard-earned democracy. “The PDP invites Nigerians to note the failure of the APC and its leaders to forcefully condemn this clear assault on our frontline institution of democracy. This is also as the APC administration has failed to take decisive steps to protect INEC facilities from assailants. “Our party wants the APC to know that May 29, 2023 date is sacrosanct for it to leave office, free our nation from its stranglehold and fizzle out from our political firmament.  “The APC has destroyed our nation, opened our dear fatherland to bandits and terrorists turned our nation into an expansive killing field and a large funeral palour.”  The PDP called on the   Police authorities  to immediately invite and question APC leaders over the burning of INEC offices.  “Nigerians also expect the police to immediately place APC leaders and their thugs on the watch list as a firm step to guarantee the security of INEC facilities and other institutions of democracy in the country,” the opposition party added.