 As the June 6, 162nd Anniversary date of CMS Grammar School Bariga, Lagos State approaches, its old boys are leaving no stones unturned to mark the milestone. President of the Old Grammarian Society (OGS), as the school’s alumni association is called, Mr. Oluwatoyin Vincent, said in an interview that the old students plans to hold mentoring session, prize giving day, and other activitites He said: “As part of the activities we have a prize giving day ceremony along with it. We have prizes that have been instituted by the old boys for various categories. Just this morning, about one something million was given to the school for scholarships for some indigent students. And like I was explaining, just two weeks ago, OGS UK and Europe decided to give scholarship to the best students at the point of entry. Then we are doing mentoring for the students too. We tell the old boys to come around and talk to the students, encourage and stimulate them and let them know that you are here and that the sky is the starting point not the limit for you. You have no reason to fail in this school.” Last year, Vincent, who retired as a director of the Central Bank of Nigeria, said the COVID-19 restrictions affected the founder’s day celebration.  He expressed hope that this year the old boys would be able to gather in the school for the programme, saying many of them were already looking forward to it. With about 40 sets of old students and counting, Vincent said the school’s Old Grammarians were very proud of their alma mater and committed to its development.  He said their mark could be felt in the school as almost all sets had projects they had implemented in various parts of the school including a hostel by Dupe Alakija, husband of Mrs. Folorunso Alakija; a state-of-the-art sick bay by an OGS diaspora chapter, among others. With space restrictions, however, Vincent said the old boys cannot embark on fresh construction projects but look to consolidating on facilities in the school. Vincent, who has been in the saddle for two years, also lamented the impact of the pandemic on funds available to the OGS. “COVID had an impact on us because some of our supporters could have done much but the fall and the crisis in the money market. We have somebody that pledged 250 million and the 250 million was placed in the money market. We were supposed to be spending the interest. When the treasury bill crashed from 15 per cent to about one per cent, so that was a major blow to us,” he said. Nevertheless, Vincent said the OGS was able to help the pupils continue learning even when schools were shut. He said: “And there is the Learning Management System, which is the first leg of the digitisation programme. Incidentally, we are just about to sign up when COVID started. And easily OGS America paid the money and we are able to deploy the LMS. So, we are among the first set to start online training among the secondary schools in Nigeria.” “And similarly to the digitization project, is power, because power is critical. We have a solar power system entirely for the school. We are working on a solar power system for the school to stand alone. Once that is done we will not need anything from government. We will generate our own power and every within the building will be powered together.”