Linda Weaver has been appointed Chief Operations Officer (COO) of Africa Communications Media Group (ACG), the leading African-owned, pan-African firm handling communications and reputation management for global clients in the African context. Linda, former Chief Operating Officer for Weber Shandwick Africa, joined the ACG head-office team (based in Johannesburg) recently. Linda’s impressive career spans over 30 years, 12 of which have focused on communications and marketing activities for the private sector, as well as government communication and media management. Her key areas of expertise include global brand communications, internal communication, stakeholder engagement, crisis communication and large-scale event management. ACG’s CEO, Mimi Kalinda, welcomed Linda as part of the company’s executive management team, stating: “Linda’s experience, track record and skills are well known in the industry. We are excited to bring her calibre of leadership to our team as we work to expand our business and service our clients with increased innovation and excellence. With exciting global partnerships on the horizon, Linda will play an essential role in ensuring ACG can meet our client’s needs and expectations.” Weaver joins the existing highly experienced ACG team to lead the agency’s operational strategic plan, which includes business development, financial management and organisational growth throughout Africa. Her appointment in this key role is aimed at enhancing ACG’s service delivery to clients in terms of quality, advisory support, efficiency and operational excellence – to name a few. Linda stated, “I’m excited to join an agency such as ACG that is poised for growth, and I look forward to imparting my passion for mentorship and working with the ACG team to implement global strategies and brand experiences on behalf of our clients.” In her previous role, Linda was involved in launching Weber Shandwick’s Kenya office in 2018. ACG’s purpose is to develop and implement complete, culturally-attuned and effective communications strategies for clients working in Africa. The communications firm has an extensive network across Africa and a diverse portfolio of services including media, creative services, digital and content creation. ACG clients include public sector organisations, private sector and leading social impact entities, from Africa and across the globe. 