Intense controversy has erupted on social media after upcoming singer Victor Eugenie Adere, better known as Victor AD, accused multiple award-winning singer, Davido of stealing his song, “Jowo.” According to reports on social media, Victor AD made this allegation against Davido in an interview. He noted he recorded the track together with Davido but only realised Davido had put his track “Jowo” on his tracklists after his album “A better time” was officially launched. Victor stated when he confronted Davido, he blocked him from all his social media pages and threatened to ruin him. This allegation from the “Wetin we gain” crooner has caused an uproar on the street of social media. Most people have reacted by stating it is only proper to hear from Davido before jumping to conclusions. Others have reacted by abusing the “Gobe” crooner, alleging this isn’t his first time of indulging in such an act. While a few others have opined that Victor AD would never have done justice to the song the way the DMW boss did adding that Davido is possibly being blackmailed. @ThugLife_Back tweeted: “Victor AD just confirmed Davido stole his record “Jowo” according to AD; OBO heard d song after they recorded “Tire You”. He was surprised to see d song on ABT without him/his mgt consent; He said Davido blocked him on Socials & threatened to ruin him. This wickedness.” @Mohnice_ said: “The biggest theft didn’t just happen in Aso Rock as I hear say Davido Stole Jowo from Victor Ad. Nigga can never write a hit song, no wonder top celebs didn’t wish him 10years of fraud. well, the beautiful part of it is Made In Lagos is going to stay for 26weeks on “BBWAC” today.” @Lucychioma10 stated: “Nigeria and judgment without hearing from both sides. Anti Davido everywhere. He said Davido threatened him and blocked him on social platforms, why hasn’t he done this interview since but wait for now he is celebrating his 10 years in the industry.” @Gowiesk tweeted: “If victor AD been singing that song e no for blow Davido always helping the poor.” @IamSpicyTee stated: “I thought as much. The verse one of that song sounds like Victor AD’s style. “One time, three gbosa for the two-person wey born you.” @danielokpako17 tweeted: “For him mind him think say e fit threaten Warri boy ….I like the way victor take expose ham for public make him do e worst.” @90sSophie said: “If victor AD actually sang Jowo, maybe e for no sweet. If Davido truly stole it, make e find am small thing.” @Wall_streetguy wrote: “This month makes it six month “Jowo” has being released off ABT album, victor AD didn’t say anything since, when people were saying the song ain’t shit he didn’t say nothing. now his calming Davido stole the song from him cause it’s doing crazy numbers. You MAD big time.” @only1cephas tweeted: “If Jowo was stolen from Victor AD, he should have confronted the press or David after hearing the release of the song.i imagine how it would have sounded if Victor was the one who sang it. Davido sha did justice to it.” @ubud__ said: “What God cannot do does not exist ooo. So an agenda to spoil Davido ten years in the industry is been pushed by saying Davido stole jowo from victor ad. Lol… It won’t work!” @IamEmemKoko stated: “You sef use brain. Check Victor’s entire discography, does Jowo sound anything like what Victor AD will sing. They said Davido “stole”. Why won’t Victor AD call him out since if it is true?”