A 47- year-old woman, Olanshile Nasirudeen, has been apprehended by the police for stabbing her 51-year-old husband to death in Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State. Olanshile, who is a co-butcher with her husband was said to have used a butcher – knife to attack him in the abattoir. She was said to have stabbed him and in the process severed one of his veins. The husband thereafter rushed to a nearby hospital but died while receiving treatment due to profuse bleeding. The Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who disclosed this in a statement on Thursday, said the suspect was arrested following a distress call placed to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Obalende Divisional Headquarters, Ijebu Ode, that a woman had killed her husband in an abattoir. Abimbola said the sudden appearance of the woman’s husband’s side – chick in the abattoir, who is pregnant, led to a heated argument between the suspect and the deceased and which led to stabbing him to death. “The suspect who is a co- butcher with the deceased sighted a woman who her husband recently impregnated at the abattoir, and she started questioning the woman about her audacity to get pregnant for her husband. “This led to a hot argument between her and the deceased, as a result of which the suspect picked a knife, and stabbed the deceased at the back joint of his left leg, thereby cutting one of his veins. “He was quickly rushed to a nearby hospital for first aid, and later transferred to Ijebu Ode General Hospital where he eventually gave up the ghost due to excessive bleeding,” Abimbola said. The Police Spokesman said the DPO, Murphy Salami, of the Obalende Division and his men traced the suspect to her hideout in Mobalufon area of Ijebu Ode and arrested her. According to him, the suspect who happened to be the fourth wife of the deceased claimed that it was the husband who first slapped her for asking the pregnant side – chick about her mission in the abattoir (market). The remains of the deceased had been released to the family for burial in accordance with Islamic rights after the autopsy has been conducted. Meanwhile, the commissioner of police, Edward Ajogun, has ordered the transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the state criminal investigation and intelligence department, for investigation and prosecution.