  Worried about the absence of the fun and fanfare that characterize Children’s Day celebrations in many Lagos State schools on May 27 of every year, Sterling Homes is perfecting plans to revive that tradition in a local Council Development Authority (LCDA) of the state. CEO Sterling Homes, Kunle Adeyemi, who disclosed this to The Nation, explained that they were taking up the venture as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) which prioritizes education. “We are taking off this year and we are starting with 27 primary Schools in Odi-Olowo/Ojuwoye LCDA of the state.  We want to revive this tradition by giving back joy and value to the children,” Adeyemi said. “It is our  plan to celebrate this year’s Children’s Day in grand style, involving all 27 primary schools in the community,” he said, recalling how the Day in his time was a day of celebration for children as they looked forward to the March Past and other fun-filled activities. During a visit to the local council to communicate their intentions to Razaq Olusola Ajala, the LCDA chairman, Adeyemi disclosed that he wanted to recreate something like that and even better this year. “We’re definitely excited for what’s about to unfold,” he enthused. The chairman, who was also excited about the whole idea, gave it his blessing, thanking the CEO and his team for choosing his community for that unquantifiable gesture. The company’s decision to organise the Children’s Day celebration is coming on the heels of unveiling  its new brand identity which, according to the CEO, is one of the many steps to their next level of excellence-driven service and product delivery. As a real estate investment and development firm, Sterling Homes is committed to helping individuals, corporate organizations and Nigerians in Diaspora to become landlords with its product offerings. The company is worried about many things that are wrong in the Nigerian housing sector. The slow pace of housing delivery in Nigeria in the face of a staggering housing deficit is a major source of worry, especially with the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) which, in its 30 years of existence, has not built up to 50,000 housing units across the country. It is also another source of worry for the CEO particularly that over 87 percent of Nigeria’s household population still lives in rented apartments which, according to him, tells how dire the housing situation in the country is. As a response, the CEO said, “we are rebranding because we want to get into massive housing delivery to help reduce this deficit. We are going to do this in each of the six geo-political zones of the country. We are starting from Lagos where we will be breaking ground for 50 housing units. We have just 90 days to deliver that project.”