 Lagos State Health Commissioner Prof. Akin Abayomi has said the about 260,000 persons vaccinated against COVID-19, representing just one per cent of the state’s population. Abayomi, who spoke at the ministerial press briefing to mark Governor Bababjide Sanwo-Olu’s second year in office, said the second phase of vaccination would start soon. The commissioner warned that Nigeria stood the risk of experiencing a third wave having vaccinated only less than one per cent of its population. In an earlier statement, Abayomi said: “Health facilities in Lagos State have been placed on high alert to pick up early trends that may suggest a third wave of COVID-19. “Currently, countries like India, Brazil, Argentina, Iraq, Qatar, Peru and Uruguay are being ravaged by a vicious third or fourth wave following a less active and insignificant second or third wave. “The latest wave in India has been proven to be as a result of new mutant strains that have resulted in a dramatic increase in sickness and death for two weeks running.  “Whilst we commiserate with these countries, it is important that we protect our environment and residents against this virus, especially as we have less than one per cent of our population that have received their first dose of the Oxford Astra-Zeneca COVID-19 vaccine similar to India that has about eight per cent.” According to the commissioner, Lagos is working towards ensuring a 60 per cent herd immunity, representing 14 million persons,  was achieved. Abayomi reiterated that the state was also taking steps to curb a third wave of the virus. Such measures include aggressive testing, including mutant PCR testing to identify the particular virus strain; deployment of technology (EKOTELEMED) to track and monitor inbound travellers; enforcing non-pharmaceutical interventions; increase in oxygen supply and vaccination. Of the 123 passengers of interest tracked between April 13 and 27, 110 (89 per cent) were called by EKOTELEMED with only 39 per cent reached and tracked; 66 per cent had Lagos as their final destination while about 28 per cent filled in no address in Nigeria or filled in a foreign address, Abayomi added. Total samples tested so far is 460,647, with 58,222 confirmed positive. Of this number, 168,312 (37 per cent) were tested in public laboratories while 292,335 (63 per cent) were tested in private laboratories.