The Nigerian Academy of Engineering (NAEng) has stressed the need for the modernisation of the country’s engineering academic curriculum for the profession to take its place of pride in the society. Its President, Alex Ogedegbe, made this submission during the academy’s first public lecture with the theme: “Strategic role of engineering in containing COVID-19 Pandemic.” He said the academy was passionate about the modernisation of the curriculum and was reaching out to the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN) to look into the matter. He said the academy was poised to produce thought leadership papers for the development of engineering, promote innovation in industries and tertiary institutions, thorough research, design and fabrication, as well as competitions across broad areas of the country’s engineering needs, including linking such innovations with industry needs. Lagos State Governor  Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was the special guest of honour at the event, observed that the COVID-19 pandemic has brought to the fore, the relevance of biomedical engineers, computer and technology engineers, internet facility, adding that the state government has seen strong collaboration between the government and engineers in development of the state. “We have been able to increase our infrastructure capacity, building three brand new hospitals and International Infectious Disease Centre, to be able to respond to outbreak of diseases. The government is developing interest in the application of block chain technology in healthcare management,” Sanwo-Olu said. The guest lecturer, Prof  Babatunde Ogunnaike, from the University of Delaware, United States, emphasised that engineering profession was dedicated to translating scientific knowledge into useful solution to practice problems, adding that engineering must keep the society functioning at steady state as well as rise to the occasion to tackle novel problems when necessary. He listed engineering contributions to COVID-19 global response to include, understanding the pandemic through data acquisition, modeling, analysis and clarification, insisting that the profession also played a prominent role in slowing down the spread of the virus, testing and diagnostics and was unprecedented in rapid vaccine development, manufacture and distribution. Ogunnaike said good science and engineering was a necessary and indispensable component in any society but hasn’t been sufficient. He called for effective engagement with public policy makers and government at all levels, effective public information campaigns, clearer communication and better education about risk and uncertainty. According to him, effective engineering in the 21st Century must include tripartite components of technical feasibility, financial viability and societal desirability.