Before the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN) axe recently fell on First Bank, Plc, two things used to bother me as one of its teeming customers and shareholders. Over the years, I had acquired some shares of the bank. During the last purchase of the bank’s shares I made, the price was N33 per share. Over the same period, I equally acquired similar quantum of shares in Guaranty Trust Bank, Plc. The last I bought of GTB shares and which was the highest price, was at a price of N5 per share. With this price outlook of both banks, I, as a lay investor, perceived First Bank to be stronger than GTB and also saw it then, as a more promising investment while I did not foreclose the possibility of GTB’s growth, but not phenomenally though. Beyond its share price, its age and its millions of customers, who kept their sleep well accounts with the bank, also gave me the confidence that the bank is reliable and would for long, remain a bank to beat in Nigeria. But surprisingly over the years, the performance indicators of both banks have turned out to be ironic and it is in this irony lie my long held worries. One, as time passes, I noticed that the price of First Bank I bought for N33 per share was always going southward and at a point reached all-time low of N5 per share compared to the bullish movement of GTB share from N5 to all time high of about N31 per share. Two, I equally noticed that, while GTB was declaring good dividend as high as N3 per share, First Bank was declaring miserably low dividend, the last being 0.45kobo per share. Thus within me though a lay investor, I harboured the feeling that, something fundamental must be wrong with First Bank. It was therefore, a shout of didn’t I say for me, when the CBN striped the masquerade of the bank naked, as it let it out to the world that, First Bank was going under and could suffer financial kwashiorkor. The CBN thus had to axe the men and women of the bank that, were steering the ship of the bank into the deep sea and said it:  “ considered itself a key stakeholder in management changes involving the FBN due to the forbearance and close monitoring by the bank over the last five years aimed at stemming the slide in the going concern status of First Bank. It was therefore, surprising for the CBN to learn through the media reports that, the board of directors of FBN, a systemically important bank under regulatory forbearance regime had effected sweeping changes in executive management without engagement and/or prior notice to the regulatory authorities.” Hitting the nail further on the head, the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele revealed that,” the insiders who took loans in the bank with controlling influence on the board of directors, failed to adhere to the terms for the restructuring of their credit which contributed to the poor financial state of the bank”. Indeed, going by this development in the bank, well-meaning Nigerians cannot thank the CBN enough for jettisoning carrot for stick and axe in this matter. Because, should FBN collapse, I just imagine the thousands of jobs that will be lost;  hundreds of organizations that will run into financial crisis ; thousands of pensioners that will die with it; thousands of Nigerians in the Diaspora that will have their fortunes turned to misfortunes and  thousands of non-Nigerians that will die  in regret or live the rest of their lives in despondency. The bank which in the circle of financial illiterates, is perceived as even first before the CBN, is truly of systemic significance. As we can see in this case, the cancer of insider abuse has again reared its head to terminate the life of a bank that drives the economy of the country. It is not new. It has killed so many banks in the past and ruined the lives of so many innocent shareholders and depositors. The question is : why would someone borrow another person’s money and would not want to pay back? To me, such attitude amounts to financial terrorism and of course, more daring than cybercrime. For in effect, it ruins life and causes death. This kind of abuse or rape, is of course almost the faces of many private and public institutions in our country today. Or, what do we not abuse? We abuse our school admission processes. Ditto with contracting processes and many more. And this is one of the banes of our progress as a country. It is First Bank today, but one is very sure that, there are more banks in the system currently labouring under the same insider abuse and on which the CBN is still administering medication without raising the anxiety of their minority shareholders and depositors. But in doing this, the CBN should get the debtor billioners to pay. This development in the banking sector indeed calls for the need for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other anti-corruption agencies, to beam their binocular on the activities of the operators of the sector and the corporate Nigeria in general. The abusers constitute economic cabal whose selfish activities are inimical to the good of all. It is therefore, imperative we bring  the corporate hawks who feed fat on the other people’s wealth to book, not only to save lives and our economy in the immediate, but to also serve as deterrent. Also, all regulatory agencies and commissions in the country, should wake up to their responsibilities and enforce the rule of law for the betterment of our society.