The certainty of Quadri Aruna’s chances  competing in his third Olympic Games will be known next week when the International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) released the final list of players expected to compete at Tokyo Olympic Games in Japan. Also, the world table tennis ruling body has confirmed the men’s and women’s teams for Tokyo Olympic Games after 16 National Olympic Committees (NOC) released their teams’ list for the multi-sports fiesta in Japan. According to ITTF, 93 players are set to contest in both the men’s and women’s team event in the rescheduled summer games. Aruna who copped an injury during the African Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Tunisia last year is expected to pick his ticket to Tokyo through world rankings since he is rated second behind England’s Liam Pitchford among the top-ranked players yet to qualify for the games. The Rio 2016 quarterfinalist is expected to join compatriots – Olajide Omotayo, Olufunke Oshonaike and Edem Offiong to compete in the singles event of the Olympic Games in Japan. Meanwhile, Egypt has named Omar Assar, Ahmed Saleh and Khaled Assar for their men’s team while six-time African champion Dina Meshref will lead the duo of Yousra Helmy and Farah Abdel-Aziz made up the women’s team of Egypt. For the men’s team event, Europe has the largest representation featuring Germany, Slovenia, Croatia, Sweden, France, Portugal and Serbia, all set to battle for Olympic glory. Asia is a close second featuring China, Japan, Korea Republic, Chinese Taipei and Hong Kong, China whilst Egypt, Brazil, USA and Australia will represent Africa, Latin America, North America and Oceania respectively. In the Women’s team event, the NOCs in Asia will be represented by China, Japan, Hong Kong, China, Singapore, Chinese Taipei and Korea Republic. The NOCs’ hopes in Europe for a medal in the women’s team event rest with Germany, Austria, Poland, Hungary and Romania whilst Egypt, USA, Brazil and Australia will be the flagbearers for Africa, North America, Latin America and Oceania respectively. The rescheduled Summer Olympic Games in Tokyo will be held from July 23 to August 8 with the Table Tennis competitions set to take place at the Tokyo Metropolitan Gymnasium from 24 July to 6 August 2021.