Lagos Police Commissioner Hakeem Odumosu has ordered the immediate arrest of 13 leaders of warring groups in Gengere Community, Mile 12, Ketu. Odumosu, according to spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, gave the order on Tuesday during interrogation and interview sessions with some of the leaders at the Command headquarters in Ikeja. Adejobi said the arrest order became imperative following plans by the leaders to continue unrest in the area, which started on April 30 and led to the death of one Papa Mohammed. The Nation reports violence broke out in the volatile area on Friday afternoon after the Commander, Security Committee of the community, Alidu Mohammed, was alleged to have disrespected and blasphemed Prophet Mohammed (SAW). Fanatics in the area were said to have gone berserk, attacked him, set his two vehicles ablaze, vandalised one of his houses and burnt a small building belonging to one Alhaji Mamuda. “In response to the crisis, the Commissioner of Police immediately deployed additional policemen to the area where 45 suspects were arrested. As a result of the crisis, one Papa Mohammed, who was stabbed on April 30, gave up the ghost on May 1, while on admission. “To restore normalcy and maintain law and order in the area, the Commissioner of Police, Tuesday, May 4, ordered the immediate arrest of the leaders of the warring groups who have been fuelling the crisis in the area as the parties still plan for continuous attacks on one another. “The police boss also directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State CID, Panti, DCP Adegoke Fayoade, to immediately take over the case and carry out discreet Investigation into the general crisis in the area particularly the murder and arson cases recorded during the crisis. “CP Hakeem Odumosu warned the public that the command will not tolerate any act of religious intolerance and lawlessness in any part of the state as any individual or group of persons caught in the act or behave in such a manner that can trigger religious intolerance and lawlessness will face the full wrath of the law,” he said.