The recent statement by the Ministry of Transportation that the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) spends about N60 billion to maintain the channels leading to the port has provoked reactions from stakeholders in the industry. In this report, OLUWAKEMI DAUDA traces the high cost to the Joint Venture (JV) channel management contract agreement signed by NPA and its foreign partners.  Years after the contract on channels’ management was signed, the Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMoT) has decried the huge cash the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is spending to maintain the channels leading to the ports. The ministry, which was part of the deal, has, however, refuted the claim that its Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, requested that two Chinese firms be selected by the NPA to manage the channels leading to Bonny and Warri ports. In a letter signed by the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Dr. Magdalene Ajani, reads inter alia: “It is necessary to place on record that while ‘Channel Management’ contracts have been routinely awarded over the years by the Nigerian Ports Authority at a cost of between N50 billion and N60 billion on an annual basis, the Minister has adopted a firm position that the NPA should undertake the job of channel management on an in-house basis through the acquisition of the necessary machinery and professional capacity, given the humongous annual sums paid to dredging contractors by the authority.” However, stakeholders in the industry have blamed the ministry and questioned its leadership for refusing to end the contract when it became obvious that it was skewed in favour of the foreign partners. NPA, stakeholders said, by virtue of its enabling Statute, NPA Act Cap. No 126, laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004, is charged with the maintenance of the channels that provide access to the ports and may carry out any of these responsibilities through any other person authorised by it in that behalf. Findings have shown that it was in pursuit of the forgoing policy that the NPA and the Federal Government invited a proposal from competent private sector operator to carry out capital and maintenance, dredging, bathymetric surveys, buoy maintenance, surveillance, visual pollution monitoring and reporting and other functions. It was in line with the policy of the Federal Government, then, that the NPA, recommended that a Joint Venture Company be managed by the Lagos Channels and Ports to enhance efficiency and viability. Depasa, had through its proposal dated August, 2004, presented itself as a world-class private operator specialised in dredging, marine and port engineering, marine infrastructure and long-term marine project development and management and feasible financial structures to the benefit of its public partners. NPA, investigations have shown, obtained the nod of former President Olusegun Obasanjo dated, June 7, 2005 to enter the JV partnership with Depasa. Genesis of the agreement NPA and Depasa Incorporated a limited liability company known as Lagos Channel Management (LCM)Limited with the Memorandum and Articles of Association. It was in pursuit of the objective of the JV that the parties agreed to pull their resources as follows: NPA 60 per cent, Depasa 40 per cent. A maritime lawyer, Dr Dipo Alaka, said: “How can the NPA sign this type of agreement with a foreign firm when the agency knew that all the money generated by the company would be repatriated to their country? Who is the owner of the water? Who is the owner of the port? Who are the shippers? Are they Nigerians or foreigners? When you attempt to answer all these questions, you will understand the mistakes made by the proponents of the agreement.”  Investigation by The Nation shown that the then Managing Director of NPA, Mr Adebayo Babatunde Sarumi, Mr Felix Ovbude and Mr Abba Muritala Muhammed represented  the Authority during the formation of the JV while Mr Gadi Ilan and Mr Eshel Pesti represented Depasa. The parties, findings further show, agreed that 50 per cent of the share capital of N270million, being the counter value of $2million then, should be subscribed  in cash by both parties, in accordance with their equity holding in the JV thus: NPA 60 per cent – N81million and Depasa 40 per cent – N54million. “If you consider the amount contributed by Depasa, then, and the amount it takes in from the port every year, you will know that the agreement was signed in their favour. “The agreement was also established on three years’ budget, including allowances for possible emergency, further based on the prices and rates submitted by Depasa. All these are errors in the agreement signed by the NPA which successive ministers, including Amaechi, should have corrected immediately he assumed office. Even the budget of the entire country and each state are based on yearly approval, therefore, what makes that of the LCM so special that it could not be corrected before now? Confidentiality To show that the process was done with hope of keeping it from many Nigerians, it is written on page 15 of the agreement obtained by The Nation: Each of the parties shall at all times use its best endeavours to keep confidential (and to procure that it’s employees, agents and representatives shall keep confidential) any information of a confidential nature, which it or they may acquire in relation to the company or in relation to the clients, business or affairs of every other party or of the company and shall not use or disclose such information except with the consent of every other party  or of the company  or in accordance with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction or other lawful authorities or in the case of information relating to the company, for the advancement of the business of the company. *The parties shall ensure that the company and its subsidiaries use all reasonable endeavours to endure that the officers, employees and agents of each of them observe a similar obligation of confidence as set our in clause 10.0 in favour of the parties to this agreement. Termination On page 17, the authors of the agreement wrote on termination as follows: *This agreement shall continue be in force for 15 years from the effective date of this agreement or until sooner terminated  in accordance with the provision of this clause. Renewal The JV agreement shall have an initial duration of 15 years, which shall be renewable by mutual consent. Therefore, if the Ministry of Transportation, which is the supervising ministry of NPA, is genuinely opposed to the renewal of this agreement, can the NPA alone, without the support of the Minister and the ministry official go ahead and renew it? This is the question a former President, Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) Prince Olayiwola Shittu wants Amaechi to answer. Amaechi, Shittu and stakeholders said, as the Minister of Transportation for almost six years, was aware that the Federal Government was hoodwinked in 2005, to sign an agreement that was done in favour of a foreign company that was engaged for the management and maintenance of the channel leading to the Lagos port but failed to address the situation until the recent quarrel between the ministry and NPA. The 2005 JV agreement, signed by the NPA and Depasa and obtained by The Nation, shows that the agreement was skewed in favour of Depasa and the Ministry of Transportation was expected to have corrected the deliberate errors in the agreement before its expiration. Dr Ajani wrote in the letter: “Indeed, following the expiration of the Channel Management contracts for the Lagos, Bonny and Port Harcourt Channels in 2020 and the initiation of the contractual process for the renewal of the said contracts early in 2021, the HMT on January 22, 2021, responding to a request for the NPA to provide requisite details related to the proposed transactions directed in the following words: “There is the need for NPA to know that it should purchase their equipment and not award any contract. Pursuant to the above directive, the Ministry’s Maritime Services Department vide a letter No. T0160/S.30/T4E/T2/61dated February 2, 2021, to the Managing Director, NPA entitled: “Request for Information on the expired contracts: Channel Management and Managing Agent Contracts”. The letter, inter alia, requested the NPA to provide the following information for the Ministry’s records and further action: ‘The status of the Managing Agent contract and the measures put in place to cover the vacuum created as a result of expiration of the contract to prevent revenue loss to the government; The status of the Lagos and Bonny/Port Harcourt Channel management Companies and the measures put in place to cover the gap created by the expired contracts to ensure the channels are maintained for safe navigation and efficient service delivery. “The volume dredged annually from the channels and the depths achieved from inception management contracts to date and the amount expended. The number of wrecks removed annually by the Channel Management Companies from inception of the contracts and amount spent; and the total number of buoys replaced or maintained during the life span of the contract and the amount spent. “I am to also convey the directives on the need for the Authority to procure its equipment for the service and cease from awarding any such contract,” the Permanent secretary wrote: Stakeholders said now is the time for the National Assembly to take proper action on the award of the channel management contract to foreign firms. “After 15 years of allowing foreign operators, NPA, in collaboration with the Ministry of Transportation and other maritime agencies, must be able to handle the project, if truly some Nigerians were trained by Depasa as entrenched in the agreement it signed with the NPA,” said, an analyst, Mr Sesan Adenola. 