   Economic and social activities were yesterday halted in Kaduna State as Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President Ayuba Wabba led union leaders and workers on a street protest. Ayuba and the union leaders had last week vowed to be present in the state to  monitor a five-day warning strike ordered by the NLC over the   retrenchment of over 45,000  civil servants and the anti-labour policies of the Nasir El-Rufai administration. The Police Inspector-General, Usman Baba Alkali has, however, announced the deployment of additional Police operatives and crime prevention assets to ensure public safety and strengthen security along the Kaduna – Abuja Expressway. Also, the state Emergency Management Agency assured residents of prompt response to emergencies, regardless of the strike. The warning strike by labour started at midnight on Sunday. Hours before its commencement, affiliates of the NLC, including the National Union of Electricity Employee (NUEE) and National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas (NUPENG), had cut electricity and petroleum product supplies to the state. Yesterday, aviation unions under the aegis of the National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Association of Nigerian Aviation Professionals (ANAP) and the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers (NAAPE)  also joined the strike. The situation was made worse by banks that shut their doors to customers. Also, the Kaduna station of the Abuja-Kaduna railway was under lock and keys, thereby aggravating the pains of the residents of the state. The labour  leaders and workers had before taking to the streets from the state  NLC secretariat on Golf Course Road gone round to lock up the gates of key government ministries and agencies. At the Kaduna State Secretariat Complex, which hosts about 10 ministries, Wabba addressed the workers on the essence of the strike. Immediately after, the union leaders shut down the complex, but security personnel later forced   the main gate open. Some workers who hung around the complex after the labour leaders left remained outside in apparent compliance with the NLC directive.  From the complex, Wabba led the union leaders and workers to the state House of Assembly where the protest terminated for the day. Governor El-Rufai however, described the strike and protest as economic and social sabotage. He said via his official Twitter handle @GovKaduna  that the conditions that compelled the state government to  carry out the mass retrenchment were not mentioned by the labour leaders. The tweet reads: “KDSG (Kaduna State Government) affirms that the conditions that compelled it to rightsize are not altered by the NLC’s campaign of economic and social sabotage. “The NLC showed in 2017 that it has no interest in public welfare, going violent over 21,780 failed teachers who KDSG replaced with 25,000.” The government later issued a statement quoting El-Rufai  as  saying that the strike will  not make his government have a change of mind on the mass retrenchment. El-Rufai got the backing of his colleagues who advised the NLC  to exercise restraint in its engagement with the state government over the sack of the workers. Ayuba had while addressing the workers at the NLC secretariat dismissed the threat by the state government to arrest him, saying he cannot be intimidated. Noting that workers’ right to protest is enshrined in the African Union Charter and Section 40 of the 1999 Constitution, the NLC president said anyone who wanted to intimidate him and other union leaders should rather go after bandits. Wabba emphasised that there will be no retreat or surrender by labour to ensure that the demands of the workers were acceded to by the governor. He also hinted that the strike may go national, if El-Rufai remained adamant. Wabba lamented that Kaduna State has   become the epicentre  of banditry in Nigeria  without an appropriate response from the government,  which rather “got  busy responding to workers fighting for their legitimate rights.” Recounting the ordeals of the sacked workers and their children, the NLC President asked: “What type of a system do we want to run?  How can we not have insecurity? We have on record that the 21, 000 teachers that were sacked two years ago have not been paid.  If he says he has paid them, tomorrow, I will ask them to bring their letters. “Why should public officers, especially those expected to hold government in trust, now be lying to the public? He also claimed that he invited NLC to a meeting and we declined. It is false, we were never invited. “In fact, it was late last night someone called that he wanted us to hold a meeting. Later, he called that the meeting will no longer hold. I recorded the conversation. “Comrades, is it not even laughable that when El-Rufai discovered that we meant business and ready to shutdown Kaduna that he said he acquired a warrant of arrest six years ago. He said he wants to arrest us. Are we in Banana Republic? Over six years ago, I had come to Kaduna more than 20 times. “I read El-Rufai saying that NLC itself is not implementing minimum wage and as such we cannot ask for minimum wage. That is not true. I saw the publication and concluded that it was sponsored because there is no accredited source to that information. “We are here to tell him that there is labour law in Nigeria, which says that, before you declare redundancy, the labour union must be consulted. The laws say, ‘labour shall be consulted’.  But, the governor claimed to have consulted labour. The labour leaders here today say it is a lie.” “There is no retreat, no surrender. I want to thank our union leaders, both in the public and private sector, from NUEE to NUPENG, from bank union to railway union, aviation and others that are giving maximum support and maximum action for the success of this action. “El-Rufai should know by now that this is beyond the issue of rhetorics.  It  is an issue that is affecting lives of citizens.” Aviation workers, who were seen barricading the gates of the Kaduna airport, accused the governor of flouting civil service laws and sacking civil servants before they served their mandatory 35 years or reach 60 years. “He has violated civil service rules that state that a worker is entitled to work for 35 years or till 60 years, whichever comes first. He has unilaterally fixed 50 years,” the General Secretary, National Union of Air Transport Employees (NUATE), Ocheme Aba, said.  Kaduna to NLC: Your actions won’t change our resolve Kaduna State Government has described the protest as illegal and an unlawful trespass on government facilities. It said in a statement by  El-Rufai’s Special Adviser on Media and Communication,  Muyiwa Adekeye, that labour’s action reinforced its resolve and commitment to using all its resources to serve the interests of the majority.  The government stated that the conditions that compelled its decision to right-size had  not been altered by NLC’ campaign of economic and social sabotage. The statement reads in part: “Government’s resolve is only reinforced by the desperate actions undertaken by the NLC to unlawful trespass on government facilities, and prevent officers from signing attendance registers. “Despite these actions, the state government has guaranteed access to the state secretariat and other government offices. “The government intends to continue running its operations in service to the people, despite the futile efforts of the NLC to impede it. Accordingly, all officers from GL 14 upwards are expected at their duty posts as usual.’’ It however, lamented that ‘’general hospitals in Kawo, Tudun-Wada, Kafanchan, Giwa, Rigasa, Kakuri, and Sabon Tasha were illegally locked by the NLC. “They also shut rural hospitals and primary health centre in Kwoi, Turunku and other locations across the state,’’  the government lamented. The   Nigeria  Governors’  Forum  (NGF)  said in a statement by its Chairman and Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, advised labour to note that the mass retrenchment was not meant to witch hunt any worker but intended to ensure a more productive workforce. It added: “The NGF calls for cautious introspection on the part of labour as no meaningful progress of any kind has ever been achieved in an atmosphere of conflict and chaos. “The  NGF  wishes to remind the NLC  that its actions could become counter-productive especially as the last year  2020,  had adversely affected workers socially and economically. “Therefore the  NGF  advises the  NLC  to explore the already open avenue of rapprochement that the Kaduna  State  Government has provided to resolve the matter and join the state to evolve a  convivial working environment that is befitting for all. “The  NGF  also calls on the  NLC  to be open-minded towards the altruistic intention of the staff audit that the  Kaduna  State is embarking upon to sanitise the state’s workforce and make it more productive. “This should not be seen as a witch-hunt or an attempt to unnecessarily downsize the civil service. “As  we  all  know,  all  states  are  at  present  going  through  difficult  times  and  the  most  feasible  option  will be  for  each  State  to  device  its  own  response  to  its  unique  challenges  without  undermining  the  rights of  individuals  to  seek  redress.”  *IGP deploys special police operatives in Kaduna – Abuja Expressway IGP Alkali has ordered the deployment of additional Police operatives and crime prevention assets in Kaduna – Abuja Expressway to strengthen the security of travellers.  He described the deployment of the operatives from the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Special Tactical Squad (STS) as a proactive measure to prevent any untoward situation that may arise as a result of  the disruption of other means of transportation by the strike in Kaduna State. A statement by the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, on the development reads:  ”The IGP has directed the Assistant Inspectors-General of Police and Commissioners of Police in zonal and state commands with jurisdictions straddling Kaduna–Abuja Highway and its environs to ensure no new threat to lives and property thrive within their area of responsibility (AoR) as a result of the industrial action.” “Similarly, the Assistant Inspector-General of Police in charge of the Force Intelligence Bureau has been directed to immediately deploy covert operatives from the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) and the Special Tactical Squad (STS) to prevent any untoward situation along the expressway. ”While assuring citizens that the Force will continue to do all within its powers to promote public safety, the IGP called on citizens, particularly communities, transporters and commuters along the Kaduna – Abuja Expressway to cooperate with security operatives deployed to their areas. “Citizens are also enjoined to be vigilant and promptly report any suspicious movement or criminal activities in their localities to the Police.”  * KADSEMA assures residents of prompt response Executive Secretary of the Kaduna State Emergency Management Agency (KADSEMA) Mallam Abubakar Hassan assured residents of prompt response to emergencies regardless of the on-going strike. He said that emergency situation has no relationship with strike and “some of us have to work to save lives and properties.” “The agency will not sit back and watch while fire incidents at homes, markets or accidents occur. We have our men stationed and on the alert in case of any emergency.”