 Governors have felicitated with the Muslim Ummah as they mark this year’s Eid-el-fitr, calling for more prayers for the unity, peace and progress of the country. In their messages, they said although Nigeria is going through troubling times, hope must not be lost because hard times do not last forever. They congratulated Muslim faithful on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast.  ‘Keep demonstrating faith in prayers’  In one of the statement felicitating with Muslims, the Northern Governors Forum Chairman and Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong urged the Muslim Ummah to keep demonstrating faith in prayers, which were offered especially during the Ramadan fast. He said God did not make a mistake by creating Nigeria with all its diversities and will, therefore, not allow evil to prevail or destroy the country. Lalong, in a statement through his Director Press and Public Affairs, Dr. Makut Simon Macham, said the current security situation demands more action from both the government and citizens who must work together to isolate bad elements that are desperate to make Nigeria an unstable entity. Oyetola implores Muslims to observe COVID-19 protocols Osun State Governor of Adegboyega Oyetola urged Muslims to comply with COVID-19 protocols during the celebration of Eid-el-Fitri celebration. A statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Ismail Omipidan, also urged Muslims not to forget the significance and lessons of the just- concluded month of Ramadan. Oyetola said this in his Sallah message to congratulate the Muslim Ummah on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast and wish them a blessed and peaceful Eid-el-Fitri celebration. He said: “The occasion of Eid-el-Fitri provides a great opportunity for families and friends to come together, pray, share meals and gifts. I urge us all to engage in all of these cheerfully and in accordance with COVID-19 protocols. Ortom seeks sustained prayers to end insecurity Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom called for sustained prayers to end insecurity in parts of the country. A statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary (CPS), Terver Akase, said the governor believed that with prayers and commitment on the part of government and the people, the wave of killings, kidnappings, herdsmen attacks and banditry will be surmounted. Bello calls for peaceful coexistence Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello advised Nigerians on the need to ensure peaceful coexistence, national integration and abiding by the lessons of Ramadan. Bello, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Onogwu Muhammed, said the teachings of Ramadan were centered on humanity, kindness, peace and love. The governor also urged Muslims to ensure that the lessons, which they had learnt during the Ramadan season and their act of devotions, remained a consistent way of life, even after the 30-day exercise. Obaseki to Nigerians: ensure tolerance, peaceful coexistence Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki congratulated Muslims in the state on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el Fitr celebrations. The governor, message in Benin, called for tolerance and peaceful coexistence among Nigerians.  He urged Muslim faithful to remain steadfast and continue to pray for peace and unity of the country, saying that development and growth could only take place when the people are united. Fayemi felicitates with Muslims Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi felicitated with Muslims and Nigerians for witnessing this year’s Eid- el- Fitri celebration. Fayemi said the completion of the 30-day Ramadan fast was a rare privilege from the Almighty Allah on the faithful. The governor in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, noted that witnessing this year’s Eid el Fitri has crowned a long period of supplication and adherence to an important pillar in Islam. He urged Muslims not to allow the lessons of sacrifice, humility, piety and submission to the will of the Almighty Allah learnt during the Ramadan season to go in vain. Pray for Nigeria, says Abdulrazaq Kwara State Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq urged the citizens to use this period of Eid-el-fitr celebration to pray for peace and tranquility of Nigeria. He congratulated the Muslim community on the celebration of the Eid-el-Fitri, praying to the Almighty Allah to reward the faithful for the Ramadan fast and their devotions, alms-giving before, during and after the holy month. In a statement, the governor said: “I felicitate with the Muslim community worldwide and especially in Kwara State on the successful completion of the Ramadan fast 1442 AH and the Eid-el-Fitri following it. The month afforded the faithful another rare opportunity of spiritual rejuvenation through fasting, devotions, leniency and kindness towards the weak, and multiple earning of rewards by supporting the poor and the vulnerable. I pray Almighty Allah to grant us the rewards in manifolds.” Ayade makes case  for peace, oneness Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade called on Muslims to remain content and render selfless service to humanity in accordance with the lessons of the Islamic religious obligation. In an Eid-el-Fitr message to the Muslim Ummah signed by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Christian Ita, the governor averred that “Eid-el-Fitr offers an excellent opportunity for Muslims to break barriers and reach out to fellow Nigerians, heal wounds and work toward a united, peaceful Nigeria especially at this time our country is facing myriad of economic and security challenges”. Strengthen bond of unity, Fintiri tells faithful Adamawa State Governor Ahmadu Fintiri, in his message, said: “We thank Allah for a successful Ramadan Fast and for the peace of the state and wish Muslims around the world a successful Sallah celebration.” The statement by the Governor’s Press Secretary, Humwashi Wonosikou, regretted that humanity is going through the tough test of coronavirus but assured that “Adamawa is managing this process very well.” The governor called on Muslims to observe the festival with conscious of the coronavirus pandemic and by strictly adhering to the protocols of COVID-19, which is still a source for concern. Abiodun advises Muslims to uphold tenets of Ramadan Ogun State Governor Dapo Abiodun congratulated them for witnessing the end of fasting and urged them to uphold lessons and tenets Ramadan symbolise. Abiodun, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, noted that Muslims had engaged in the spiritual exercise as directed by Allah for the past one month, calling on the faithful not to do away with love, prayers, unity and harmony that formed the basis of the holy month. He urged them to continue to offer prayers for peace and unity in the country, particularly in the face of security and economic challenges.