OYO State government has announced the restriction of movement of persons and goods within the territory of the state between 6 am and 3 p.m on Saturday. In a statement by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mrs Olubamiwo Adeosun, the state government declared that the restrictions have become necessary to enable voters in the 33 local governments to participate freely in the May 22 election. The statement added that movement of persons and goods will be restricted between the hours of 6 am and 3 pm to enable officials of the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC) conduct the election without hindrance. It directed all registered voters in the state to freely participate in the election and remain law-abiding. Adeosun said: “In furtherance of the quest for a hitch-free local government election holding on Saturday, May 22, 2021, His Excellency, the Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has ordered the restriction of movements between the hours of 6 am and 3 pm on the aforementioned date. “During the period of the restriction, security operatives will stop unauthorised movement of persons and goods in all parts of the state. “Only persons on essential duties would be exempted from the restriction order. “The general public is hereby advised to observe the restriction order avoid any form of brushes with security operatives. “Indigenes and residents of the state are as well enjoined to go about their duties peacefully while they go out to cast their votes inline with prescribed guidelines of OYSIEC.” Meanwhile, as parts of security measures for the election, the state police command said no fewer than 9,000 officers will be deployed across the state for the election. Additionally, 2,800 personnel of the state Command of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp had been deployed for the exercise. This is just as all political parties participating in the council poll signed peace accord with the police to conduct themselves inline with the guidelines of the election. The peace meeting with leaders of all political parties in the state was facilitated by the state Police Command in conjunction with the Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission. Addressing the party leaders and other stakeholders, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Ngozi Onadeko cautioned politicians in the state against vices that could truncate the existing peaceful atmosphere warning that violators of the electoral guidelines would be dealt with in line with the provisions of the law.