A cultural ambassador and the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Asa Day Worldwide, Prince Olaniyi Oyatoye, has said there is need to promote cultural education, to sustain the economy and create a peaceful co-existence in the country. Oyatoye said in a statement yesterday that “cultural education cannot be ruled out, if we want to achieve peace in the world, adding that promotion of culture could be used to empower youths.” He said: “It is for this reason that Asa Worldwide, in conjunction with the Oyo State Government, is organising a one- day festival tagged ‘ Asa Day 2021’,  to promote Nigerian cultural heritage.” Oyatoye said the event would hold in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, on Friday with the theme: ‘Let’s use our cultural heritage to revive our economy’”. He said the maiden edition of the festival was held in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada and was attended by Nigeria’s first-class monarchs, cultural ambassadors, Yoruba actors and actresses as well as representatives of the Canadian government. He said the festival is aimed at bringing international outlook to Yoruba heritage, promoting Yoruba culture to attract more investors and encouraging tourism to give recognition to African heritage. “The festival is also aimed at promoting the establishment of cultural institution and Yoruba Cultural Museum in Manitoba, Canada. “2021 Asa Day will feature lecture and symposium by Prof. Adedotun Ogundeji, Dean, Faculty of Arts, University of Ibadan; empowerment of youths; cultural, fashion and language display. “It will also feature awards to major players and promoters of Yoruba culture. “Oyo State Governor Seyi Makinde will deliver a keynote address. Other speakers include the Minister of Information, Tourism and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed; the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; the Olubadan of Ibadan land, Oba Saliu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso 1; the Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yoruba land, Iba Gani Adams; Olori Francis  Meshionye, Olori Oluwo ROF Worldwide and the Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin,” Oyatoye said.  