BIC, a world leader in stationery, lighters and shavers announced the launch of its continent wide art competition. The stationery giant is searching for talented ball pen artists to submit their exceptional artwork for an opportunity to be named the Art Master of Middle East and Africa. The BIC Art Master competition was first held in South Africa in 2017 and, following its success, it grew to include all of Africa in 2019. In 2021, the competition is expanding further to include the Middle East region. The region is packed with immensely talented people and in its 4th year, the BIC Art Master contest plans to recognise and celebrate these artists. Using only BIC ballpoint pens, entrants have the freedom to express their creativity while playing on this year’s theme, “Enchant Everyday Life,” just as artists can submit a maximum of three original and authentic artworks of what inspires and brings them joy on www.bicartmaster.com before the 31st of May 2021, the organisers stressed. “With our diverse Nigerian culture, we are excited to be launching this year’s edition of the BIC Art Master Competition that acts as a platform to recognize and showcase African talents. The competition was a great success last year and we are already very impressed with the submissions that we have seen in the first couple of days since launch,” said Guillaume Grouès, Deputy General Manager Lucky Stationary Nigeria Ltd and Senior Sales Manager West & Central Africa. Submissions will be evaluated by a panel of judges that include a mix of artists, sculptures, art professors and art collectors. The grand prize for the competition is $2,000, a personalised online gallery and an opportunity to be featured as part of the BIC Art Collection. The 2nd prize winner will walk away with a $1,000 cash prize, and the 2nd runner-up will win a $500 cash prize. This contest is open for Africa and Middle East residents only. The judging partners include, Geoffrey Bich, Enam Bosokah, Aboudouh Akinde Fatiou, Valérie Manouvrier, Hervé Mikaeloff and Ennock Mlangeni. 