 At 95, Alhaji Sulaimon Ashafa Ajibola Erogbogbo is a fulfilled Nigeria. But, he wants those in power to be faithful to the people and work hard to resolve the myraid of socio-economic and political challenges confronting the country. The Ikorodu community leader and father of Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa, chairperson of the Diaspora Commission, is being celebrated for his long life, attainments and legacies, and also for his honesty, and devotion to principles. Erogbogbo was born on Friday  May 28, 1926, in Ikorodu to Alhaji Sulaimon Erogbogbo of Adegorunsen Compound, Ita Agbodo via Ajina Square, Ikorodu and Alhaja Alimotu Erogbogbo (nee Bello Solebo) of Ita-Elewa Square, Ikorodu, Lagos State. He had his primary education at Ansar-Ud-Deen School Lagos, from 1938 and completed his secondary education at Eko Boys High School, Lagos from 1943 to 1949. He secured Cambridge School leaving certificate in 1949. He was senior prefect and Chairman of the Senior Literary/Debating Society of the school, in the same year. In January 1950, he secured appointment with government Printing Press, Broad Street, Lagos, as compositor. By November 1951, he went on departmental transfer as Custom Officer. By the end of May 1954, he resigned and joined former Shell Company of Nigeria Limited as Shell Aviation Supervisor. Between 1954 and 1963, Alhaji Erogbogbo rose through the ranks and got promoted to Senior staff level at Kaduna as Sales Representative in November 1963. From Kaduna, in April 1964, he was transferred to Benin, Edo State on promotion and served as District Manager covering Edo, Delta, Brutus and Escravos in the riverine area, from April, 1964 to August 1966 and assumed duty at the Lagos International Airport, Ikeja, as Shell Aviation Superintendent, preparatory to promotion as Aviation Manager at the Company’s head office at Marina, Lagos. For this purpose, he attended Shell BP Aviation Service Seminar at Nairobi Kenya in September 1967. The seminar was organised for 15 Shell BP organisations in Africa, including Egypt, Tunisia, Tripoli, Ethiopia, Ghana and Nigeria, among others. He represented Nigeria. Alhaji A.A Erogbogbo worked as Aviation Superintendent, preparatory to  his promotion as Aviation Manager, at the Muritala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos, until August 1968 when he retired and opted for private venture under the trade name of Yomi Mercantile Company. While in the service of the company, he visited Athens in Greece, Hamburg in Germany, among  other places. The visit to Hamburg yielded fruitful results. Erogbogbo married Alhaja Alimotu Shadia Abeke (nee Alamutu) of the Alamutu family, Abeokuta , Ogun State. The blissful  union with the beautiful love of his youth, whom he fondly referred to as ‘SA’, lasted for about  70 years, until Alhaja SA died on February 1, 2021. The union produced promising children who have contributed immensely to the development of Lagos State and Nigeria at large. They are, namely Alhaja (Mrs) Latifat Kofo Kassim, Omar Abayomi Erogbogbo, A. Rotimi Erogbogbo, Mrs Ajoke Gbeleyi, Hon (Mrs.) Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Mrs. Mojisola Dewunmi- Williams, Olushola Erogbogbo, Ms Yetunde Erogbogbo, and Folake Erogbogbo, a lawyer. Erogbogbo joined Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria, Kano branch in December 1954 and became the Branch Secretary under the Chairmanship of Alhaji L.A. Lasaki. When transferred to Jos, he served as Vice Chairman Education Committee from 1961 to 1963. He also served as Executive Committee member. He has been an active participant in the activities of both Branch and State Councils. Alhaji Erogbogbo is one of the foundation members of Ikorodu branch. Erogbogbo, is a God fearing, principled, courageous fellow, whose penchant for quality education has invariably impacted generations and will also impact unborn generations.  Erogbogbo is not only integrity personified but he is also imbued with sterling qualities such as honesty, fairness, empathy and justice with a sense of humour that is second to none. President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday  felicitated with the celebratory. A statement by his media aide,  Femi Adesina, said the president commended his cosmopolitan exposure, which saw him working in different regions of the country as a young man, before retiring and going into private business. Also commendable, according to the President, is Alhaji Erogbogbo’s almost 70 years marriage to Alhaja Abeke, which terminated only on February 1, this year, when the latter passed on. The president noted that the union produced illustrious children, among whom is Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Chairman, Nigeria Diaspora Commission (NIDCOM). 