Gunmen have demanded N180 million ransom for a Sharia Court judge, an American returnee, as well as five other persons held in their dens. The judge was abducted in Katsina, the Amercan returnee farmer in Kwara, and the five persons in Niger. Muritala Adebayo, a farm owner, was abducted at his farm in Pampo, Asa local government area of Kwara state, on Thursday. An eyewitness said, “We were all at the farm, when suddenly we started hearing sporadic gunshots and we all scampered for safety. A few minutes later, we learnt the owner of a neighbouring farm had been kidnapped.” Adebayo’s abductors, it was gathered demanded N100 million to secure his release. Police spokesman Ajayi Okasanmi confirmed the incident, saying the Command was “doing everything possible to ensure the safe rescue of the victim and the arrest of the suspected abductors.” Bandits who invaded Batati community in Lavun local government area of Niger State on Friday night have demanded N50 million for the five people they abducted during the attack. The Nation learnt that the bandits have threatened to continue holding the victims until the N50 million is paid. The Nation learnt that the Etsu Nupe and Chairman of Niger State Council of Traditional Rulers, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar had called for an emergency meeting of districts and village heads over the kidnap of the five persons. A member of Nasarawa State House Assembly representing Nasarawa Central State Constituency Hon Ismai Danbaba has been kidnapped. Danbaba was kidnapped on Saturday evening while travelling to Jos, Plateau State, on official assignment. Chairman of the state House Assembly committtee on Information, Mohammed Adamu Omadefu confirm the incident. Abductors of Shari’a Court Judge Hussein Samaila asked for N30m, plus an Android phone and GSM call credit. The wife of the Judge said  that the kidnappers earlier demanded for N50m ransom but had to come down to N30m after much bargaining. Police had blamed the Judge for putting his security on the line by going to an unsafe area without security cover. The Police Command in Imo said some gallant officers killed four bandits who allegedly attacked Izombe police division in Oguta Local Government Area of the state on Saturday night. The Commissioner of Police in the state Abutu Yaro said this in a statement signed by the command’s spokesman Bala Alkana on Sunday. Yaro said that many of the bandits fled. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the attack came less than 24 hours after gunmen razed the Atta police station in Njaba council area. However,  just unlike the Atta incident, four of the hoodlums were killed in  a gun duel with security agents. The CP said the latest incident took place between 7 pm and 10 pm on Saturday in Izombe. “The hoodlums in their numbers, launched an offensive on the Izombe police station but were repelled by the gallant policemen on duty. Yesterday, bandits invaded  Tegina town in Rafi local government area of Niger state. The Nation gathered that the bandits shot rapidly and seemed to have had no opposition. A security source told The Nation that everyone was was taking cover. A traditional ruler in Benue State, Tor Sankera, Chief Abu King Shuluwa has said that 21 traditional rulers have been killed due to insecurity  in  the Sankera area of the state. Sankera geo political don’t  is made up of Logo- Ukum – Katsina Ala Local Government areas in Benus state. The area, particularly Ukum and Katsina Ala has witness insecurity which led to the killing and burning of houses. The late militia leader Terwase Agwaza, popular known as Gana, who was killed in a botched amnesty programme hails from Katsina Ala local government area , which has witness more bloody attacks on harmless Tiv farmers. In his funeral oration at the burial of Mrs. Ikyenge, mother of former Chip Whip of the Benue State House of Assembly, Dr. Kester Ikyenge, at Ugba, headquarters of Logo Local Government area today, Chief Shuluwa stated that the killings of 21 traditional rulers was as result of insecurity in Sankera ,which is his traditional  domain and warned parents to call their children to order. He said it is time to stop all kinds of banditry in his domain. He also exonerated Governor Samuel Ortom and Senator Gabriel of complicity in death of the late militia leader Gana, who was killed by the military, when he was on his way to surrender for amnesty programme. Governor Ortom and Senator Suswam all appealed to the youths to lay down their arms and embrace peace.