 Anambra State government has said that no fewer than 29,214 poor and vulnerable households will benefit from the Federal Government’s COVID-19 Rapid Response Cash Transfer Programme in the state. The Commissioner for Economic Planning, Budget and Development Partners, Mark Okoye said the aim was to improve the lives of the less privileged in society. He spoke during the Stakeholders’ Sensitisation to Rapid Response Register (RRR) in Awka yesterday. Okoye added that the measure was to cushion the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic across the state. The Sensitisation Programme was organised by Anambra State Operations Coordinating Unit (SOCU), in collaboration with National Social Safety Net Coordinating Office (NASSCO) which is under the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development. The Commissioner was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Ministry, Dr. Dan Ezeanwu. He announced that the nine local government areas selected to benefit from the RRR programme included Anambra West, Ayamelum, Awka North, Dunukofia, Ekwusigo, Onitsha South, Ogbaru, Oyi and Orumba North.  He said: “The RRR will be used to implement a cash transfer programme to a total of 29,214 poor, vulnerable households from urban and semi-urban wards of Anambra State for an initial period of six months. “The selection was based on the scientific method of Satellite Remote Sensing Technology, Machine Learning, Algorithm and Big Data Analysis, which provided the basis for ranking the wards according to poverty index and availability of resources. “Furthermore, this is followed by digital identification using the unstructured supplementary service Data (USSD) link of TELCOMs facility by dialling a unique code to access the application portal. “The identification exercise will be followed by enumeration and validation.” He added that enumerators would meet applicants at their residents to take further information such as National Identification Numbers (NIN) and bank account details. He insisted that those registered would be subsequently paid through a digitalised payment system in their bank accounts. The Commissioner noted that the Anambra State government had been partnering the Federal Government in various social intervention programmes. He added that these programmes were aligned to the Federal Government’s agenda of lifting 100 million Nigerians out of poverty by 2025. 