 Not a few were surprised, if not altogether bemused, by the latest COVID-19 guidelines: the Federal Government’s order to “indefinitely” shut bars, night clubs and recreation centres; as part of a nation-wide curfew, lasting from 12 midnight to 4am, from May 11. Dr. Mukhtar Mohammed, Head of Technical Secretariat of the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, announced the new arrangements, which also include a fresh advisory on shunning large gatherings and sticking to non-pharmaceutical safety protocols of wearing nose masks and perennial hand-washing; aside from the gospel of getting vaccinated at the earliest opportunity. The new measures follow the COVID-19 meltdown in India, which has similar weather and sundry demographics with Nigeria. Still in many circles, these fresh warnings have been greeted with skepticism, issuing from rank delusion, that COVID-19 is not such a serious threat in Nigeria.  That is an irresponsible, if not outright suicidal, approach to take, given the general not-too-robust state of Nigeria’s health system. Indeed, the Indian COVID-19 meltdown ought to sober up everyone.  Crowding River Ganges with worshippers, in spite of the global virus challenge, has almost brought India to its knees.  The Indian variant(s) of the virus (maybe from Nigeria-based Indians that travelled for these yearly rituals) are said to already be here. More damning on the virus management side: Nigeria is running short of vaccine doses because India’s Serum Institute, charged with pushing out the bulk of COVAX vaccines to serve countries outside COVID-19 vaccine-producing countries, is temporarily concentrating on its home crisis.  That is why the Indian crisis should jolt everyone anew to the COVID-19 peril.  It is everyone’s civic duty, therefore, to follow the fresh guidelines and save lives. On the COVID-19 new frontiers, it is heart-warming the federal health authorities and  Lagos State (hosting Nigeria’s busiest international airport and thus the long-standing epicenter of COVID-19) are cooperating fine. Following earlier Federal Government’s temporary ban on travellers from India, Brazil and Turkey, Lagos is keeping a very close watch on travellers from the United States, Canada, France and Ghana; aside from Germany, Holland, Togo, Cameroon, Angola, South Africa, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda — each believed to have quite some COVID-19 story. Though travellers from these countries are not outright banned, Lagos would subject them to a compulsory seven-day post-arrival self-isolation, just as Nigerians returning from the lesser Hajj, in Saudi Arabia.  Prof. Akin Abayomi, the Lagos State health commissioner, made it very clear: “The state will not hesitate to prosecute anyone, irrespective of status, who fails to comply with the directive.” The commissioner’s voice must carry some weight.  In his doughty efforts to fight back COVID-19 in Lagos, both he and his Incident Commander, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, had copped battle injuries, which fortunately both survived, to return to the front. Still, Prof. Abayomi came with great news: “Of the 554-bed capacity [isolation and treatment centres], 550 beds are currently available.  There is also a decrease in the number of patients who require oxygen therapy at the Infectious Disease Hospital (IDH), Yaba.” Indeed, that the Lagos oxygen requirement fell from 300 bottles a day in January (when COVID-19 suddenly spiked) to 60 bottles in April, shows a state grasping rather well, with the COVID-19 challenge: of the 58, 611 confirmed cases, 54, 049 recovered; 4, 346 were admitted; 3, 906 were discharged but 354 unfortunately died. That is the point, however: what comes down can always flare again, particularly with new strains of COVID-19 springing up by the day, in global crisis centres.  That is why everyone must heed the health authorities’ advice to stick with COVID-19 prevention protocols, aside from grabbing, with both hands, any slightest opportunity to get vaccinated. Still, shut bars, night clubs and recreation centres are threatened livelihoods: ranging from lost jobs and ruined investments and investors.  That is why the government should stay focused, to ensure the bans don’t linger a second longer than necessary. But while the bans last, the government should work out fitting business support protocols, ranging from outright grants to very low-interest credit, to aid these exposed sectors: to pay stipends to keep their staff going; and also secure the business from shutting down. Locking up businesses and livelihoods, for COVID-19, is a huge sacrifice for public health.  Such sacrifices should be compensated, to offer those exposed some relief.