  The Federal Ministry of Finance yesterday explained that lack of spare parts for the repairs of the 22 scanners bought for the Nigeria Customs Service (NSC) in 2006, led to the abandonment of the scanners, while the government makes arrangement to buy new scanners for the Customs. But a representative of Smith Detection, manufacturer of the scanners, Manoj Jagtiani, said spare parts for the scanners were available, saying the majority of the scanners located in various parts of the country could be repaired and made functional. Speaking at a public hearing on the lack of transparency on the transfer of technical know-how from Cotecna Destination Inspection Limited, Societe Generale De Surveillance, to NCS and Global Scan Systems which led to the collapse of multimillion dollar scanners at Nigeria’s Ports and Border Stations, Director, Home Finance of the Ministry of Finance, Stephen Okon said arrangement was being made by the government to procure three scanners for the Customs as a stop-gap measure. But angry members of the House Committee on Customs and Excise said there could be some element of sabotage in the entire process, wondering why the government would be making arrangement to spend tax payers’ money in buying new scanners when the 22 old scanners could be repaired. They also wonder why Global Scan System Limited that failed to honour its commitment to the government when they were supposed to hand over the scanners to the government were again contracted to work with the NCS in the management of the scanners only for the entire system to collapse one year later. The 22 scanners were bought by the Federal Government at the cost of $120 million in 2006 and handed over to Cotecna Destination Inspection Limited, Societe Generale De Surveillance and Global Scan Systems on a build, operate and transfer basis with a seven year contract. The scanners were handed over to the NCS on December 1, 2013. Okon who represented the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning explained that “at the expiration of the contract in December 2012, they were further extended for a period of six months which ended in June 2013. Subsequently, the Federal Government entered into transition agreement commencing from 1st July to 30th November, 2013.” He said the then Minister of Finance constituted a transition implementation committee with the mandate to collaborate with the manufacturers of the scanners to conduct an acceptance procedure test on the scanners to ensure they were operational before being handed over to the NCS. He stressed that at the end of the exercise, all faults detected were handed over to the service providers to rectify before being handed over, adding that Global Scan systems did not fulfill its obligation to fix the defect identified. In spite of that, he said the NCS entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Global Scan system for the provision, operation and management of the scanners, information technology and telecommunication hardware and software training and equipment. Speaking on behalf of the manufacturers, Jagtiani who said he was part of the entire project from the beginning said Smith Detection Scanners are the best scanner manufacturers in the world and control 80 per cent of the market. He disclosed that the scanners in the National Assembly and the Presidential Villa were manufactured by them and have been maintaining them for over 20 years, adding that it would be out of place to say the scanners have no spare parts. He said the company held series of meetings with government officials and officials of the NCS and submitted quotations for the repairs and rehabilitation of the existing scanners. He disclosed that about 13 of the existing scanners can still be repaired and upgraded for the use of the NCS, but was quick to add that the spare parts can only be purchased from the manufacturers. A member of the House Committee on Customs and Excise, Rep. Oluwatimehin Adelegbe wondered how the Ministry could approve MoU with Global Scan Systems for the NCS when they failed to meet their obligation in the first instance. He queried why the government did not make effort to repair the existing scanners for the customs, but rather working to procure three or four new scanners for the service as a stop gap measure. He said: “I am forced to believe that there is some element of sabotage somewhere because it does not make sense to abandon 22 scanners and made no effort to repair any of them and you are going to buy three or four. Why can’t we explore the option of repair and modernisng the existing ones?” Representative of the Comptroller General of Customs, ACG A. Saidu said even though the scanners were handed over to the Customs Service, they could handed over without the consumables. According to him, the consumables were supposed to have been provided by Global Scan Systems limited, adding that throughout the period of operating the system, Global Scan never showed up or fulfill their own side the agreement entered with them.  He said the company recently wrote to the NCS demanding payment for services not rendered, while threatening to drag them to court, saying “we are still waiting for the summon”. Speaking , Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila said it was worrisome that after paying about $120 million for scanners, the facilities were left to rot away. Represented by the Chairman of the House Committee on House Services, Rep Wale Raji, the Speaker lamented that the huge investment of the Nigerian government in procurement of scanners for the NCS has practically gone to waste as the scanners have long been abandoned. He said: “In 2006, Nigeria acquired cargo scanners worth more than $120million, and retained the service providers on build, own, operate and transfer (BOOT) terms. The contract also provided that the service providers will provide training and technical support services to the Nigeria Customs Service on risk management, valuation and classification. “By the end of 2013, the transition process from COTECNA, SGS Scanning Nigeria Limited, and Global Scan Systems Nigeria Limited, the former service providers, was completed and the Scanners handed over to the Nigeria Customs service. “However, within a year of the handover, the scanners had stopped functioning and Nigerian Ports and Borders were once again returned to the analogue process of physical examination. “The scanners, which were installed at various Customs Operation locations such as Tin-Can Island Port, Apapa, Port Harcourt Area One Command, Onne Port, Aminu Kano International Airport, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, Seme and Idi-Iroko borders, Port Harcourt and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, among others, are still currently non-functioning.” He said the House was determined to find out what happened to those machines, and to determine why despite the massive investments in the sector, we did not achieve the modernisation objectives that motivated the investment. Chairman of the House Committee on Customs and Excise, Rep. Leke Abejide describe the situation of the scanners in the country as a monumental National embarrassment and expressed concern that the Nigeria government appear not so keen about taking serious actions on Scanners across all Nigerian Ports, Airports, and Land Borders. He said most of the arms and ammunitions in circulation in the country come directly through the approved borders, sea ports, and even airports without detection by security operatives who are saddled with the statutory responsibility to man all the aforementioned Ports and Borders. Abejide said “it is very easy and possible to go undetected because scanners that should detect these arms and ammunitions are non-functional and left to decay. If we really want to secure our country the Scanners must be allowed to function. “It is my firm belief that this has nothing to do with our inability to purchase scanners, but everything to do with poor maintenance culture, lack of accountability, and deliberate economic sabotage. “Therefore, the idea of purchase of new Scanners or the revamp of existing but moribund Scanners, without an attempt on the part of the Federal Government to get to the root of failure of the past Scanners regime, will not be the case at this critical time. The status quo, I must say, is a national embarrassment and corporate crime against our national interest”. Abejide stressed that “it is established that Scanners have the capacity of processing more than 300 containers in a single day. This brings about less fatigue, more turnover, and port competitiveness. It will also cut costs on the part of the importers who are forced to bear the costs of demurrage that was not their fault in the first place. “But with physical examination it takes an average of 2 weeks or 2 months to clear cargo at the Ports, thus making a mockery of the 48-hour cargo clearance Directive of the Federal Government by the Executive Order of Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria. “Not only does cargo scanning quicken the cargo clearing process, it is also more efficient than physical inspection because of its ability to detect arms and ammunitions and other illegal goods which may escape physical detection. It would also reduce bribery and bring sanity to the system. “That way a country protects its sovereignty from the influx of illegal arms and ammunitions and substandard and contraband goods. Although Nigeria accounts for the largest Ports and Border Stations in West Africa, its competitive edge has been lost to nearby Ports in West Africa primarily due to delays caused by absence or non-availability of Scanners, leading to high cost of clearance, monumental and avoidable Revenue loss to the country. “Another major problem that the availability of Scanners at the Ports will solve is issue of congestion at the Ports and gridlock on the access roads to these Ports. The turnaround time will improve and the business community and the entire country will be better for it”. 