Some residents of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital among other parts of the state on Saturday defied the movement restriction order by the state government in view of the ongoing local government election on Saturday. Although many residents stayed away from the voting areas, human and vehicular movements were observed in major parts of the capital city. Some of the areas which were still busy despite the ongoing election include the Alakia-Isebo axis, Iyana-Church, Iwo Road, Monatan and Agodi-Gate. Others are Ring Road, Adeoyo, Oluyole, Dugbe, Challenge, Mokola, Ojo areas of Ibadan as at 11:00a.m. The government had issued a movement restriction order from 6 am to 3 pm while the election lasted. It was observed that commercial vehicles were still conveying passengers to different destinations even as security operatives were absent on the roads. It was also observed that security operatives were only stationed at the polling booths with many others visibly absent on the road. In some areas including Beere, Oje, Labiran, Oja’ba, Ojoo, Ajibode among others, many youths seized the opportunity to engage in street football while those that are moving around are charged higher fares. Commercial motorcycles were still seen in their good numbers plying the road, doing their businesses. Sources said that other parts of the states including Ogbomosho, Ibarapa, Oke-Ogun also saw normal activities going on unabated. The early morning rainfall in Ibadan was said to have contributed to the indifference by residents as well as delay in the early distribution of electoral materials to polling centres. The delay in distribution of electoral materials were also delayed in Iseyin, Iseyin Local Government Area of Oyo State, as the distribution started at about 9 am, a source hinted. Commercial activities were also said to have been ongoing at the usual pace in Ogbomosho, Ibarapa, Oke-Ogun area with a low turnout of electorates. Pocket of violence also rocked some parts of the states and shooting and ballot snatching were reported in Oke-Ola, Eruwa. Also, in Ogbomosho, due to the level of violence and crisis that marred the election, the state chapter of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) announced their pulling out of the election. Most parts of Ibadan, the Oyo capital city were relatively peaceful as at the time of filling this report.