 While decorating the new Controller-General of the Nigerian Correctional Service (NCS), Mr. Haliru Nababa, with his insignia of office recently, Minister of Interior, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, gave a most timely warning to the leadership of the NCS to brace up squarely to face the new problems that the insecurity challenges in the country pose for the service. Pointing out the several manifestations of insecurity in the country such as insurgency in the North East, banditry in the North West and parts of North Central, financial crimes and ritual killings in the South West, emergent insurrection in the South East and South South as well as kidnapping across the country, the minister pointed out that “the implication of this is that the custodial facilities will be bursting at the seams with the influx of inmates awaiting trial or inmates serving terms and awaiting execution”. He warned that the country’s correctional facilities will be likely targets of attack at a time like this, especially by organisations who deem themselves to be fighting ethno-religious and political causes and thus seek to free their members who are inmates in the facilities. Indeed, in recent times, correctional centres in Benin, Edo State, and Owerri in Imo State, for example, have been attacked and hundreds of their inmates set free. The minister is right in urging the leadership of the NCS not to discountenance the possibility of more such attacks against their facilities in future, and thus to be on the alert to be able to respond effectively at all times. But then the efficacy of the NCS, in this regard, will also be significantly dependent on the quality of the training of their staff, the degree of their motivation and the installation in the various correctional facilities of such ultra-modern security gadgets as Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras. Since the staff of the NCS do not carry lethal weapons, the service will also have to work more closely with other security agencies for necessary support to deter and repel attacks at all times. Even before the new security challenges iterated by the minister, the conditions in our custodial facilities have been dismal. Most of the facilities are overcrowded and inmates live in abhorrent circumstances that endanger their health, and they are fed with substandard food. To compound matters, as the minister noted, bad eggs among the NCS staff “smuggle prohibited items to inmates, assist them in running criminal operations while in custody, take them out to unapproved places and locations and, wittingly or unwittingly, facilitate jail break for them”. This scenario suggests that most successful jail breaks are facilitated through insider collusion that compromises the security of the system. It is estimated that there are 73, 102 inmates in the country’s correctional facilities. Of these, there are about 20,177 convicted inmates and 50, 216 inmates awaiting trial. Another estimated 3,000 condemned inmates, have reportedly been on the death row for more than 10 years. This means that over 70 percent of inmates are awaiting trial and most for several years. Surely, this contributes considerably to the congestion in the correctional facilities. When President Muhammadu Buhari signed the Nigerian Correctional Service Bill into law, he stated that his administration’s prison reforms were, among others, initiated to reduce congestion in the correctional facilities. Indeed, the President shortly after approved the release of 2,600 inmates across custodial centres in the 36 states. However, the fact that this problem persists suggests that there is need for even more steps to be taken to achieve the goals of the administration’s reforms in this respect. For instance, decongestion of correctional centres will be an impossible task without fundamental reforms in the criminal justice administration process to enable cases to be heard and speedily concluded without jeopardising the necessity for fair hearing and justice. This, in turn, will be difficult to achieve without substantially increasing the number of judicial officers at various levels while at the same time waging a more intensive war against corruption in the judiciary such that members of the bench do not collude with unscrupulous lawyers to delay cases interminably. We cannot continue to condone the current tardiness in our judicial process at a time when there is an increased intensity in the crime rate, which necessarily puts pressure on the correctional facilities. It is perhaps now time that the government should seriously consider building more correctional facilities to tackle congestion and enhance the safety, security and welfare of both NCS staff and inmates.