Farmers need to imbibe good agronomic practices to improve maize productivity and help tackle any supply gap in a staple food as important as maize. Experts, who spoke at the Third Nigeria Maize Conference in Abuja, called for concerted efforts by all stakeholders to increase maize productivity and availability of maize for the Nigerian consumers. They, meanwhile, commended Bayer Nigeria Limited, a subsidiary of Bayer AG, Germany for for its efforts to increase productivity in the Maize sub-sector through its “Much More Maize” toolkit targeted at increasing maize yield for farmers across the country. Market Development Regional Manager, Bayer Crop Science in Sub-Saharan Africa, Mr. David Wangila isaid Bayer’s integrated maize portfolio and hybrid seeds enhances productivity. According to him, the hybrid seeds had the yield potential of up to 10.9 tons per hectare and were also tolerant to striga, leaf diseases, Maize Lethal Necrosis (MLN) and the maize streak virus. Agronomic Operations Manager, East, West and Central Africa, Field Solutions for Bayer, Mr. Joseph Kibaki added that whilst their seeds were tolerant to some of the viruses, it was also important to ensure proper seed treatment to protect the potential of valuable seeds. He pointed out how seed treatment could target some relevant pests and highlighted the importance of managing insect pests before they destroyed the maize yields. He also noted the need for weed control to ensure the weeds were not competing with the maize crop for scarce resources. Kibaki stated that with proper implementation of the Much More Maize portfolio and good agronomic practises, farmers could see results in as little as four weeks with appreciable growth of their maize crops along with an increase in profitability. Director General, National Agricultural Seed Council, Dr. Olusegun Ojo also emphasized the importance of seeds in the agricultural revolution of a nation. He said that the development, production, and dissemination of quality seeds of maize amongst others is central to providing adequate response to the many growing threats to food production from climate change, increasing drought, pest and decreasing gains in productivity. “The growth of this sector would be hampered without a proper structured seed system to support the industry,” Ojo said. He added that he was pleased with Bayer’s theme for this year’s edition of the Nigeria Maize Conference which was tagged “Much More Maize” as indeed, “Much More Maize” was needed to feed the needs of increasing global population. Country Sales Manager, Bayer Nigeria Limited., Mr. Tope Banjo thanked the participants at the conference and expressed hope that through good agronomic practises and proper usage of the Bayer’s Much More Maize toolkit, farmers across Nigeria would be able to increase their crop yield which in turn would translate to greater profitability and put Nigeria on the right path towards increasing food supply in the nation. President, Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN), Alhaji Bello Abubakar Annur outlined the challenges facing the industry and the efforts of the Maize Association of Nigeria to tackle and overcome these challenges. He noted that maize production declined in 2020 from 12.6 million tons produced in 2019 to 12.4 million tons due to rainfall deficit and low-level cultivation of improved and drought tolerant maize varieties. According to him, the challenges facing maize productivity and the inadequate supply of certified seeds in Nigeria acted as a catalyst that spurred the birth of the Nigeria Maize Conference by Bayer Nigeria. He highlighted some of the achievements of the Maize Association of Nigeria in tackling the challenges facing maize production including the facilitation of access to mechanization, capacity building of its members on good agronomic practises and the empowerment of more than one million farmers through the CBN Anchor Borrowers programme.