Ogun State Governor, Prince Dapo Abiodun  has rewarded 29 indigenes of the state who recently achieved outstanding feats in education. The governor said at the event tagged: “Celebration of Ogun Laureates 2021”, held at the Oba’s Complex, Okemosan, in Abeokuta recently that his intervention in the education sector since assuming office on May 29, 2019, was already yielding results. He said immediately he took office, he declared a state of emergency in the education sector to bring back lost glory in a state that produced the likes of Prof Wole Soyinka, the first Nigerian and African to win the Nobel Prize in Literature; Prof Thomas Adeoye Lambo, the first professor of Psychiatric medicine in Nigeria; Prof Biyi Afonja, professor of Statistics; Prof Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, a renowned Paediatrician; Emeritus Professor Theophilus Ogunlesi, the first Professor of Medicine in Nigeria; Prof Oyinade Olurin, the first female Professor of Medicine, among others. He said: “It was a methodical and calculated approach to rescue the education sector from the dwindling fortunes inflicted on it by the indifference of the past. “Our approach, therefore, was multi-dimensional.We focused on infrastructural development; human capital development; provision of conducive environment, among many others to redeem the sector and restore the lost glory. “I am happy to report that our commitments within the last one year and 11 months have continued to bring bountiful harvests. We are here today, because our learners at different levels of education did us proud in Mathematics, Sciences, JETS competitions, projects and overall best performance within two years, back to back-2020 and 2021. These are no small mean achievements from our studious students who brought us these honours by dint of their hard work, perseverance and diligence. We are celebrating awards in projects, quiz in Mathematics, basic science, basic technology, agricultural science, physics and biology. We are the best state and we have overall best students for both male and female students in JETS. We are champions! The icing on the cake is that of Miss Odunsi Faith, the global winner of Open Mathematics Tournament (GOMT). The story of the deluge of awards we are witnessing today cannot be completed without the teachers and school administrators who are also champions in their own rights. “It is not a flash in the pan to have Award of Excellence in leadership and productivity won by five schools in the state; 2020 African Writer’s Award; 2020 President’s Teachers and School Excellence Award. I am proud of you all.” At the event, indigenes celebrated included: Mr Oladimeji Sotunde, the overall best graduating student from the Lagos State University (LASU), Ojo, who received N2 million and a two-bedroom bungalow; Global Open Mathematics Tournament winner, Faith Odunsi of Ambassadors College, Ota, who got an education endowment Fund with a seed money of N5 million set up for her. 