Controversy has been awoken on social media as Nollywood actress, Uche Ogbodo marks her 35th birthday on Monday. The Nollywood actress has taken to social media to unveil some beautiful images to celebrate her birthday. In one of the pictures, the actress flaunted her baby bump and thanked God for allowing her to taste the joy of parenting once more. She captioned first post: “The Hour Is Finally Here! Celebrate With Me! It is A New Dawn , A New Chapter, A New Page in My life.
I am Not Crying today but I’m overwhelmed With Gratitude, thanksgiving and Love because For the First time in Years I feel Gods Love all around me , Urging Me , Pushing Me towards The Greatness I am !
I am Looking Forward to many many more Unfolding Wonders, Happy Birthday Goddess !
Reign Forever! Happy Birthday To Uche x Bunny.” Her post generated heated arguments especially over her age among social media users. Many alleged she is above the “football age” she claims.
Few others have said people should allow her celebrate her birthday and claim whatever age she deems fit. Kinkyhairgoals wrote: “35?? I was in secondary school when I was watching her movies Walking.” Lahoro wrote: “35!,c’mon mama all these lies…i watched your movie “simple baby” with Hanks Anuku when i was just in junior secondary school and i’m 30 now…omo una dey lie. Happy birthday all the same.” dominatrix_seductress wrote: “35 or 45? I was in secondary school and u were all grown. Was i 2 years then? Now I’m 35, how can we be age mates?” half_human_half_oracle wrote: “Haaaa…. 35? So she senior me with just 3 years? But I was so little when I see her in movies years back na… Shuoo! This is magic o.” darreal5 wrote: “U know u are not.” arnold.navas wrote: “This one don pass 35 oo abi na football age??” mizzforeveryoung wrote: “35? She is more than that please.” mhiz_betty18 wrote: “Aunty Linus MBA! So you now age backwards. Happy backwards birthday.” abduljabbar_2016 wrote: “Is it your 35? Them don swear for some people sha haa! my fave is the second slide… happy birthday ma’am.” pearl_b30 wrote: “for her own age again ooooh.”