Nigeria topped Facebook’s  list of eight phenomenal creatives and small business (SMB) owners from  Africa breaking grounds across the world in their various fields of endeavours, the social media giant said yesterday. It explained that as part of its celebration around ‘Africa Day’ on  May 25, Facebook, it is launching  a global campaign titled: ‘Made by Africa, Loved by the World’ – a series of short films unveiling the stories of eight phenomenal creatives and small business owners from across the continent who are breaking ground across the world. Among the eight shortlisted are three Nigerians, two Kenyans, one South African, while the remaining two are from Gabon and Cote d’Ivoire. It gave their names to include Mark Angel-digital comedian, script writer and video producer; Lola Pedro– Founder, Pedro’s Premium Ogogoro drinks brand; and  Mai Atafo- fashion designer and bespoke tailor all form Nigeria while Blinky Bill, a musician, DJ, rapper/producer and  Sauti Sol of international award-winning Afro-pop group are Kenyans. Others are Lafalaise Dion, fashion designer and visual artist; Jessica Allogo – founder of Les Petits Pots de l’Ogooué Garmout Food brand; and Laduma Ngxokolo – founder of fashion brand Maxhosa and creative artist from Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon and South Africa respectively. Regional Director, Facebook Africa, Nunu Ntshingila, said the firm has invested in the continent’s creative industry. “At Facebook we’re deeply invested in the creative industry in Africa and nowhere is it more exciting to witness this vibrant creative scene than here on the continent. These people and businesses are changing the way Africa is seen, not just in Africa, but around the world, and are cementing our position as leaders in innovation and the creative industries. We know that Africa is the future, and in honour of ‘Africa Day’ and the Africa Union’s 2021 celebration of African ‘Arts Culture And Heritage’, ‘Made by Africa, Loved by the World’ is our way of recognising just some of these remarkable individuals who continue to inspire the world.” Available to view on a dedicated ‘Made by Africa, Loved by the World’ microsite and the official Facebook Africa page from May 21, 2021, the films provide a glimpse into the global successes of African creatives and businesses from Kenya, South Africa, Nigeria, Côte d’Ivoire and Gabon. This includes fashion designer Laduma Ngxokolo from South Africa, whose clothing brand ‘Maxhosa’ has been worn by global names such as Beyonce and Alicia Keys, and most recently had his designs featured in the film ‘Coming to America 2’. Also featured are Sauti Sol, a collective Afro-pop music group hailing from Kenya who have gained international recognition with nominations and shows in Europe and the US and Mark Angel, a Nigerian comedian who has amassed over 15 million global followers on Facebook. The series is aimed at showcasing, hero’ing and honouring the people that are impacting Africa, as well as the world, through their music, arts and crafts. As part of the ‘Made by Africa, Loved by the World’ campaign, Facebook will be creating dedicated ‘Africa Day’ Facebook profile frames available to Facebook users, and holding free virtual trainings for SMBs and Creators across Africa through its local training partners. Focused on providing other upcoming creatives and entrepreneurs with the digital know-how to take their ideas global, these will focus on creativity and Instagram including: how to creatively engage with your audience through Instagram; Reels school, Interactivity in stories and how to get creative with ads. 