The Chairman, Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission, Mr Isiaka Olagunju, on Monday presented Certificate of Return to the 32 elected chairmen out of 33 local government areas in the state. Recall that council election held in the state on Saturday and concluded on Sunday with the announcement of final results. Addressing the newly elected council bosses shortly after the presentation of the certificates, Olagunju urged them not to disappoint the people who have vested in them the power to oversee the affairs of the local councils. He also tasked them to ensure they fulfill the promises they made to the people during their campaigns. Olagunju said “They have campaigned vigorously in the nooks and crannies of their local government areas and have now emerged as Chairmen. They should see themselves as servants of the people. “I told them that now that they are elected, they should not make themselves inaccessible to the people who voted them. They must try as much as possible to remember their promises and fulfill them.” Those presented the Certificate of Return by the OYSIEC chairman are Mr Raheem Akeem Adepoju (Oorelope), Sulaiman Adediran (Irepo), Mrs Juliana Oluwakemi Akanni (Olorunsogo), Akanji Kabir Ayoade (Ogbomoso North), Oyeniyi Timothy Oyedokun (Ogbomoso South) and Olugbenga Obalowo (Ibarapa East). Others are: Jelili Oyinloye Adebare (Iwajowa), Fasasi Adeagbo (Atisbo), Mrs Ramat Adeniran (Saki-East), Sarafadeen Omirinde (Saki-West), Adebare Muraina Afolabi (Kajola), Adesoye Seun Ojo (Ogo-Oluwa) and Bolaji Ojo Akintola (Itesiwaju). The list also include: Olateju Michael Alabi (Oriire), Adegbite Isaiah Alabi (Surulere), Adedoyin Oloyede Adeoye (Ibarapa Central), Lateef Adebayo Lawal (Ibarapa North), Muftau Osuolale (Iseyin) and Sunday Akindele Ojo (Afijio). Kafilat Olakojo (Atiba), Musbaudeen Adesina Sanusi (Ona-Ara), Babatunde Akeem Salami (Oyo West), Saheed Arowosaye Adeyemi(Oyo East), Ibrahim Akintayo (Ibadan North-East) and Taoheed Jimoh Adedigba (Akinyele). The remaining are Olaide Popoola (Oluyole), Kazeem Gbadamosi (Lagelu), Oyedele Sikiru Sanda (Egbeda), Kehinde Adeyemi Akanni(Ibadan South-West), Musbaudeen Sanusi (Ona-Ara), Saheed Oladayo Yusuf (Ibadan North) and Emmanuel Oluwole Alawode (Ibadan South-East). Any moment from now, Governor Seyi Makinde would preside over the swearing in of the elected chairmen at an event fixed for the House of Chiefs, House of Assembly Complex, Agodi-Secretariat, Ibadan.