  Bandits yesterday killed eight persons in an attack on a community in Kaduna State. An Assemblies of God church and several other buildings were also set ablaze as the hoodlums  attacked Ungwan Gaida community in Chikun Local Government Area of the state. Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs Samuel Aruwan released the information in a statement. Aruwan also said Navy troops stationed in the Kujama general area neutralised three bandits and arrested two accomplices after repelling an attack on Wakwodna community. “According to operational feedback to the Kaduna State Government, the troops stationed at the Kujama checkpoint responded to reports of an attack on Wakwodna village, and swiftly deployed for intervention,” he said. “The bandits fled into surrounding bushes on sighting the troops, and abandoned some rustled cattle, which were rounded up and returned to their owners. “The troops engaged the bandits just before Kaso village, and in the gunfight, three bandits were neutralised. Two locals injured in the exchange were evacuated for medical attention.  “During the operation, the troops arrested a suspected bandits informant, Kapido Halilu, and a logistics supplier, Umar Maipashi. Food and medical supplies meant for the bandits were confiscated. The suspects were taken into custody for further investigation.” In Owerri, the Imo State capital, a police sergeant Loveday Obilonu was shot dead yesterday by some gunmen. Obilonu was attached to  attached to the Operations Department at command headquarters in Owerri. His body was evacuated to a morgue in Owerri by his  cousin, Val Okara, with the aid of the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Orji Divisional Police Headquarters. Okara said his cousin’s death was suspicious, adding that the police should thoroughly investigate it. “I suspect that my younger cousin was assassinated because no less than five bullets were released to his head. He was shot dead inside the gutter, raising suspection that it might be an assassination. The police should do a thorough investigation,” he said. Police spokesman Bala Elkana said he had not been briefed on the incident.  