 A new reality TV show, Nollywood Queens,’ will feature leading Nollywood faces that include Nuella Obijigbo, Mimi Orjiekwe, and BBNaija’s ex-housemate, Venita Akpofure. The new reality TV show premiered on Honey TV on Friday, May 21, 2021. Nollywood Queens follows the success of Pastors’ Wives, the channel’s first reality show, which gained popularity on social media in its primetime Friday slot. Produced by Lusanda Chauke, Nollywood Queens follows the real stories of strong, beautiful, and uninhibited screen divas. The show airs activities of the Nollywood queens in their natural element as everyday people who go through a range of emotions and maneuver through all that life has to offer them. According to Zinzi Velelo, Honey’s Head of Content, “We are particularly excited about this observational reality show where we follow the lives of five fabulous Nigerian women who are widely known in the world of Nollywood.”  Venita Akpofure Age: 34 Venita Akpofure (34), was born in the United Kingdom and hails from Delta State in Nigeria. She gained prominence as a housemate on the fourth season of Big Brother Naija. Venita plays a lead role on Africa Magic’s Unmarried, as the beloved character ‘Nengi.’ Amongst other ventures, Venita owns Ivie Lux home diffusers and candles, and a beauty and haircare line.  Grace-Charis Age: 31 Grace-Charis (31), formerly known as Belinda Effah is an actress and TV presenter. She has won several awards including Best New Actress for awards such as AMAA, Bon, GIAMA and the Nigeria Entertainment Award. Grace-Charis is an entrepreneur currently running Grace Charis Bassey Empire which focuses on fashion and lifestyle.   Mercy Isoyip Age: 30 Mercy Isoyip (30), is a popular Nigerian actress, singer and a model. Her claim to fame comes from her role in the film Paige. She has a long line of academic qualifications behind her, including furthering her studies at the New York Film Academy (NYFA) in the USA. Mercy is also the proud owner of Estees Restaurant, and a popular rap queen under the name “Descushiel.”  Nuella Njubigbo Age: 27 Emmanuella Adaobi Njubigbo (37), publicly known as Nuella Njubigbo is from Ozubulu town in Anambra state. The actress, writer and producer has been in the Nollywood industry for well over a decade, with a key nomination under the Rising Star category in the 2012 Nollywood Movies Awards. She also runs a fashion line called “Nuellafrik” and a skin care line named Nuella Naturals.  Mimi Orjiekwe Age: 33 Mimi Orjiekwe (33), is a Nigerian actress, entrepreneur, proud single mother and beauty queen. She rose to prominence following her role as ‘Inem’ in the 2016 film From Freetown TL. Mimi won Miss African Queen, Focus Face of the Year Award and other various other beauty pageants. She is the owner of FBM Homes and Interiors and has a beauty range named Flawless.