In January 2020, the Lagos government banned commercial motorcycles and tricycles in 15 local councils and on all highways. The government had said Okada was not “part of our greater Lagos journey”, adding it was “not an enduring trade”. The enforcement of the ban, which commenced on February 1, 2020, saw many riders and operators lament its impact. Several motorcycles and tricycles were impounded by law enforcement agents during the period. However, the enforcement was shortlived as many motorcycles and tricycles returned to the previously restricted areas. Speaking during a stakeholders’ meeting on security in Lagos on Monday, May 10, 2021, Governor Jide Sanwo-Olu officially announced the deployment of ‘last mile’ buses in the state. 1. The last mile buses will officially be launched next week in Lagos State. 2. The buses will be rolled out in phases. 3. The buses are expected to serve as an alternative means to get into streets that cannot be readily accessed by the Bus Rapid Transport (BRT) system. 4. The ‘last mile buses’ will ply inner roads and safely get commercial passengers to their final destinations. 5. The state will be deploying over 500 of these buses to alleviate the pain associated with the restriction of motorcycle and tricycle operations in its first phase. 6. The introductory of this initiative will also generate employment opportunities for Lagosians, including the commercial motorcyclist operators, who will be employed as operators of the ‘last mile’ buses. 7. The state will keep rolling out the ‘last mile’ buses till about 5,000 of them are spread within the state. 8. The introduction of the ‘last mile’ buses is part of the measures taken by the state government against the security breaches and menace of Okada riders, kidnapping, armed robbery, cult clashes and violent assaults in the state. 9. This initiative is aimed at curbing haughty display of lawlessness and criminality within the state. 10. This initiative is also aimed at curbing incessant accidents as the Lagos police boss said Okada accounted for 83% of cases of avoidable fatal vehicular accidents in Lagos between January and early this month.