The Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) yesterday said it had commenced the process of achieving non-motorised transportation in the state for a cleaner and healthier environment. Speaking at an interactive session in Ikoyi, the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello, said the agency was working on having parks and gardens in residential areas where residents could ride their bicycles and walk without the intrusion of cars. He said this would make for healthy living and less frequent visits to hospitals as a result of fresh air. Speaking through the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mrs Belinda Odeneye, he thanked   their partners that have improved the aesthetics of the state by supporting the beautification and greening of the environment. He said the state is 70 per cent water, 40 percent wetland and one tenth of Niger State in size and needs to be carefully maintained. He called on Lagosians to adhere to the state environmental law that states that 30 per cent of tenement must be beautified with flowers and trees. Earlier, LASPARK General Manager, Mrs Adetoun Popoola said the agency has consistently pursued its mandate which is the maintenance of greener and healthier state through the creation and maintenance of functional and productive open spaces, maintenance of gardens, public parks and open spaces. She said the agency has planted 24,125 trees so far across the state and developed 10 parks reclaimed from illegal squatters, hoodlums and street traders such as Outer Marina, Abalti Barracks to Dorman Long, Mobolaji Bank Anthony way, Oba Akinjobi GRA Ikeja, Triangular lay buys at Opebi, schools and hospitals. Others are Holy Child College Obalende, Ferry Service Mile 2, landscaping and beautification of Mother & Child General Hospital, Badagry among others. She said: “We have also built a tech hub at Shasha Park, Akowonjo that show case the functionality of space that brings value and exposure to businesses. We also have green houses where the public can buy ornamental plants, tropical plants and flowers to plant in their homes and business places”. She encouraged the public to own the projects by helping to maintain and sustain its original ideals behind their establishment. CEO, RF Gardens, Ikoyi, Tolu Olusoga, while commending the agency for their support and quick approvals said she was surprised that a government agency can be that professional without undue bureaucracies. She said they offer service to Lagosians by allowing them express themselves out door and reinventing their environment tailored to their needs. Creative Director, Aby’s Greenhouse , Abieyiwa Oshevire  encouraged Lagosians to patronize and encourage their businesses for the exotic tropical plants, noting that most of the plants imported into the country are endemic  to Nigerians and Lagosians in particular. Also speaking, CEO, Mil May, Mrs Mary Awaritefe, a University of Benin graduate of Forestry & Wild Life   and born by agriculturist parents, said she has always tinkered with plants and flowers since she was 7 years. She confirmed she has found fulfillment in running her garden. She however, asked the agency to do more by encouraging up and coming horticulturist and gardeners to succeed. Shodex Landmark Beautification Ltd, representative, Olusola Adekoya  said the government can only succeed in making the state green by encouraging the planting of 10 million trees yearly. He further encouraged blue chip companies to engage in the business of greening their environment as their Corporate Social Responsibility. 