The Governor of Osun State, Mr. Adegboyega Oyetola, says his administration’s impact is being felt in various sectors of the state’s economy, using agriculture, tourism and mining as launch pads. Oyetola stated this while delivering his acceptance speech on Friday night at the Champion Newspaper Awards for Excellence, where he was presented ‘Governor and Man of the Year’ awards for 2020 respectively. The governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Mr. Benedict Alabi, at the epoch- making event held at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, said the award would further encourage his administration to serve the people even better. Oyetola also said the honour was a vote for the creativity, proactiveness, prudence, integrity, inclusion, innovation, transparency, and the sense of purpose that the government had brought to bear on governance and the sustained commitment shown in revitalising the economy of the state for positive impacts. Welcoming dignitaries at the event, the Group Managing Director and Editor-in-Chief of Champion Newspapers, Dr. Mrs.  Nwadiuto Iheakanwa, described the honourary award as the print industry’s modest way of contributing its quota to the overall development of the society by providing a veritable platform to recognise heavyweights and institutions that have excelled both in private and public sectors of the economy.  She said the selected awardees have not only identified the needs and challenges of the citizens but proffered holistic solutions, thereby uplifting the standard of living of the people and contributing their best to the country’s socio-economic and political development. Mrs. Iheakanwa revealed that for the first time since the inception of the awards ceremony decades ago, Oyetola received the Governor and Man of the Year Awards based on his exemplary achievements in various fields. In his address, the chairman of the occasion, Chief Dr. George Moghalu, who doubles as the Managing -Director, National Inland Waterways Authority, eulogised the Champion Newspapers on the credibility of the award, describing the honour bestowed on the awardees as well deserved. He added that Governor Oyetola, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who was conferred  with Champion Newspaper’s Democracy ICON of the Fourth Republic, among other awardees, have made landmark and impactful contributions to the progress and development of the country.