By OLUSHOLA  RICKETTS  Whenever we lose someone dear to us, we lose a part of us that can never be replaced. Otunba Yemi Lawal, a renowned property developer and estate owner in Lagos, is in sober reflection at the moment, as he remembers his late father. This year makes it 14 years since he lost his dear father, Alhaji Olawale Akanji Lawal. A remembrance ceremony was held for him on May 2 at Oshodi, Lagos. In his tribute, the Ekerin Bobagunwa of Egba land said there was time for everything – a time to laugh, a time to cry and a time to grieve. According to him, time heals they say but death changes everything. He shared: “The time, love, moments and affection we shared are still very fresh and can never be forgotten. You are always and will forever be on my mind. Your mentorship and words of wisdom shaped my life. There will always be a special place in my life for you. You taught me to stand up for what I believe in and I have seen you go out of your way many times to help others. You have given me roots and wings so I can fly. You have taught me to reach for the stars and follow my dreams.  “Those special moments of you will always bring a smile. If only I could have you back for just a little while, then we could sit and talk again just like we used to do. You always meant so very much and will always do too. “No words I write can ever say how much I miss you, nobody knows! I think of you in silence and I often speak your name but all I have are memories and photos in a frame. No one sees my weep but the love I have for you is in my heart to keep. I have never stopped loving you. I am sure I never will. Deep inside my heart you are with me and I see you often in my dreams.” Lawal seems to have inherited the spirit spreading joy and happiness from his late father. During the peak of COVID-19 in Nigeria, it was gathered that Lawal feted over 5000 people. After close to two decades of commercial banking experience, Lawal left the banking industry in 2005 as a Regional Manager to set up Eagleways Investment Group.