Prophet TB Joshua has released the video of a prophecy for Nigeria which he gave almost seven years ago on July 27, 2014. In the video, the Synagogue, Church of All Nations (SCOAN) General Overseer predicted that Nigeria would be covered by a cloud of “crisis, murder, killings, destruction” but would not break up. “Nothing will happen to Nigeria. Nigeria will remain one,” Joshua assured the congregation during a service at SCOAN. The video’s release comes amid sustained calls for Nigeria’s breakup by proponents of a Biafran government and other aggrieved persons and organisations, following worsening terrorism, kidnapping and banditry. “Beyond this crisis, Nigeria is beautiful. Your prayer now is that you should witness it so that this crisis will not take you away,” the cleric declared. “It is decreed that this nation will be reckoned with as a powerful nation,” he continued, adding that his prophecy would become a point of reference many years later. However, he warned members of the ‘political class’ of impending repercussions for their contributions to the crisis. “Huge trouble is coming and no human being will withstand it unless you don’t have hand in that trouble,” he boldly declared. “There is a cloud that covers Nigeria… the cloud of crisis, murder, killings, destruction covers Nigeria. The cloud will go; Nigeria will remain.” Joshua then questioned the rationale of those who are “interested in power that cannot give them peace.” “Power without peace is powerless…The manner you have that power will determine whether there will be peace in it,” he counselled. “The power is in the heart, not in the gun, not in the White house or Aso Rock. If you are living in the White House without power in the heart, it is like you are living in the bush,” he further added. Calling on his followers to pray for Nigeria, the cleric insisted that Nigeria would not break up. “I want to assure you: Nigeria – nothing will happen to Nigeria. Nigeria will remain one!” Speaking on the spate of insecurity fuelled by banditry and terrorism, Joshua revealed: “They have infiltrated everywhere. There is no section or department in this country that these people are not there. It has become a professional job.” He stressed that protection only lies in God. “There is no one that is secured by power and might and gun that they cannot get unless those whom God protects – because they have infiltrated everywhere. They are no more inside the bush; they are everywhere.” Joshua called on the ‘political class’ to eschew differences and “discuss about the security and oneness of this country. “There will be answer if they can pay the price, put their political agenda behind and discuss the unity of this nation,” he stressed, describing the situation of Nigeria as “very sensitive”. “Quote me once again – security, police, guns, soldiers cannot protect anyone again because everywhere is infiltrated,” he concluded before praying for God’s will to be done. In a short introduction to the clip “from the archives”, Joshua explained more about the timing of prophecy. “Prophecy is given when there is no situation on the ground,” he explained during a service on Friday 7th May 2021, adding a prophet would declare ‘it will rain’ when there was no sign of rain in the atmosphere. During the #EndSARS protests that engulfed Nigeria last year, a video of Joshua forewarning of a revolution spearheaded by youth surfaced and subsequently went viral.