The APC yesterday, said all members, old and new, will be free to seek party and public offices as it prepares for its national convention. The  Chairman of the Progressives Governors Forum and Governor of Kebbi State, Alhaji Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, while welcoming Ayade to the APC, said as a pan-Nigerian political party, all Nigerians are free to aspire for any position in the APC. “APC belongs to all Nigerians. Everyone, from every part of the country is free to aspire for any position in the party in line with provisions of our party’s constitution and the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended,” Bagudu said in a statement. He described Ayade’s defection as continuation of reinforcement of the Progressives, adding that APC governors were looking forward to receiving more patriots and progressive minded Nigerians into the party ahead of the 2023 general elections. He said: “The decision of Mr. Ayade to join the APC is a testament of our party’s capacity to mobilise all Nigerians consistent with the vision of the founding fathers to ensure that the APC is a platform to unite all Nigerians. The coming of Mr. Ayade into the APC further reinforces the process of membership and leadership recruitment at all levels.  “We welcome Mr. Ben Ayade for taking the courageous decision of leaving the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) to join our party, the All Progressives Congress. The movement of our compatriot to the APC is indicative of his principles, commitment and conviction to the development of Nigeria. “Given all his achievements in Cross River State, Mr. Ayade is only coming home where he belongs. APC is indeed the party that will provide him and his people, and indeed all Nigerians the viable platform for political aspirations and negotiations. “Together with Mr. Ayade and all our leaders in the APC, our party’s capacity to serve the collective interests of all Nigerians through effective representation will be strengthened and reinforced. ”Our party, APC, is open, transparent and will continue to guarantee fair contestation in politics, in line with the overarching commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari and all our founding leaders. “Our National Caretaker Extraordinary/Convention Planning Committee has worked hard to restore the political credentials of the APC as a strong institution for Nigeria’s democratic development.”