The Lagos State government yesterday warned telecom operators in the state against illegal digging of land for laying of optic fibre cable (OFC). It urged them to key into the on-going fibre-laying project the state is handling across the 20 local government areas and the local council development areas in the state. The Commissioner for Science and Technology Mr. Hakeem Popoola Fahm, who gave the warning at the 2021 Ministerial Press Briefing in Alausa, Ikeja, to mark the second anniversary of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration, also said under the Lagos State Science Research and Innovation Council (LASRIC), the government has funded over 50 research, innovation and science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) projects in the last one year. Fahm said Lagos implemented a 3,000 km of Fibre Metro Network connection in 2020 and additional 3,000km in 2021 across the state as part of the comprehensive Smart City Programme that Is designed to provide a 24-hour driven economy. He urged the private sector, especially the telecoms operators to key into the project, plug into the ducts system, “and avoid illegal land digging.” He warned that the Lagos State Infrastructure Maintenance and Regulatory Agency (LASIMRA) will monitor that and ensure that fibre project is also done neatly across the state. “Other companies can latch on in order to expand their network,” he said. Fahm said the implementation of Lagos State Smart City project is to enable governance, connectivity and environmental security, saying that the use of technology would make reporting of security incidents easy to reach, and promote access to major stakeholders in the government The Commissioner reiterated that the project will also incorporate smart technologies into transport infrastructure surveillance and security, healthcare services, education, government services and making Lagos to be technological development through the provision of affordable internet access, hence it will close the gap between the people and the Government. Speaking on security that informed the installation of CCTV cameras, the Commissioner said: “Safeguarding Lagos has gone beyond the ordinary. We have built new data rooms, install more cameras and effectively deploy technology in our operations, especially as regards to security and traffic management.” Fahm said upon completion, the project will advance state economy by becoming a 24/hr driven commercial centre, which would allow companies to operate in a safe, secure and smart environment that would create more jobs and increase gross domestic product (GDP) of the state. The commissioner described the Lagos Smart-City project as a transformation being achieved through technology in order to enhance the ease doing business, adding that it involved stationing of security cameras around the state. Fahm explained that the state is using technology to facilitate integrated policies and services that allow access to a range of public services, and also improve standards of living through online service delivery. He said: “This comes in various forms such as tax submission and registration of businesses, reducing the administrative burden on the public and private sectors and improving transparency. E-governance effectively deployed can have significant impact on poverty reduction and increase the efficiency of public institutions.” He called on Lagosians to ensure they register for the Lagos State Residents Registration Agency (LASRRA). Giving more insight into the LASRAA project, the General Manager, Mrs. Ibilola Kasumu, said there is a pre-registration portal, which residents of the states can log in, fill in their details. “However, participants, after submitting their details online, would still need to visit the centres for biometric capturing, among others.” Kasumu, who informed that the law establishing LASRAA came into effect on June 27, 2011, said about five million Lagos residents have been registered thus far, “but going forward, there will aggressive campaign from now. We have opened 33 centres for registrations with the hope to increase it to 60 soonest.” Speaking on science students’ innovation and ideas, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Innovation and Technology, Mr. Tunbosun Alake said the state sponsored participation at the 2021 774 Young Nigerian Scientist Presidential Award (774-YONSPA) among Secondary school students. ‘This is to boost interest of students in science, technology, engineering and mathematics [STEM Education] and to encourage and involve young children in bringing up projects and programmes that can resolve challenges in the state such as Infrastructure, environment, waste management, and many others’, he said. Alake said the second edition of the ‘Art of Technology 2.0, with  ‘Smart Data, Smarter Lagos’ as theme, brought together the best of tech minds from across the globe physically and virtually between December 3 and 4, 2020, with conversation that centred on the fundamental role data plays in connecting the city with its citizens. He said the state unveiled the Startup Lagos at the conference, which is an initiative meant to empower Lagosians and urged ITpreneurs and others to take advantage of the opportunities the State is offering to help businesses and entrepreneurs.