  The Ebonyi chapter of the Southeast security outfit codenamed Ebube Agu  has arrested 38 suspected bandits in the state. It was gathered that the arrests were made in conjunction with the police. Thirty-seven suspects were apprehended in the Agubia area of Ikwo local government area while allegedly plotting to attack some security and government installations in the state. The operation that led to the arrests was coordinated by Commissioner for Internal Security, Border Peace and Conflict Resolutions, Stanley Okoro Emegha and the Ikwo local government council chairman, Steve Orogwu in conjunction with the Ikwo Divisional Police Officer. The Commissioner confirmed the arrests in Abakaliki, the state capital, saying that the suspects were held following a tip-off. Emegha said the suspects came from different parts of the state and various parts of the Southeast to carry out the operation. “We got information that there were people gathering to burn some police stations, burn some INEC [Independent National Electoral Commission]  offices and courts in the area and then the Ebube Agu quickly mobilised and swooped on them. “It was discovered that they have a map and came from different places like Enugu, Imo and others from different local government area of Ebonyi State. We asked questions, they said they have the authority of whoever they called their boss to burn those places. “But unfortunately, luck ran out on them and they were all arrested and have been handed over to the police,” he said.  The Commissioner said the suspects confessed to the crime. According to him, the suspects said they were working on the instruction of their boss who the security agencies are working hard to unravel. Meanwhile, police in the state have killed one suspect and arrested another believed to have carried out recent attacks on police stations on three police stations in the state. Police spokesperson Loveth Odah in a statement said the Police arrested one Eluu Ekpelu Emmanuel last week through intelligence report. “He made useful statement to the police and led police operatives to the house of their gang leader popularly known as “Blood”. The spokesperson said Blood and his cohorts on sighting the police, opened fire on the Operatives who gallantly fought back, in the process Blood was apprehended with gunshot injuries while others escaped into the nearby bush with bullet wounds. “The wounded suspect was immediately rushed to Alex Ekwueme Federal UniversityTeaching Hospital (AE-FUTHA) Abakaliki for medical treatment, where he later gave up the ghost. Mrs Odah said the body was transferred to the mortuary adding that the gang are responsible for the attacks on government facilities and the killing of security agents in the State. She said that one double barrel english gun, with eleven live cartridges, one locally made single gun,  one riot police smoke gunner, stolen from Ohaozara Police Divisional Headquarters when the division was attacked on the 6th May, 2021 were recovered from the suspected gang leader’s house. Other items recovered include three police Bbartons, one hand hrenade, one canister of teargas, two police belts, two police radio communication handset with chargers all stolen from Onicha Divisional Headquarters which was also attacked and set ablaze on 4th Feb. 2021, Four Biafra Flag and One Juju Box.