A pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere has expressed concern over the economic and security crises confronting Nigeria, saying the situation calls for immediate reverse to prevent degeneration. The Lagos State chairman of the organisation, Chief Tunde Onakoya, expressed this concern, shortly after the special prayers for Nigeria at Anwar-Ul-Islam Movement Central Mosque, Ikorodu, Lagos, last Friday, to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the organisation. The special Muslim prayers, Onakoya said, is a directive from the national body of Afenifere to be observed by Muslim members and well-wishers across states of the federation and the FCT, while their Christian counterparts observed theirs in churches last Sunday. Its Publicity Secretary, Lanre Anjolaiya, said Onakoya decried in strong terms the spate of killings of innocent people, armed banditry, kidnappings and all sort of criminalities in almost all parts of the country, saying this ugly trend is not only unwarranted but totally condemnable. He also said the high inflation and rising poverty in the country which have put many Nigerians in an untold hardship would need to be addressed. He said the calls by some Nigerians for cessation from the rest were premature, adding that restructuring of the country, by going back to federalism and resource control would douse such tensions. He also charged President Muhammadu Buhari to be more decisive in putting a permanent end to security challenges, saying the country can only move forward meaningfully within the atmosphere of peace and unity. Anjolaiya, however, said Afenifere as a political rallying point and leading voice for Yoruba people would continue to champion the course of its creation 70 years ago. He said Afenifere at inception was known for its progressive and social welfare programmes to make life worths living for all people living in the old western region and which later turned the region to a model of development and good governance for others. He added: “So, it is high time Yoruba came together again to imbibe the ethos of Afenifere for the good of the race and the country at large.” The Chief Imam of Anwar-Ul-Islam Movement Central Mosque, Alhaji Qasim Olalekan Olapade said socio-political organisation was an enduring legacy bestowed upon the Yoruba nation. He prayed for the repose of the souls of the past leaders and other founding fathers of the organisation who he said made Yoruba nation the pride of Africa till today. The cleric enjoined Yoruba people to take a cue from the selflessness of past leaders and always be mindful of the cherished value of ‘Omoluabi’ (good manners) in all their dealings. 