 The National Youth Service Corps has said it would explore the prospects of increasing the camps capacity without losing sight of the need to adhere strictly to COVID – 19 safety protocols. It also said only security agencies would determine for it flashpoints that would not put corps members in danger as bandits, kidnappers and insurgents continue to attack some parts of the country. The organisation said corps members will be posted based on the advice by security agencies. Director- General of the NYSC Brig Gen Shuaibu Ibrahim stated these in an interview with reporters during the opening ceremony of a one -day 2021 Batch A stream II pre-orientation workshop in Karu, Nasarawa State. The event had as its theme: “Managing Corps population in the orientation camps in the context of the New Normal.” Ibrahim said: “Just as I do tell you journalists, the NYSC always collaborate with our security agencies and we are directed accordingly. So, we follow the advice given to us strictly because the safety of corps members matters. “We are going to be guided by the security agencies. We have been partnering with them, we take Corps members to where we are advised by the security agencies because the safety of Corps members is very paramount to us. And that is what I will tell you. We are going to act according to the dictates of security agencies.”  According to him, the purpose of the workshop was for the NYSC top management, collaborating partners and other critical stakeholders to review the previous orientation courses with a view to improving their performances in subsequent exercises. He said: “As you may be aware, the scheme has conducted orientation courses amidst the challenges of COVID – 19, through strict adherence to all the safety protocols. “We worked closely with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and State Ministries of Health in this regard. As the welfare and safety of corps members and staff is part of the policy thrust of my administration, we shall continue to work closely with relevant stakeholders and evolve strategies for the protection of all members of the camp community during the orientation course. “It is worthy of mention that all the orientation camps have been put in conditions that will allow seamless conduct of the exercise in line with the approved COVID – 19 prevention guidelines. “However, we would use the opportunity of this workshop to, among other things, harness our experiences and explore the prospect of increased camp capacity without losing sight of the need to adhere strictly to the safety protocols as we must learn to operate optimally under the new normal.” Nasarawa State Governor Abdullahi Sule said the state has the capacity and can accommodate more than 2,000 corps members, “most especially seeing the NYSC DG as being one of us”. Sule, who was represented by the Commissioner for Youths and Sports Development, Othman Bala Adam, dismissed insinuations that Boko Haram insurgents have infiltrated Nasarawa State.