The Right Fit Marriage Academy is celebrating five years of impact as well as celebrating couples who are role models worth emulating by younger couples. According to the founder, Mrs Modupe Ehirim the economic situation and a number of other social-cultural issues have put the marriage institution under a lot of pressure in recent times.
`
While some people think the marriage institution is threatened others believe that things can be better with the right support and environment. Ehirim, a seasoned counsellor has worked with so many couples helping to support marriages that are threatened and getting them back on track.
‘ I have always been excited about marriage primarily because I wanted my own marriage to be good. But over time, in my conversation with people, I found out that not everybody understood marriage the way I understand it.” Ehirim informed that her passion was also inspired when she had the opportunity in church to be in the pre-marital counselling program. ” Then it was 14 hours for every couple that was getting married. I found out that there were many things people didn’t know. I realised that a lot more people needed to know and understand more about marriage” She continued: ” In 2012, I told myself that Social Media is a good opportunity. I already saw people using it. I saw people come to social Media with their questions and the answers people would give were likely to create more problems. So, I told myself I can do this differently. I can help people to know that there are good marriages but there are also bad marriages” . Looking out for good marriages, having a model of what you want and a community that actually looks as if we are in a village became the template.” Here we are just interacting normally and in the course of our interactions, we are changing paradigms. I just wanted to help people to get a positive perspective about marriage”. Her parents; Ehirim informed also helped to shape her views about marriage. ” My mother died 60 years and four months after she married my father. And, I lived with them, seeing them live together practically relating in healthy ways, with one another. Relating with their In-laws properly and influencing other people around them. Then my husband also influenced me.
When I met him and married him his parent had lived together for a long time, they had a long-distance relationship and they related so “. The online community now has 13,500 members in Africa, North America, Europe and UAE. It has put together a lineup of activities to celebrate the achievements of the community as well as identify new ways to make life better for families all over the world.