In the view of many economic pundits, Cross River State under Prof. Ben Ayade, with the benefit of insight, has been on a steady growth trajectory since May 29th, 2015, when he came into the saddle. Citing key development indices including agriculture, industrial development including aviation, infrastructural facelift, foreign direct investment, job creation to mention just a few, these experts are in agreement that some modest successes and milestones have been recorded in those areas thus far. To many of these observers, the Ayade phenomenon and match towards genuine industrial revolution in Cross River is a dream long foretold. Speaking with a cross section of experts who have monitored the pace of progress under the Ayade-led administration, they concluded that his concerted efforts in the state has paid off, a development, they argued is evident in both the physical infrastructure which dots the landscape as well as several other socioeconomic development within the major commanding heights of the famous  People’s Paradise. Firing the first salvo, Mathew Bassey, a construction engineer in the state said there are many things to commend Ayade for. Specifically, he said the roads network across the state has had a facelift with many arteries of the states affected. Echoing similar sentiments, John Okon said under Ayade, the state has witnessed total industrialisation in the shortest possible time. According to him, one area Ayade has had much of an impact is in agriculture, which he adds, has helped to address food security as well as led to massive job creation in the last few years. Going down memory lane, Okon recalled that in its determination to boost agriculture in the country, Governor Ayade set up a multi-billion Naira poultry and livestock farm in Odukpani Local Government Area of the state. The ultra-modern Calachika chicken processing factory, the first of its kind in the South-south region, has an installed capacity of 22,000 birds per hour. Expatiating, Emmanuel Etim, SSA to Governor Ayade of Cross River State on Creative and Knowledge Economy recalled that the State Government in partnership with a South African company is setting up a state-of-the-art integrated animal feed mill, poultry breeding and frozen chicken for export facility that is planned to be one of the largest south of Nigeria in Obubra Local Government Areas of the state. The multi-million Naira feedmill investment which will have the capacity to produce about 240,000 tons of animal feeds annually, will utilise about 100,000 tonnes of corn and 40,000 tons of soya beans for its feed production. The poultry breeding farm which is conceived with an automated slaughter and industrial freezing machines is planned with over 50,000 tons of onsite storage, in addition to outsourced storage that will support the export of the chicken. Others industries presently being set up in the 18 local government areas include the Instant noodles factory in Calabar Municipal; the Piles, Pylons and Poles factory in Akamkpa local government area and the Toothpick Factory in Yakurr local government area and many more. The investment is expected to contribute to the development of the Nigerian poultry and feedmill sectors by providing competitively priced feed in Nigeria and frozen chicken for export. In Nigeria, the animal feed industry has been hampered by the lack of quality feed and poor supply of raw materials. Notwithstanding, the country is estimated to rake in over N800 billion from the sector as consumption is increasing daily. The Alltech Global Feed ranking in 2015 put Nigeria as one of the world’s largest emerging animal feeds producers with a better opportunity to penetrate the international animal feeds export market. The company will not only provide revenue for the state government but will also create jobs for the citizens as well as ensure food security in Nigeria and beyond. The Integrated Investment is expected to create about 10,000 direct and indirect jobs. Sequel to the commitment on youth empowerment, Governor Ayade formally opened the Construction and Fabrication Academy of West Africa. Located in the capital city of Calabar, the academy run by specialist trainers from across Africa, Canada and Europe, will offer to young people courses in welding and fabrication, masonry, carpentry, plumbing electrical installation, catering, fashion designing, shoemaking and more. Interestingly, Governor Ayade, in a brief remark, said the Cross River Government was investing N400 million to establish the academy for the training of young Nigerian and Africans in general. According to the governor, the decision to establish the academy was also to provide opportunity for talented Cross River youths to develop skills, hinting “when we were building our CalaChika factory, I was surprised to see that the tiler was sourced from the Republic of Togo, another from Lagos and from other places, but Cross River. It was concerning.” In a brief remark, Mr. John Obo, the Chairman of the National Youth Council of Nigeria commended Governor Ayade for establishing the academy, which he noted would place skilled young people at par with their counterparts elsewhere in the world. Boo said, “the best way to go for the next generation is what you are putting in place. I assure you that since this academy has an in take of 500 hundred students already, the forms were distributed at the grassroots.” Signor Omang Idiege, the Commissioner Ministry of Youth Development and Skill Acquisition, said that the people trained at the academy would be expected to impact positively on national socio-economic development. The state government has also added invested in aviation business under its flagship airline, Cally Air, which operates from Obudu Airport, being primed to be a hub aimed at boosting the economy of the state. The startup airline is a joint venture between the Cross River State Government and DANA Group, one of Nigeria’s leading industrial conglomerates, in a Public-Private Partnership (PPP). The state’s government supported the airline as part of a tourism investment strategy. 