FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc recorded a turnover of N199.5 billion in 2020. Speaking at the company’s 48th Annual General Meeting (AGM) in Lagos, Chairman, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, Mr. Moyo Ajekigbe said  the challenging operating environment last year, notwithstanding, the company’s commercial and financial performance for the year showed considerable improvement compared to the previous year. According to him, turnover increased by 23 per cent in 2020 to N199.5billion, from N161.8billion the previous year. This was due to a combined effect of organic and inorganic growth following the acquisition of Nutricima’s dairy business. Profit before tax, however, decreased by 20.3 per cent from N18.8 billion in 2019 to N14.9 billion in 2020, as a result of high input costs and increased economic headwinds. All the resolutions submitted for shareholder approval were adopted, including the approval of a total dividend payout of N6.74 per N0.50 share. Managing Director, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, Mr. Ben Langat said last year was shaped by the company’s continued focus on sustainable business processes. He said the company leveraged its brands and superior commercial expertise to deliver impressive volumes during the year. According to Langat, FrieslandCampina WAMCO continues to be committed to nourishing Nigerians with quality dairy nutrition and it will continue to take necessary steps to ensure that the growth momentum is sustained. Explaining the company’s response to COVID, Mr. Langat said from the very first signs of the Covid-19 pandemic, the company defined three absolute priorities; protecting the health and safety of its employees; doing all that is necessary to ensure business continuity; and supporting Nigeria to manage through the crisis. He said a donation of N500 million was, therefore, made to the COVID Relief Fund, while over N100 million worth of products were donated to low income communities during the lockdown. Following its expansion drive, FrieslandCampina WAMCO acquired Nutricima factory in Ikorodu during the year under review. The acquisition underlined FrieslandCampina WAMCO’s continued commitment to contribute to the development of the Nigerian dairy sector. It also satisfied the need for additional production capacity for FrieslandCampina WAMCO to meet the growing consumer demand for locally produced dairy. Also, under its backward integration strategy, the business aggressively expanded its activities to strengthen the dairy value chain in Nigeria. And significant to this was the establishment of the Center for Nigerian Dutch Dairy Development, Nigeria’s first national expertise Center for dairy, committed to unlocking and developing homegrown dairy expertise across the value chain. The business also established the Value4Dairy Consortium, a formidable partnership of FrieslandCampina WAMCO, URUS, Barenbrug and Agrifirm, committed to accelerate self-sufficiency in Nigeria’s dairy sector. A look at Q1 2021 activities indicated continued economic headwinds in a volatile and uncertain business environment. However, FrieslandCampina WAMCO remains positive about the future of its business in Nigeria. The business is confident that its brands, which are well known, will continue to grow on the back of our strong business fundamentals and unique route-to-market strategy to achieve its business ambition.    