The king of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, yesterday asked the Gberigbe Orelade Family to write a petition stating its side of the story on the recent violence that rocked Gberigbe, an Ikorodu suburb in Lagos. No fewer than one person was feared dead, and five others suffered gunshot injuries in the community last Wednesday and Thursday, following violence by suspected landgrabbers and cultists. Lagos State Police Command Spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, said he was yet to be fully briefed on the incident, but the Olotu of the Gberigbe Orelade Family, Sunday Oshikoya, confirmed the shooting, saying the victims were members of the family. Oshikoya, 86, told The Nation that the Oba’s directive followed a meeting with the community’s elders and protests by residents seeking a resolution of the over 108 years old land dispute. He explained that the crisis was between the Gberigbe Orelade Family and the Ladera (formerly Odusanya) family of Gberigbe, but that it was settled judicially in his family’s favour in 1913. “The land dispute went as far as the then Supreme Court in 1913 – Nigeria was under colonial rule, at the time – and the court ruled in our favour. It held that the land belonged to the Gberigbe Orelade Family,” he said. The Olotu also debunked some Gberigbe residents’ allegation that policemen from Abuja allegedly involved in the crisis were acting for a popular Ikorodu businessman Alhaji Kamoru Lamina (AKA Sir K) when the incident happened. “Sir K has nothing to do with what is happening there. He told us he has got nothing to do with us because he was not our enemy. He has no problem with us and we have no problem with him,” Oshikoya said. Also speaking, Alhaji Lamina expressed shock that anyone would link him with the incident. He told The Nation through his lawyer, Promise Effiong, that he was waiting for the police to conclude their investigation on the incident before taking legal action against the persons spreading the false allegations. “The allegations are frivolous, pathetic and sad. Sir K never sent anyone to Gberigbe. He has been on bed rest at the (Divine Mercy) hospital since May 15 and was only discharged on May 22,” Promise said.