The Private Infrastructure Development Group’s (PIDG), promoters of the Emerging Africa Infrastructure Fund (EAIF) loan, has hit $1 billion. PIDG is an innovative infrastructure development and finance organisation delivering pioneering infrastructure in the poorest and most fragile countries. A statement said  EAIF by last year, had  signed eight new projects, bringing the loans to $1.04 billion. It is committed $243 million in new loans to businesses in digital and telecommunications, energy generation, manufacturing, transportation and logistics and bulk storage. It can lend between $10 and $65 million to 10 infrastructure sectors. In Nigeria, EAIF backed a project by Indorama Eleme to improve productivity and energy conservation at its Port Harcourt fertiliser plant. In August 2018, EAIF provided $35 million loan to Indorama Eleme Fertiliser & Chemicals Ltd (IEFCL). The transaction was  part of the financing of a $1.1 billion expansion of the company’s fertiliser plant at Port Harcourt. The new plant was built alongside the facility. It doubled the company’s output yearly to 2.8 million metric tonnes. EAIF had previously provided loans worth $48.8 million towards construction of IEFCL’s first Port Harcourt fertiliser plant, which now operates at full capacity. It supports the Federal Government’s initiative to eliminate the importation of urea and to meet rising local demand for urea fertiliser. Also, EAIF provided $30 million loans to the $865 million Azura-Edo plant and played a key role in structuring the financing. Construction of phase one began in 2016 with power being first produced in May 2018. The project won the 2015 Thomson Reuters PFI African Public/Private Partnership Award.The power plant supplies 3.7 million households (approximately 22 million people) and numerous businesses. Many consumers are able to access electricity from the national grid for the first time and at lower cost than off-grid energy. Tom Greenwood, Chief Financial Officer at Helios Towers, said following the successful London issue: “EAIF’s presence as anchor investor was an important signal to private investors and instrumental to the positive market sentiment that greeted the issue. Their anchor investment helped us to effectively reopen the African corporate debt capital market. EAIF has been a wholly supportive backer of Helios Towers since its creation. Once again, we are delighted to have it involved in our success.” Since 2002, the fund has   created more than 240,000 long-term jobs and provided 231 million people with access to new or improved infrastructure. 