The British Government has said it is helping the Nigerian military to build its capacity to tackle the Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast. The British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, spoke on Tuesday in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, after a closed-door meeting with the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike. Laing also harped on the forthcoming 2023 general elections saying it must be better than the previous poll. A statement signed by Wike’s Special Assistant, Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said the world would keenly monitor the forthcoming poll saying there must be concerted efforts to improve the country’s democracy. She said: “The importance of these elections, how crucial they are, not just for Nigeria’s democratic journey, but for Africa and the world. The world’s spotlight will be on Nigeria in 2023. It needs to be a better election, not perfect but better to consolidate and improve Nigeria’s democracy, and I think the Governor very much agree with me on that.” The commissioner said her discussion with Wike revolved around the economy, prospects of his vision including youth employment and his challenges in tackling them. On security, she said Britain was helping the Nigerian military to build its combat capacity in tackling insurgency, including Boko Haram in the northern part of Nigeria. She said the British military had its presence in Nigeria for many years and had continued to offer training on how to counter insurgency in the northern part of Nigeria. She said: “In the North in particular, we are sharing our experiences in counter-insurgency from Northern Ireland, from Iraq and from Afghanistan. We have a military presence here. It has been here for many years training your military in counter-insurgency and also sharing our experiences. “That this kind of challenges are not solved by the military means alone, ultimately it’s about rebuilding trust with the people of this country and having a good offer as well as tackling the underline economic drive, unemployment.” Laing said the British government was offering economic assistance to Nigeria because of the realisation that lack of economic opportunities in the north had made youths in that region to become easy recruits of Boko Haram. She said: “Unemployment, many young men out of work are very easy to target for Boko Haram. So we are sharing our experience and in a practical sense helping on the security side and offering economic support to the country to enable that there will be more jobs for the people.”