The growing insecurity in the country has raised series of unanswered questions, especially on how to normalise the situation. Yet the country continues to bleed unbridled. There has been a clamour for constitutional roles for traditional rulers given their seeming capacity to curb the menace since they are leaders at the grassroots. TONY AKOWE and NICHOLAS KALU examine this issue  From Sokoto to Lagos, Niger to Bayelsa, and from Plateau to Delta, the list of retired security personnel sitting as traditional rulers is endless. Several Nigerians who have held command positions in the country’s security services occupy positions on the country’s traditional institutions. Despite being knowledgeable in the security sector, Nigeria has continued to experience tremendous insecurity across the country. From the Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast to the kidnapping of expatriates and the bombing of pipeline installations in the Niger Delta which were isolated cases, Nigeria currently is on a precipice. Security personnel are killed daily while innocent Nigerians are kidnapped daily. New kidnap targets are students who the bandits may have discovered to be a huge source of ransom. It has been argued that the country’s porous borders are one of the factors of egging insecurity in the country. This may explain one of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference that government should involve border communities in the policing of Nigerian borders, pointing out that traditional rulers have a significant role to play in that. They also asked for a constitutional role for the traditional institution but in an advisory capacity. Due to lack of recognition or legal backings to perform effectively in 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) traditional rulers do not have the constitutional or other roles to play. It is a departure from all earlier Constitutions that recognised them and even gave them some functions to perform. For instance, Section 140 (l) and under Part 1 to the Third Schedule of 1979 Constitution recommended that “no community or nation would thrive without due consideration of its historical evolution, customs, values and beliefs.” Nigeria evolved from the amalgamation of several empires, kingdoms, caliphates, chiefdoms and autonomous communities. The first Republic and subsequent military and civilian regimes utilised the services of traditional rulers because of their great relevance. It was argued that “undermining the traditional institution through unsavoury politically-motivated actions will reduce the respect accorded it by the citizens. This will translate into its ineffectiveness in performing its roles. It will also affect its capacity to mobilise the people towards governments’ programmes and projects and in managing communal, ethnic and religious conflicts and crisis. This will certainly not augur well for the envisaged peace, progress and well-being of the nation and its people as the government will lose a respected willing partner in these regards.” It was further argued that “the universally-accepted roles of traditional rulers entail being the custodian of the people’s culture, tradition, values, morals, and religious beliefs, among others. They are also supporters and promoters of governments’ developmental programmes and projects. They serve as a vanguard in handling and containing communal conflicts, crisis and insecurities thereby ensuring peaceful co-existence among the diverse citizenry. They are a very strong force in ensuring ethnic unity and they are placed in the best position to handle matters involving security and development among communities.” However, recent unsavoury events seem to validate arguments that traditional rulers should be accorded specific responsibilities for conflict and security management in their domains at the grassroots. This involvement, devoid of partisanship, would engender the active participation of traditional rulers in matters relating to the maintenance of peace and security in their communities. Official involvement of traditional rulers in security matters, it has been argued, will ensure that bad eggs do not find hiding places in their localities since new faces in the community will easily be detected and investigated. Equally, their involvement in the recruitment of the police, the Army and other security agencies will go a long way in the elimination of possible recruitment of miscreants into the security forces. Another opinion advanced by proponents of this argument is that during the colonial era, the traditional rulers were in charge of Native Authority Administration.  But, what are the positions of the traditional rulers on this matter? Are they on the same page with advocates of their involvement in security matters? The traditional rulers are of the view that the Nigerian society was progressive, peaceful, decent and full of beautiful traditions and cultures when they were given constitutional roles to play. What went awry? How did they lose this prime responsibility? Has the military incursion into civil rule any part to play in this ugly situation? Pundits in history and governance have maintained that military involvement in civil leadership caused a lot of damage to the country’s governance system. “General Ironsi’s 1966 Unitary Government Decree, General Gowon’s and General Obasanjo’s 1967 and 1976 Local Government Reform Decrees stripped traditional rulers of their powers and gave same to the local government councils thereby giving birth to the present insecurity and corruption,” a source said. The Executive Director of Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, said recognition for the traditional institution by the government at all levels will enhance their performance, especially in managing issues related to grassroots integration, mediating in conflict resolution considering the current insecurity across the country. He also noted that traditional rulers will help promote peace, justice and fairness and can also serve as testimonials on characters of their people, especially those vying for public offices and general development of the country. He said constitutional roles should be given to them to allow them to have a say in the administration of their various communities and not only play an advisory roles in the governance of the country. He said: “Doing so will improve their relationship with the government and reduce frequent clashes on issues of farmland, culture, and religion, among others at the grassroots. The traditional institutions themselves have to acknowledge their position in the society and provide leadership by example.” The Ovie of Idjerhe Kingdom, Delta State King O.M.A Whiskey, recalled that before the advent of the colonial administration in Nigeria, the administrative leadership of the various empires, kingdoms and even communities were the responsibilities of royal fathers. He said: “Even the white imperialist could not do without recognising the place of the royal authorities in administration; they were assigned constitutional responsibilities. “It is instructive to note that the royal fathers are symbols of authority that promulgated and enacted several laws that are peculiar to their areas of administration and native belief. The 1960 and 1979 Constitutions deliberately undermined the constitutional responsibilities hitherto enjoyed by royal institutions. “That the deliberate act did not just remove power from royal institutions, it also succeeded in abrogating native laws that help in instilling discipline in the local populace and which, in turn, affect national value and create insecurities.” He argued that the consequences of lack of a constitutional role for traditional rulers since independence are far-reaching and can be seen from the high level of insecurity, disorder, lack of national cohesion as well as loss of moral values among Nigerians. The Amayanabo of Nembe Kingdom, Chief Edmund Daukoru, said Nigerians are hungry to see their royal fathers contribute to the governance of the country. When the royal fathers presented their memo to the Constitution Review Committee, Daukoro, a former Group Managing Director of the NNPC said: “The monarchy has come of age. The traditional institution you see today can pride itself on people who have been through most of what you are going through now. We can be called traditional fathers in the very complete sense. We can speak the same language you speak. We can say we are here today not as a threat to the powers that be, not as a threat to your powers as per our constitution, but as partners able to go about at the grassroots level where it is very difficult for busy politicians or busy governors or busy state instruments or national instruments of power to penetrate. “We know when there are foreign elements in our communities. We know the troublemakers to their families and we are able to contribute much. We are only asking for this and that you have the power to give and that is to grant us the opportunity to partner more effectively through legal recognition.” Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives and Chairman of the House Adhoc Committee on Constitution Review, Ahmed Idris Wase said the House is conscious of what the role of the traditional rulers is. He told the traditional rulers that “some of us are aware that we may not have been in this problem of insecurity if we had taken care of what the traditional institution should have been doing. I believe that you have a role to play in securing our land; you have a role to play in keeping us united. You have a role to play in even dispensing government functions…” Conscious of the fact that they have not been given any role in the constitution, the traditional rulers have decided to associate freely and share the common principles of fairness, justice and equity; and to jointly offer useful advice, co-operation and assistance to governments at all levels and to safeguard the traditions, cultures and values of their respective subjects. The traditional rulers believe that they, as custodians of the people’s culture, tradition, norms, values and morals, are better placed in handling communal conflicts, crises and insecurities than existing authorities. “Therefore, their official involvement will instil confidence and fairness in the security, and justice systems. This will lead to states, regional and national peace, security and prosperity. There will be a lot to gain if the old Native Authority security system is revived and utilised where the Ward Heads, the Village Heads and other Traditional Authorities are officially involved.” It is, therefore, imperative for governments at all levels to respect and safeguard the sanctity of the traditional institution and to insulate them from partisan politics.