 On the same day the Southern governors met in Asaba, Delta State, to decide on open grazing, restructuring and a number of other pressing national issues, Information minister Lai Mohammed was appealing to the media to tone down their rhetoric on the same pressing national problems. He was clear that, unlike before, the federal government was going to act on the 10-point resolutions reached at the April 8, 2021 town hall meeting on national security held in Kaduna. Among the resolutions were the “urgent need for political restructuring and not separation”, judicial devolution, free primary education, and state police. It is not clear by what authority Mr Mohammed spoke, despite being the Information minister. But judging from the brusque manner Senate President Ahmed Lawan dismissed the issue of restructuring when he responded to the decision of the southern governors on the same subject, and the incredibly revelatory interview Attorney General of the Federation Abubakar Malami gave to Channels Television last Wednesday on both restructuring and open grazing, Mr Mohammed might as well be barking up the wrong tree. If any Nigerian is confused about what the ultimate opinion of the administration on restructuring is – leave the vexing issue of open grazing out of the mix for now, despite its centrality to national discourse – they only need to examine the sophism of the senate president and the attorney general. The current administration will do nothing significant about restructuring, not even if the issue were couched in more agreeable and less frightening terms and language. Clearly they see it as a first step to the balkanisation of the country or at least a whittling down of certain privileges that concern a section of the ruling elite. It will, therefore, take a conjunction of weighty social, political and economic events to compel the administration to recognise the indispensability of restructuring in defusing the pent-up tensions and agitations wracking the country from North to South. Until that conjunction forces the hands of the government, officials like Sen Lawan and Mr Malami will continue to either procrastinate or prevaricate. Administration officials probably see restructuring only in terms of its dynamics as a political issue from which certain interest groups struggle to gain some advantage. More complicated, and rather disingenuous, is the incomprehensible fact that both the senate president and Mr Malami view the subject from the narrow perspective of the southern governors’ resolutions. But the administration and complaisant officials who support the inert approach of the administration to this most salient of issues need to muster the rigour to see the issue of restructuring from the wider context of the crises that spin from it, and from the even more critical issue of the kind of country they envision for themselves and future generations. Since the collapse of the First Republic, there has not been a political arrangement, either under the military or elected government, which conduced to peace, unity and development. The country has oscillated between crises. Sen Lawan and Mr Malami may not be tired of the oscillations, but they can rest assured that most Nigerians would like to have an arrangement that does not make politics a zero-sum game. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) made the issue of restructuring a campaign and even ideological matter. They posed as progressives when they sought the consent of Nigerians to gain office, and they made the subject a priority in their manifesto. They suggested that restructuring would help infuse drive and purpose to a country that had become lethargic and listless under the bungling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). It is not clear whether most of those taken in by the APC manifesto and who eventually voted for the party understood what the APC promised or what the implications of restructuring would be. But they voted for the party, overthrew the ancien regime, and invested so much hope in a party and president they hoped understood the gravity of the country’s crisis and knew exactly what should be done to attenuate it. Six years down the line, there are no clear indications that the subject of restructuring was not an errant addition to the party manifesto by an audacious idealist and redactor. And six years after, the party has remained as conservative as ever, even to the point of sounding reactionary. First they denied ever promising restructuring until someone pointed it out to them in their party documents. Thereafter, they have dedicated themselves to fighting the idea and labeling its proponents as disgruntled. Restructuring is, however, all about vision. The country’s political structure was a problem before independence, but was partially resolved after acrimonious debate. Then came the even more destructive and disruptive military interregnums, and there has been no peace since. It will take a visionary and idealist to acknowledge rather than deny the need to find a consensus on which structure best suits Nigeria. So far, no such visionary has been found. In fact in the past few years, there has been a consistent effort to undermine any consensus, and advocates of restructuring have been painted as malcontents and separatists. The current system of government is unwieldy and abhorrently expensive, and nothing, absolutely nothing, has been done to streamline the structure and costs. The economy is unable to sustain the current structure thereby promoting inefficiency, and increasingly Nigerians and their governments have been compelled to choose. Yet, the administration and leading lawmakers have stuck adamantly to the status quo. They seem resigned to fate, and with bated breath await the coming explosion. Despite the administration’s antagonism, the campaign for restructuring is unlikely to abate. As the consequences of the country’s misshapen structure disrupts peace and imperil unity and development, the campaigns will get more strident. There was a time when the campaign polarised the country along North-South divide. Apart from the shrinking of an amorphous North – there was never a homogenous South – the societal disruptions the country has had to contend with in the past few years have convinced the thoughtful that something simply has to be done to rectify the wobbly national political structure. Why the administration remains skeptical and even antagonistic to the idea, despite the imminence of an implosion, is hard to understand. However, given the best efforts of consensus builders, there will never be a time when the whole country will rally unanimously behind restructuring. It won’t happen. But there will at some inevitable point be a critical mass of pro-restructuring advocates to encourage dialogue and resolution. That dialogue, unfortunately, will be hamstrung by unexpected difficulties and challenges. Nigeria is so riven by ethnic and religious divisions that finding those who will expertly champion the restructuring agenda will be hard to find. Finding them will require a unique national consensus. Such champions do not exist in the legislature, as the reactionary comments of their principal officers and the trivialities and obsessions of lawmakers who sponsor legislative mundanity have indicated. The populace can also not channel and manage the dialogue. Building a consensus around the criteria and parameters for the dialogue will be an arduous task. Though there is not much to show that the current administration has a full grasp of the problem or a fair understanding of what the solution should be, it is hard to downplay the role of the executive in championing the cause of restructuring. To start with, therefore, the executive must not only understand the issues at stake regarding restructuring, administration officials, particularly the president or those to whom he has unconstitutionally delegated his powers and thoughts, must be convinced that continuing on the present course is both self-defeating and destructive. The Nigerian constitution is modeled on the American constitution. But not only is it a caricature of that model and an undisciplined and fraudulent plagiarism of its intentions, it also has no understanding or appreciation of the principles that underpinned the drafting of the American document or the cultural rubric that holds it together. Fifty-five delegates wrote the United States constitution in 1787 by amending the Articles of Confederation (1781-89). The US constitution came out of rancorous debates and the experience of the country under confederation. But in the end, it limited the power of the government, secured the rights of citizens, provided for the separation of powers, and finally ensured a ‘delicate balance between authority and liberty’. The Nigerian constitution, whose defects many optimists believe amendments would rectify, has produced monarchs as presidents, ignored the attendant principle of economic federalism, and was deviously enacted only after elections had been held in 1999 and winners sworn in. Like its predecessors, the current administration does not understand the principles and philosophies that should underpin the document; hence the ease with which it is transmogrified and exploited for ethnic and religious ends. Crucially too, the US constitution was influenced by the English Bill of Rights (1689) and the Magna Carta, while James Madison, one of the four men who drafted the document and was the most learned, had the most input. It also drew inspiration from Aristotle, Plato’s student who taught Alexander the Great to conceive and rule an empire. No such ennobling foundation can be traced to the Nigerian constitution; and worse, through its many trajectories under the military, it became bastardised and emptied of any philosophical content and soul. In brief, too, the Japanese post-war constitution (1947), which is anchored on three principles advanced by Gen Douglas MacArthur, borrowed heavily from the Meiji Constitution (1867-1912) and has not been amended in more than 70 years, even as it contains only about 5,000 words compared to the average constitution with 21,000 words. The constitution was authored by two American lawyers under the guidance of Gen MacArthur, and it satisfied the condition laid down at the Potsdam Declaration to the effect that “The Japanese government shall remove all obstacles to the revival of and strengthening of democratic tendencies among the Japanese people. Freedom of speech, of religion, and of thought, as well as respect for the fundamental human rights shall be established”. For France, though Michel Debre drafted the French Fifth Republic constitution (1958), it was mainly inspired by Charles de Gaulle, and it has kept the country constitutionally stable since then. One of the anchors of the French constitution is the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which was in turn inspired by the Enlightenment philosophers. Compared to these constitutions, what does the Nigerian constitution believe in, and to what extent do the country’s leaders have an emotional connection with, and intellectual understanding of, its pivotal principles? It is not out of place to conclude that the responses of Sen Lawan and AGF Malami approximate the administration’s inflexible attitude towards the subject of restructuring, with both of them equating it, by an improbable and vexatious logic, to restructuring and constitutional adherence at state level. Mr Malami even went further, in his reaction to the southern ban on open grazing, to suggest that northern governors could conceivably place a ban on spare parts dealers, in other words targeting the Igbo. The administration clearly has no interest in restructuring, but even if it does, because it has no emotional or intellectual connection with it, and can consequently not drive it, the country should expect very tough times ahead. Coupled with the ferment all over the country, the imperiousness of herdsmen with whom the government appears to be in league, the unfinished war with Boko Haram/ISWAP, and the determination of the government to overreach itself in tackling the separatist agitations in the Southeast and South-South, Nigeria should brace itself for something far worse than the country possesses the ingenuity to manage.     The eternally combative but often misdirected Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir el-Rufai, was for much of last week at daggers drawn with the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) over the retrenchment of some 7,000 workers. The NLC organised a five-day warning strike in Kaduna to compel the governor to follow the law in downsizing or rightsizing the state’s civil service workforce. The strike began on Monday but lasted only three days after heated exchange, lies and threats, among other incendiary reactions. Some governors tried to calm frayed nerves during the strike by appealing to both sides for restraint, but the scoffing Mallam el-Rufai whined that he expected a more unequivocal support from his colleagues. His sense of entitlement obviously runs deeper and berths wider than initially thought. And whether the NLC leadership took fright when sponsored thugs attacked their rallies or not, their hasty retreat to Abuja, citing the intervention of an alarmed Labour and Employment ministry, gives room for doubt about their fortitude. Mallam el-Rufai’s handling of the strike was poor and undignified. His fierce and self-righteous reaction to the strike rested on two main premises: first, that the NLC engaged in lawlessness and economic sabotage by shutting down the operations of key sectors of the Kaduna economy; and second, that the state’s workforce of some 100,000 was taking a disproportionate 90 percent of Kaduna’s resources, leaving little for development. The governor did not explain what resources he was talking about, whether the usual monthly allocation from Abuja or a combination of IGR and allocation. However, having spelt out the premises of his argument, the governor simply concluded that there was no other way except his own way, a reflection not only of the contempt in which he holds all his opponents, including the NLC, but also of how he presides over his administration and conducts his politics with messianic fervor. Nigerians know the position of the NLC/TUC, which they announced before embarking on the strike. They insist Kaduna was still set to retrench another 11,000, apart from the 7,000 in dispute, and had so far failed to follow the Labour Act, particularly Section 20 which deals with redundancy. But apart from being messianic, irrational, self-righteous and appallingly dictatorial in his misrule of Kaduna, Mallam el-Rufai has totally precluded any other way of handling the state’s financial crisis. There is no doubt that the civil service consumes a huge proportion of the state’s resources, but has he wondered whether it would not be far better, given the nexus between insecurity and poverty/unemployment, to grow the resource base of the state, make the civil service more productive and efficient, re-engineer the state’s finances, assemble knowledgeable experts on the state’s economy, and run Kaduna in such a way that it would no longer rely on the pampering and ill-conceived system of allocating funds to states and local governments? Nigerians and Kadunans know that the partially successful NLC strike has simply exposed and amplified the governor’s incompetence, poor judgement, irrationality and dictatorship, a depressing reminder of the fascist governments of the 1930s and 40s. It is sad that the state lied against a few nurses whom the governor’s spokesman accused of causing the death of a toddler. It is sadder still that the governor purported to have dismissed all nurses below Grade Level 14. But it is reassuring that the essential el-Rufai is now obvious to all Nigerians who will now be on their guard in ensuring that his toxic politics and personality receive no oxygen to foul and demean the country’s politics in the years ahead.