Octogenarian Godwin Etemike shares some of his best sporting moments as a former Nigerian International and national team coach in an encounter with DESMOND EKWUEME.  He is surely one of the unsung heroes of Nigeria’s historic Africa Cup of Nations victory on home soil in 1980 and four decades after winning the continental Holy Grail, Pa Godwin Etemike remains nostalgic. Now in his downtime, the Octogenarian recalled with glee how he laid the foundation of the historic team that gave Nigeria her first continental title when the Christian  Chukwu-led  Green Eagles  beat  their Algerian counterparts  3-0  in front of delirious home fans packed at the National Stadium in Surulere, Lagos. “I was appointed to handle the Green Eagles in preparation for the Africa Cup of Nations which we hosted in 1980; the job took effect in 1979,” the 86-year-old Pa Etemike recalled with fond admiration. “I actually led the Green Eagles on the playing tour of Brazil. “It was fun remembering the experience and good times we had in Brazil, and it was on our return from the Brazil training tour that  Otto Glory was appointed to take charge of the team for the tournament proper.” Though  the Brazilian Otto Gloria  is usually credited  for tinkering with the Green Eagles between  1978  and 1981,  Pa Etemike who now  resides in his Warri home town,  would set the record straight about his good old days  with the national team, adding it is painful  that honour is usually not given to whom it’s due in the country’s sports polity. He volunteered: “Needless to say that we had built a strong team for Otto Gloria to inherit and work on to eventually win the tournament. “There was maximum understanding, teamwork and cooperation among the players who were all focused on winning the tournament even before Otto Gloria who only took over the team a few months to the tournament. “All the star players including Muda Lawal, Christian Chukwu, Adokiye Amiesimaka and Segun Odegbami among others were part of the team that went on the tour of Brazil. “My joy each time I remember our tour of Brazil is that we won the Nations Cup in 1980. “By the grace of God, I contributed to that victory even if my name is not always mentioned when the history of that tournament is said. “ Incidentally,  Pa Etemike   not only coached the national team in his heyday, in his rich  repertoire  was also the fact that he actually  made name both at the club  and country levels as a star footballer. “I was part of the success story of sports in the old Bendel State,” he offered. “ Of course, I played football for the state and later, was coach of the great Bendel Insurance. “ Apart from playing for Insurance, I  also played for Stationery Stores FC of Lagos and then WNDC metamorphosed into IICC Shooting Stars FC of Ibadan. I equally featured for Plateau X1 “In all, I enjoyed my club career because it shot me into the limelight of featuring in the national team. I was, fortunately, one of the few players who was a regular invitee and player in the Green Eagles. “During our days it was strictly by merit. Any player invited into the national team is as good if not better than the rest in the same position he operated from. “Needless to say that during our time, you get national team call ups on the basis of your form in your club and how many games you had appeared in plus the impact you had brought to your team in the domestic league.” Of course, Pa Etemike equally has a fond memory of his days in the national  team  when he strutted  his stuff with  arguably some of the best players to have worn the green and white jerseys.  “During my days in the Green Eagles, my teammates included the likes of Eto Amaechina, Amusa Shittu, Late Thunder Balogun among others,” he recalled. “It was fun playing for the national team because we played for pride, dignity and honour; it wasn’t for money. “We played with passion. We gave our all. In those days, you may even play with an injury that you hide just because you want to serve Nigeria. “Then wearing the national colours was a thing of joy. It brought us fame hence; we put in everything to play for Nigeria. “Our greatest rival then was Ghana. Each time we meet them it was like a cup final. Such games task us more. They challenge us more. They pushed us to do more. We took those games like war. We wanted to win for our country at all cost,” he affirmed. Yet Pa Etemike distinguished himself even more as a coach starting from a humble and was instrumental to Bendel Insurance  winning the  National Challenge Cup (now Federation Cup) in that epic 1972 final that ended 3-2 in favour of Benin Arsenals. “By the grace of God, I led Bendel Insurance FC as chief coach to win the 1972 FA Cup against Mighty Jets of Jos. It was an epic final which brought Bendel Insurance FC to the front burner of the sport in Nigeria. “Some of my players in that great  Bendel Insurance side of  that time  included Sebastian Broderick, Tony Ottah, Sam Ikeji, Victor Oduah, Peter Egharevba. I was later elevated to the position of Director of Sports in Bendel State.” But his coaching exploits did not end with Bendel Insurance as he was also the architect of other notable clubs including defunct NNPC Warri and Sharks of Port Harcourt. He volunteered: “Between 1986 and 1989 I was coach of the famous and dreaded NNPC FC Warri. We built a formidable team that competed strongly in the domestic scene. “Our success was hugely in the FA Cup where we took traditional top clubs to the cleaners thus, becoming the giant killers and as well presenting young vibrant players for the national team selection then. “I remember that at a point we had about six players from my team in NNPC FC in the Flying Eagles and two in the Green Eagles. That was how solid the team was.” He continued: “Between 1990 and 1992 under the chairmanship of Adokiye Amiesimaka, I was Technical Adviser of Sharks FC of Port Harcourt. Monday Sinclair was a coach under me. “Together we built a solid team that challenged other traditional clubs like Enugu Rangers and Shooting Stars among others for domestic honours. “Interestingly, Amiesimaka was my player in the national team so it was much easier working with him as my boss in Sharks FC. “It was more of father and son relationship but the father had to respect his son who has grown to be a full-fledged man calling the shot. “It was fun working with Sharks FC and credit must go to Amiesimaka a fine gentleman, an astute football administrator and a man of wisdom and intellect who the country needs to run her apex football body.” Yet Pa Etemike devotion to the beautiful game also saw him at some point managing youth players as well as   serving as an official of the Nigeria Coaches Association (NCA) in its nascent state. “In 1979,  I took Sanco Stars of Benin City, a youth club, to win Gothia Cup in Sweden and it was the first of its kind in youth football development in the country,” he stated, even as he shared his days with the NCA. “It was the springboard to the participation of major youth football competitions by Nigerian teams. “I was 1st Vice-President of Nigerian Coaches Association. I held that position for many years on account of quality contributions and leadership to the body. The association helped the Nigerian Football Association (NFA) to train young coaches through seminars, workshops and coaching clinics. “We also assisted in identifying talents for the various national teams. We came up with modalities on how to guide the operations of the technical department of the then Nigeria Football Association (NFA).” As the elderly often said, home and indeed family is a refuge of some sort and Pa Etemike reckoned his family is one of the things that gives him insatiable joy. He enthused: “I have 12 children; six men and six women. Kevin is my first child. He is into sports administration and management. He played football too. I am happy he is carving a niche for himself in the same field that shot me into the limelight. “Most of my children are based abroad. One of my daughters is a lawyer. She is in South Africa. I have an accountant and so on. To God alone, I give the glory because if not for God, perhaps I would have been living a beggarly life like most of my colleagues. It hurts to say this. “I was born on the 5th of July 1935 in Ellu town in present-day Isoko North LGA of Delta State. But I was brought up in Warri before moving to Benin City and onwards to Lagos, when football shot me into the limelight. “I am living now in Warri Town and enjoying my old age. I am grateful to God for long life and thankful to Him for all my children who have been there for me. “Each day I pray for each child that God gave to me. They have been wonderful. From the first child to the last born. They are all wonderful children. May God continue to bless and protect them.” Yet Pa Etemike, in the meantime, has made a clarion call on those administering sports today to institute a judicious reward system for those who sacrifice their youthful years in the service of the nation lest their efforts will be in vain. He said: “It’s sad that our the country doesn’t have a reward system for her past sporting heroes and heroines otherwise few of us who God Almighty has blessed with the longevity of life won’t have any regret serving our father’s land with the blood, energy, and sweat of our youthful years. “ But I  hope one day, a leader who will love sports and respect sportsmen and women will emerge and  create a reward system that will encourage youth to offer their best in the service of our fatherland,” he added.   