From Nicholas Kalu, Abuja   Going by the claims of the Accountant-General of the Federation (AG-F), Mr. Ahmed Idris, the £4.2 million Ibori-linked loot returned to the Federal Government by the United Kingdom (UK) government has been handed over to Delta State. The AG-F told the House of Representatives yesterday that the cash has been passed to the state, contrary to an earlier plan by the Federal Government to use the money for the completion of three ongoing federal projects. The projects are the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway; the Second Niger Bridge and the Abuja-Kaduna Highway. Notable stakeholders, especially from the Southsouth kicked against the federal plan, insisting that the cash must be returned to Delta State. They also said that it should be spent on projects in the state should the Federal Government insist on disbursing the cash. Governor Okowa recently said his administration plans to channel to complete some projects with the cash when release to it. It could however not be confirmed yesterday if the state had taken delivery of the money. An officially, who pleaded for anonymity said the AG-F claim could not be verified as at yesterday.  The AG-F spoke he appeared before the House of Representatives’ Ad-hoc Committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loots Movable and Immovable Assets from 2002 to 2020 by Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for Effective Efficient Management and Utilisation. Idri told the Representative Adejoro Adeogun-led committee that some recoveries are for specific state governments. He said: “I know there was a time recovery was made on behalf of Plateau State. There was one for Bayelsa. There was one for different states, even Delta. Such recoveries go specifically to those states.” Adeogun specifically referred him to the recent Ibori-linked loot received from the UK. “Let us give an example. There is something trending. The recovery of Ibori-linked loot – when would it be paid to the state?”,  Adeogun queried. Responding, the AG-F said: “It has been paid to the state. It was paid to Delta state.” Adeogun pointed out that this was contrary to information in the public domain that it was used for specific projects. Idris explained: “Any recovery arising from looted funds from a particular state goes to the state. The state governors would not even allow this to fly. They will take the Federal Government to court for holding their money. So, we don’t joke and we don’t play with that. We pay them their money.”