Since it opened its first clinic in Lagos in 2003, over 3,000 patients have benefited from Nordica Fertility Centre’s assisted reproductive services. To mark its 18th anniversary, Nordica founder, Dr Ajayi Abayomi, shared his thoughts on the relationship between fibroid and fertility, and how Nigeria can become a leader in advanced assisted reproductive services for the treatment of male and female infertility, ADEOLA OGUNLADE reports.  Adama and Usman were not even trying to get pregnant when they conceived their son, Aliyu. So, a couple of years later when they decided to go for baby No. 2, they expected instant success. But to their dismay, months passed, and there was still no baby. However, after trying unsuccessfully to conceive for two years and lots of negative pregnancy tests, Adama, who was then 35, suddenly realised that the term, “secondary infertility” kept cropping up in her medical enquiries. At the end of it all, that was what she was diagnosed with. What she did not realise was that secondary infertility accounts for more than half of all infertility cases. As she later discovered, the struggle over this challenge could be devastating. Just last week, Adama sent this email (to Nordical Fertility Centre “I’m happy to say I’m 14 weeks pregnant with a sibling for Aliyu (you guessed right, I did another IVF cycle). It’s been a really tough period, but I’m glad I trusted my instincts and sought help as soon as I thought there was a problem.”  40,000 babies born through IVF in Nigeria  Adama’s experience is not unique as more couples are exploring the opportunity that IVF – In vitro fertilisation – offers after suffering delay in childbearing. IVF helps with fertilisation, embryo development, and implantation, so that a woman can get pregnant. The recipient of Adama’s letter was Dr Ajayi Abayomi founder, Nordica Fertility Centre. Abayomi said raising the bar of fertility care for over 18 years in Nigeria requires elite physicians to collaborate and apply their knowledge and individual skills to solve couples’ infertility, and help them to achieve their dreams of parenthood. This, he explained is Nordica Fertility Centre’s bottom line. It is no small ambition. In Nigeria, It is estimated that approximately 3.5 to 5 million children have been born worldwide following ART treatment. According to available statistics based on the performance indicator from various centres across the country, it is estimated that over 40,000 babies have been born through IVF in Nigeria since 1989. “When we started IVF in Nigeria, we discovered there was a dichotomy between the people and healthcare providers and nobody was addressing the dichotomy, especially in Africa,” Abayomi said, adding “I find it very ridiculous. Doctors were behaving like God. Nobody ever questioned the doctors and it is a ridiculous thing to do because the body belongs to you. “We still have not reached where we want to be in enlightening the public about their health but we have made a giant stride in the last 18 years in improving health service delivery, especially fertility care among our people in Nigeria and beyond”.  How effective is fertility treatment?  Asked whether everyone that comes for fertility treatment ends up getting pregnant in Nordica, no, Abayomi said, explaining that in the first place, fertility experts cannot guarantee everyone coming for treatment that they will get pregnant, but there is a success rate to the procedure, and it is age-related to start with. “The success rate in IVF is cumulative; the more you do, the more the likelihood that you get pregnant. Some people say up to 7 to 8 cycles, but we have seen someone who did up to 11th cycle before achieving success. So, we don’t usually say this is the number of cycles that you can do; the more the cycle you do, the more likely your chances of getting pregnant. “What other things people don’t know is that In Vitro Fertilization (IVF), is not only therapeutic but diagnostic. There are some problems you will never see unless you do IVF, so, we can modify them based on the findings. For example, you never know whether the eggs are good until – the taste of the pudding is in the eating – until you use them, you don’t know whether they are good. “Also, you don’t know whether the sperms are good or not good. The sperm is a very rough estimate of infertility because the sperm can be present but they will be looking like beans. “So, that is where you make a diagnosis, we cannot guarantee people pregnancy but the more you do, you must be sure that you are doing the right thing in your treatment. if you add hundreds of zeros together, you will get zero. If you continue to be in a place where things don’t work, you will only be lucky. That is what I tell people. You will only be lucky if anything happens. The only thing left is that we educate people to choose IVF. There must be things you are looking out for when you are doing your IVF”, he said. Abayomi admitted that it was not always a bed of roses and as an organisation, they had experienced downtime too. “One thing about me and I have learned to do as a Nigerian is to remember only good things, because if you remember bad things, you will use your energy remembering about some people who have made life difficult for you. It is difficult for me to remember bad things”. Relationship between fibroid and infertility The United States Library of Medicine records the country’s National Institute of Health (NIH) – one of the world’s foremost medical research centres – as stating that fibroids are present in 5-10 per cent of infertile patients, and may be the sole cause of infertility in 1-2.4 per cent. Fibroids may cause infertility by obstructing the fallopian tubes and impairing gamete transport. But Nordica’s chairman said the relationship between fibroid and infertility is tricky because fibroid itself does not cause infertility except in two conditions – if it is blocking where the tube and uterus meet, and if it is staying where the baby is supposed to stay – most times that leads to miscarriage except if it’s very big that the implantation cannot take place. However, he noted that there is a relationship between fibroid and infertility; people who have fibroid tend to have infertility. Abayomi said: “Whether that is causal, we don’t know. It is an association and not a causal relationship,” he said. “One thing that is common is age; the older a woman becomes, the more likely that she will have fibroid if she does not have children. The older a woman becomes, the more the chances of infertility because the eggs also age. The majority of the women who say they have fibroid and infertility are not very young but they come to ascribe it to the fibroid. “You now see people who do not want surgery but have fibroid and they have not done any test and they think it is by treating the fibroid that their infertility will go away, that is not true because in that relationship, maybe it is the sperm of the husband that is not allowing the woman to have children for a long time and then she started growing fibroid. “If you have infertility and fibroid, we must investigate why you are not getting pregnant before we talk about treating your fibroid. We will investigate whether your tubes are open, and the sperm of the man”, he stated. “It is sad because some doctors who are not really qualified to do something in Nigeria and they just catch the woman and do the pamedomy and the woman does not conceive because they have not treated what the real problem is”.  Must a woman remove her fibroids so she can get pregnant?  No, the expert said, pregnancy and fibroid can co-exist but doctors need to assess the kind of fibroid. “They are three types of fibroids. There are Subserosal fibroids: Intramural fibroids and Submucosal Fibroids. The Submucosal fibroids are the ones that stay where the baby is supposed to stay and if there is any fibroid there, the doctors need to remove it. The doctor must use stereoscopic in removing the fibroid to avoid cutting it through. He must use stereoscopic so he will not leave too many scars. The best way is stereoscopic. “Unfortunately, it is getting more popular in Nigeria that no matter the size, it is better to remove it. Like the remaining two fibroids, you might not remove them. Intramural, unless it is 5 of 6cl, l don’t know the difference between the two, but you don’t remove them. It”, he said.  How can men improve their fertility health?  According to a Diet Consultant at Solmon Conception, Lagos, Mr. John Adigwe stated that consuming fiber-rich foods, healthy monounsaturated fats, and moderate amounts of lean protein is good.,  eating food that are rich in zinc, omega 3 and fatty acids, men’s diet should be a bit as balanced, varied, and nutritious as their partner’s,  and a healthy diet including plenty of fish, vegetables, fruits and whole grains gives more active and healthy sperm. Abayomi noted that men are always guilty of talking only about women, in the reproductive cycle. “We talk about the forgotten male because, you see, the man will have low sperm count; it is the woman that will be taking drugs to do IVF. Because really and truly, not much work has been done about male infertility because we wrongly believed before we knew more about genetics, that the only thing the sperms do is to fertilize the eggs, but now, we know better that the early development of the embryo actually is dependent on the integrity of the sperms. “So, now, there is a lot of work we started on the men. It is still controversial. There is still no agreement. Nordica Centre has done some publications on DNA fragmentation in men and how useful that is, we really don’t know but we have discovered that in some men, their sperm count is normal but when you do their PFI, it is abnormal. “What that means is that the DNA in that sperm head is demature and what that means is that you cannot have a good embryo and the fertilization rate might be low and if it’s not low, the rate of forming platoses will be low and so, there is work going on. But how do you treat that? There is still no agreement, we have looked at PHICS. Why is it that the eggs are allowed to go in when fertilization takes place? “When the man releases sperms, thousands of it go straight into the egg but one is able to get it, and then once that gets it, it has a protein that the egg has a receptor for. So, they took the protein and manufacture medium so we choose the sperm that is used for PHICS. Whether that makes a difference we don’t know. Some say it has reduced the incidence of miscarriage because we know that when there is a problem with the sperm, even when women get pregnant, there are often cases of miscarriage. “So, the only thing we have agreed about men is that lifestyle factor plays a major role in male infertility. So smoking cigarettes, weed, cocaine. Alcohol depresses sperms. Obesity reduces sperm count. Lifestyle and what you eat and taking some vitamins and resting is key for men to improve their sperm and reproductive organs. We are also looking at those who work in the petrochemical industry, painters, liquid petrol stations, all these can affect male fertility and your PFI should be normal as possible. We also know that some of these male factors are inherited.”  Regulating IVF practice: problematic bill  Addressing institutional gaps that exist in the practices of IVF in Nigeria, Abayomi noted that everyone agrees on the issue of regulation. “There is no doubt that we need to regulate the practice. Association for Fertility and Reproductive Health has started in Lagos. But no private association has the right to police it. It is only the government that can fill the gap,” he said. In 2016, a Bill for the regulation of In-Vitro Fertilization (IVF) practice in Nigeria was moved by Senator Barau Jibrin (APC: Kano). The bill seeks to prohibit certain practices in connection with IVF, establish an IVF Authority, regulate the IVF process and make provisions in relation to children born through IVF. But, according to Abayomi, the bill was a knee-jerk reaction. He said: “Where you hurriedly want to start regulating a group of people and they are not adequately represented, it is very unfair what you want to do. You cannot shape a man’s head when he is not there. It is also unfair, to do this. “Assisted reproduction is one of the areas that Nigeria can raise its head high internationally. There are people doing some funny things but you do not throw away from the baby with the bathwater and if they had succeeded, they would have thrown us back so many years.”  Nordica’s future  Abayomi’s vision for Nordica is for it to become an institution. He said: “I want Nordica to have branches across Africa especially the West Coast of Africa. It is something I look forward to. I think we have something we can share with an honest conversation. We have a lot that we can do and we will continue to build on it. ”  I wish we can be present in African countries, at least across the West African countries and beyond.”