A Nigerian, Dr Benjamin Irikefe, has propounded new ways of deploying Technical, Vocational Education and Training (TVET) to tackle global unemployment, and the world – through the International Vocational Educational and Training Association (IVETA) – is paying attention, writes ROBERT EGBE.  Three months after his book Handbook of Skill Acquisition Training and Empowerment Programmes received critical national acclaim and federal government endorsement, Dr Benjamin Irikefe’s fame continues to rise, this time on the global stage. Irikefe broke new grounds in Technical, Vocational Education and Training (TVET) at the International Vocational Educational and Training Association (IVETA) Europe Regional Conference on April 28, 2021, in the United Kingdom (UK). He propounded new ways of revolutionising skill acquisition and training, in a paper titled ‘Technical Vocational Education and Training (TVET): A time-honoured platform for combating violent crimes and volatile activities in Nigeria.’ IVETA is the International Vocational Education and Training Association, which was founded in 1984 by technical and vocational educators who wanted to facilitate the sharing of knowledge between developing and developed countries. The conference’s theme was ‘Sustainable Innovative Teaching + Learning’ and it was anchored in collaboration with IVETA and Warnborough University College Ireland/United Kingdom. TVET – the subject of Irikefe’s 2017 book – is deployed globally to equip people with essential skills to successfully transition from classrooms to workplaces. The reason for the conference’s interest in Irikefe’s theories are not farfetched. A May 2021 research by Technical and Vocational Education Marketing Market valued the technical and vocational education market at $12500billion in 2021 and projected it to reach $17700billion by 2025. In his paper, Irikefe unveiled what he described as six new time-tested Conceptual Models and Actualisation Frameworks.  They are: Quadrant of Skill Acquisition (QSA), TVET-Quadrant of Skill Acquisition Implementation Linkage Model, Conceptual Model Depicting the Relationship Between Holistic Skill Acquisition Training and Empowerment Programme and Traditional TVET and Conceptual Model Depicting the “New Normal TVET.” Others are Conceptual Model and Framework for the Infiltration and Surrounding Conventional Academic Curriculums to Generate Vocation Specific Enterprises/Trades and Conceptual Model Depicting the Positive Deliverables of the Generation, Teaching and Learning of Vocation Specific Trades (VSTs)/Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) Alongside and Within Conventional Academic Curriculums.  Need to re-engineer Traditional TVET  Irikefe explained that the current TVET which he referred to as “Traditional TVET” must be re-engineered, re-aligned and restructured to bring it in line with the dictates and realities of the times. “More so in the face of the disruptions occasioned by the COVID-19 pandemic, burgeoning unemployment, pervasive poverty, and widespread insecurity, there is a need to allow a NEW NORMAL TVET to become the norm. Otherwise, the world may be living in the past and sleepwalking into the future,” he said. Relying on science, Irikefe said following mathematical expositions of the nexus between TVET and the Quadrant of Skill Acquisition (QSA): Proof of Validity for proper mathematical representation of the nexus between TVET and the QSA, there is a need to label the constituent components or members individually. He labelled them thus: Holistic Skill Acquisition Training and Empowerment Programme = HOSAP, Vocation Specific Training = VST, Entrepreneurship Development Training = EDT, Soft and Life Skills Training = SLT, Post Training Empowerment and Support = PES and Traditional Technical, Vocational Education and Training = TVET. The Conference was agog when the Skill Acquisition Training and Empowerment expert went mathematical in his theory in line with the QSA, HOSAP which was shown in the equation thus: HOSAP = VST + EDT + SLT + PES, whereas: TVET = VST + EDT + SLT. According to him TVET as a traditional human capital development concept does not emphasise Post Training Empowerment and Support (PES). He said: “It is not a matter of equals but, that of approximation. Such that, TVET ˜ VST + EDT + SLT + PES. This is to say that TVET is not equal to HOSAP. Such that, HOSAP ? TVET.  “If TVET is to be pigeonholed or aligned with the QSA, then it can be expanded or equal to HOSAP. In essence, HOSAP is a superset; rather more encompassing or greater than the Traditional TVET. Such that HOSAP ? TVET. Where: HOSAP > TVET or TVET < HOSAP.” With his theory, Irikefe thus became the first person to describe the “New Normal TVET”, as a workable human capital development concept. The author, in his presentation, also emphasised that Post Training Empowerment and Support must be part and parcel of any Skill Acquisition Training and Empowerment Programme to be executed or being executed, for it to be holistic and sustainable. “A proper Post-Training Support will help the sponsors or promoters of any Skill Acquisition Training and Empowerment Programme track the beneficiaries after they exit their trainings…”, he added. The Organisers of IVETA Europe Regional Conference showcased Irikefe’s Handbook to conference participants, noting its applicability and relevance to the general body knowledge of TVET. In December 2020 the Handbook was approved by the Federal Government through the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) for use by facilitators and trainees of Skill Acquisitions Training Programmes, tertiary Institutions, military & security agencies and general readership.  How TVT can help curb crime  In his presentation, Irikefe drew a link between the general lack of vocational/practical job skills amongst others and the proliferation of violent crimes and volatile activities across Nigeria. He prescribed short-term vocational training, vocation-specific starter packs and properly conducted Post-Training Support as a way to curb “unwholesome activities in Nigeria through job creation and employment generation.” Irikefe also posited that his “New Normal TVET” template “will foster increased options of employment for the citizenry and for them to have multiple streams of income considering the generally high cost of living.” He further recommended that vocational and technical education must be taught alongside and within conventional academic curriculums “so that graduates can get what to eke out living with, after graduation.” The six Conceptual Models and Actualisation Frameworks were considered to be novel contributions to the body of knowledge of TVET in general.