The Consolidated Insurance Bill 2020 being reviewed at the National Assembly will align with global best practice and promote the business of insurance in the country, the Chairman, Nigeria Insurers Association (NIA), Mr. Ganiyu Musa has said. He described the review as a welcome development to  practitioners as the insurance legislation is outdated and has made it impossible to do business. Musa, who spoke at a briefing, stated that they had been working with the National Assembly to modernise the insurance legislation. He said they were also working  with the regulator, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), to ensure that the final version of the law would respond to the legislative environment of the 21st Century. He said: “We are working with NAICOM and because we have had a number of engagements with the regulator, we have come to understand that the constraint they have is the law which is what we are now working to deal with the bottleneck. “The Bill has gone through the second reading and we have had a public hearing on it. Other stakeholders also made their presentations. Now they are going through the process of reconciling all the positions and hopefully, it will get to the floor of the National Assembly. He further said the association has been doing some house cleaning by beaming its searchlight on member insurance companies who have failed to pay genuine claims to the insureds. He said they have focused a lot of attention on discipline among their members . “We have to be very harsh as it were now. We have an active committee on discipline and conflict resolution. The committee has been strengthened and empowered. We now go beyond the usual refrain or chastisement to taking active steps to discipline erring members. “As we speak, we have a few of our members that have been suspended and some are about to be expelled. In a few weeks when the whole processes is completed, we will release the names of the erring companies to the public. “We believe it is very important to send the message to our members, that when you carry the NIA badge, it should count for something.There is no amount of marketing that you can do, if the experience of the insuring public is bad, then we can not make progress in the insurance industry. We believe that after cleansing ourself of bad image, we can go back to the public to say all the good things that insurance stands for,” he added.