 One of my favourite artistes is a Jamaican group called the Mighty Maytones. And one of the songs that endeared me to them is the title song of the album called Madness. In it they sang that there is too much madness over the land. They noted that madness had taken control of the youths’ brains, wondering if it was due to too much drinking or too much smoking. Being Jamaicans, it is unlikely that the vocal duo had Nigeria in mind when they released the popular tune in 1976. But more than four and a half decades after the song was released, it has become a prophetic rendition that encapsulates the current situation in the largest country of black people. Concerned Nigerians thought the country had seen the worst when the deadly Boko Haram terrorists launched their bloody campaign in the Northeast in 2009, killing, maiming and subjecting innocent Nigerians in that part of the country and even the Federal Capital Territory to untold horror in the name of religion. Since then, other groups ranging from bandits to secessionists and other forms of militias have risen in different parts of the country. The situation now is such that our homes are not safe because dare-devil robbers or kidnappers can invade them at any time. We cannot run to the police station because policemen themselves can no longer guarantee their own safety at the hands of secessionist agitators and hoodlums masquerading as protesters. And running into the bush is not an option because you may be walking straight into the hands of heartless kidnappers who have turned the bush into their permanent abode. South African poet, Oswald Mbuyiseni, might not have Nigeria in mind when he wrote his famous poem, Nightfall in Soweto. Yet the poem would seem to capture the current mood in Nigeria now better than it did the situation in his country when he composed it many decades ago.  ”Where is my refuge? Where I’m I safe? Not in matchbox house where I barricade myself against nightfall,” he wrote.  Somehow, we all seem to have lost our sense of humanity, practically co-habiting in a zoo where, like the late Reggae music sensation, Bob Marley, observed in one of his captivating songs, only the fittest of the fittest shall survive. A scene I witnessed as I journeyed through Ife-Ibadan Expressway in January last year reminded me of how deeply our sense of humanity has fallen beneath the standard of animals. At the section of the expressway around Ikoyi-Ile a herd of cows were crossing the road when one of the animals suddenly realised that it had left its baby behind. The mother cow immediately turned back and headed in the direction of her baby, resisting the efforts made by the herdsmen to stop it from going back. In the end, it was the herdsmen that bowed to the resolute mother cow as she crossed the expressway the second time to take her baby. As I pondered over the incident and wondered how an animal could exhibit such passion for its offspring, I realised that we were at the junction of Ikoyi-Ile, the Osun community where a student of Lagos State University (LASU) allegedly took his girlfriend from the same school to a ‘pastor’ for money rituals. They gruesomely killed the female student and with her heart, the pastor made a pepper soup which the so called lover and his mother devoured with an assurance from the pastor that by doing so, they would never be poor again. A few years ago, there was the story of a herbalist and his accomplice in a part of Lagos, who smashed the head of a housewife with a pestle, made a meal of her intestines and washed it down with spirit. One of the high points of the recent #EndSARS protests was the killing, in Lagos, of a policeman by so called protesters who shared the body parts among themselves. For most of last week, the news media were awash with the story of Iniubong Umoren, an innocent female job seeker in Akwa Ibom State who was allegedly lured by a stone-hearted youth to a hotel with a promise that she would be offered a job, only for her host to murder her. At the base of the bestial society that has evolved in recent years is lack of respect for the rule of law by both the government and the governed. The primordial acts that have turned our country into a human zoo are impracticable in societies that are guided by law. The earlier we imbibe the culture of allowing the law to take its course where and when necessary, the better for us all.