 The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) has urged the Federal Government, the National Assembly and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to halt the electoral flaws, systemic weaknesses and structural defects in the nation’s electoral processes. Its Lagos State Chairman, Deji Doherty, spoke at a town hall meeting, following the call by well-meaning Nigerians to the president to assent the 2020 Electoral Amendment Bill. He said the bill would engender a “generally acceptable free and fair elections”. Doherty said many people have been victims of these anomalies in the electoral system. He said: “There are so many electoral flaws, systemic\weaknesses, structural defects and loopholes in our electoral system, which have caused more damage during and after elections. But, we must engage the Federal Government, National Assembly and INEC to do the right things now. “Any system or structure that favours a microcosm of people against the well-being and welfare of the masses must not be acceptable and a new pro-people structure, system, laws and policies should be instituted.” Doherty said the worst mistake people could make was to choose the wrong persons to occupy the seats of power and decide their fate. He noted that prior to 2015, Nigerians were not gnashing their teeth thus bad, but now, the level of poverty in the land has reached a crescendo.  He added: “It is good for people to make choices, then compare and contrast and make wiser decisions as it’s obvious today in the country. Nigerians have tested the PDP regime and this administration, now they can say without mincing words the difference between light and darkness.” The party chairman said the future of young people is not only bleak, but hopeless, given the glaring hostile socio-economic environment where businesses and corporate organisations are regrettably winding down. The chairman urged the Federal Government, the National Assembly and the INEC to fix every loophole in the electoral system to avoid a damage to democracy. He decried the level of socio-economic unrest in the country and the influx of young people into Lagos State, adding: “Our Northern governors must fix their region and make it habitable for people to live comfortably and do their businesses. Lagos is getting too much populated, making life miserable, especially the traffic congestion and other structural defects. Doherty added: “We are coming to give a better life to Lagosians and Nigeria at large as we are sure Nigerians would not make another terrible mistake in the coming elections. This time, PDP is coming with healing balm and we shall fix the power, health, education, social infrastructure and other critical sectors of the economy. Nigerians shall see better days again.” He cautioned party members against detractors as 2023 beckons, urging women in the party to get ready to maximise opportunities for elective positions at any level of governance. Doherty said: “Our members must beware of hawks from other parties and resist any form of inducement and facade emanating from deceivers. I believe Nigerians would not be cowed again by duplicitous rhetorics from lairs. Nevertheless, Nigerians must see better days again, but the asses must not retreat from doing their bids wisely this time.”