There are concerns about the rise in suicide cases among students of tertiary institutions across the country. Experts have called on students to pay proper attention to their mental health, urging institutions to engage in regular sensitisation on same, report ZAINAB AHMAD (BUK), GLORY THOMAS (OGITECH), SAMUEL AGBELUSI, PETER EMMANUEL and BOLU ADEDOKUN (AAUA).   Gaining admission into the university brings joy and relief to a candidate after a long wait. But when such candidate decides to terminate his/her life in school as a result of inexplicable reasons, it is gloom and wasted efforts. Recently, Emmanuel Adedeji, a 200-level student of Management and Accounting of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife,  committed suicide. The deceased was said to have left a suicide note after he took a poisonous substance which led to his death. Nobody knew why he took his life. Prior to that, Daniel Mba, a 300-Level student of Biochemistry, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN) jumped from the third floor of a storey building to end his  life, after he was allegedly caught cheating during an examination. Also, in March, a  200-Level student of the Department of History and Diplomacy at the Federal University, Otuoke (FUO), Bayelsa State, Arikekpar Lucky,  allegedly committed suicide to escape being tagged  a failure in academics by his family.  Why  suicide  is on the rise among undergraduates Students have highlighted different reasons  for the high rate of suicide among undergraduates across the country. According to them, frustration, unnecessary pressure, hopelessness, financial constraints and academic failure, among others, are reasons for suicide. For Clement Adoyi Pius,  a final year  Mass Communication student of  Bayero University  Kano, suicide among undergraduates has  become alarming as a result of frustration linked to economic hardship. He said students who could not cope financially in school  could resort to suicide. Aso Sirleem, a student of  IBB University, Lapai, Niger State, said:  “Students commit suicide in most, if not all cases, because of acute depression.  This  might be from a lecturer’s demand for sex. It could be from torment by fellow students (cultists) or being in need of something you cannot afford. It could also be from inability to score an expected grade or by getting involved in a toxic relationship.” Yusha’u Abdullahi, a 300-Level student of Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, said when attention is not paid to mental health, it could result in suicide. He said: “There are issues that could lead students to commit suicide if care is not taken.  Carry overs accompanied with ridicule from  family, mental disorder, stressful school life and so on are factors. Also, when a student  commits  suicide in the presence of his colleagues, it has a psychological effect on them.” Adeyeye Tosin, a  200-Level Mass Communication student  of Osun State University, said lack of sound mind to withstand pressure in school could result in a student taking his life. Tosin Adebayo, a final year student at  the Department of Computer Science, Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, said  life was difficult in the country.  He lamented that studying in a  nation like ours  was stressful and demanding on its own.  He blamed high rate of undergraduate suicide on inadequate mental health awareness in the country. Another student, Tinuke Ayoola,  said: “Students  commit suicide because they  don’t believe  in themselves. Some give up easily, they do not  want to fail and relearn;  they do not want to try again. They do not think about the second step to achieve what they want. When they are unable to achieve what they want, they think that is the end of life. And they also tend to compete with people who are higher in rank than them, either in academics, riches or any kind of achievement. They should accept that God created us differently. Some are good, some are average and some are at the lowest. They should be content without being complacent. However, thoughts of suicide should not be entertained.” Simeon Oluwagbemiga Sonayon, a Sociology student of Lagos State University (LASU), said: ”The rate at which students commit suicide nowadays was alarming. Sadly, depressed individuals are left without getting the needed help. That leads to continuous suicidal thoughts. When the  thoughts get too much  for them to handle,  they act on them. “Nevertheless, suicide is not a way out. It is hard to understand the motive behind a leader of tomorrow taking his/her own life. According to research, the highest number of students who commit suicide are the ones with low self-esteem. They find it difficult to deal with  mistakes, failures and disappointments. “Furthermore, a student with low self-esteem, and who has not lived up to expectations academically, might feel like there is  no need to live. Most students put in a great deal of efforts in their respective courses to have excellent grades and compete in the labour market. But not meeting  the target is a ‘downfall’ to some of them. Just like in the case of a 300-Level student in a varsity who committed suicide recently because he was caught and penalised for  examination malpractice. “Brilliant students with no financial support also resort to suicide because of hopelessness. A student in Ogun State  drank a poisonous chemical called ‘Sniper’ because his family could not finance his education after he did UTME twice in two years.” Olaitan Oluwaseyi, an ND 2 student of  Ogun State Institute of Technology (OGITECH), Igbesa, blamed the COVID-19 pandemic for contributing to depression on the part of students. ”Depression leads to suicidal thoughts or attempt; it can be as a result of a person facing a bad phase in life. The  Coronavirus pandemic is an example. Many students went into depression when academic activities and  social activities or gatherings were  suspended.  Students started receiving lectures online when they ought to be on campus physically. It was tiring for some. Nevertheless, suicide is not an option, no matter what one is facing in life,” she said. Afolabi Afeez Olamilekan, a 200–Level student of Guidance and Counselling, noted that mental health must be prioritised and properly addressed. He wondered why  a student would commit suicide. He urged depressed students to contact a counsellor or psychologist. Mustapha Balogun, a 300-Level  student, said: “One of the reasons  suicide is on the rise among students is that most of them do not really understand  how the country’s  universities operate. Imagine a student who  has not experienced failure before, perhaps he was always having  As throughout his primary and seconday school days; he was always leading in school before his admission into the higher institution. But when he starts experiencing failure, he tends to think in a shallow way and opts for suicide.” For Babayemi Omoniyi, an HND 2  Business Administration student of  Osun State Polytechnic, Iree, Osun State, stress, unhealthy competition, oppression, forced career choice, inferiority complex, among others, could lead to suicide. “Stress is a major factor. When students are experiencing too much stress, this can make them think of committing suicide. Other factors that can lead to suicide are  unhealthy competition, oppression, failure in examination, forced career choice, inferiority complex and so on.” A  student who preferred to be anonymous said: “Overthinking is the main cause of suicide among students. Then, mental instability, pressure while obtaining knowledge and depression. Thus, most of them think suicide is the best way to escape hardship.” Awote Faith Folayemi, student of Linguistics, Federal University of Technology, Oye-Ekiti, said: “Some students commit suicide due to poor results, oppression and fear. For instance, a 300-Level FUNNAB  student had a carry-over in a certain course because the  lecturer in charge made advances at her, but she refused. The  lecturer kept  failing her because she turned him down. It began when she was in 200-Level. She confided in her roommate alone. Eventually, she acceded to the lecturer’s demands and got pregnant. Unfortunately, he didn’t claim responsibility for the pregnancy. Out of fear and because of her parents, she took a poisonous substance and ended her life.” Ray Simon, a graduate of Benue State University, said: “Suicide could be caused as a result of disappointment in yourself. There are times you set goals for yourself like meeting up with a particular CGPA but you got carried away by external or internal distractions. “Also disappointment from a partner in a romantic relationship could have terrible impact and lead some youths to suicidal thoughts.”  Expert speaks Dr. Oluwafisayo Adebimpe, a Clinical Psychologist at Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Oyo State, said the best approach to managing suicide is the inclusion of mental health education in all stages of our educational sector: primary, secondary and tertiary. She advised that mental disorder should be seen as a health problem but not a spiritual one as believed by many. She said  trained  mental health experts such as psychologists, psychiatrists and others should be engaged in schools. Dr. Adebimpe stressed the need for sensitisation through relevant and appropriate sector for society at large to have an insight on the dangers of suicide. “Suicide is one of the major causes of death among young adults. It’s quite overwhelming because most people failed to understand that it’s one of the core symptoms of depression which is a mental health disorder. Suicidal ideation and suicidal intent are encountered by people who have underlying psychopathology. This can be explained when an individual experiencing depressive disorders have a low mood, loss of interest in pleasurable activities, crying spells, social withdrawal, loss or increase in appetite, and so on. “People with underlying depression have automatic negative assumption about events around them. Some are undergoing treatment in the mental health which generally are unknown to others because of stigmatisation. Majorly, they are psychotic, hearing unseen voices which might prompt them through command of ending it all. ”However, the thought processes of such individual must be monitored. The assessment of suicide risk often involves an evaluation of the presence, severity, and duration of suicidal thoughts as part of a mental health evaluation. “Thus, avoid incessant report  of suicide cases, mental disorder/illness as a major health problem must be prioritised. ‘’Early intervention must be encouraged by visiting mental health facilities. A stitch in time saves nine,” she said.