Nigerians desirous of reaping bountifully from their investment need to explore opportunities in real estate financing, experts have said. Speaking at the public unveiling of grand opening of Assetrise headquarters and Flapcoop, in Magodo, the Group Managing Director of Assetrise (AR) Limited noted that real estate guarantees good returns on investment. According to him, after carrying out a thorough feasibility study, he discovered that one asset that hardly suffers from the bad investment is real estate and is almost inflation proof. “Assets Rise Limited is licensed as a real estate. But while we started the journey, we discovered the paucity of housing and we decided to come up with asset investment by also involving the investors using crowd funding. So Flap Cooperative is just like initiative.” Pressed further, he said, “We launched the FlapCoop, a cooperative society platform initiative to assist individuals own, invest and earn from real estate, agricultural and other strategic assets investments. The importance of funding and savings and to be a pioneer in terms of asset ownership and asset investment is to create opportunities and jobs and also involve the people through crowdfunding. So this is simply our crowd-funding initiative and what we do is to invest our crowd funds into real estate, agriculture, and FinTech (financial technology).” “Lending credence to the wealth of the developed nations and how easy life can be for every human in accomplishing basic needs and even greater goals with a flexible system that support the finance of all from education, technology, investment, housing, and more we are motivated to create a formidable and accountable system that can make this work in Nigeria and Africa,” he said. The new initiative licensed by the Lagos State Ministry of commerce, industry and cooperatives and the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) was created to make luxuries and assets affordable to Nigerians. “Agroland is part of our agric initiative to assist with farming. The bought land for agricultural purpose and we pay rent to the owners of the land. We have 76 hectares. We have harvested palm oil, over 15, 000 metric tonnes. Our prospective investors can get as high 30 per cent returns on their investment with us.” Speaking earlier, Chairman of the Group, Prof. Rotimi Olatunji, said the company is peopled by the experts with high pedigree who have succeeded in their respective fields including accounting, engineering and real estate financing. “The MD has done a lot of groundbreaking activities that assures us that he is committed to his dream and that’s why we have agreed to come on board with him at least, to enhance his capabilities to achieving his desired goal. Talking about corporate governance, people like us are on board because we need to ensure corporate governance. With the pedigree of board member and the integrity that we cherish, we will not doing anything that would soil our names. It is a beacon to the youths of his own generation to look at what they can do to benefit the country as and when due,” he stressed. 