Veteran Nollywood actor, writer and producer Richard Eyimofe Evans Mofe-Damijo, popularly known as RMD has taken the step to fulfill on of his life’s desires as he approaches 60. The ever-green actor took to his social media pages to reveal to his fans that he had always wanted to rock a pair of earrings especially if you find the right one that fits.  He went further to reveal he would have done it while he was clocking 50 however, he was the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism in Delta State at the time and wasn’t sure how the people of the state would perceive the idea. RMD noted that 10 years later as he approaches 60, the desire is still very strong to wear earrings and has decided to fulfill the long-standing desire. He jokingly added he has grown wings and if anyone had an issue with him wearing a pair of earrings, the fellow knows where to find him, in his house. Taking to his social media pages, the former commissioner shared several photos of himself rocking two different pairs of earrings and captioned post: “I’ve always wanted to wear an earring for some time now. I personally think they are so cool if you find the right one. “When I was turning 50 I had threatened to wear one but I wasn’t too sure how the people of Delta state would feel about an earring wearing commissioner. “10 years later I still want to wear it. I will. I will be 60 in a few weeks, and I have grown wings. I’m in my house if you have a problem you know where to find me” accompanied with an emoji of the tongue being stuck out. Meanwhile, several celebrities and fans alike have taken to the comment section of the actor to leave their opinions on the subject manner. One obvious thing about their opinions is that they all support RMD on living life on his own terms and fulfilling whatever heart desire he so deems fit. Veteran actress Genevieve Nnaji wrote: “It’s the wings @60 for me.” Chief Dele Momodu wrote: “It’s a free world o jare my own RMD Baba…” Actress Uche Jumbo said: “Looks good on you Bros, wear it! Nothing go happen.” Rapper Falz stated: “Baba wear am abeg no mind them.” Actress Rita Dominic tweeted: “looks cool.” Wife of Super Eagles star, Angel Eguavoen wrote: “They look really good on you.” scarce_moon said: “Zaddy anything you do is allowed. It fits you.” victorovie45 state: “Senior bros we no mind…..do your thing we like am.” mojo.realestate tweeted: “Do you, the world will adjust.” tashajosephalari wrote: “It looks good on you jor, flex abeg. You don’t owe anyone anything. ubebeanne said: “Regardless, we still proud of you. Wearing earring is not harmful to anyone and it makes you happy so go ahead.” obodo.oyinbo.tv stated: “The people of Delta and indeed the whole Naija will adjust noni.”