 Nigerians, not least the regulator – the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) – ought to be alarmed at the latest findings on the scale of malfeasance in the financial services sector by no less a body than the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, (CIBN). According to the professional body in its 2020 report, a total of 67 petitions were received by it from depositors against banks in 2020, with claims amounting to N11.7bn. To quote the relevant part of the report: “The ethics and professional division received a total of 67 petitions/cases with petitioners’ claims amounting to about N11.76bn. Fifty-three cases were fully resolved with the total amount of N1.7bn refunded to the petitioners.” No doubt, the CIBN deserves commendation, both for its engagement in the resolution of the petitions and also making the report public, although the report was silent on whether additional sanctions were meted aside restituting the claimants. That the body actually received a mere 67 complaints set against a rather hefty claim of nearly N12 billion is certainly not surprising; these are elite, high net-worth complainants who in addition to their clout, have the necessary networks to get justice. How many Nigerians are even aware that a body like the CIBN not only exists but that it could also avail them of a platform to get restitution, just as it seems highly unlikely that the body would even assume the duties best reserved for the regulators or the courts. Truth however is that the 67 cases do not come even close to being a tip of the iceberg that the industrial-scale infractions now constitute. Individuals’ accounts, those of micro, small and medium scale enterprises, (MSMSEs) and even corporates; none is exempted from banks’ arbitrary charges. Sometimes taken in bits and trickles, the charges cumulatively run into billions – funds that neither qualify as part of the banks’ operating surplus nor could be legitimately passed off as withholding charges. The charges, more often than not, are left to pass – unaddressed – simply because the mechanisms for their resolution are either too preponderantly tilted in favour of the institutions involved or rather too slow and inflexible to avail the exasperated depositor to take advantage of. There are of course exemptions where the cheated customer has been known to go the extra mile to cause an independent audit at great personal expense. One notable example is Lagos State government which in 2019 got a consortium of forensic audit firms to undertake a back-duty audit on bank charges on its behalf in an exercise that yielded a whopping N1.2 billion in the government’s favour. But then, such cases are not only far too few, but are indeed rare. That such malfeasances have not only persisted but have come to permeate the banking sector is not only unfortunate, it casts the regulator as not only weak-kneed but ineffectual. Indeed, if Nigerians are any aware of CBN’s express provisions on complaints and the requirement for timely resolution, they are even more familiar with serial breaches than compliance. As it is, the regulator, perhaps more than ever, needs to act fast, not just to protect the innocent bank depositor but to salvage the integrity of the financial services sector that is being undermined by the pervasive unethical practices. For, while it seems impracticable to suggest a parallel audit of the individual banks by the apex bank, the least it could do is to undertake an integrity test on their processes to ensure compliance with extant rules and regulations. Another important step will be for the apex bank to tighten its examination systems to ensure that infractions are not only reduced to the barest minimum but that such, when established, are duly penalised.