Movement of farmers and herdsmen from Lake Chad to greener pastures will increase clashes between them in the North, ex-Managing Director of Gas Aggregation Company Morgan Okwoche has warned. Okwoche noted that herders would compete for land with host communities, resulting in clashes. He spoke in a paper at the Nigeria Humanitarian Action (NIHA) Programme Year Opening Conference (PROYOC) in Abuja. He called for action on Lake Chad to save the livelihoods of over 30 million people living around the lake. Okwoche said the lake was Africa’s largest water reservoir in the Sahel region, covering 26,000 square kilometres, but added regrettably, it had shrunk to about 1,300 square kilometres. According to him, settlements, which used to be by the lakeside, were now 20 kilometres from its edge. Okwoche said the drying lake had increased poverty in the region, leading to restiveness among inhabitants and worsening security challenges. He said: “Notwithstanding the above severe conditions, Lake Chad is economically important, providing water to more than 30 million people with a huge and untapped socio-economic potential in agricultural lands; fishery and pastoral potential; groundwater; mining resources; hydrocarbons, tourism, among others, and must be saved from extinction. “About 30 million people in Nigeria, Niger, Chad & Cameroon previously depended on the lake for everything. The negative impact of the drying lake can be seen in increasing poverty in the region; escalating discontent and restiveness; fragile ecosystem … “The effect of the above has severe consequences on livelihood … Population growth, which is prevalent throughout Africa, means more people will be dependent on the disappearing water and forest resources, movement of farmers and herdsmen to areas of greener pastures (Plateau, Benue, Nassarawa & Others) becomes inevitable for survival. “The cattle herders will compete for land resources with host communities, resulting in constant clashes leading to avoidable deaths. This scenario is likely to continue far into the future unless a solution is urgently found now, which calls for immediate action to save the Lake.” He said countries bordering the lake  – Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon and Niger must look for alternative sources of water … “It is important to note that unless there is adequate rainfall through which water bodies are naturally recharged (Lake Chad), there must be a deliberate mechanism to harvest rainwater/freshwater within the catchment area on a large-scale basis, or inter-basin water transfer mechanism as being proposed, to be able to recharge the lake.’’ “There is need therefore to look at other options of water transfer scheme outside the Congo Basin, while the above fears are being addressed. The three sources of fresh water to be considered in the water-transfer scheme include: “Yearly flooding is also experienced from both rivers Niger and Benue respectively, resulting in the flooding of the coastal cities and communities in the states of Kogi, Imo, Anambra, Delta, Bayelsa and a host of others. The mechanism to channel this flood water to lake Chad will be a welcome relief from the yearly agony of the flooding. “There have been water releases from both Kanji and Shiroro Dams resulting in massive flooding with attendant and unimaginable consequences to lives and properties,” he said. Chief Humanitarian and Covener of the conference, Mr Kletsaint Akor said the organisation would continue to collaborate and partner in implementing humanitarian initiatives by state and non-state actors. Akor said the conference provides open access prospects to state and non-state actors in the humanitarian sector to share values through Interaction, networking, peer learning and presentations