 The Lagos State University (LASU) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Triune Biblical University (TBU), United States global extension to teach students in Nigeria General Nigerian Studies (GNS) courses. The signing of the MoU took place last Thursday at the Vice Chancellor’s conference room, Babatunde Raji Fashola Senate building, LASU campus. It was signed by the Acting Vice Chancellor, LASU, Prof. Oyindamola Oke and the TBU African representative and director of studies, Dr. Maurice Azubuike Odote. The Director, Centre for General Nigerian Studies, LASU, Prof. Biodun Akinpelu, said the COVID-19 pandemic, had brought the world closer to reality – beyond the Global Village concept. He said it had given a more realistic view of the concept of classroom without walls.   “Today, we are gathered to celebrate an educational handshake between Countries. The Triune Biblical University Global Extension USA that has made its presence felt in a number of States in America, Europe and some Countries in Africa has extended its instructional content interest to Nigeria through the Lagos State University, LASU, and specifically the Centre for General Nigerian Studies of the University. This is a priority that is indeed well placed, as LASU has proven itself over the years as a leading university, not only in Nigeria, but in Africa. Our Human Capital and Teaching-Learning infrastructure stand us out in the competitive Knowledge Industry,” he said. Also speaking, Dr. Odote said TBU covers a lot of countries especially in Africa – with over 12 countries including Benin Republic, Togo, South Africa, Uganda, and Kenya among others.  He said it sees the need to associate with LASU given it has the requisite facilities. “We are very happy today that we have succeeded to achieving that goal. We believe that with this success we are going to reach out to the entire Africa especially here in Nigeria because our goal has been to see that we provide mass education to the publics of Nigeria – that is the citizens precisely,” he said. 