 No fewer than 11 members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Eastern Security Network (ESN) have been killed by a joint team of security, operatives including the Nigerian Army, Air Force and the Police. The secessionists were killed during a gun battle with operatives who resisted their attempt to attack a Police Station in Orlu, Imo State. The Director Army Public Relations, Brig-Gen. Mohammed Yerima, disclosed in a statement that, “a gang of IPOB/ESN terrorists mounted in vehicles on Thursday, 6 May 2021, stormed Orlu town with intention to attack the compound housing the Area Command and Police Station in Orlu LGA of Imo State. “The attackers were resisted by vigilant police personnel at the Area Command and were completely obliterated when a reinforcement team of the Nigerian Army and Nigerian Air Force arrived the scene.” According to the statement, “the assailants who have been on the radar of the Joint Technical Intelligence Team were said to have come from a Forest Camp in Ideato North LGA of Imo State from where they mobilised and planned the failed attack. “Following the encounter, eleven IPOB/ESN terrorists were neutralised while four AK47, one G3 and one Pump Action Rifles as well as a Berretta Pistol, charms and assorted ammunition were recovered. “All the seven operational vehicles used for the attack were demobilised and as such the remaining terrorists escaped on foot with fatal injuries. “There were no casualties on the side of the security forces. “Law abiding citizens in the area are advised to look out for strange persons with gunshot injuries and report same to the nearest security agency for the safety of their communities.  “The Nigerian Army remains committed to a united Nigeria that is safe for all law abiding citizens and will continue to support the police in maintaining internal security. “The general public is once again enjoined to support the security forces with useful and timely information that will help eliminate the security threats in their communities”. IPOB leader, Nnamdi Kanu, yesterday alleged plot by Nigeria security agencies to eliminate prominent men and women, politicians and stakeholders in Biafraland and blame it on IPOB and the Eastern Security Network (ESN). Kanu, who spoke through the IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, cautioned every politician in Biafraland to be wary of those officers assigned to them as police aides or army guards. He said: “ESN, IPOB has no plan to kill our own in Biafraland because we’re going to get Biafra together. It profits us nothing to kill our own despite the treachery by some of them. “Our people must be careful because Fulani terrorists in Nigeria army and police uniforms are working tirelessly to ensure that Biafra businessmen, women and politicians are killed in order to pitch Biafrans against themselves and ultimately take undue advantage of the confusion to keep us in bondage.” According to him, “Nigerian security agencies have instructed their officers attached to the politicians to start gradual elimination of Biafrans who they were assigned to protect. But we will resist this wicked plot.” He also alleged that the security operatives had arrested and abducted innocent Biafrans suspected to be members of IPOB or operatives of ESN security outfit. “They have arrested more than 68 innocent citizens and detained them at the State CID Awka, Anambra State. “Unknown gunmen are doing their own attacks but Nigeria DSS has rather decided to blame ESN operatives and IPOB members instead of investigating to unravel the perpetrators. The incessant arrest and secret abductions of suspected IPOB members at Izombe, Agwa and other parts of Oguta and Ohaji Egbema cannot stop us from pursuing this freedom. Just yesterday, they secretly abducted Obinna Nwuzi, the son of the man whose wife Olivia Nwuzi was abducted and detained in anti kidnapping station at Owerri, Imo State. “The boy just returned from Ebonyi State University to see his family but wicked Nigeria security personnel arrested him.