The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) yesterday said it arrested 550 persons in Lagos for computer-related fraud in the first quarter of 2021. Head of the EFCC Lagos Zonal Office Ghali Mohammed Ahmed, said 380 of the suspects confessed when confronted with the evidence of  their crimes. Ahmed lamented that university graduates, including lecturers, civil servants and military personnel on study leave, constituted a majority of the group. In Kwara, head of the Ilorin zonal office Usman Muktar lamented what he called the involvement of bank officials in most money paundering cases in the country. Muktar was speaking at a meeting with compliance officers of various banks in Ilorin, the state capital. Ahmed spoke in Lagos at the ‘Convergence of nongovernmental organisations (NGOs), civil society organisations (CSOs) and Media on how to rout cybercrime among the youth.’ Ahmed, in a no-holds-barred session, noted that in recent times, computer-related frauds, had “taken a dangerous dimension with attendant consequences, just as the perpetrators have also become more daring.” In Delta, a  suspected Yahoo boy was yesterday arrested by police at Oleh, headquarters of Isoko South local government area, Delta state for allegedly killing his twin brother. It was learnt that the suspect was found with a dog and the decomposing body of his late twin brother in their apartment at Old Olomoro Road on Monday after neighbours perceived a strange smell coming from the flat. A source who pleaded anonymity said, “The house was locked for some days and after sometime, the people living in the compound began to perceive a smell that attracted flies coming from the apartment. “The neighbors then alerted the police at the Oleh divisional headquarters on their observation. The door was forced open and they found the boy sitting close to the decomposing bother of his twin brother. A dog was also found in the house,” The source said the corpse of the deceased had been deposited in a mortuary in the area while the suspect and his dog were arrested by the police. Confirming the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer, PRO, of the state command, Mr. Bright Edafe, said the police had commenced investigation into the matter. He however added that “For now, there is no evidence that it was for ritual purpose. When they broke into the house, they saw the decomposing body and the twin brother.”