On October 20, last year, the Senate confirmed the nomination of Mrs. Aisha Dahir-Umar as the Director-General, National Pension Commission (PenCom). In this interview with Omobola Tolu-Kusimo, Mrs Dahir-Umar explains why the commission increased shareholders’ fund, and what is slowing the Data Capture Exercise (DRE), among others.  Why the increase in PFA’s shareholders fund? The upward review of the minimum regulatory capital from N1 billion to N5 billion for Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) became expedient as the value of pension assets under management and custody had grown exponentially by 244 per cent; from N3 trillion in 2012 when the previous recapitalisation was done, to N12.29 trillion as at December 31, 2020. In addition, the total number of contributors had increased to 9.33 million as at  December 31, 2020. The sustained growth in assets implies greater fiduciary responsibilities and requires more operational capacity by the PFAs.Consequently, increased capital injection into the PFAs became necessary to maintain service standards and growth potentials of the pension industry. The increase in the shareholders’ fund will enable the PFAs to employ and retain skilled staff and ensure the adequacy of resources to fund operational requirements like Information Communication Technology (ICT) infrastructure, branch office expansion and other activities. In addition, the new minimum capital requirement would enable the PFAs absorb potential operational and investment risks as well as improve their business processes. What is the update on the increase in the PFA’s shareholders’ fund? The new minimum regulatory capital for PFA was approved by the Board of the commission in April 2021 and PFAs have been given a 12-month transition period to meet up with the new capital of N5 billion. The Commission is aware that the pension operators are evaluating the various options open to them to attain the new capital requirement.The commission is monitoring the process closely and whichever option a PFA chooses, will be subjected to the commission’s approval processes. How would recapitalisation affect the PFCs? The operations of the Pension Fund Custodians (PFCs) are not affected by the recapitalisation of the PFAs.The PFCs are wholly owned by big licensed financial institutions, and are adequately capitalised. Give a review of the opening of the Retirement Savings Account (RSA) transfer window. The launching of the RSA Transfer window (RTS) on November 16, 2020 heralded the full implementation of one of the cardinal features of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), the portability of RSAs. By this development, RSA holders have been empowered to move their RSAs from their PFAs to others of their choice, whenever they desire to do so. The RTS is a fully automated, efficient and transparent process that has pre-defined timelines. It ensures hassle-free movement of RSAs across PFAs. The transfer of RSAs involves movement of pension assets between PFAs and the entire process attracts the full weight of the commission’s regulatory surveillance. The fact that the process has been completely free has also given RSA holders an added advantage.The opening of the transfer window, as it is popularly referred to, has been embraced by a large number of RSA holders in their quest for better service delivery and returns on investment from PFAs. The commission has ensured that the requirements for initiating RSA transfers are minimal, and has made these requirements as well as the necessary information to guide RSA holders through the process available on its website (www. pencom.gov.ng) The response by RSA holders to the opening of the RSA Transfer Window by contributors has been encouraging. In the maiden transfer quarter, which ended on December 31, 2020, a total number of 2,799 RSA holders transferred their RSAs to various PFAs. This number more than quadrupled in the next Transfer Quarter, which ended on March 31, 2021, as a total number of 12,681 RSAtransfers took place. A consistently upward trend is anticipated, as RSA holders continue to realise the ease with which they can initiate the transfer of their RSAs. Overall, the opening of the transfer window is revolutionary. Going forward, high standards of service delivery will remain a focal point in the industry. The commission recently approved pension operators to embark on data recapture. What impact will this have on the industry? The commission has approved the Pension Operators Association of Nigeria’s (PenOp) proposal for an Industry Shared Services Initiative (SSI), for conducting the data recapture exercise (DRE). The initiative became imperative to ease the challenges being encountered by contributors in participating in the DRE. It is also a pre-requisite for contributor for initiating RSA transfer. The RSA Transfer System (RTS) was launched by the National Pension Commission on November 16, 2020. Following the deployment of the RTS, RSA holders commenced initiating RSA transfer requests through their chosen PFAs. A pre-requisite for initiating RSA transfer is to ensure that Data recapture (DR) is carried out by the RSA holder. This is applicable to RSA holders who opened their RSA before July 1, 2019 and have not been re-captured. The SSI entails the engagement of two agents by PenOp to conduct the DRE for PFAs. The DR involves recapturing the personal data, including biometrics of registered RSA holders who must provide the National Identity Number (NIN), in line with the Federal Government Identification Policy. However, the non-issuance of the NIN to some RSA holders, among other challenges, has affected the speedy conduct of the DRE by PFAs. The agents would be deployed to assigned employers nationwide, to recapture RSA holders that are yet to be recaptured. In addition, the agents are also required to enrol RSA holders for NIN, where such is unavailable, prior to the recapture. Thereafter, the details of the RSA holder recaptured shall be transmitted to the relevant PFAs. We request the co-operation of organisations to facilitate the smooth conduct of the exercise by the agents and will issue further details to the public in due course.