As someone who operates within the digital space currently, do you think Nigeria has been able to address the challenge of digital divide in terms of easy access, knowledge and expertise within that space? As a whole, Nigeria is trying, as a lot of private organisations primarily have been coming up with structures that are expanding the digital divide. However, we are still lacking resources – a lot of resources are beyond the reach of the average person. It’s the reason why a lot of companies are going outside the country for resources. But again with the outbreak of COVID-19 in 2020, remote opportunities to learn and work digitally have scaled up so fast that the average person right now in 2021 has much easier access compared to just two years ago. I think right now, thanks to the COVID-19; individual, companies, organisations and even the governments are improving in the area of digital divide. How easy is it for a layman to get into the digital space and still be able to adapt and learn? Anyone can get into the digital space; it’s all about been open-minded to learn. When a person is open to learning, he or she will learn anything no matter how supposedly hard it is or seem. It would also be much easier if the person has a mentor – someone who is already in the field to guide him or her through the process, thereby reducing the mistakes the person would make during their learning and implementing phase. Mentorship creates shortcuts for people. However, it all boils down to the person being open-minded to learn. If the person is willing to learn, every other thing would be much easier from there onward. Can you share your personal experience as to how you got into the digital space? As a student of computer science, I was exposed to coding, which I started learning for some months, however, with time I discovered that coding wasn’t an area I wanted to play in. While learning how to code, I discovered graphics design which caught my interest and this led me into the world of designing. I started as a self-taught graphic designer using Corel draw and Photoshop. As a curious person, I was everywhere learning, asking questions to understand better how to make standard designs. In this period, I also started teaching others design. I came across Figma Design meetups on Instagram; I was interested and reached out to them. Figma gave me the privilege, and I became a FigmaAfrica ambassador. This brought me into UIUX design. My experience starting out as a UIUX designer was one that was quite challenging because I had little support, I was practically trying to figure every single thing out myself. It was tough, but I never gave up – there was a time when I had to beg people to let me use their corner to practice at night so I could power my laptop due to lack of electricity. Coming into the UIUX design field was quite challenging for me in the initial phase, and it’s the major reason I’m passionate about helping aspiring designers today. The UIUX concept is new to many here. What are the opportunities and challenges of adapting and learning that technology? Personally, I won’t say UIUX is new anymore. UIUX is now one of the most popular and most demanded digital skills in the world, and even in Nigeria today. More and more young people are learning UIUX design skill thanks to free online courses on platforms like Coursera, Udemy, EdX, LinkedIn Learning etc. This comes down to what I said initially while answering the first question about how the outbreak of COVID-19 in 2020 has opened up a lot of opportunities like online learning, online meetings, remote working, digital schools etc. All of this has expanded the popularity of digital skills in Nigeria. For me, the major challenge in adapting and learning any tech related skill is not being open-minded to learn; not having a curious mind to understand what the skill entails. Other challenges that can affect one’s learning are poor network, poor electricity, unavailability of data for internet connection, lack of mentorship to mention a few. All of this above can be scaled over time if the individual is willing to expand themselves to learn and grow. How easy has it been to transfer the knowledge you have to others? Teaching is something that comes naturally to me, however, more importantly is that while learning UIUX design on my own, I struggled a lot – I remembered a particular time when I had to travel to another state in Nigeria where I had no definite accommodation to do an internship in a company because I wanted to learn UIUX design, it was a period in my life that I cannot forget. I deeply desire young designers don’t have to go through such struggle. So I am highly motivated to train and mentor aspiring UIUX designers. Do you think the government is paying enough attention to STEM: science, technology, given the fact that this is an area that will determine the future of work? Nigerian government is really not paying attention to STEM. I say this because more often than normal, it’s majorly private organisations that pay enough attention to this area. We find even International companies like Google and Microsoft do more in Nigeria and for Nigerians than the government. This is one major challenge that we have in Nigeria. If the government can take it up as Important, the growth we will experience would even be much more. What’s your short, medium to long term vision for your company? Our primary aim at Perxels Design School is to equip UIUX designers with core design skills and soft skills needed to become a more proficient designer, navigate through the job market and advance in their career. Our short-term goal in line with our primary aim is to make sure we are exposing a specific number of undergraduates in Nigerian universities to design education that we offer. Our long-term goal is to become the No-1design school in Africa with international presence all over the world. 