 Director-General, National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), Mallam Kashifu Inuwa, said the Federal Government is working to ensure 30 per cent in-country data hosting by 2024. In a keynote address he delivered at a Technology Forum, organised by the Nigeria Information Technology Reporters’ Association (NITRA) in Lagos at the weekend with the theme: “Achieving 30 per cent growth In local cloud hosting by 2024”, Inuwa said the government was providing the enabling environment for data hosting firms to thrive. According to him, the role of the government is to enable the environment for private and corporate bodies to invest in local hosting services, the building of more data centres. He said there had been a considerable increase in the number of cloud services providers. He added that NITDA, with mandate to regulate and develop the IT sector, has initiated several policies and programmes to ensure data sovereignty and integrity.  These  included the Nigeria Data Protection Regulation in 2019 and the Nigeria Cloud Computing Policy (NCCP) to promote “Cloud First” as a proposition to Federal Public Institutions (FPIs) and SMEs as an efficient way of acquiring and deploying computing resources for better and improved quality of digital services. Applauding NITRA for organising the forum, Inuwa said data is a major factor of production, adding that for data to be a source of wealth, it needed to be secured and sovereign. He argued that though cloud computing offered other services such as infrastructure as a service, platform as a service, software as a service, one of the common cloud computing services is the hosting service, which provides the opportunities for 100per cent resource utilisation as resources are evenly distributed over several server and cost control due to elasticity of services where pricing depends on services consumption. NITRA said it organised the forum as part of its advocacy for local cloud hosting and sovereignty. “The NITRA’s Technology Forum is a platform designed for stakeholders in the ICT sector to discuss issues that will bring growth and development to the sector,” NITRA chairman, Chike Onwuegbuchi, said in his welcome address. He noted that cloud computing is the greatest game changer since the creation of the internet and is one of the fastest growing areas of technology today, adding Cloud computing offers scalability and reliability that cannot be matched by a single enterprise. “Today, we are talking of data protection. How can you protect data that is warehoused outside of our shores?,” he asked rhetorically, noting that local cloud hosting helps to keep the local internet traffic local as local content providers host their content in-country. 