 A chairmanship aspirant in Agege Local Government Area, of Lagos State, Sola Osolana, has promised to run an all-inclusive government, if voted into power. Osolana said his development plan would be hinged on the HEEDS agenda, which is a personal development plan to give Agege the overhaul it needs and deserves. According to him, HEEDS stands for Healthcare; Empowerment of women and youths; Education with good infrastructure; Development of Infrastructure and Sustainable Development. The aspirant, who contested in 2016, said he has gathered the needed experience to serve, having been a supervising councilor in the present administration. Osolana resigned from his position recently. He said: “I have seen the lapses in this current administration and that is one of the reasons why I am aspiring to be chairman. I believe the local government administration can work if the right thing is done, and people can feel the impact of government at the grassroots. “One of my aims is to turn the maternity centre into a mini general hospital, a functional one where doctors and nurses will be available even at night. There will also be availability of drugs. I had mentioned this as far back as our first year in office but nothing was done. “Depending on the size of the ward, there must be a minimum of two health centers in each of the seven wards, where women can give birth easily and simple general ailments like malaria and typhoid can also be treated free for the elderly. “Elected officials most times complain of funding, but even the ones they collected, do they spend judiciously and give proper account? I am a businessman and a good manager of resources. People say it’s not rocket science to develop a place, but with consistency, you will get results. We don’t make enough Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) because the rates are too high; people dodge the payment and so nothing comes in. “It’s very possible for us to have a digital database of all houses and businesses in Agege so that our IGR can be consistent and development will come. “I contested for the chairmanship in 2016 but party elders and leaders decided they wanted the present chairman, Ganiyu Egunjobi. I was begged to step down, which I did, and even worked for his victory because the party’s decision is overriding. “Serving under the person I stepped down for and also supported is an avenue to gather experience in local government administration which I believe I have enough of now. I also saw the lapses in the administration, and that is one of the things motivating me to contest for the position. “Everyone one has his/her leadership style and qualities. The leadership style of the present administration does not allow for ideas and innovations. I was part of the outgoing administration, but we were just there as figureheads.” 