 Ikare-Akoko in Akoko North East Local Government Area of Ondo State is a community ruled by two kings, the Owa Ale and Olukare. Loyalty to both kings has led to a sharp divide in the community and it might last for many generations to come. It is a keg of gunpowder that has exploded leading to loss of lives and could still be exploding at anytime. Ikare is now like a ghost town owing to the curfew imposed on the town by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu after three days of gun fight led to destruction of properties and killing of four persons while many others were injured. It was a reminiscence of the year 2000 when the Olukare and Owa Ale groups engaged in a bloody fight. The slow pace of development in Ikare Akoko is attributed to the lingering crisis between the Owa Ale and Olukare. At present, the town is sharply divided when they are celebrating the traditional new yam festival. The camps celebrate on different days. Olukare and Owa Ale are laying claim to the kingship of the Ikare. The coronation of a new Owa Ale, Oba Adeleke Adedoyin, is expected to take place on May 15. When the immediate past Owa Ale  of Ikare-Akoko, Oba Samuel Kolapo Adegbite, died, Oba Akadiri Saliu Momoh, the Olukare of Ikare, wrote that one of his Chiefs has passed on. Olukare’s letter reads: “I wish to convey to you the death of one of my High Chiefs in Ikare Akoko to wit: The Ale, the Quarters Chief for Iyometa quarters, High Chief Samuel Adegbite Adedoyin “High Chief Adegbite Adedoyin was appointed by my forefather, Oba Amusa Momoh III in 1972, at the Olukare’s palace, he became a regent in 1976 after the death of Oba Amusa Momoh III.” This did not go down well with those loyal to the Owa Ale, who insisted that Owa Ale is an Oba and not a Chief of Olukare. The Ondo State government recognises both of them as Oba but classified Olukare as a First-Class Oba and Owa Ale in the Class C categories. Different versions of historical accounts of the founding of Ikare Akoko have been attributed as the cause of the leadership tussle in Ikare. Those supporting the Owa Ale claimed that the Olukare ancestors were visitors to the town who later usurped the leadership because they were more educated and had access to the colonial masters. In an interview before he died, Oba Adedoyin claimed Ikare was founded by his ancestor called Agba Ode who was one of the grand children of Oduduwa who migrated from Ile Ife. Other Chiefs who accompanied Agba Ode, according to him, were the Olona, the Olokoja, Akuko and Oloyinmo. He said the name Ikare was gotten from a tree, Igi Akere, where Agba Ode and his entourage first settled. The late Owa Ale said the ancestors of the present Olukare came from Bida and he was called Umar Etimigbo because he did not understand whenever the people talked to him. He said: “When they came to this place, they met Owa Ale Orukusuku who happened to be a great warrior and they were looking for people to settle with them and they urged the Etimigbo and his people to settle with them. They were settled at a place because among the Yoruba traditional customs, you don’t settle strangers among natives in the heart of the town. They settled  Etimigbo at a lower section of Ikare which we call Ikare Odo and that’s why up till today they call that quarters Ikado. Where the Olukare is staying today is not his own quarters, it was after his ancestors had problem that my father settled them there. A lot of the people followed Umar to this place and that’s why we have a lot of Muslims here in Ikare today. All these were before the 1914 amalgamation under Lord Lugard and we were being ruled from Lokoja. “The then Owa Ale Ajiboye used to send Umar as one of his Chiefs or one of his emissaries to the North because we were being ruled from the  North.  Umar was one of those people they were sending. Then as time went on, he was misrepresenting himself and started parading himself as an Oba. When he started wearing a crown in 1947, he was warned and he wrote series of letters to the Resident Officer and the Olowo of Owo saying that he should be allowed to wear crown but the Resident Officer said he should not while the Olowo then, Sir Olateru Olagbegi said it was only the Owa Ale who wears a crown, all these letters are here to confirm these stories. “The issue of classification is a political issue.  There was a time that there was no classification in the whole of Ikare.  One thing I want you to know is that I was the first educated Owa Ale while Olukare’s ancestors were well educated, they had secondary school education. As far back as 1956, the then Olukare Babatunde who reigned from 1953 to 1956 was highly educated. Amusa Momoh too was educated and they were all using that opportunity to garner support and recognition from government and that’s why he was made a first class Oba.” But a Prince of Ikare, Momoh Ismaila, said the Owa Ale people were untruthful and putting history on its head. Prince Momoh said there was no title in Ikare known as Owa Ale but simply Ale until the late Adedoyin coined it into the title. Momoh stated the late Adedoyin was the ninth person to hold the Ale title and not the 19th as being bandied around. He said: “These people are not saying the truth. The Olukare is the paramount ruler of Ikare. He is the only recognised First Class monarch in Akoko South West local government. It was late Oba Amusa Momoh III that installed the late Ale. There are pictures to show as proof. I was in secondary school then. Ale is among the chiefs of Olukare. It was when Oba Momoh III died in 1976 and there was an interregum that the Ale wrote to the military administration to allow him serve as administrative head of Ikare. He was there for eight years and he used that time to perfect all these their claims. “There is a seat at the Olukare’s Palace exclusively reserved for the Ale at every of the community meetings held every nine days. But the Ale does not attend the meeting any longer. “The only way out of this for the government to act accordingly and not take sides on the matter.” It was learnt that the recent crisis over the Olokoja Chieftaincy title was to show strength on both sides. The Olukare supporters, according to insiders, want to put an end to whatever influence Owa Ale might have gathered. They want a revert back to the use of Ale title before late Oba Adedoyin reportedly added the “Owa’ to it. Moreover, to those supporting the Owa Ale, the May 15th coronation ceremony must hold. Both Chief Ogunye ldowu and Chief Sunday Bada are fighting over who is the rightful Olokoja of Okoja, a village in Ikare. Chief Ogunye was dethroned as the Olokajo by Oba Momoh for absenteeism from meetings, disloyalty, refusal to obey his directives and being loyal to the Owa Ale. Oba Momoh, in February this year, installed Chief Bada as the new Olokoja. This was said to have been resisted by Chief Ogunye when Chief Bada attempted to preside over the village meetings. This resulted to the killing of four persons, burning of several houses and vehicles while shooting lasted for four days. Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, in his bid to end the violence, imposed a 24-hour curfew on Ikare Akoko and barred both Chief Ogunye and Chief Bada from parading themselves as Olokoja of Okoja. According to him, “Government warns that security agencies have been deployed and mandated to enforce the curfew. Accordingly, anyone who violates or contravenes this order shall face the full wrath of the law. Dire consequences await such defaulters. “In the meantime, the government has ordered the immediate suspension of all activities relating to the Olokoja chieftaincy title. In this regard, no one is permitted to parade himself as Olokoja, or engage in promotional activities relating to the title in question. This directive takes immediate effect. “Chieftaincy tussles are ill-winds that have never blown anyone any good. It is a known fact that bitter tussles are capable of derailing society, stability and development programmes of government. These tussles, if not carefully managed, could lead to conflagrations, especially when they assume ethnic or political colourations in view of the current tense situation in the country. “The instant case of Ikare-Akoko where the perennial crisis between Olukare and Owa Ale has dominated the length and breadth of the community in the last 72 hours is a cause for concern. Lives have been lost and properties destroyed over a minor chieftaincy in the community. As a way of stemming further crisis, government has imposed 24-hour curfew on the entire Ikare-Akoko till further notice. The immediate cause of the current crisis is the contention as to who is the rightful Olokoja. Thus, government has also suspended the chieftaincy till further notice. Nobody should henceforth parade himself as the Olokoja.”