  The Presidency has started reviewing the books of the Nigeria Ports Authority (NPA) to determine if the agency under-remitted into the Consolidated Revenue Funds (CRF) Account. A Presidency source told The Nation that the Monitoring and Evaluation team of the Fiscal Responsibility Commission is scouring through the books of the NPA which the Authority submitted a fortnight ago. This is apart from the investigative panel inaugurated by the Transportation Minister, Chibuike Amaechi on Monday in Abuja The FRC, the source said, has been pursuing the NPA for three years to submit credible evidence of remittances to the CRF account. According to the Presidency source, “they (NPA) brought in their report two weeks ago, now they (M&E) of the Fiscal Responsibility Commission are working on their analysis of that report”. The result of the analysis, the source said, would “likely be presented to the FRC Chairman this week”. The Nation learnt that the FRC had written ‘’letters to NPA and they have not been responding”. Asked if the NPA would be sanctioned for under remitting into the CRF, the Presidency source said the government was unhappy that many agencies were flouting the law of remittance to the CRF account because there is no sanction for offenders. “They feel like even if they don’t respond, nothing will happen to them,” the source added. According to the source, “three years ago, the NPA submitted something and they were told that what they brought wasn’t correct. The information they gave was not accurate so they were told to go and do it again, they went back and we didn’t hear from them again”. On March 4, 2021, Transportation Minister, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi wrote to President Muhammadu Buhari that the Budget Office of the Federation had submitted a report that “the yearly remittance of operating surpluses by the Nigerian Ports Authority from year 2016 to 2020 has been far short of the amount due for actual remittance”. Amaechi then asked President Buhari to investigate and ascertain the true financial position of the Nigerian Ports Authority from 2016 to 2020 and the outstanding unremitted balance of One hundred and sixty five billion, three hundred and twenty million, nine hundred and sixty two thousand, six hundred and ninety seven naira only (N165,320,962,697) standing against the NPA in unremitted funds to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CFR) account.  In the last 11 years, Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) were forced to remit N1.7 trillion into the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CFR). The MDAs did not willingly remit the funds, they were made to return the monies because they were proceeds of corruption. Having remitted this much to the CRF, it has been revealed that MDAs are yet to return another N1 trillion to the CRF account. According to the Chairman of the Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC), Mr. Victor Muruako, “the FRC has caused over N1.75trillion to be remitted to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) in the last 11 years”. He also disclosed that, “agencies of government are in deficit of over N1 trillion, which a close working relationship with the ICPC can help retrieve and further block loopholes in public finance management”. Muruako lamented that “corrupt officials cart away billions of naira in different guises through government funds under their care,” adding: “we cannot afford to continue to watch this situation continue.” Going forward, the Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) has promised to sanction Ministries, Departments, and Agencies (MDAs) that do not pay their 80% Operating Surplus to the FRC with hopes of tackling revenue fraud practices. Muruako said “the discovery of this unwholesome practice and the potential danger of low independent revenue became the justification for the Commission to seek ways of curbing the unfortunate development.” He explained that the template, which has been adopted by the Minister of Finance, serves to check the ‘creative accounting’ practices of agencies and corporations that illegally load their expenditure with the intention of declaring deficits to avoid remitting operation surpluses to the FRC. “According to the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2007, scheduled corporations are required to remit 80% of their surplus into the Federal Government Consolidated Revenue Fund and keep 20% in the General Reserves Fund.” According to the Commission, the surpluses will be used by the government to improve infrastructure, provide quality education and health care for the citizenry. In October 2020, the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) announced that it generated a revenue of N1.02 trillion within three years under the tenure of its current managing director, Hadiza Bala-Usman. The NPA generates revenue from its operations and investment income. Figures from the NPA shows that in 2016, the authority’s revenue hit N182.42 billion against the N173.447 billion generated in 2015. In 2017, the authority raked in a total of N259.99 billion, about 42 per cent increase from the previous year. In 2018, the NPA revenue grew to N282.42 billion and in 2019 it rose to N300 billion, making it the highest in the authority’s history. The authority noted that its contribution to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) Account had progressively increased since the current management took over in 2016. In 2014, the NPA contributed N18.5 billion to the CRF, compared to 2013 when it contributed N13.1 billion in 2016 it paid N23.8 billion into the CRF, compared to N18 billion it contributed to the CRF in 2015.