Chieftains of All Progressive Congress (APC) in Cross River State have welcomed Governor Ben Ayade who defected to the party on Thursday in Calabar. Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, SAN, CON, Leader of the 7th Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria issued a statement saying, “on behalf of myself and political associates, I heartily congratulate Your Excellency, Senator Prof. Ben Ayade, Governor of Cross River State on your well thought out decision to formally defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC) today and join the league of Progressive Governors in Nigeria.” He told the governor that “Cross River State has always been in the mainstream of Nigeria politics. There is no gainsaying the fact that the past 6 years of being in the opposition has impacted the State negatively, even though you have consciously navigated the ship of governance in sync with the APC-led Federal Government. As a State, we can ill afford to remain in the opposition. I commend you for recognizing this fact and doing the needful for the good of our dear State.” He said of his expectations that the “coming of Governor Ayade will enrich our internal democracy and I enjoin you to be consultative, inclusive, democratic, transparent and accountable because these are the hallmarks of the All Progressives Congress family. I also expect that your presence in the APC will further strengthen the party and improve our electoral fortunes in Cross River State.” Also welcoming Governor Ayade to the APC, Chief Obono Obla former Presidential Aide to Muhammadu Buhari, said “I welcome heartily Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State of Nigeria into the progressives fold-All Progressives Congress, APC. Governor Ayade is Human, and he has his good and negative sides, just as I and You.” Adding that Gov. Ayade “has done his Best for Cross River State, and he is still doing his Best. Cross River State has a huge debt profile which Governor Ayade inherited, but Governor Ayade has managed the State’s economy excellently, paying salary and doing projects. I salute him. He is a man of sagacity and courage!” Obono-Obla pledged to work assiduously with Ayade to enhance the Party’s fortunes.