 The people of Ogbia Ward 2 in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State have been excited over the replacement of a collection of planks that served as bridge in their community for years. They have the young female councillor, Onem Tyna Miracle, to thank for initiating a solid construction of the bridge for the benefit of her community. The people have been massing to the site to offer prayers for the young lady. The action of the young female politician had gone viral as she is seen to have done something remarkable in a country that most leaders rarely remember to work for the people. When she received funds for projects in her community from the state government, she had consulted with her community elders to select the project to invest the money in. Many had made varied suggestions, including the  renovation of a police station or some other public facility in the area. She immediately suggested  building the bridge linking Otuokpoti and Otuaga communities in her ward. She recalls noticing the ordeal her people faced  over the years crossing the ramshackle collection of planks that served as bridge even before she was born. She recalls the accidents women, including pregnant ones had crossing the bridge on their way to and from their farms, being an agrarian community. She had wished as a child to do something about the bridge to put a stop to the harrowing experiences. She therefore decided to use the project money for the bridge even when the paramount ruler of her community envisaged that the money would not be enough to do the work. She had to add her car fund given by the state government to add to money for the project. When the state government got information about her efforts, more money was made available for her to expand the bridge. The news got to the media and admirers of her efforts wanted to raise funds through the #gofundme project but the she declined the offer, saying she cannot be compensated for impacting on her own people. We commend her sense of leadership because she has shown that she earned her office. A brief account of her entry into politics showed that she was a mere secretary at the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) secretariat and her colleagues who noticed her diligence and work ethic convinced her to run for office even if at a ward level. The party facilitated her participation by giving her free nomination forms and helping her campaign. Her becoming a councillor was by divine providence and encouraged by people around her, including her political party. Her decision to solve what she had seen as a problem from childhood is remarkable and shows that leadership in a democracy should be given to people who understand and are willing to serve. In a country where most political leaders at all levels often forget to serve the people, Tyna has stood out as a beacon. Her giving up the purchase of a new car to solve the community problem shows she has decided to be on the side of the people. In a country where governors, legislators and other public officers drive around in convoys of cars at the expense of the people, a mere councillor has shown that service is neither about unnecessary display of wealth, most often I’ll-gotten, nor gender. Most politicians in Nigeria feel that a flamboyant display of wealth from tax payers’ money makes them famous but the adulation of the young lady has shown that even when the people are helpless, they still recognise and appreciate good leadership. Her political party and constituents must be commended too for identifying her potential and encouraging her to contest, even when she did not have money to throw around like most established politicians. The young lady comes as a breath of fresh air in a country that politicians often display some patriarchal cynicism and feel that leadership is about age and gender. Here’s a female millennial truly displaying a sense of altruism in public office. May be it is time for the political parties to be more inclusive of women and the youths. Tyna is a good example of what inclusiveness can yield for development.