ADETOKUNBO O. Fabamwo is a Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM), Ikeja and is currently the Chief Medical Director of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, LASUTH. In this interview with Funke Cole, the onetime Chairman of the prestigious Yoruba Tennis Club, Lagos, and Fellow of the National Postgraduate Medical College, West African College of Surgeons and the International College of Surgeons takes us through his almost four decades career trajectory, favourite pastime, to mention just a few. Excerpts:  When does your typical day begins? My day begins at 5am in the morning. I make tea, and take my medications, majorly vitamins, immunity boosters. At about 6, 6:30 am, I embark on one hour walk; I have been doing that for the past 20 years. I walk briskly, except on certain days my legs and feet are acting up, I rest my legs a day or two, and then return back, brush, take my bath and get to work. On Mondays, we observe family prayer sessions about 8:30-9am, to commit ourselves to God. What’s your management style? My management style is collective management. I don’t hand down directives and instructions that come from my mind, I tend to ask people what they think and we take collective decisions. We run a management meeting once in a week to discuss issues that affect our day-to-day activities. I also hold meeting of Heads of Department, once in a month. I tend to allow different people to do the work but I make sure that I supervise it because you take the blame or the praise at the end of the work. What are your other areas of interest besides medical responsibility? I consider myself to be a totally holistic person, because I believe that I have a full professional life, full academic life. I rose to become a professor in the university. I also have a full spiritual life, I sang in the church choir for 15 years. I had done that even as a youth, as a young man. I’m a past chairman of Yoruba Tennis Club; I belong to the Ikoyi Club of 1938, Golf Club of Ikeja. I also have a full philanthropic/humanitarian life, I belong to the Rotary Club of Gbagada, where what we do is generally to make life better for the under privileged, I believe that I’m a well-rounded individual. I also have a very full family life, in two weeks’ time; I will be forty years in marriage without blemish. I have four successful children; two of them are married while two are still waiting to get married. They are all doing their various bits. All of them are in Nigeria, I do not believe in losing your children to the allures of overseas because I do not see any other greater pleasure than seeing your children grow and develop before your very eyes. As such, I don’t envy my friends who have children abroad and always miss their company. From time to time, we have a family lunch; a family dinner and we enjoy ourselves. How do you unwind? Before Covid-19, I was a very regular face at the Yoruba Tennis Club which is my primary club. I joined in 1989 and I became honorary General Secretary to Chairman. I’m very committed to the club, but with Covid19 and repair work at the Third Mainland Bridge, it had been difficult to go to the club. But now, I spend more time at Ikeja Golf Club which is nearer for me, though, I have been threatened that if I don’t start soon to playing golf I will be expelled (laughs). What was the last book you read and when? The last book I read was about leadership and management and that was about three weeks ago. Doctors are not duly prepared for leadership positions; you know I’m trained as a doctor and in the medical school. Unfortunately, leadership skills are not taught, but some of us have inbuilt administrative capability. For example, I was Medical Director of Ayinke House for about 10 years. I was the pioneer Director of Clinical Services and Training when LASUTH started. Also, I have been Dean of the Faculty of Clinical Sciences of the College of Medicine. I have held quite a number of administrative positions, the CMD position is just the icing on the cake. What’s your choice holiday destination? See, left to me, I will remain in Africa. Because of my membership of the West Africa College of Surgeons, I tend to go on annual conferences across Africa. I have been to Ghana, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Equatorial Guinea, The Gambia, Togo, Sierra Leone, and Mauritius. In fact, there is huge vacation potential in Africa. My choice holiday destination would be The Gambia because it is a lovely place. There is a way they eat their rice, they cook it with a lot of condiments. The Gambia is a country that thrives just on its tourism potentials, so you find lots of visitors from Europe and America trooping to The Gambia for vacation. I will go back to The Gambia any day. What motivates you? I will tell you primarily, it’s the fear of poverty in old age. I believe I need to do what I have to when there is strength on my side, by working hard and then having a good retirement. What’s your sense of style? I’m a powerful dresser, and do not have any apology for that. Good dressing was a part of our curriculum; I went to a secondary school called Government College, Ibadan. I developed the habit of dressing well from there. You cannot see a student from there who doesn’t dress well. Most times I’m in suit, I have lovely suits, I do not compromise with my shirts and I hate to wear shirts that have ruffled collars. I love red and wine ties, and sometimes I wear bow ties, and I love to wear suspenders. I love simple and classy attires. I tend to appreciate dark colours. I love shoes, I tend to look out for good shoes and I appear to be a collector of glasses frame. I also wear ceremonial rings. My wedding ring got stolen about two years into my wedding anniversary. My wife had said that we should get another one and bless it, but I’ve not been able to do so. How do you maintain your looks? I have already told you about my workout and I think that helps you that I do workout. I look after myself and I love to be clean shaven. I do not use cream for my body, God has blessed me with a fairly good skin, and I love perfumes. I like to smell good. I have a beard. But, the story of my beards dates back to the gruesome murder of Bola Ige and I said to myself that I was going to keep beards until his killers are found. Unfortunately, his killers had not been found. Bola Ige was a family friend; we attended the same church in Ibadan, St Anne’s Church, Molete Ibadan. The gruesome murder really hit me. I have been keeping the beards and nurturing it for many years ever since. How do you motivate your staff? Luckily, the staff see me as a role model and a successful leader, so they look up to me and listen to me. Most of them who have worked with me testified that they gained a lot from my wealth of knowledge. I’m a stickler for thoroughness; I tend to teach all the time, the university teacher part of me comes out from time to time. Of course, I look out for their personal interests. Don’t forget that the consciousness about mental health is increasing, and the advocacy now is that a lot of us should be more aware of the people around us because a lot of people around us could be having personal agonies that they could be grappling with. What’s your view on the stick and carrot approach to management? I think it’s a good approach, because there are many ways to get the work going. You must drive them. But in doing so, you must show empathy and at the same time let them know that you care. If it’s possible to reward them like giving them awards to appreciate hard work, do so. What’s the best decision you have taken thus far? I think the first best decision was to have married the woman that I got married to and to have decided to become a medical specialist. I recall when I served in Kaduna many years back, there was a temptation to remain in Kaduna and start a private practice. In fact, there were two offers for me to continue as a general practitioner in Kaduna. But, I thank God for a family friend, Dr Onuola Adewunmi, who’s an obstetrician and gynaecologist, who encouraged me to specialise, that the future of medicine is in specialisation. I listened to him and came back to Ibadan and did my postgraduate residency in training and became a specialist. After that, I decided to go into academics and became a professor. Can you tell us the worst decision you have taken in your career? I would probably say that the worst decision, though I took it for very good reason. But, the little regret about that decision was when I traveled to Dublin Ireland to do my residency in training, I had an opportunity to write a foreign exam and become a licensed gynaecologist in the UK. But I believe that those of us in the early generations of specialists who are doing the local programme should craft an identity for ourselves, so that they can see that we are good because we have been trained locally. But now that the country has degenerated to this level, I could have emigrated to the UK, it would have been a good time to run away, not that I’m regretting that I’m not living well. How did your background and growing up influenced who you are today? My parents were teachers, and were thorough disciplinarians, we were brought up in that kind of background, even some parents brought their children to have tutelage under them, and they used to run a private boarding house (laughs). We had a regimented life, and we did house chores, prayers and so on. Then, every Sunday, we had detoxification with some medications they gave us to drink. You are not allowed to be rude to your seniors and that helped our academics and our personalities. Eventually, I found myself bringing up my children in an almost similar way even though the circumstance was different. Do you cook and what’s your favourite Nigerian dishes? I don’t cook o. But I cooked when I was a Youth Corps member in Kaduna, and when I was in Medical School. I partied a lot, we would come back late in the night and still made ẹba. But since I got married, I stopped cooking. I love white rice and fresh fish, tilapia, obokun, salmon. I don’t do croaker or fried fish. I love amala and ewedu, without gbegiri. What lessons has life taught you? You have to keep moving. Even if you fall, you must get up and keep moving. I could recall a period in my life when I had some superiors who tried to pull me down, I think they had a perception that I was flying too high. I was removed as the Director of Ayinke House, and sent to Island Maternity Hospital not as Medical Director. But three years after, somebody else returned me to the same Ayinke House as Medical Director for the second time. The other one was my full professional award that was delayed by about five years for a reason I do not know. But I thank God I got it. Life has taught me to keep moving, if you fall, you should get up and keep moving. What are your hobbies? I love to watch movies and I’m a Netflix fan. I love to eat out. I love to go to concerts. I don’t really drink and I don’t smoke. I love to listen to hymns and chants. I love the MUSON Choir led by Emeka Nwokedi. What’s your definition of success? Well, my own definition of success is not just in how much money you have in your bank, it’s about the kind of life you have led. Success is defined in amalgamation of different fulfilments, spiritual, family, professional and perhaps, social. That’s my perception of success.