 The FA Cup will be draped in blue by the close of play today, as Leicester City and Chelsea battle it out for the chance to lift the prestigious trophy in front of 21,000 Wembley spectators. The Foxes will be taking part in their fifth final as they search for their maiden FA Cup crown, while today’s game represents Chelsea’s 15th  appearance in the showpiece event as they seek a ninth triumph. Brendan Rodgers’s men dumped Southampton out in the semi-finals to make plans for May 15, while Thomas Tuchel’s side ended Manchester City’s quadruple dream in the final four to book their spot in the 140th FA Cup final. It only seemed fitting to witness the rejuvenated Kelechi Iheanacho score the goal which propelled the Foxes into their first FA Cup final since 1969, as this season’s top scorer in the tournament struck with 55 minutes on the clock to extinguish Southampton’s trophy hopes on April 18. Rocked by a 1-0 Premier League loss to cross-town rivals Arsenal on Wednesday, Chelsea will be looking to bounce back and win their first trophy under Thomas Tuchel while Leicester’s Brendan Rodgers is aiming to become only the second manager after the legendary Sir Alex Ferguson to win both the English and Scottish FA Cup, having Celtic to back-to-back Scottish FA Cup titles back in 2017 and 2018. It’s the first time since 2007, when title winners Man United lost to league runners-up Chelsea, that the final will be contested by two teams in the top four, so it promises to be an evenly balanced game with no clear favourite. Leicester is third in the Premier League, two points ahead of Chelsea, heading into the final week of the league season, and there is little to separate the two sides in recent form. Over the last 10 league games, Chelsea sit third in the form table with six wins, two draws and two defeats. Leicester are fifth having won five, drawn twice and lost three times. A 2-0 defeat at Leicester in January proved to be Frank Lampard’s last league game as Chelsea manager; he was sacked less than a week later and replaced by Thomas Tuchel. Coincidentally, the two teams meet again in the Premier League at Stamford Bridge next Tuesday in a game that will be crucial for Champions League qualification. Yet Tuchel, 47, started the season in charge of Paris Saint-Germain before being sacked in December, but he could finish the campaign by guiding Chelsea to success in the FA Cup and Champions League.  When Tuchel replaced Lampard in mid-January, Chelsea were ninth in the Premier League and losing ground on the top four, but he’s overseen a dramatic transformation with 17 victories and three defeats in his 26 games in all competitions. Tuchel won domestic cups in Germany and France with Borussia Dortmund and PSG, and he’s elevated Chelsea, bringing defensive solidity (18 clean sheets in 26 games) and coaxing much-improved form out of expensive forwards Timo Werner and Kai Havertz, as well as restoring defenders Antonio Rudiger and Marcos Alonso to the team. Under Tuchel, Chelsea eliminated Man City at the semi-final stage and also beat Pep Guardiola’s team, whom they will also face in the Champions League final in Portugal on May 29, in the Premier League last week. However, Leicester were 11th  in the Premier League and closer to the relegation zone than the top four when Rodgers left Celtic to replace Claude Puel in February 2019. Since then, Leicester have been on an upwards trajectory, winning 57 of Rodgers’ 108 games in charge. They finished fifth last season and on course to improve on that this time around. Rodgers has brought stylish football to the King Power Stadium, and also turned the club into the one most likely to break up the so-called “Big Six.” He has revived the career of 34-year-old striker Jamie Vardy and has improved emerging stars such as James Maddison, Kelechi Iheanacho, Harvey Barnes and Youri Tielemans. The former Liverpool manager won seven major honours in less than three years at Celtic, but he has yet to win a trophy in English football. Lifting the FA Cup would be a huge boost to his reputation and put him in contention for bigger jobs in the Premier League and Europe. This final promises to be a combative battle in midfield with Leicester’s Wilfried Ndidi and Youri Tielemans up against Jorginho and possibly Billy Gilmour for Chelsea. Mateo Kovacic is fighting to be fit and N’Golo Kante has suffered pain in his Achilles and is unlikely to play from the start. The pace of Leicester’s transitional play can often cause teams problems and with Jorginho sitting deep he could have his work cut out to keep the likes of James Maddison and Jamie Vardy at bay. Having been an unused substitute for Chelsea’s last two matches against Leicester, Jorginho will be itching to help the team on Saturday – and his card record against the Foxes is remarkable. The Italian has been booked in each of the last three matches he has started against the Foxes, and we’re backing him to make that four in a row as he tries to deal with their counter-attacks. On the other hand, Timo Werner may not have racked up as many goals as people expected when he joined Chelsea, but his impressive movement has helped them in big games of late and should do so again today. The German played a key part in the semi-final success against Manchester City, as well as scoring in the second leg of the Champions League semi-final against Real Madrid.