The Lagos State Government has kicked off a sensitization programme on the operations of its Bus Reform Initiative, First and Last Mile (FML) Bus Scheme. The awareness which has been rolling out across local government in the State was deployed to educate citizens on the benefits of the modern transportation scheme, ahead of its launch. In line with its mandates as an interface between the Government and the citizen, the Office of Civic Engagement collaborated with the Ministry of Transportation (Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority, LAMATA) to sensitized residents. Speaking during the event, the Special Adviser Office Of Civic Engagement Princess Aderemi Adebowale, disclosed that the first priority of Governor Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu as encapsulated in the T.H.E.M.E.S Agenda was anchored on tackling the challenge of transportation and traffic management that has bedevilled the State since its creation. “It is a well-known fact that transportation is the pivot around which the wheel of every modern economy revolves. The efficiency with which people, goods and services can move from one point to the other largely determines the quality of life of the society. Lagos with its ever-growing population is therefore expected to have its own share of the attendant traffic management and transportation challenges. It is for this reason that the administration of Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu has made it imperative the need to developed a functional and effective intermodal transportation system in Lagos.”  She explained that the First and Last Mile Bus Project is a modular concept to enhance both motorized and non-motorized transportation of commuters to/from their origin and final destination. “The First and Last Mile Bus Scheme routes, considered as community-based routes within a distance of 3-4 kilometres, are currently served by the Tricycles and Motorcycles. However, following the restriction of the operation of motorcycles in Six Local Government Areas and Nine Local Council Development Areas, it became expedient to conceive FLM scheme which enhances passengers’ connectivity and accessibility to all the bus routes (standard and BRT routes) as well as proposed Rail corridors and waterways in Lagos. “To kick off the scheme, the State Government is facilitating the provision of 5000 buses, in collaboration with the private sector, to be operational in phases over the next six months. The first batch of 500 buses is set to be launched in the coming week.”  While speaking on the importance of sensitization, Adebowale said that the intention is to deliver this scheme to the citizens and for the people to own the programme with a view to making it a resoundingly successful programme. She said: “I urge all our residents who will be making use of the buses to do so with utmost care and ensure the buses are well taken care of and resist any attempt to vandalise the buses. The buses belong to the people and therefore must be protected. The buses are provided to ease the transportation challenges of our people to make inner-street transportation easier. “It imperative to encourage cordiality between the bus operators and the citizens of any particular zone as this will go a long way in ensuring that the scheme creates a harmonious atmosphere that we crave so much in Lagos State.”