The Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof Mohammed Sambo, has disclosed that the Scheme has captured 99 percent of workers under the Federal Government’s payroll. He however noted that in order to ensure that more Nigerians (especially those in the informal sector) are properly captured in the health insurance net, the Scheme is awaiting assent of the reviewed NHIS Act by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said the Act will make health insurance compulsory for all Nigerians. According to a statement by the Head of Media and Public Relations of the NHIS, Emmanuel Ononokpono, Tuesday in Abuja, the NHIS and the Silverbird Group have agreed to explore ways of working together in the overall drive towards Universal Health Coverage (UHC). It said: “Both parties entered this understanding at a parley between the Executive Secretary of NHIS, Prof. MN Sambo and President of the Silverbird Group, Mr. Guy Murray-Bruce when the latter paid a courtesy call on the health insurance boss in Abuja. “At the occasion, Sambo noted that access to affordable and quality health care for all Nigerians would be the attainment of the landmark of one of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adding that the Scheme had successfully covered 99 percent of workers who are on federal government payroll under its formal sector programme. “Highlighting the impact of the recent history of the Scheme on the actualization of its mandate, Sambo told the Silverbird boss that upon appointment, he inherited an agency that had drifted away from its core objectives, prompting him to conduct a system diagnosis in resolving the problems he met on ground. “According to him, the Scheme’s high turnover of Chief Executives, which made him the twelfth in the organization’s twenty-five-year history, had adversely affected the implementation of the Scheme’s programmes, giving the assurance that the major problems of the Scheme will be resolved under his watch. “Sambo said, ‘Having earned my name in organizational management, if I am unable to fix NHIS’ problems, then after my tenure, I should go back to my village rather than back to the classroom.’ “He expressed the hope that the reviewed NHIS Act that has undergone legislative amendment has been presented to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent, following its passage by both chambers of legislature, adding that the would-be legislation will make health insurance compulsory for all Nigerians. “He noted that the Scheme’s ten-year strategic plan, which implementation has begun, holds the prospects of ensuring that UHC is attained before the projected timeline.”