 HAD Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna possessed more tact, discretion and a well-rounded judgement of political issues, he would have been at the very least sufferable. He is somehow often able to identify the faults of others. He also has a penchant for diagnosing issues accurately, but treating them archaically with all the force he can muster. Unfortunately for him, his many quirks, including a propensity for hasty conclusions, a cold measure of apathy, and an innate pride bordering on obstinacy often overshadow whatever administrative acumen his admirers say he possesses. He made a most complete hash of the kidnap business and even succeeded in contradicting himself duplicitously while at it. With insecurity still smothering his state, he took up arms against the Kaduna labour force and, despite the exuberance of some of the labour bodies, which smacks of their having a political axe to grind, Mallam el-Rufai refuses to admit that he bit more than he could chew. Yet, he remains defiant. Sometime in April, it was his turn to announce that his state was up the financial creek without a paddle and that the solution to the matter was to downsize or “rightsize’ the state’s civil service. He complained that 90% of the state’s resources were being used to cater to about 100,000 public servants to the detriment of more than nine million citizens, and that was not indicative of a fair or just distribution of state resources. He also noted that the government could not sustain the large number of redundant workers, and so the state had no choice but to shed some weight and reduce the size of the public service.  The labour, however, noted that he had violated the provisions of Section 20 of the Labour Act which requires an employer to inform the trade union or workers’ representative concerned of the reasons for and the extent of the anticipated redundancy. They claim that they were not previously consulted, adding that those affected by the governor’s previous retrenchment exercise in 2017 had not been paid. Indeed, they are not happy that the governor also does not respect the statutorily stipulated retirement age of workers. They therefore decided that they would go on a five-day warning strike. His response to the labour union’s displeasures was more force. He threatened to arrest labour leaders and promised not to pay striking workers. This was a tactless move. In turn, more trade unions joined the NLC planning to ground the state. According to the governor, medical workers attempted to join the strike. The law does not permit essential workers to join industrial actions especially as lives could be at stake, and the governor held fervently to this point. Where the Kaduna governor maintained a frightening degree of myopia to the damage his obstinacy was occasioning in the relationship between the state government and multiple labour bodies, the Minister of Labour, Chris Ngige, decided to mediate. Despite the minister’s mediation, the governor remained defiant and disrespectful to everyone. His churlishness is unacceptable. A wise governor would have followed the law and negotiated the terms of relieving over 4000 workers of their jobs with the labour union. Mallam el-Rufai may not be aware, but the unity of several trade unions against what they believe is his draconian policy is foreboding of a resentment of his style of governance. He cannot continue to pick unnecessary fights, for politics and governance, kith and kin of the same pod, are more about making allies than enemies. He has not displayed the appropriate acumen required to run and update the state’s public service, a body the impetuous governor has reduced to his sparring partner.