Recuperating former Nigeria international  Charles Bassey has described billionaire philanthropist  Femi Otedola as a god-send  for footing his treatment for a spinal cord problem at the Ibom Specialist Hospital Uyo. Bassey, a  member of the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations-winning team, had been bedridden  until the billionaire businessman  through his novel The Femi Otedola Foundation  came to his aid. “Thanks to Femi Otedola, I can walk again,” the former Calabar  Rovers winger  said.  “I could not move on my own. I was helpless as countless letters I wrote seeking help yielded nothing. “Even my state government, the Akwa Ibom state government, would not even reply to my appeals. I resigned to fate, waiting for the worst.” The former  Akwa United coach  further  also disclosed that he could now walk with the current treatment regime he is receiving. Bassey added:  “I can walk now; I walk with the aid of a walking stick. The hospital is now carrying out conservative management of my ailing spinal cord. The treatment will last for six months. I was told I would be able to walk again, unaided. This has been paid for upfront by the foundation.” Now undergoing  treatment at the Ibom Specialist Hospital Uyo under the auspices of The Femi Otedola Foundation , Bassey  said  he has witnessed a lot of improvement . “I can walk now, but I walk with the aid of a walking stick. The hospital is now carrying out what they call Conservative Management of my ailing spinal cord. I go to the hospital Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays for treatment. The treatment will last for six months,” he explained, adding the intervention of The Femi Otedola Foundation in his health crisis was a lifeline. “He is a godsend, and I wished there were more Nigerians like him. I am still in shock for what he has done for many other Nigerians and me,” noted  Bassey. Otedola, chairman of Geregu Power Plc, is reputed for providing financial assistance to former Nigerian coach Christian Chukwu, ex-Nigeria goalkeeper Peter Fregene, veteran actor Victor Alaotan, the late Majek Fashek, and the late Sadiq Aba, among others.