 To its credit, the President Muhamamdu Buhari administration, more than any before it in this dispensation, has taken far-reaching steps to diversify the economy and break the dependence on petroleum products’ revenues, particularly by boosting agricultural productivity. Towards this end, it has introduced a number of direct intervention schemes to support and empower both small and large-scale stakeholders in the agricultural sector. Thus, under its Anchor Borrowers Programme (ABP), which provides a guaranteed market to smallholder farmers, over N44 billion has been made available to beneficiaries. Through the Nigeria Incentive-based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL), over 244 projects valued at more than N33 billion were guaranteed for the Federal Ministry of Agriculture’s Growth Enhancement Scheme. Similarly, about 478 large-scale agricultural projects have benefitted to the tune of N393.5 billion under the Commercial Agricultural Credit Scheme (CACS), while through the Agricultural Credit Guarantee Scheme Funds (ACGSF), N101.6 billion has been guaranteed to 1.04 million farmers. Stakeholders in the sector acknowledge that these initiatives have positively  impacted local agricultural production. It was to further consolidate on these efforts and strengthen local agriculture that President Buhari, last year, directed the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) not to grant requests for foreign exchange by food importers such that anyone seeking to import food should source foreign exchange from the open market. On assumption of office in 2015, the President had banned the use of foreign exchange from the CBN for importation of about 41 food items, including rice. Despite the increased local production of a number of food items as a result of these policies, and the restriction on foreign exchange allocation for food imports, it has been reported that the foreign exchange for food importation actually increased significantly between the third and fourth quarters of 2020. Thus, food import component of foreign exchange transactions rose from $121.13 million in September to $198.43 million in October, $204.76 million in November and $344.37 million in December 2020. This year, foreign exchange for food importation increased from $163.60 million in January to $197.73 billion in February, while declining to $171.05 million in March. The picture that emerges is still one of continued large-scale food imports dependency, even for locally available products, with negative implications for our foreign exchange allocation and utilisation. One reason for this situation is obviously that, even though there has been an increase in the local production of some food items such as rice, the domestic supply is still insufficient to meet the level of demand. To seek to impose a ban on the importation of food items available locally in this situation can only boost smuggling, especially given the well known porosity of our borders. There is therefore no alternative to continuing to strengthen efforts to boost local production while at the same time enhancing initiatives to improve the price competitiveness of locally produced food products relative to those imported. This unhealthy food import dependency should impress on the authorities, once again, the need to intensify and expedite efforts to tackle and contain the diverse critical security challenges currently plaguing the country, which have displaced farmers and agricultural production in much of the food producing belt. Experts have also pointed out that such destructive natural phenomena as flooding, desertification, drought, climate change and erosion have negatively affected large chunks of Nigeria’s over 80 million acres of arable land. There is thus the need for the requisite authorities to intensify initiatives to mitigate the consequent havoc they cause while also empowering the small scale farmers in particular, who produce over 90% of the country’s food, with the necessary information, knowledge, skills and facilities to become more productive. No less important is the need to engage in sustained and intensive public enlightenment campaigns to sensitise the citizenry to the fact that it is ultimately in the country’s best interest and the economic well being of all to patronise locally produced foods rather than contribute to income and employment generation elsewhere, through importation of locally available products.