Just like eating, the body needs frequent exercises to function properly. People consider exercises for different reasons. For some, it could be to lose weight while it could be just to stay fit for others. Exercise has also been proven to lower the risk of some diseases. Exercising regularly lowers a person’s risk of developing some diseases, including obesity, type two diabetes, and high blood pressure. Exercise goes a long in assisting people to age well. Walking is something that can be done anywhere, anytime, with just a good pair of shoes. It’s not a form of exercise that exempts anyone as even the very fit can get a good workout from walking. Adding interval training to cardiovascular workout is another excellent way to boost the fitness level and help lose weight. The way to do it is to push the intensity or pace for a minute or two, then back off for anywhere from two to 10 minutes (depending on how long the total workout will be, and how much time is needed to recover). This should be continued throughout the workout. Strength training, as experts put it, is essential. Experts tend to favour strength-training exercises that target multiple muscle groups. Squats, which work the quadriceps, hamstrings, and gluteals, are an excellent example. For the perfect form, it is strongly recommended to keep feet shoulder-width apart and back straight. Bend knees and lower the rear. Like squats, lunges work all the major muscles of the lower body: gluteals, quadriceps and hamstrings. To do lunges right, take a big step forward, keeping the spine in a neutral position. Bend the front knee to approximately 90 degrees, focusing on keeping weight on the back toes and dropping the knee of the back leg toward the floor. If done correctly, the push-up can strengthen the chest, shoulders, triceps, and even the core trunk muscles, all at one time. For a perfect push-up, from a face-down position, place the hands slightly wider than shoulder-width apart. Place the toes or knees on the floor, and try to create a perfect diagonal with the body, from the shoulders to the knees or feet. Keep the glutes [rear-end muscles] and abdominals engaged. Then lower and lift your body by bending and straightening your elbows, keeping your torso stable throughout. Experts say that when done correctly, the familiar crunch (along with its variations) is a good choice to target them. For a standard crunch, it is strongly recommended to begin lying on your back with feet flat on the floor and fingertips supporting your head. Press your low back down and begin the exercise by contracting abdominals and peeling first your head (tucking your chin slightly), then your neck, shoulders, and upper back off the floor. Be careful not to pull your neck forward by sticking the chin out; don’t hold your breath, and keep elbows out of your line of vision to keep chest and shoulders open. This exercise works all the major muscles of the upper back, as well as the biceps. Here’s how to do it with good form: Stand with feet shoulder-width apart, then bend knees and flex forward at the hips. (If you have trouble doing this exercise standing up, support your weight by sitting on an incline bench, facing backward.) Tilt your pelvis slightly forward, engage the abdominals, and extend your upper spine to add support. Hold dumbbells or barbell beneath the shoulders with hands about shoulder-width apart. Flex your elbows, and lift both hands toward the sides of your body. Pause, then slowly lower hands to the starting position. (Beginners should perform the move without weights.)