Outspoken Enugu Catholic Priest, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, has announced a one-month shutdown of the Adoration Ministry. The Priest made the announcement in a notice on Tuesday morning. This decision, it was gathered, followed the order to him by the Catholic Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Bishop Calistus Onaga to embark on a one -month retreat The ministry sent out an alert on Tuesday morning to members that Fr. Mbaka was proceeding on the one-month private prayer retreat. The statement reads: “Our Spiritual Director, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka wishes to inform his beloved adorers that he has embarked on a private prayer retreat that will end on 10th June 2021. “Consequently, no ministry activities shall be held in the ministry ground pending his return. “He directs that members of the ministry are to observe this period of his retreat as they used to do during the usual January breaks of the ministry, by praying at their homes, being charitable and fasting according to their ability. Adoration! Holy Spirit is our Power.” It will be recalled following the media spat between Mbaka and the Presidency last week, the priest was summoned last Tuesday by the Bishop of the Diocese. On Wednesday, information on social media went viral that the priest was missing. His parishioners thereafter embarked on a protest to the Bishop’s Court where they allegedly destroyed properties within the premises. They were also said to have destroyed properties at the Holy Ghost Cathedral before he later appeared and took them away to New Haven where he addressed them. Addressing the parishioners, he said he was not allowed to contact his members while during the meeting with Bishop who ordered him to proceed immediately on one month suspension. He also alleged the Diocesan leadership wanted to close down the Adoration ministry. Following the attack, the Bishop, Callistus Onaga declared a one week prayer for reparation over the incident. But on Sunday, the priest apologised to the Bishop and other catholic faithfuls of the Diocese for the destruction of parts of the Bishop’s court and the Holy Ghost Cathedral by suspected members of his Ministry and Parish. He also said he was not kidnapped by the Diocese or anybody.