  The Southwest Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA) 2023 has explained why All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Tinubu should run for President. The group described the former Lagos State governor as a leader with national outlook, a detribalised, competent, courageous politician and statesman. To SWAGA, Tinubu’s knack to discover talents is legendary, while his stewardship in Lagos, which is a mini-country, shows that he has the experience, capability and mental resources to lead a diverse and multi-ethnic Nigeria. The SWAGA train rolled into Lagos when members of its Central Working Committee (CWC), led by Prince Dayo Adeyeye, addressed reporters on its vision, plans and fitness of its candidate for leadership in post-Muhammadu Buhari period. With Senator Adeyeye, a former Minister of State for Works, were the group’s deputy chairman Senator Soji Akanbi, former House of Representatives members Rotimi Makinde, Bosun Oladele and Oyetunde Ojo, as well as the Ifako/Ijaye Local Council Development Area (LCDA) Chairman Apostle Toba Oke. SWAGA, which explained that Asiwaju Tinubu had not unfolded any presidential ambition, said the outcome of its vast consultations in the Southwest confirmed his acceptability among many Nigerians. Adeyeye stressed that through the activities of the group, a voluntary organisation, “SWAGA will become a Nigerian agenda”.  The former minister said a President from the Southwest in the mould of Asiwaju Tinubu will always be fair to all the zones, adding that former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who hails from the Southwest, never marginalised any region. Adeyeye stressed: “Asiwaju will be fair to all as President. He has been fair to all nationalities in Lagos. He gave them positions based on capability. He will not be President of the Yoruba but President of Nigeria working for the interest of all Nigerians.” The SWAGA leader said there is justification for presidential zoning to the South to foster equity, fairness, justice and a sense of belonging. He added: “President Buhari will not contest for a third term. The position will be vacant in 2023. By principle, not cast in stone, the Presidency should rotate between the North and South, in a very diverse country characterised by the fragility of polity and centrifugal forces. It is a gentleman’s agreement.” Adeyeye said if there is zoning to the South, there will also be a decision on micro zoning, although there is no general agreement yet on its direction. The SWAGA leader recalled that zoning to the North became imperative in 2015 due to the extreme tension in the post-Umar Yar’Adua era when the region felt it was shortchanged. He calculated that by 2023, the North would have done 10 years at the Presidency, adding that it should be the turn of the South by then. Acknowledging the agitation for zoning to other micro-zones in the South, Adeyeye said: “The Presidency of Nigeria is too important to be given to a person sitting in the corner of his house. Power is not served a la carte.”  