A traditional doctor, Mrs Funmilola Lawrence-Ogidan,  has described herbal remedies as nature’s safest cure for most  ailments. Speaking with reporters in Lagos, she explained that while synthetic medical drugs almost produce side effects in patients, herbal remedies do not. “I have tried and tested both western and herbal medicines and I can tell you categorically that God has provided us with every single herb we need for our good health. The herbs that we have all around us will do us a whole lot of good work when we treat them right. Herbal medicines perform healing miracles in us. “We haven’t reached that stage where western medicine would be totally replaced by herbal remedies for all ailments. Having alternatives helps us all. I believe that most western medicines originate from our own local herbs but with a lot of synthetic processes that deplete nature and produce side effects,” she said. A certified member of the Nigeria Association of Medical Herbalists and National Association of Nigerian Traditional Medicine Practitioners, Mrs Lawrence-Ogidan, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Global New Herbal Life (GNHL), owns arguably the largest health farm and NAFDAC-certified factory for producing herbal remedies in the Southwest. Her passion for herbal remedies grew when she had to heal her protracted barrenness with herbs after western medical methods had failed her. She said: “I had serious hormonal disorder that stopped me from getting pregnant for many years. I did IVF severally. I was given different injections daily, but the minute I started using my own herbs, everything started going back to normal. To the glory of God, I had my own baby. It was normal delivery even at that age. There were no issues or complications at all with the pregnancy or after the delivery.” She has produced over 70 tried and tested ready-to-drink and ready-to-rub herbal remedies with stunning testimonials, details of which she shared in her press interview. “Unlike before when I used to suffer from malaria and fever often, we now have a one-time herbal cure and with our modern factory equipment and attending technology, we are able to do a lot of toxicology tests to ensure that our herbal remedies come in the right dosage. ‘’So, now, we produce in safe quantities and with NAFDAC-approved scientific quality that can be sold without reducing the component of herbs that we use.” Asked if her fever remedy can cure COVID-19, her carefully weighed words were: “COVID-19 and its many variants have further opened our eyes to the limitations of western medicine. A whole lot of people went back to ginger, garlic and other herbs. I believe that herbal remedies would get us farther going forward,” she added.