To equip its staff members with requisite knowledge and increase their capacity for best practices, the Lagos State Real Estate Regulatory Authority (LASRERA) has held a five-day in-house staff learning and development programme on customer service professional ethics and practice. The objective of the training, according to the Special Adviser to the Governor on Housing, Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka, is to build a team of well-trained and dedicated  staff for the agency. The Special Adviser stated that the training provides ample opportunity for the staff members of LASRERA to review and reflect on the changes being witnessed by the agency to continue to sanitise the real estate industry towards engendering best professional practices in the Sector. Benson-Awoyinka said: “As a team member of LASRERA, practitioners in the sector are bound to ask us many questions, lodge complaints and make different requests from us including the public, hence the need to be prepared to provide answers to all these enquiries as much as possible. This is one of the benefits of this in-house training.” She stressed the need to follow the template of a customer-friendly approach for effective service delivery of the government’s T.H.E.M.E.S. Agenda, especially the “Making Lagos A 21st Century Economy” pillar of the agenda where the activities of the agency fall. In her words, “As representatives of this Agency, we must give adequate information needed to instill public confidence in our activities. We must maintain positive dispositions when dealing with Real Estate Practitioners and the general public.” The Special Adviser expressed the hope that the training session will further build the abilities of the participants on how to drive the present Administration’s vision policy of safeguarding and protecting investments and investors across the state. One of the Facilitators during the training session, Mr Nduka Mba-Uzoukwu who spoke on Customer Service Excellence stressed  that sustaining the State Government’s goals in service delivery would ensure a great experience for the Stakeholders in the State’s Real Estate Market. He commented that customer experience across all service points of the Agency must be excellent, adding that emotions must be guarded when dealing with stakeholders to achieve the Agency’s desired vision.