OYO State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has expressed sadness and regret over what it described as a failed attempt by Governor Seyi Makinde to cover up his complicity in the death of a young girl by one of his supporters in Ogbomosho on Thursday. A statement by the Assistant Publicity Secretary of the party, Prince Ayobami Adejumo, said it was a height of insensitivity and irresponsibility for Governor Makinde to have made any attempt to deny the fact that innocent girl’s life was cut short by one of his core loyalists who drove recklessly to create fear in the mind of the people. The statement reads “The whole world was made to see the video clip of a bewildered man carrying the lifeless body of a little girl who was said to have been killed by a reckless driver in the convoy of Gov. Makinde. The man took the charred remains of the slain girl to the campaign ground of the PDP and nobody could challenge him because everyone knew his claim was right. Meanwhile, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr. Sunday Dare has said swift action is needed to apprehend the culprit of the killer of the young child in Ogbomoso on Thursday. Dare said the governor and the police should quickly investigate the brutal killing by a yet- to- be apprehended motorist. Mr. Dare said the tragic incident should not degenerate to an argument about the governor’s convoy,  but  the circumstances that led to loss of  life of a  precious child should be established. Also, Former Governor, Adebayo Alao-Akala said in a statement in Ibadan  that the child was killed by a car suspected to be in Makinde’s motorcade in Ogbomoso on Thursday. The former governor described the incident as sad and unfortunate, saying it was heartbreaking to see the father of the little girl carrying the lifeless body of his once bubbly child in tears and anguish. He urged Makinde to ensure that a thorough investigation was carried out on the incident and the findings made public. Alao-Akala insisted that no matter how highly placed the person involved was, such individual must be brought to book. Makinde had, on his Twitter handle on Thursday , commiserated with the bereaved family but said  the car was not part of his convoy. His words: “I received with deep concern the report that my convoy ran over a child on our way to Ogbomoso, earlier today. Our preliminary investigation revealed that the child was hit by an individual driving a Toyota Matrix car who lost control of his vehicle. He was not part of my convoy.”