 From the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) came the somewhat startling disclosure that the country needs about $2billion annually for three consecutive years in the first instance, to overcome its security challenges. Air Vice Marshall M. A. Yakubu, director of production, DHQ, made the disclosure during a public hearing organised by the House of Representatives Committee on Defence on the proposed N100 billion Armed Forces Support Trust Fund bill. “If we are not able to raise a minimum of $2 billion per annum in the next three years for a start, subsequently maybe we can begin to taper down the percentages.” He gave his reason: “we need a bulk sum because many of these manufacturers of equipment require a 100 per cent down payment to even start production. “So you cannot sign a contract, for example, with the US manufacturers and pay 15 per cent mobilisation as required by the procurement act. Their terms must be followed. Many times we are asked to pay 100 per cent. An example is the super Tucano. This one is on government to government. They insisted on 100 per cent payment within 30 days. No budgetary allocation would fund that,” he said. We may not have facts to counter the adequacy or otherwise of this obviously huge sum, given the size of our average annual budget. One thing that cannot be denied though is that the country is at war. Whether the war is being orchestrated by some people, either for political or pecuniary gains, is not the issue here. What is a fact is that Nigeria is being assailed by many security challenges, including Boko Haram insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and armed robbery, among many others, that have stretched the security agencies beyond their capacities. The officers and men of the Nigerian Armed Forces have had to be drafted in to assist the police and other para-military agencies charged with internal security. This has, somewhat turned out to be a blessing in disguise because it has, somehow exposed the military’s weaknesses and challenges, hence its inability to defeat terror in more than a decade of engagement. At the hearing, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, adduced what could be another leg of the challenges faced by the military in combating banditry and other crimes. According to Gbajabiamila, about 91 per cent of current funding to the Nigerian Armed Forces goes to recurrent overhead, salaries and welfare, leaving only nine per cent for capital purchases. Not much progress can be made with this lopsided sharing formula that tilts excessively in favour of overheads. We are not suggesting that overheads should be relegated to the background because morale has to be high in any establishment to get results. But in the specific case of the military, they must also be supported with the modern tools of warfare to deliver optimally. A situation where our soldiers go to battle with machine guns mounted on pickup vans does not portray the country as a serious one, given its expected role in African, if not global politics. We might have agreed with AVM Yakubu that the N100million being sought for the trust fund may not be adequate given the neglect that the armed forces had suffered in the past, but for corruption that seems to have also permeated the armed forces. Billions of Naira have been reportedly missing or unaccounted for on the excuse that defence spendings cannot be made public. We do not understand the place of this in a democracy. Such lack of accountability and transparency is enough cover for officers with itchy palms to not only covet the resources allocated to the military but also to actually steal from the funds. Some senior military officers had been convicted for fraud while the military itself has had cause to court-martial others for graft.  This probably explains why we have little results from the over N10trillion that had been reportedly spent on defence in the last 10 years. We cannot continue to pour water into a basket. There is an urgent need to review certain activities in the military. There are some things we do not have control over; like military equipment manufacturers insisting on 100 percent downpayment as indication of seriousness. Obviously, they are being guided by experience.  Some customers could change their minds on already ordered equipment either due to regime change or indiscretion, which might lead to cancellation of orders or alteration of specification after production has commenced. The antidote to this is for us to get more serious and lean towards more local production of some of our military hardware. There should be some transparent control over how resources allocated to the military are utilised. This makes follow-up easier and also curbs the tendency for pilfering of resources.