Meristem has launched a wealth creation and management campaign as part of its efforts to encourage investors to partner with experienced and trusted partners who understand the investment terrain and can help them grow and manage their wealth for posterity. The campaign, entitled: “Generations“, harps on the message of growth, wealth preservation and wealth transfer. As with its previous campaign, the new television commercial showcases Art Doyen, Mama Nike Okundaye Davies but with a bonus this time- Mama’s very own daughter, Allyson- Aina Davies. Still anchored on the brand’s dynamic campaign promise of “Let’s take you farther” the brand hopes to adequately pass the message of ‘your wealth should not end with just you alone, let it transcend generations after you’. According to the company, the choice of Nike Okundaye-Davies and Allyson-Aina Davies seeks to solidify the importance of not just growing your wealth, but also that of wealth preservation and wealth transfer. The importance of making the right investment choices that will outlive you such that generations after you will enjoy and benefit from. Notably, Aina, who is the Managing Director of Nike Arts Gallery, is following boldly in Mama’s footsteps with her love for the arts and adire which led her to write a book on that same subject matter ‘Storytelling through adire’. As the global environment continues to struggle from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has become imperative for investors to allocate their resources smartly and safeguard their investments for now and for generations with organisations who possess the knowledge and investment domain expertise to build lasting wealth. Group Managing Director, Meristem Securities Limited, Oluwole Abegunde, said the company hss operated a client-oriented business which has helped it to create tailor-made financial solutions for its clients, some of which include trusteeship services such as estate planning and commercial trust, retirement planning, mutual funds, foreign denominated products like Meristem Dollar Investment Portfolio, Real Estate Advantage Portfolio and Probate Management Service, among others. “We will continue to be proactive with product innovation so that our clients can be assured that we are not just growing their wealth for now, we are growing it for generations,” Abegunde said. Adefemi Taiwo, Head Brand Management, Meristem, highlighted that it’s the dream of every parent to leave a good legacy for their children so it’s not just enough to invest, but one  needs to invest smartly- with a partner who cares about the longevity of one’s investment and wealth. “ With this campaign, we hope to reaffirm our commitment to our existing clients and encourage prospective clients to come on board. We won’t only grow your wealth; we will make sure it stands the test of time and grow it for generations, “ Taiwo said. Taiwo said the new campaign would, no doubt, further strengthen Meristem’s dominance in the industry in which it operates. Meristem, a capital market conglomerate and diversified financial services provider offers stockbroking, wealth management, asset management, trustee services and financial advisory. Over the past 16 years, Meristem has been consistent in value creation and innovation within the capital market space.  Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited awarded Meristem as the best digital broker of the year. In 2018 also, Meristem became the first Nigerian asset management firm to attain compliance with the Global Investment Performance Standards (GIPS) by the CFA Institute. In 2017, Meristem handled the single largest trade in the history of the NGX.