Senior Pastor of The Covenant Nation, and host of The Platform, Poju Oyemade, says clamours for secession are masterminded by political opportunists who want to control the nation’s resources by dividing Nigerians along the lines of ethnicity and religion. Oyemade, during a sermon in a video obtained by The Nation, advised those pushing a destructive agenda to stop wasting their time, pointing out that their predictions will not happen. The cleric pointed out that the volume of intercession for Nigeria is more than enough to avert any impending doom. “Let me just tell you, this country is not breaking. The reason is that before God does anything in a nation, He calls His people. Even if they have done wrong and He wants to judge them, if He finds intercessors, he will look away from the judgment and correct it without bringing judgment. “There are many people that are shouting, ‘Destroy! Destroy!’ and using ethnicity to divide this country. Let me tell you, in this same country, from 1969 to 1975, the Head of State, General Gowon, was a Christian. The Number Two man was a Christian. The Chief of Army Staff was a Christian. Nobody shouted. “Nigeria was not always like this. The freest and fairest democratic election to date in Nigeria was won by a Muslim presidential candidate and a Muslim vice presidential candidate, and they won Christian states. What suddenly happened to Nigeria? Some political leaders felt the best way to control people, to access money and power was to put wedges between people. So they began to play up the differences between people. It is a political strategy to control the people. “But when they are sharing money, there is no tribe or religion; they are sharing it behind. So wake up. Don’t let anybody use your head to break anything because when the thing starts, they will be at Murtala Muhammed airport and before you know it, they will be tweeting at you from London while you will be on the run. “Don’t start following people who are saying, ‘We will destroy’ because you don’t know what people are cleaning out. This country was established as a business and people have been making money.”