The big interview with the in-form Leicester City striker as he talks through his mother’s death, adjusting to British weather, his 12-month goal drought, and more  After six years in England, Kelechi Iheanacho is finally at the front of the queue. Patience has been required of the Nigerian to reach a point where he has leapfrogged to lead the charge in the FA Cup final as one of the most prolific strikers in world football. Nine goals in six games has not only helped Leicester City lift the trophy  for the first time– his quarter-final brace against Manchester United saw him overtake Didier Drogba as the highest-scoring African player in FA Cup history – but it has also transformed his reputation. From his early days at Manchester City through his first few years at the King Power Stadium, it seemed he was destined to remain in the shadows of the high-profile strikers ahead of him, and never be the main man himself. “It’s my route,” Iheanacho says from City’s training ground at Seagrave. “Everyone has their route in football and this is mine . LONG QUEUES “It wasn’t only Aguero at Man City. There were five strikers. It was a long queue. I was behind Dzeko, Jovetic, Negredo, and Bony. It was quite long! But I trained there loving football and trying to improve every day. And I did start playing. “Then I came to Leicester and I saw another queue. A queue with Vardy, Ulloa, Okazaki, Slimani, and the rest. “But I am still alive and here and there is hope every day. So I am happy and loving the football. I am not leaving Leicester at the moment but if I ever do then I will be careful not to get in to any more queues.” The journey to the front of the queue at Leicester, where he signed a new three-year deal this month, has been fraught with obstacles, starting from his days as a teenager in Nigeria. The 24-year-old captured the hearts of the nation when he scored a hat-trick on Mother’s Day and dedicated to the mums around the world “who look after us”. It was especially poignant given Iheanacho lost his own mum, Mercy, when he was just 16. His celebration, a point to the skies, is in her memory.  FOR LATE MUM “I think about her every day,” he says. “There is not a day I don’t remember her. I know she is in a good place now. “It helps me to keep working hard and every day and to keep going. My worst fear was to lose her. There is nothing that could scare me any more in this life.  “So I just keep being who I am and I know she is behind me. Every day I see her and think about her. All the rest of my life she will be there and the memories will be there.” A few months after her passing, Iheanacho was named player of the tournament as Nigeria won the Under-17s World Cup, his performances catching Man City’s eye.  WINTER COLD Moving from Nigeria to the north-west of England provided a culture shock that he, and his dad, were not ready for. It didn’t help that his first training session was in February. “It wasn’t easy for me when I first came, it was really too cold for me,” he says. “I wanted to go back to my country because it was too cold.  “They told me: ‘Listen, you have come here to stay. You have come to play football. They have signed you now so you have to play. You’re under contract now so you have to.’ “It was the first time my Dad had been out in cold weather. He wanted to watch me train but after 10 minutes I couldn’t see him. He had gone inside. “He never came to another game. He said it was too cold. I am not being funny but he has not been back (to the UK). The last time was when I told you in 2014, when he left after 10 minutes. “I’m alright with the cold weather now. It was okay. I am used to it.” After his £25million move to City, the aforementioned queue prevented Iheanacho from making an immediate impact. But with Leo Ulloa, Shinji Okazaki, and Islam Slimani all leaving, the Nigerian was left as the sole deputy to Vardy, and those boots proved too big to fill at first. Between September 2018 and September 2019, he did not score a single competitive goal. THE DROUGHT During that 12-month goal drought, Iheanacho admitted he had doubts over his own ability, but was able to retain faith that it would all work out. “It was a difficult, difficult period,” he said. “But that belief is still there. “Sometimes it just won’t click, whatever you do. Even if you try to do the right thing it won’t click. Then when the wrong things happen you lose your head. You keep trying and trying and trying and still it won’t come – and you think you’re losing it. “Well at that stage that’s when you have to believe and have faith that no matter how bad it is and even when it’s getting worse, something good is waiting for you. Even in the worst times something is being prepared for you. “Even if this period hadn’t come I would have kept going. But the good days are here so I want to keep them going now.” The good days really are here for Iheanacho. His recent hot streak means that he has 14 goals for the season, the same as his strike partner Jamie Vardy, while he has a better goals-per-minute ratio than the likes of Harry Kane and Mo Salah. RODGERS INFLUENCE For reaching this level, he gives a lot of credit to Brendan Rodgers. But, equally he is not going to relax and enjoy this moment too much, because he knows there is more to achieve, and more goals to score. “The manager has been a great influence and a great part in this,” he says. “He is the number one person in this because he keeps encouraging me to keep going, to keep working hard and take my chances when they come. “He is the number one influence outside of my family, plus my team-mates. They all love me, they all want me to do well and I’m really happy here. “My family call me and give me support, even my friends as well. Everyone around me is really in support of me even when I’m not in my best moments. That’s why I love them and will be around them for a while. “As much as I’m enjoying it I need to focus for any challenges which will be thrown at me. I’m in a good position but I need to focus, keep working hard every day. “Mentality-wise I need to be ready every single game because that is what everyone is looking up to. “I need to be mentally ready every game to make sure I help my team-mates and do my best for the club.” The immediate focus is to fire City back into the Champions League. And then, it is a case of convincing his dad to finally brave the British weather again. “Hopefully we’ll get him back,” he says. “When they lift the lockdown and everywhere is safe, he can come. I’ll make sure he comes in the summer so that he will not feel so cold.” When his dad does arrive, he will find a son that is smiling, confident, and with nobody ahead of him in the queue.