The Ondo State Security Network Agency Codenamed Amotekun has commenced training for its newly recruited 600 officers drawn from the Oodua People’s Congress, Vilgilante groups, hunters and ex-militants. Commander of the Ondo Amotekun, Chief Adetunji Adeleye, said the 600 successful candidates were selected out of 14,500 applicants. Adeleye, who spoke at the opening ceremony of the training program at the Technical College in Owo Local Government area, said the new recruits would undergo basic Amotekun training such as intelligence gathering, combat, arm usage, monitoring, intervention, quick response and other issues. The Amotekun boss said the security network does not tolerate any act of indiscipline. He warned them to imbibe all what they would be taught so as to perform well on duty or be summarily dismissed. “There are 600 trainees in this camp as well as numeral instructors who are professionals in their respective fields. “You are advised to abide by the rules and regulations as regimentation and discipline are the order of the day. “You will undergo series of lectures, drills, basic tactics and weapon handling during the course of your training. These would be carefully fashioned purposefully to bring out the best in you. “The people before you became the bright because of their doggedness and dedication to the society. The commander warned that Amotekun is not an avenue to oppress another nor embarking on corruption from any one. “It’s not everyone that started the course that finished. It depends on how much you put out in the training you get,” he said Senior Special Assistance to Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu on Security, Alahaji Jimoh Dojumo, said the training was part of the state security architecture to ensure adequate security “They were drawn from different background from the hunters and OPC, Vigilante and various freedom fighters who have on their own contributed to security in the state. “We are bringing them together to drop what they think they have to now imbibe in them the Amotekun culture in the next six weeks,” he said.