THE fifth time was the charm for Leicester City, who has claimed its first FA Cup in a Youri Tielemans-authored and VAR-reviewed 1-0 win over Chelsea at Wembley Stadium on Saturday. Leicester City had lost the 1949, 1961, 1963, and 1969 FA Cup Finals, but now hoist the trophy after a 52-year wait between finals. Tielemans scored an audacious goal from distance to put the Foxes ahead, and Ben Chilwell’s 90th-minute equalizer was taken off the board by VAR for a razor-thin offside as Brendan Rodgers’ men won it all. Leicester CEO Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha was shown pumping his first, crying, and point to the image of his late father, Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha, who was killed in a helicopter crash after a match in late 2018. Former Leicester full-back Ben Chilwell saw a last-gasp Chelsea effort ruled out for offside after a video assistant referee review, while Kasper Schmeichel earlier made a superb save to deny Mason Mount. The Foxes were contesting just their first FA Cup final since 1969, when the Beatles were number one with Get Back and Neil Young’s goal sunk the hopeful Foxes – and an eight-year-old Gary Lineker cried all the way home on the train. The only tears of Leicester blue this time out were of joy and relief however, as Rodgers’ men capitalised on Chelsea’s toothless final-third play. Chelsea’s second FA Cup final defeat in as many years will now put a major squeeze on the end of the Blues’ season. New boss Thomas Tuchel has transformed the Stamford Bridge men after replacing Frank Lampard on January 26 but Chelsea now face a dogfight to secure a top-four Premier League finish – that starts with hosting Leicester on Tuesday night. The Champions League final against Premier League champions Manchester City on May 29 in Portugal must now seem an age away for Tuchel and his luckless Blues. And for the likes of Mason Mount and Reece James, two FA Cup final losses in succession will be a bitter pill after such a resurgent second-half to this campaign. A number of fans booed the players for taking the knee before kick-off, though the anti-racism gesture also received warm applause. However, video technology intervened to overrule the decision and restore Leicester’s lead in dramatic circumstances