 FRUSTRATED by the lethargy and intransigence of the federal government in addressing the existential crisis facing Nigeria, lawyer, educationist and eponymous proprietor of the Afe Babalola University Ado Ekiti (ABUAD), Afe Babalola, announced that he would be joining other worried patriots to hold a national dialogue to address the issues fracturing Nigeria. The presidency took the announcement in bad faith, condemning him and many others who advocate a conference, and even suggesting that the call for a national dialogue was treasonous. Presidential spokesmen incredibly anticipated the outcome of the conference and insisted that one of the chief reasons for the national dialogue Chief Babalola was planning was to pass a vote of no confidence in President Muhammadu Buhari. The agenda for the conference was yet to be drawn, and the attendees at the conference remained moot, but a presidential degree of second sight had judged the meeting to be gloomy and foreboding. Remaining comfortable, therefore, in its denial and operating under the false impression that Nigeria was blossoming into a species of Utopia under their administration, the presidency carried on, to the dismay of the general populace and detriment of life, limb and finance all over the country. Issues were treated symptomatically, rather than holistically, and secessionist cries soon increased to frightening decibels. It was therefore no surprise that 13 governors of the southern states, and an additional two represented by their deputies, came together last Tuesday in Asaba, Delta State to lend their voices to the call for a national dialogue as a “matter of urgency”. That the governors of the federation have been polarised along southern and northern lines is troublingly reminiscent of pre-Lugardian amalgamation politics. However, Nigeria has since moved beyond that level, and governors often meet, straddling geopolitical and partisan boundaries. Not even the placative constitutional review that the administration dangled before Nigerians last week could prevent the governors’ meeting. No one can fault the governors. It is surprising that certain governors from the North and the Middle- Belt, going by their progressive and even radical views, were not in attendance. The meeting and the ensuing Asaba communiqué read by Governor Rotimi Akeredolu must serve as a timely reminder to the presidency that Nigerian politics is ideally organised as a federation and not a unitary government. For too long, component units of the federation have allowed diversity and politicking to disunite them, consolidating federal might to a frightening degree of absoluteness. Now, the governors have come together to pressure the federal government to dialogue on issues it had long since neglected and relegated. The issues are: urgent and bold steps to restructure Nigeria; full enforcement of ban on open grazing and cattle movement from North on foot; president Buhari should address Nigerians on insecurity; concern over Oshodi/Apapa Road gridlock, activation of more ports across the states; concern over economic implication of another Coronavirus pandemic lockdown; review of appointments into government dept/security agencies to reflect diversity; and united Nigeria on basis of equity, justice, peace. It is hoped that somewhere in the national dialogue they will find time to address the disaster that the stagflating Nigerian economy has become. Restructuring, had it commenced a long time ago, would have prevented many of the issues Nigeria now grapples with. During the Jonathan administration in March 2014, Justice Idris kutigi oversaw a national conference that came up with a 10,335-page report which the government of the day promised but failed to implement. Had the federal government implemented it as promised by former president Goodluck Jonathan, or had it even commenced the implementation of the conference, then there would have been more hope of a united Nigeria than there is the current public despair of a disunited Nigeria. That Nigeria can accomplish more is evident, but only if the country is restructured with more foresight than was deployed to achieve the Japanese post-war economic miracle. Should the administration approach issues of restructuring with the insincerity of the Jonathan administration and the ungallant show of force that has characterised the current administration, things can get worse than they already are. The level of support that has attended the Asaba communiqué is too extensive for the presidency to ignore and too pointed for it to deflect. The constitution will eventually be rewritten to accommodate emerging realities in Nigeria’s socio-political ecosystem.  It is that fading hope of a united Nigeria that Senate President Ahmed Lawan and Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila clung to when they addressed the Asaba communiqué. Said Senator Lawan: “I believe that, as leaders, especially those of us who are elected, should not be at the forefront of calling for this kind of thing because, even if you are a governor, you are supposed to be working hard in your state to ensure that this restructuring you are calling for at the federal level, you have done it in your state as well. What you may accuse the Federal Government of, whatever it is; you may also be accused of the same thing in your state. So, we are supposed to ensure that we have a complete and total way of ensuring that our systems at the federal, state and even local government levels work for the people. We should avoid regionalism. We are all leaders and we are in this together. The solutions to our challenges must come from us regardless of what level of government we are, whether at the federal, state or the local government level. I believe that Nigeria is going to come out of these challenges stronger”. His appreciation of the issue is academic. Indeed, the theoretical blame should be shared equally between the state governments and the federal government, but that is not the be all and end all of the matter. The federal government, especially the executive, has found ways to appropriate and vest so much power in the centre that the state governments have become virtually useless. Section 215 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) makes the state governor the chief security officer of the state but the power is heavily derogated by the presidency’s oversight function on such power. How then can such a governor tackle insecurity, especially when many of the governors and the presidency are divided on the issue of open grazing? State governors have to defer to presidential directives on the administration of the economy, and have for a long time felt like puppets and figureheads in their various government houses, hence the call for restructuring and a national dialogue. The senate president only needs to step off his high horse to understand that he offends them by appropriating equal blame to a negligent federal government (of which he is conspicuously a part) and helpless, and sometimes castrated, ceremonial state governments. Although the House of Reps has sprung to the defense of its speaker, his controversial statements initially left Nigerians in doubt concerning whether his loyalty lay with the people he represents or the president he had just finished praying with. Almost echoing the senate president, he said: “If truth be told, we all have equal shares in the blame for what is happening today. Whatever challenges we have, we must all come together to make sure that we resolve these issues we are facing. We must imbibe that spirit of oneness, togetherness, unity and love that would take us through this.” As the English say, “Fine words butter no parsnips.” Indeed, it is easier to defend the speaker than it will be to defend Senator Lawan, but the expensiveness and urgency of the need for a national dialogue and restructuring make the trading of blames more irksome than desirable. As a matter of fact, contrary to his feeble stance, the federal government, not the state governors, should have been the ones advocating for the national dialogue. The federal government is, however, more willing to take control of natural resources than it is to take responsibility for national woes. This will become manifest if the offensive RUGA policy and the comical Water Bill are juxtaposed with the presidency’s stance on whose job it is to prosecute banditry and kidnapping. No sensible government with a clear path should have allowed the insecurity in the land to fester and gangrene to the odious sore it has become. And why does Sen Lawan preclude regionalism? Should he not allow Nigerians to have the last say, even if they seem nostalgic? Despite its insistence, the presidency has not displayed a deep enough understanding of the economic crisis convulsing Nigeria. The wilted giant of Africa was already in a bad place prior to the advent of COVID-19. Following the destruction and impoverishment of the national lockdown and the following EndSARS protests, the presidency continually toyed with the idea of another lockdown, while arbitrarily shutting and opening borders to economic activity and placing bans on legitimate sources of livelihood. Until thinkers with foresight direct the presidency, there is no hope that it has the professional resource to chart a course of recovery for the Nigerian economy. The governors hope that the national dialogue will push the presidency to open more ports and decongest the Apapa/Oshodi gridlock. Those are lofty expectations from a federal government that is too obsessed with oil, including exploring it in regions that do not hold too much prospect. Importantly, the hope of Nigerians is that the state governors’ meeting and the resultant resolutions, which were a hair’s breadth away from being a vote of no confidence in the Buhari administration, will shock the presidency into constructive and progressive action to revivify the socio-economic reality of the country. It would be futile for the presidency to exhibit its characteristic intransigence by taking on the governors. It must mull the situation with all the care and depth of reason the problem deserves before venturing to make any replies. When in fact it makes those replies, the hope and expectations of the governors will be that the response comes from the president himself, repentant of his previous obstinacy to calls for restructuring, and armed with cogent plans for the phoenix birth of a new Nigeria; for already the country is in an uproar.