The sit-at-home as ordered by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) leader, Nnamdi Kanu to remember the fallen Biafra soldiers, was successful in Anambra State. The roads from Awka to Onitsha to Nnewi and Ekwulobia looked like ghost cities, while vehicles were equally not seen, despite the security presence everywhere. Residents remained indoors for fear of being killed by unidentified gunmen, while Banks were ordered to close from their headquarters for fear of being attacked by the hoodlums. All the 63 big markets in the Communities in Anambra State were all closed, while every shop in the State from Onitsha to Nnewi were under lock and key. The presence of the Military, Police, Navy and other security agencies on the roads Monday in the State did not stop the people obeying IPOB’s order. The new Assistant Inspector General of Police in charge of zone-13 Ukpo, Mallam Garba Mohammed, has assured Governor Willie Obiano that he would help his government to recover the State from hoodlums. He spoke Monday in Obiano’s Aguleri country home in Anambra East local government area, when he paid him a courtesy visit. Mohammed said they would redesign a more technical measure and expertise to tackle insecurity by deploying additional personnel to strategic places in the state. AIG stressed the determination of the police to clamp down the command and control centres of hoodlums. Mallam Muhammad assured the public of confidentiality of information offered to them to assist their investigations. Obiano, in response, pleaded with the AIG to move into action in order to ensure prompt response to emergency situations, adding, this would help to sustain the confidence of the public in them. One of the business women in the State, Mrs Ebelechukwu Okafor, who spoke with The Nation on phone, said there was no one who knew he or she would be killed and continues moving to the spot. She said it was better to challenge the government than challenging unidentified hoodlums, who had continued to kill people in all the States in the Southeast. “My life is important to me. You can’t challenge those you don’t know. They’ve been warning us to stay at home and we have to obey. Live has no duplicate, “Mrs Okafor said. A staff of one of the new generation Banks, who pleaded anonymity, said the closure of their office came from their headquarters for fear of killing and burning of the facility by the hoodlums. Before the sit-at-home day, all the Schools in the State, Primary, Secondary and Higher Institutions had quickly closed between Wednesday and Thursday last week as a result.