Renewable energy providers, Zola Electric, yesterday said constant power supply will boost growth and lead to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (UN) in the country. Its Acting Managing Director, Olufemi Ashipa, who spoke in Lagos, said the solar space has come a long way from the days of using dirty and expensive power resources to clean energy sources, offering modular and scalable technology. According to him, almost half the population has no access to electricity. The rest of the population is grossly underserved by the electricity grid. As a result, diesel generators are the default source of power, with an estimated 100 million people currently relying on diesel generators each day. He said the firm has launched a robust distribution scheme to drive market penetration and access to its product in its quest to provide clean, effective, and reliable power anywhere. Already, the firm has signed into its distribution network some of the leading distributors of solar and renewable products across the country and has kept its doors opened for more. He said while Blue Camel, a leading provider of renewable energy solutions including PV panels, solar streetlights, solar home systems and a major distributor for global solar brands, was recently signed into the scheme, Blackain, Blackbit Solar, Shokenny Solutions, Enersys Energy, Solarmate Energy, and SOSAI Renewables are already at different stages of the distribution partnership. Ashipa said: “The solar space in Nigeria has come a long way from the days of using dirty and expensive power resources to clean energy sources, offering modular and scalable technology. Since many customers do not have existing appliances, ZOLA is able to offer a closed loop system that guarantees a certain baseline of performance and runtime. At ZOLA, we are driven by the desire to provide Africa’s most extensive off-grid renewable differentiated power solutions to people anywhere. We understand that power is pivotal to accelerating the overall socio-economic development of the continent, so we have designed the ZOLA Infinity and ZOLA Flex, for this purpose. “The ZOLA power solutions help to provide customers with steady electricity supply in any situation. The ZOLA technology driven solutions backed with superior power storage and dynamic energy charging system, were conceived at Oxford University, and designed in Silicon Valley. They are easy to install, scaleable and help the average home or business bridge their power deficit. “With ZOLA currently powering more than 1 million people; comprising over 200,000 homes and businesses across Tanzania, Rwanda, Côte d’Ivoire, Ghana, and Nigeria, we are poised to actualise our objective providing 24 hour clean power anywhere and help the continent realise her untapped potentials.” Meanwhile, the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has unveiled four new standards for renewable energy and energy efficiency. According to the Agency, apart from increasing access to power supply across the country, the new standards would open up improved investments in the renewable and efficient energy sector. It said in a statement that the solar power industry relies heavily on standardisation, adding that renewable energy has become increasingly important across the country. The Agency has therefore unveiled new energy standards for energy meters, solar photovoltaic (PV) panels, inverters, batteries and charger controllers. Almost half the population has no access to electricity. The rest of the Nigerian population is grossly underserved by the electricity grid. As a result, diesel generators are the default source of power, with an estimated 100 million people currently relying on diesel generators each day (GTM, 2019). According to Nigeria’s Rural Electrification Agency (REA), the use of these generators collectively costs Nigeria’s households and businesses nearly $14 billion every year, while the Energy to Access Institute estimates that fuel subsidies for small gasoline-powered generators cost the government  $1.6-2.2 billion each year. Besides the economic costs, diesel generators entail significant health risks including lung disorders caused by emissions, as well as environmental risks including air and noise pollution. Diesel generators produce about 29 million metric tons of CO2 emissions each year in Nigeria, a total comparable to the annual emissions from 6.3 million passenger vehicles. Signing on distribution partners will contribute significantly to help bridge the electricity supply deficit by expanding access to ZOLA’s innovative power solutions across the country. The move by the brand, which currently serves over one million users across three continents in over 10 countries, is part of its efforts to boost its current market operation, as well as provide reliable power solutions to markets that lack energy access and make it possible for homes and businesses across Africa and anywhere in the world to generate, store and consume energy sustainably. SON said its move is to substantially increase the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix under the SDGs. Besides, the standards body stated that in a country such as Nigeria where expensive and ecologically harmful diesel generators are widely used, the unveiling of new standards would improve access to electricity in Nigeria. SON said it would deploy a multi-stakeholder approach with consultations and inputs from relevant public-private entities to develop a more regulated and standardised market that encourages further investments into Renewable Energy (RE) and Efficient Energy (EE) sector. To achieve this, the SON is currently being supported by the Nigerian Energy Support Programme (NESP), a technical assistance programme co-funded by the European Union and the German Government and implemented by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) GmbH in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Power. SON noted that due to its flexibility and affordability, solar power has fast become the most popular form of renewable power. SON said NESP aims to improve the framework conditions for investments in the application of renewable energy and energy efficiency and rural electrification, saying that its main objective is to provide guidance towards the achievement of the objectives of the strategy set for the implementation of renewable energy policy. “NESP aims at enabling and fostering investments in a domestic market for Renewable Energy (RE) and Energy Efficiency (EE) and improving access to electricity in Nigeria,” SON said. According to SON, following extensive consultations, 37 standards were selected and approved in November 2020, pointing out that given renewable energy’s increasing prominence, the solar power industry understandably relies heavily on standardisation. “Standards play an essential part in testing, energy conversion, reflectance or materials properties, fabricating arrays, integrating into the smart grid and assuring workplace safety,” SON stressed. The agency has been enlightening consumers on how to make informed purchasing decisions on energy serving electrical products and appliances.