Lagos State will harness and develop the potential of the new heritage sites discovered in Badagry, Epe, Alimosho and Ikorodu to boost its economic fortunes, Commissioner for Tourism Mrs. Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf has said. She addressed reporters yesterday as part of activities to mark Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s second year in office. The commissioner said the government would take over the management of the sites, develop and harness them to international standards to attract tourists and boost the economy. Akinbile-Yusuff, however, lamented that the ministry could not meet the N250 million Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) it was expected to contribute to fund the 2020 budget due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She said the proposed film city would begin by the end of the year, as talks were on with partners. According to her, the film city will afford movie practitioners, content owners and producers in the creative and entertainment industry a modern and conducive atmosphere for producing their contents. The commissioner said the J. K. Randle Centre for Yoruba Culture and History was nearing completion. She said upon completion, the centre would change the aesthetics of the cultural hub of Lagos Island, precisely Onikan. Said she: “J. K. Randle Centre is an edifice of cultural, ethnographic, historical and anthropological education, as well as elucidation of Lagos and the Yoruba race in general. The ministry and other relevant supervisory arms of the government, especially the Ministry of Works, have visited the project site to ensure it is delivered to specifications. As we speak, major work on this project has been finalised, the remaining work will be completed soon. “With the proposed Lagos Film City to be located at Ejirin in Epe Local Government, filmmakers are assured of better filming experience. We urge the practitioners to leverage on this initiative to carve a solid niche for themselves to improve their content and production. “One hundred hectares have been acquired for this purpose at Ejirin. Preliminary discussion with the private sector under a PPP arrangement is on. This initiative will boost and develop the movie and entertainment industry. We urge everyone to come on board and support this dream.” 