Israel moved to crush the Palestinian resistance yesterday as it launched a “law and order” campaign with the arrest of hundreds of leading figures involved in the latest uprising. Police announced their intention to arrest more than 500 Palestinian citizens of Israel over the next 48 hours under the guise of security measures. This is coming as U.S. President Joe Biden announced yesterday he is sending his top diplomat to the Middle East to meet with top regional officials following last week’s ceasefire between Israel and Hamas. Secretary of State Antony Blinken “will meet with Israeli leaders about our ironclad commitment to Israel’s security,” and will seek “to rebuild ties to, and support for, the Palestinian people and leaders, after years of neglect,” Biden said in a statement. Blinken will also “engage other key partners in the region, including on the coordinated international effort to ensure immediate assistance reaches Gaza in a way that benefits the people there and not Hamas, and on reducing the risk of further conflict in the coming months,” added Biden. Blinken will travel to Jerusalem, Ramallah, Cairo, and Amman beginning yesterday, and ending on Thursday, according to the State Department. But academic, Dr. Yara Hawari, said Tel Aviv had “declared war against Palestinians who dare to resist its colonial project and demand freedom”. Israeli forces swooped to arrest and jail a number of Palestinians in Jerusalem on Sunday who were attacked by settlers for defending themselves. They were sentenced to 18 months in Israeli prison, while the settlers remain free. “This is not just an attempt to intimidate and discipline those who participated in the Unity Uprising for justice and liberation. “This is a declaration of war. It is the settler colonial project’s way of attempting to crush our people’s spirit, resistance and resilience,” Dr. Hawari said. “Over 1,400 have already been arrested since May 9. At least 200 people will be charged. Israel’s arrest campaigns have primarily targeted minors and working-class kids,” she said. Israeli forces are targeting those who mobilised in the past few weeks in resistance to a deadly war that left scores of Palestinians dead, with missiles destroying civilian infrastructure and health facilities. According to the Palestinian Prisoners Club, the number of arrests in all parts of Palestine reached more than 2,400 cases, including women, children and the wounded. Hawari called on the international community to keep up the pressure on the Israeli government which has found itself increasingly isolated on the world stage. “Do not remain silent. Speak up and make it a priority for your solidarity campaign,” she said, stressing the importance of the protest movement. “We have to get back on the streets. Tweeting and posting on social media cannot replace real work on the ground.” Some 120 Israeli setters stormed the compound of the al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem yesterday accompanied by Israeli police, local reports said. The situation remains tense despite a fragile ceasefire continuing to hold at the time the Morning Star went to print.