Officials of the Department of State Services (DSS) have arrested one Olalekan Oladehinbo Adenuga for allegedly impersonating Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila. A suspected accomplice Aminat Jimoh was also arrested alongside others. It was gathered on Thursday that the Lagos office of the Service made the arrests while investigating the forging of a letterhead and signature of the Speaker, and using same to defraud individuals and organisations in the country. It was learnt that Adenuga introduced Jimoh to Caverton Helicopters at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos with a forged letter. In the forged letter, Adenuga allegedly acting as Speaker of the House of Representatives, recommended Jimoh to Caverton for employment. The letter, which was received by Caverton Helicopters on April 20, 2021, was written on April 15 and addressed to the managing director of the airline. It carried the reference number Nass/ FAG/REC/001. The letter reads partly, “I write to introduce and recommend Aminat Oluwabukola Jimoh who is seeking employment into your organisation. “She is a self-motivated and creative individual and I am sure she would be of great benefit to your establishment if given the opportunity. “Kindly give her application special consideration for employment. “While I look forward to a favourable response from you, please accept the assurances of my esteemed regards.” It was gathered that before luck ran out on Jimoh and her accomplice Adenuga, the Speaker’s Office in the National Assembly had received several complaints about unknown persons, who wrote agencies and organisations, claiming to be the Speaker or his aide, and making requests. Following the developments, the Speaker’s office, in an April 22, 2021 letter to the Department of State Security Services, had requested the secret police to investigate the complaints. Operatives of the command were said to have acted on the request, which led to Adenuga’s identification and arrest. The DSS was said to be on the trail of other suspects.