Ondo Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has read the riot act to traditional rulers in the state over issues of cultism, settlers and chieftaincy disputes. He threatened to sanction any traditional ruler who allows any group settle in their domains without reverting to the State Government. Akeredolu issued the threat in a statewide broadcast to address issues of illegal herders in the forest reserves and crisis in Owo and Ikare-Akoko in which over nine persons were killed and several others injured. The Governor warned any traditional ruler found unable to contain activities of cultists in his domain would be sanctioned according to the law. He listed communities like Ikare-Akoko, Owo, Okitipupa and Igbokoda as areas where cult activities are prevalent. According to him: “The State Government will not hesitate to impose 24- hour curfew on any community where there are crises and any culpable traditional rulers shall be sanctioned “Every individual having illegal firearms are advised to submit them to the security agencies as government has mandated the security agencies to prosecute any person found with such weapons; and. “Parents are advised to control their wards on the use of drugs and other enablers as security agencies have been mandated to be on guard with a view to apprehending users of such drugs.” Akeredolu, who denied report of 3,000 Fulani men resident at the Army Barracks in Okitipupa, expressed concerns over abuse of the social media to propagate false and fake news. On the crisis in Ikare-Akoko, the Governor said he has instructed security agencies to deal with anybody who flouted his order. “Chieftaincy tussles are ill-winds that have never blown anyone any good. It is a known fact that bitter tussles are capable of derailing society, stability and development programmes of government. “These tussles, if not carefully managed, could lead to conflagrations, especially when they assume ethnic or political colourations in view of the current tense situation in the country. “The instant case of Ikare-Akoko where the perennial crisis between Olukare and Owa Ale has dominated the length and breadth of the community in the last 72 hours is a cause for concern. Lives have been lost and properties destroyed over a minor chieftaincy in the community. ”As a way of stemming further crisis, government has imposed 24-hour curfew on the entire Ikare-Akoko till further notice. The immediate cause of the current crisis is the contention as to who is the rightful Olokoja. “Thus, government has also suspended the chieftaincy till further notice. Nobody should henceforth parade himself as the Olokoja.”