The Board of Directors of Chams Plc has made three major appointments to strengthen and expand the group’s business solutions and offerings to larger markets. They are Mayowa Olaniyan, a chartered accountant, who was appointed as Managing Director of Chamsmobile. Kayode Akomolafe became the Executive Director (ED) for Chamsmobile and Patricia Duru, who resumed as Group Chief financial Officer for Chams Plc. Olaniyan has over 27 years’ experience in finance, audit, automobile, and technology. Olaniyan  was the Chief Strategist and Financial Officer and later ED (Finance, Strategy and Services). She also drove the financial and business strategy that shot the Chams Group back to profitability. A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (FCA) and Associate of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Olaniyan holds an MBA from Edinburgh Business School, Heriot-Watt University, United Kingdom (UK). Akomolafe holds a Bachelor of Technology from Federal University of Technology, Akure, a Masters in Information System Technology from University of Liverpool, UK as well as Executive MBA from Lagos Business School. He is an Alumni of Nanyang Business School, Singapore. He is a certified Scrum Master, a Professional Member of British Project Professional Society, Scrum Alliance USA and Agile Practitioners Association of Nigeria. Duru resumed as the new Group Chief Financial Officer of Chams Plc with effect from March 8, 2021. Prior to joining Chams, she served as Chief Financial Officer of Interconnect Clearinghouse Nigeria Limited where she played a pivotal role in the financial growth of the business as well as significantly improving shareholder value over the last five years. The board expected Duru to provide support in driving the group’s strategic vision and harnessing greater wealth-building opportunities for shareholders. She joins the group with invaluable telecommunications, risk management, and financial Services experience. She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, an Associate of the Chartered Global Management Accountants & Chartered Management Accountants (UK) amongst others.