Experts have made a clarion call for the full operationalisation of the code of corporate governance across all spheres of governance in the country, including the public and the organised private sector. These calls become inevitable as the implementation of the code has been bogged down by bureaucracy, the experts maintained. The Nigerian Code of Corporate Governance was issued in 2018 by the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (the “FRCN”) following the suspension of the National Code of Corporate 11(c) and 41(c) of the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria Act, 2011. The Code is aimed at companies of various sizes across diverse industries, to institutionalise corporate governance best practices and promote public awareness of essential corporate values and ethical practices that will enhance the integrity of the business environment. One of the leading lights in the effort to fine-tune the workings of the code is the Compliance Institute, Nigeria (CIN), which set the ball rolling at a two-day board retreat in Lagos over the weekend. The virtual event tagged: ‘CIN: Expanding The Frontiers’ featured discussants drawn from professionals and officers within the regulatory compliance and enforcement departments of all private and public institutions across the country. Speaking on the essence of the theme, Mr. Pattison Boleigha, President/Chairman of Board the CIN, said: “The expansion drive has become more imperative, considering the dynamics of the ever-changing world occasioned by the global pandemic. Besides, the Institute’s resolve to leverage on its many successes recorded over the past six years of existence, is in tandem with the consistency in the quality and standard of its operations and drive to spread the gospel of compliance across various sectors of the Nigerian economy.’’ Going down memory lane, he recalled that “Four years after starting operations, the Institute has definitely started seeing an increasing rate of companies embedding compliance practices in their businesses. The right tone for compliance in the country is gradually building momentum.” Compliance, he maintained, “Should be part of all organisation’s operations and need to be entrenched in all staff and compliance officers through training and awareness creation.” With present Membership of over 2,200, the Institute will continue membership drive by extending to all sectors including insurance, pension, micro finance, bureau de change, tax administration and the capital market, he stressed. “In order to align with national and international outlook of compliance, the Institute, he hinted, is undergoing restructuring and reorganisation. The goal is to achieve a more national outlook and orientation by partnering with critical stakeholders within the public and private sectors. The Institute is also preparing for its eventual Charter application to the National Assembly.” Echoing similar sentiments, Chairman, Partnership and Communications Committee, CIN, Abimbola Adeseyoju said, “Our vision is to be acknowledged nationally and globally as the standard setter for compliance practice within the financial industry in Nigeria.” Top on the lists of topics discussed at the forum include: ‘Regulatory framework for resilient professional institute in Nigeria’ by Alhaji Abdullahi A. Yola, Managing Partner of A.A Yola and Co. Speaking on the ‘Running a Processional Institute limited by guarantee: Organisational structure and Best Practices’ Linus Okeke, Partner and Leader, Forensic Integrity Services at Ernst & Young, said, “A professional institute needs to design its processes to enable it achieve its status.” Also speaking at the event, Mr. ‘Seye Awojobi, Registrar/Chief Executive, The Chartered Institute Of Bankers Of Nigeria (CIBN), x-rayed ‘Governance in a Professional Institute: The Role of Directors.’ According to him, “The concept of corporate governance as it relates to management performance is conceived from the increasing need to separate ownership from control and management of companies Corporate governance in Nigeria is governed by the twin theories of stewardship and agency.” Pressed further, he said, “Bad corporate governance can cast doubt on a company’s operations and its ultimate profitability. The basic principles of corporate governance are accountability, transparency, fairness, and responsibility.” The strategy retreat also had industry experts like Olawale Odediran, President and Chairman of Governing Council at the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management of Nigeria (CIPM); Ibrahim Bello, General Secretary, the Association of Chief Compliance Officers of Banks in Nigeria (ACCOBIN) and Nneka Gloria Nwaka, Senior Regional Compliance Officer (Africa) at Money Gram International, who dissected the theme, ‘Strategies to getting Chartered in Nigeria and the role of Compliance in the strategic development of Nigeria.’ Fielding questions with journalists, Ibrahim Bello, General Secretary, the Association of Chief Compliance Officers of Banks in Nigeria (ACCOBIN), said a singular compliance template is not possible for all sectors because risk differs. He was however quick to add that one way to address the challenge of failed corporate governance is to get the law enforcement agencies involved.