CHIA: Dear Omobola of the Pension Solutions. I am a solicitor based in Makurdi, Benue State. I write on behalf of Mrs. Josephine of Gboko, Benue State. My client is the widow and next-of-kin of Nathaniel, formerly of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). The deceased was born on October 4, 1960, enlisted into the service of the NCS on October 1991 and died intestate on October 31, 2006. At the time of his death, the deceased was an Assistant Superintendent of Customs. After the deceased’s death, my client notified his employers. She also procured and submitted the relevant documents to the NCS headquarters in Abuja to facilitate the processing and payment of his death benefits claims. After the initial processing, the NCS forwarded my client’s application to the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD) for further processing and payment sometime in the year 2011. PTAD advised my client to participate in a screening and verification. She complied with the instruction on August 15, 2015, following which she was assured of prompt payment of her death benefits claim. However, my client did not hear anything further from the PTAD. Consequently, she retained my professional service to procure or facilitate the processing and payment of the claim. I paid numerous visits to the NCS and PTAD offices at Abuja where I met with several responsible officers of both agencies. I also sought clarification from the Pension Commission of Nigeria, Abuja. Despite visits, meetings, consultations, and enquiries in person and via mobile phone calls and letters, the authorities of PTAD did not take any positive action on my client’s claim until June 1, 2019 when I wrote demanding payment  for my client. PTAD wrote a reply dated June 10, 2019 where it informed my client that it was not responsible for the payment of the deceased’s death benefits and further advised my client to contact the NCS, PenCom and the deceased’s PFA for processing and payment of the claim. My client is confused and frustrated with the procedure after more than 13 years when she commenced efforts to obtain the death benefits claim in respect of her deceased husband’s service to the NCS. Meanwhile, my client had lost the only home that her late husband had constructed due to a fire accident a few years ago. Mrs. Josephine is the administrator of the estate of the deceased. Kindly help us to get clarity.  – C. V. Chia. PenCom: You are kindly advised to verify if the late officer has a Retirement Savings Account (RSA) account with any Pension Fund Administrator (PFA). After which, the PFA will advise on the documents which would be required for the death benefits of the late officer to be processed. The PFA, in turn, will forward these documents to the National Pension Commission (PenCom) for processing. Ene: Please, what are the rules and regulations of payment for Federal Government’s retirees? Secondly, I retired in April, this year. When will my accrued right be paid? PenCom: The rules and regulation for payment of Federal Government retirement benefits under the CPS starts by participating in the Commission’s Pre-retirement verification and enrolment.The prospective retiree/retiree needs to contact the Pension Desk Officer (PDO) of his/her MDA to get the documents for enrolment. He/she is also required to come along with the PDO to the enrolment centre for his/her attestation. After the enrolment, the retirement benefits are determined and paid into the RSA of the retiree based on the information provided by the retiree during enrolment. But, please, NOTE that retirement benefits are paid subject to the release of funds by the Federal Government for payment of accrued rights. Anonymous: My complaint is on the non-payment of outstanding pension and gratuity. I am a retired officer with the Nigeria Immigration Service (NCS). I was in service when the National Pension Commission (PenCom) was born in 2004. Two years later6, I registered with First Alliance Pension Limited, which has metamorphosed into ARM Pension Managers with a PIN 100####. But certificate issuance was unusually delayed and no explanation was offered. This delay created anxiety prompting me to register with another pension manager, Stanbic IBTC Pension with PIN PEN100####. I retired in May 2016. By December 29 of the same year, I applied for harmonisation of my pension managers to the PenCom into one pension manager to facilitate the payment of my pension. PenCom replied me in a letter dated February 1, 2017, where it recognised the first PIN registered with ARM as a valid PIN and that Stanbic IBTC PIN is invalid. That ARM Pension Managers PFA Limited would retain the first valid PIN on its data base while Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers would de-activate the second invalid PIN from its data base. PenCom advised that I should maintain Retirement Saving Account (RSA) PIN with ARM Pension for pension transactions. PenCom also promised to reconcile the contributions in the valid PIN to ensure that total contributions therein are brought up to date accordingly, while that in the valid PIN (if any) would be refunded to the Federal Government through its accounts with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN. Kindly assist me solve this problem.Thanks. PenCom: His retirement benefits were paid into the second PIN with Stanbic IBTC.  He is advised to write the complaint to the Commission for proper treatment. Bisong: My name is Bisong. I applied for 25 per cent of my pension with NLPC since December, 2019 and I am yet to be paid. Please help facilitate approval. PenCom: Mr. Bisong’s application for temporary access of his RSA was sent to the Commission on June 17, 2020. Approval notification was sent to NLPC on  June 21, 2020. Emmanuel: Good Day, ma. My name is Emmanuel, the son of the late SUPOL James. We have an issue on the pension of our late dad who passed away on March 13, 2015. We have paid the money they asked us to and we have also submitted the necessary documents. But we have not received any message on his pension. Please help us. PenCom: Please we need further details such as his PIN Number and Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to enable us investigate the issue.We called the above number provided but was wrong number. Udochi: I am Udochi and I am 47 years old. I retired from Walvis Nigeria Limited in 2014. My PFA later paid me 25 per cent. I need your help because I am having a health issue and I have issues with my children school fees. Please you can give me half of or all the money, that is with you. I will be happy so that I can take care of myself. Pencom: Having collected 25 per cent, the balance will be paid to you as pension when you attain 50.