Since the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) lost power in Anambra State about 15 years ago, its chieftains have found it difficult to close ranks and regain control, in spite of the party’s popularity among the people. But, it appears they are now leaving nothing to chance to maintain a united front, although zoning appears to have become a destabilising factor. Southeast Bureau Chief NWANOSIKE ONU reports  Six months to the much-awaited November 6 governorship election in Anambra State, all eyes are on the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP). The party, which lost control of the state to the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in 2006, has continued to struggle to recapture the vital Southeast state all to no avail. The party’s failure to regain control from APGA has been attributed to the lingering crises that have destabilised the once-dominant political movement. But, today, PDP seems to be putting its house in order, as it prepares for the June 26 primary to pick  its flag bearer. The party has lined up solid aspirants that are capable of taking over from Governor Willie Obiano when his tenure expires on March 17, next year. The 16 aspirants have purchased the governorship forms and are waiting anxiously for the primary. They are Chris Azubogu who represents Nnewi North, South and Ekwusigo Federal Constituency at the National Assembly; Dr Obiora Okonkwo, the owner of United Nigeria Airlines (UNA); Senator Uche Ekwunife, who represents Anambra Central at the Senate; Lady Chidi Onyemelukwe who is the late Dr Alex Ekwueme’s daughter; Dr Winston Udeh; Godwin Ezeemo; and former Chief Executive Officer CEO Transcorp Plc, Valentine Ozigbo. Also in the race is Dr Tony Nwoye, who represented Anambra East and West Federal Constituency and one-time National President, National Association of Nigeria Students (NANs). But, among the lot, only five are considered genuine contenders for the ticket, while the others are pretenders. The serious contenders are Dr Okonkwo, Azubogu, Dr Nwoye, Ozigbo and Ezeemo. According to a party chieftain, some of them are in the race to seek the position of running mate or playing the role of spoilers. The aspiration of the five leading contenders has torn the party apart in the state. Despite the number of aspirants that have purchased forms, the  five are the ones giving the delegates and the state exco sleepless nights. Former Governor Peter Obi is solidly behind one of the three aspirants. But, Obi had before now denied having any special interest in who emerges as the flag bearer. He said his only concern is for the party to organise a free, fair and credible primary that will produce an acceptable person, to give the party an edge at the poll. Its chairman, Sir Ndubuisi Nwobu, debunked the claim that the party is in crisis because of some aspirants. He said the PDP is intact and unshakable. He said it is the wish of the other parties for the PDP to take a wrong step along the line, because, according to him, “our coming together for the first time in many years has instilled fears in them”. He added: “Our opponents never believed that the PDP will ever be solid again, but the unity of our aspirants and members have proved them wrong. The PDP has positioned itself to take over from Governor Willie Obiano and it is not a joke.” However, Okonkwo, Azubogu, Nwoye, Ezeemo and Ozigbo’s towering influence in the state has unsettled other aspirants. One of the chieftains who spoke with The Nation last Thursday in Awka on condition of anonymity said the state executive of the party and stakeholders are divided over who to support among the major contenders earlier mentioned. The source said: “Our party is in a big mess, as we ponder over who gets the ticket for the governorship. Those in serious contention are Okonkwo, Nwoye, Azubogu, Ezeemo and Ozigbo. Obi said he does not have interest in any of the contenders, but he is supporting one of the aspirants and that is where the problem lies. The state exco is also divided. “Nwobu and his executive are doing well, but the bigwigs at Abuja and here do not want the party to make any headway in the coming election. Look at the number of vehicles already donated to us by the aspirants. Yet, the problems persist; it is so annoying.” Ezeemo said the PDP is on a redemption mission in Anambra State. He said once the party gets it right, it makes Anambra the number one state in the country. The Chairman of Orient Group of Companies said: “If we can’t change the society, it means we don’t know what we want. “Let us start early planning on how to win this election and make our state a better place. Every aspirant gunning for the PDP ticket is qualified, but there are people who are on the ground and know the problems of their people.” There is crisis in the party over the zoning arrangement. Some party chieftains, like former Governor Obi believe that such an arrangement will be a way of getting it right for the party. As a result, the majority of those contesting for the ticket is from Anambra South senatorial district, the zone that is favoured to produce the governor this time. But, the state executive, led by Nwobu insist that the party has not taken any position on the issue. Three of the front runners, Azubogu, Ozigbo and Ezeemo are all from the zone, while the other two: Okonkwo and Nwoye are from Anambra Central and Anambra North respectively. Other stakeholders like Senator Joy Emodi, Senator Ben Obi, Chief Chris Uba and former Minister Prof Alphonsus Nwosu have decided to remain silent on the matter. The decision by Obi and few other leaders have divided the party, despite all the efforts to go into the election as a united entity. Already, the party is battling so many cases instituted against it in various courts in the land, with the party primary just around the corner. One of the issues is removing the current state executive and revert to the status quo. Some party eggheads are not comfortable with the current executive and are committing resources in making sure such the plans of the leadership fail. A lawmaker, who does not want to be quoted, said this was exactly what the party did some years back that made it not to win. He said the same scenario has started playing out once again. The source said: “That is why a small party like APGA continues to win our state and they feel happy. “The APC is a big rival here, but they don’t see it that way. Most of them are still in the illusion that the party doesn’t have any base in Anambra State. But, today, the equation has changed. I tell you what, if we don’t take time, the APC will win the November 6 governorship election at our expense and that of APGA. I’ve seen how serious they are this time around. Again, that is if they don’t allow the spirit of PDP in them to get the upper hand.” Some PDP chieftains have identified zoning as a source of division in the party; something that will make it difficult for the party to realise its ambition of winning the November 6 governorship election. Already, the exco is divided, while the statutory delegates have started singing discordant tunes. The church factor has eaten deep in the politics of Anambra State and it has come to stay. Religious politics was introduced by former Governor Obi, when he was giving members of the Roman Catholic Church over 60 per cent appointments. Former Archbishop and Dean, Anglican Church in Nigeria, Most Rev Maxwell Anikwenwa, raised the alarm, but it fell on deaf ears. Today, the hierarchy of the Catholic Church determines who becomes the governor of the state and also decides who gets appointments. Majority of the contestants across the three major political parties have started fraternising with the church. The priests have already made up their minds, even before the party primaries, on who to support and which party. The Anambra election has its pros and cons, but the party that organises a free, fair and credible primary is likely to triumph. 