The Plant Variety Protection (PVP) in Africa has attracted a lot of debate and is often viewed with scepticism as a tool for economic and social development of the continent. JULIANA AGBO  writes on the importance of the law on food security  The absence of the PVP law in Nigeria has led to stealing of intellectual property of Seed Breeders, marketing of fake seeds leading to low productivity for farmers and the loss of millions of dollars on foreign export of Seeds. This, according to experts, has left many farmers with low-quality and adulterated seeds that portend danger to crop production and food security. The PVP law, which has a developmental impact on food security and access to food, has been established in different African countries. However, not many African countries have established plant variety protection systems. Currently, Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, South Africa, Kenya, Tanzania and the Organisation Africaine de la Propriété Intellectuelle (OAPI) with its 17 Member States from West and Central Africa have joined the International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV). There are other countries such as Zambia, Zimbabwe, Mozambique, Rwanda and ARIPO that have also developed PVP systems and are in the process of joining UPOV. In Nigeria, the Bill (HB 68) currently awaiting President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent was passed into law by the Senate on March 3, 2021 after several months of deliberations. Despite being passed by the National Assembly, the Bill has come under criticism by a group, Health of Mother Earth Foundation (HOMEF), saying if signed into law, will spell disaster for agriculture and farming systems. Studies have shown that the PVP system has not created any harm to the environment and agricultural systems of those countries but rather has increased food security, improved environmental safety, brought about less import and created a sustainable seed industry, which enables farmers to access viable seeds for greater economic returns. Stakeholders in agriculture have also explained the purpose of the Plant Variety Protection (PVP) Bill.  About PVP  Plant Variety Protection, according to Science Direct, gives the breeder exclusive control over the variety, rights to use the variety, and encourages the development of better plant varieties. Stakeholders in agriculture explained that the purpose of the Plant Variety Protection (PVP) Bill is to protect indigenous plant breeders and researchers. The Director General of the National Agricultural Seeds Council (NAQS), Dr Philip Ojo, noted that the role of Plant Variety Protection (PVP) law in responding to a changing world is to provide a legal framework and system that encourages plant breeding leading to the development of superior plant varieties with high yield potentials. Ojo said Nigeria’s agricultural sector transformation is a significant reason why the country ought to pay attention to plant variety protection, adding that the importance of having a PVP law in place cannot be over emphasized. According to him, ”Section 39 of the National Agricultural Seeds Council (NASC) Act 21 of 2019 signed into law by President Buhari mentioned the important need for the granting of plant breeders rights to be provided for in an Act of the National Assembly on plant variety protection. While explaining that the bill has nothing to do with the advancement of Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO), he said there are agencies that have been given the mandate to regulate GM foods. He said: “I have listened to non-state actors try so hard to unintelligently link this bill to GMO or the subversion of farmers’ rights. “This bill has nothing to do with the advancement of GMO in Nigeria. There are laws and state agencies that have been given this responsibility and the PVP has nothing to do with that. “Supporting the development of new plant varieties is an essential response to achieving food security and agricultural sustainability. Improved varieties are a necessary and cost-effective means of improving productivity, quality and marketability for farmers and growers. “However, breeding new varieties of plants requires a substantial investment of skills, labour, material resources, money, and time”. An expert, Celestine Okeke, said: “Nigerian government and other African countries have been falling behind in investing research production understandably because our economy has not been as much as it used to be.” Furthermore, the Business Development Manager, East-west Seed International, Hadiza Yaro, said one of the reasons why agricultural performance has been so bad in developing countries is lack of improved seeds because most of the traditional varieties have not been improved on for many centuries. She noted that modern breeding has enabled farmers to have better and higher yield, which variety accounts for over 50 percent of the output of farmers as well as other practices like having the right fertiliser, technique and better pest and disease control. She called for an increase in public and private investment which is a long term requirement for agricultural space. On farmers’ rights, the NAQS DG explained that the PVP is in no way against the right of farmers to use their farm saved seeds. However, he said the PVP will provide more and better choices for farmers (protected varieties with better yield and superior characteristics Vs non protected varieties). “Most of the varieties we have in circulation today may not meet the criteria for protection as a basic requirement of the PVP is novelty (must be new and distinct from any known variety). On taking out traditional varieties, he said protected varieties do not take away access to traditional varieties but rather provides better choices for farmers. “It should also be pointed out that protected varieties do not take away access to traditional varieties but rather provide better choices for farmers. “Smallholder farmers can continue to practice farm-saved seeds on their own holdings even for protected varieties without payment of remuneration to the right holders”. On the economic benefit of the law, President of Nigerian Plant Breeders Association (NPBA), Professor Chidozie Egezi, said the law would promote and ensure Nigeria gets the right kind of investment. Egezi said NPBA has a good number of plant breeders in Nigeria that are all eager to see President Buhari sign the law, adding that Nigeria is a food deficit country, importing so much and spending several millions of dollars annually to supplement production. The Technical Adviser to the DG, NAQS, Folarin Okelola, said the PVP is value addition to the natural resources Nigeria has. He said the law would give Nigeria the opportunity to collect royalties from countries using materials, giving the example of Malaysia who took oil palm from Nigeria many years ago. The Head of Research and Development, Tecni Seed Nigeria Limited, Alabi Friday, said the law would drive the enthusiasm of plant breeders. He said breeders will be willing to invest more in research, despite that it takes a long time to come up with an improved variety for any crop, whether insect resistance, drought, biotic or abiotic stress. 