John Asiemo better known as Daddy Showkey is a veteran Nigerian galala singer  who  has conquered  the music  world but he wants to equally conquer  the world of sports with aplomb. Known for his interest in different fields, the  legendary ghetto soldier  said he was venturing into  pugilism in order  to  give back to  the to the society which raised him to stardom in diverse ways by establishing  a boxing academy complete with a state of art  boxing gymnasium in Ajegunle suburb of Lagos. He said as much in an encounter in an interview with DESMOND EKWUEME. Excerpts…  Mission to revive boxing I am set to establish a well- structured, organised and managed  Boxing Academy & Gym here in Ajegunle. It is going to be an international standard project to help resuscitate the sport which is almost in a state of comatose. It is going to be structured as a catch-them-young program which will centre on picking talents from primary and secondary schools in order to nurture them to fulfil their dreams of becoming world and or Olympic champions.My plan is to get boxers from primary and secondary schools. The boxers must be involved in vocational education. They will go to school and equally learn some trade or crafts to help inculcate in them the spirit of enterprise. I am not talking about grooming thugs who politicians will use for their selfish agenda. I am looking at giving back to the society which I have been doing in diverse ways. By giving back I am looking at making kids champions by creating an avenue for their talents to manifest then, we groom them and manage them to become better personalities. Love for  boxing I choose boxing because it a sport I have passion for right from days as a toddler. As a kid, I used to train with one of our big brothers in those days. He is Fidelis Onyesoh aka Show Boy. That was where I derived my name Showkey from. I just felt like taking after his act of gathering teenagers to develop them. So once I started music, I chose the name Showkey to suit Show Boy. During that era, it was exactly behind the Ajeromi Police Station that Onyesoh trained us. I was a good boxer but because I had no support and as fate would have it, I found myself in music. By not having support, I meant my parent wouldn’t want me to go into boxing which they saw as a killer sport. So I am trying to revive my passion for the sport to ensure that what stopped me them wouldn’t stop the upcoming generation. Who knows we may just be building the foundation and stair cases from where world champions will emerge. Let me quickly say this, it is boxing because I think many people are tired of too much concentration on football by our sports administrators. It’s being football, football, football all along. Let’s also support other sports. We will create a sophisticated sporting or boxing environment with these facilities which will attract boxing scouts, agents and managers from the United States and United Kingdom among others just as it is done with football. Plans for the boxing academy The project no doubt is a massive one. I just returned from the United Kingdom where I went to discuss with my partners and equally study the modalities for the academy  to take off. It was also an opportunity to see the gym facilities.Yeah, it’s big and capital intensive. It is a multi-million dollars project but like they say, where there is a will, there is a way. The will to get it done is already in me, so I believe I will work out the ways. It must be done. It is a priority project to me. While the academy will be strictly for primary and secondary school pupils, the gym will be both for the academy and for public or commercial use to help generate funds and create more sporting awareness and passion for the people. Locating project in Ajegunle I have made it mandatory to site the project in Ajegunle. This is where I come from. It is the place that made me. I owe it as an obligation to give this to the people as a way of saying thank you for moulding me into who and what I am.Yes, it will be here in Ajegunle because gradually sports which used to be a priority sector is taking a back seat. However, I must commend the present Local Government Council chairman, Hon. Fatai Ayoola and his sports team for working tirelessly in ensuring that sports maintains the leading role it occupies in the area. We all know that when you mention Ajegunle, three things readily come to mind. They are sports, music and education. We won’t allow these notable features which brought Ajegunle glory to vanish. Between music and boxing I am in music and it will remain so. Daddy Showkey has come to stay, reign and rule his brand of music. No matter what I do or how I wish to diversify to touch lives, music is naturally in my blood. The level one has gotten to music doesn’t require rushing into anything. It is far above and beyond garbage in and garbage out. You don’t give out just anything. You work real hard to serve the people, your real fans who would stay with you in thick and thin. More so, one has got to the point of developing others. As a role model to many, one is expected to play that leadership role of encouraging the next generation to excel and succeed. That is why I maintain that I’m into music to stay. Motivating Factor I am motivated by the feeling of many who see me as their source of motivation. When people look up to you, you don’t look down on yourself. My fans and the upcoming talents are my source of motivation. The success stories of the past keep energising me. There is no time to relax and say you have arrived. Your claim of having arrived will be determined by the number of lives you have touched. Those who look up to you. Those who see you as their icon and springboard to greatness. These are the factors that motivate me hence, I decided to venture into establishing a boxing academy and a gym to scout, identify, nurture and manage tomorrow’s champions. It is my wish to see Ajegunle produce more award-winning entertainers and top stars in the field of sports in the next 10 years when people like me will sit back, relax and say, to God be the glory, we made it happen.I am glad we had Odion Ighalo who featured for Manchester United. I want us to work harder to produce more talents that will play for FC Barcelona, Real Madrid and Bayern Munich among others .In the same vein, someday we would have the likes of Anthony Joshua, Efe Ajagba and many other world boxing icons from Ajegunle. We all saw the honour Burna Boy brought to our country through the Grammys. We want more and Ajegunle must be in the forefront of the hunt. Next move Higher, higher and higher. I am getting bigger, bigger and bigger. Each passing day, I get challenged by things I see or things I want to see or things I have not seen. From this project which hopefully will be a dream come true and a success God’s willing, one can only move to the next level. That level will depend on what your challenges are or what challenges you see or what new task or target you set for yourself. So it comes in phases and we must follow them in sequence to avoid distractions. The stage I am at the moment is human capacity building so to speak and this is through the projects I wish to be establishing by God’s grace. The projects will assist others to achieve their ambitions, goals and dreams in life.