The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has commended the President and board members of the African Development Bank (AfDB) on its decision to invest $3 billion to build Africa’s pharmaceutical industry in the next 10 years. The AfDB is also supporting the Africa Centre for Disease Control (Africa CDC) with $28 million to strengthen its capacity to manufacture of vaccines in the continent. “Let’s finance in common and build a common positive story of innovation and investment in Africa, leveraging and mobilising all willing stakeholders. The days of pure aid are over. Africa is ready for sustainable investment,” Dr Akinwumi Adesina, AfDB President reportedly said. PSN President, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa said pharmacists could not agree more with Adesina on his intervention to assist Africa’s pharmaceutical industry. The COVID- 19 pandemic has exposed the vulnerability of Africa, especially Nigeria, who depended largely on import for basic needs including pharmaceuticals, Ohuabunwa said, adding that the continent needs visionary ideas that can transform its health sector. “The nationalism of Vaccines and Active Pharmaceuticals Ingredients (APIs) leaves us with no option but the likes of the foresight and forthright projections like this. Private businesses, especially the pharmaceutical sector, have been impacted negatively by the pandemic. “The disrupted supply chain made costs unpredictable and volatile. So this huge investment will ease our frustration of dearth of medicines and Active Pharmaceuticals Ingredients (APIs) and develop our local content through purposeful research tailored to need. “I pray that the products of actual implementation be all-encompassing to include the last line in the pharmaceutical care delivery, the community pharmacies, and devoid of clauses encumbering disbursement, for maximum impact. Any investment in the sector that will not translate to improvement in availability and access to medicines will grossly undermine the intention behind this transgenerational initiative,” Ohuabunwa said.