 The Lagos State Education Commissioner, Mrs.  Folasade Adefisayo, has called on educators to intentionally identify the star in each of their learners because they are all gifted. She said this while speaking on the topic: “Transforming Education” at the Africa Top school award held Tuesday at the Banquet hall of the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja. “Every child has an A’star. I have not seen a child who does not have an A’star, That A’star can be anything.  It doesn’t have to be that he is the best Maths student. he can be the best dancer he can be the best organiser he can be the best public speaker he can be the best English student because there’s something close to perfection within every child when you look at every child like that then you know your job as an educationist is to find that sweet spot and enable the student discover the full potentials.” She said. She also urged the teachers to equip pupils with skills that would help them navigate through the ups and downs of life, solve problems and make right decisions which be relevant to them all their lives. Speaking on how parents can support schools, she underscored the need for attitudinal change towards education. She said some parents were not supportive because they do not see the long term benefits and also some parents also see school as “irrelevant” – somewhere their children can just go and learn a few things until they are ready to start life. Praising educators for their role, she said they were nurturing the nation’s treasure. The programme featured presentation of awards to outstanding schools across the country. The Executive Secretary, Africa Brands Review, Mr. Joseph Ayodele, said the awards was organised yearly to celebrate outsanding brands. He however lamented that the organisation had struggled to identify only 300 standard schools out of the 1,000 it set out to celebrate. “We have not gotten 1,000 schools, but struggling to find 399 standard schools in Nigeria,” he said at the event. Nevertheless, he said the organisation works to develop the capacity of principals in Africa to build great schools. Some of the recipients of the award in the school category included: Christ The King College, Gwagwalada; Aduvie International School;n Fouad Lababidi Islamic Academy; Handmaids Girls Secondary School; ECWA Heroic Academy; and Federal Government Girls College, Jos; Nigerian Tulip International Colleges, Ogun; Marists Brothers’ Juniorate, Uturu, Abia State; Dowen College, Lekki; and Albesta Academy in Ajah, among others. Educators that were recognised in Lagos were: Mr. Segun Oloketuyi (Ambassador of Africa Top Schools); Mrs. Margaret Titilayo Solarin, TG/PS Education District 1, Mrs. Anike Adekanye, TG/PS Education District 2 (African Outstanding Educational Administrators) and Dr. Ayandele Olufolayimika Abiose, TG/PS Education District 3 (African Top Most Outstanding Educational Administrator).  