Lagos State has placed 14 countries on watch list as part of measures to prevent a possible spread of the new COVID-19 variant. Commissioner for Health Prof. Akin Abayomi said the measure became necessary following the discovery of variants from banned countries within another country. He said: “The affected countries are Canada, USA, France, Germany, Netherlands, Togo, Ghana, Cameroon, Angola, South Africa, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda. “Nigerians returning from lesser hajj would have to undergo a compulsory seven-day self-isolation. “The state will not hesitate to prosecute anyone, irrespective of status, who fails to comply with the directive.” Abayomi stressed some of the possible events that could trigger a third wave include general laxity, false sense of security and non-adherence to guidelines, religious holidays, COVID fatigue, entry of mutations and variants. He added: “The state has however developed a five-pillar strategy for curbing a potential third wave in Lagos. “These include ensuring that all travelers carry out COVID-19 tests while we also introduce PCR test to determine variants and mandatory seven-day quarantine. We will also utilise EKOTELEMED to monitor confirmed cases and provide telemedicine services. “We will be sensitising Lagosians on the importance of non-pharmaceutical interventions such as handwashing, social distancing, thresholds for public gathering, as well as discourage super spreader events. “Our oxygen supply approach will be two-phased – outsource oxygen plants to private partners and PPP for 700 cylinder/ day oxygen plant, while we also increase the number of vaccine doses administered by leveraging the private sector.” The commissioner, who spoke on the successes recorded so far, said some isolation centres are currently empty. “Landmark, Agidingbi, Gbagada, FCC, Lagoon and Onikan isolation centres have been shut while Amour II and Gbagada Isolation Centres are being re-activated. “Of the 554 bed capacity, 550 beds are currently available. There is also a decrease in the number of patients who require oxygen therapy at IDH, Yaba. Following the reduction in number of positive cases, the use of oxygen has reduced from an average of 300 bottles per day in January 2021 to 60 bottles per day in April 2021,” he added. Prof. Abayomi said of the 58,611 cases confirmed, 54,049 recovered, 4,346 were admitted; 3,906 were discharged and 354 deaths were recorded. One confirmed case is current in isolation with three suspected cases.