The Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Unit (Taskforce) says it will henceforth apply the full legal provisions against violators of traffic rule across the state. The Chairman of the agency, CSP Shola Jejeloye, said this on Sunday in a statement signed by the agency’s Head, Public Affairs Unit, Mr Femi Moliki. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Lagos state Law provided for a year imprisonment for driver’s of vehicles impounded for driving against traffic as well as the forfeiture of such vehicles. Jejeloye said that the penalty was for first offenders while a three-year imprisonment and forfeiture of the vehicle to the State and capturing of data and biometrics was for second and subsequent offenders. He said that the unyielding stance of motorists still caught driving against traffic made it necessary to forthwith begin the arrest and prosecution of such offenders. “It is disturbing that you still find many highly enlightened motorists driving against traffic just like the uneducated ones. “Many motorists are still in the habit of driving against the traffic, putting pedestrains and other road users lives in danger,” he said. The chairman said that his team on a routine enforcement of traffic law in the metropolis on Friday impounded 10 vehicles driving against traffic on Airport Road. “It is appalling that in spite of the seizure of vehicles and auctioning them after obtaining court order, a lot of motorists still drive against traffic. “The agency will step up efforts to ensure that perpetrators are made to face justice and no one will be spared in enforcing the law forthwith. “The agency will implement the Traffic Law on driving against the traffic completely,” Jejeloye said. The chairman said that the make and registration of the 10 impounded vehicles are: Sinotruck (LND 26 XW), Toyota Corolla (BDG 935 FY), A – Zebra (AGL 18 AH) and Ford Limited (PF 3622 SPY). Others are Toyota Matrix (KSF 15 DS), Highlander (LSD 01 GR), Toyota Hiace (GGE 506 XZ), Mini Bus (BDG 484 TC), Toyota Hilux (KJA 392 XT) and another Toyota Hilux (AAA 987 ET). (NAN)