 Although many people long suspected that Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami’s interpretation of jurisprudential issues was controversial, nowhere has he proved his critics right as much as he did when he attempted to take the fight to disgruntled southern governors who were keen to enforce their constitutional rights. The governors had, last week, decided that they would stop pussyfooting around the federal government’s ailing countermeasures and become alive to the powers that accrue to their offices within the federation, and having met in Asaba, Delta State, issued a communiqué to declare their stance on open grazing, restructuring, insecurity, state police and other sundry issues. Their numbers soon increased from 17 to 23 – comprising more than half of the federation. For the most part, the presidency, cocooned in its fictive reality of an idyllically united Nigeria, was stunned into silence. This was until the sober-suited attorney general, having had the liberty of a whole week and some days to think the matter through, decided to air his confounding interpretation of the matter. He adjudged it thus: “It is about constitutionality within the context of the freedoms expressed in our constitution. Can you deny the rights of a Nigerian? For example it is as good as saying, perhaps, maybe, the northern governors coming together to say they prohibit spare parts trading in the north. Does it hold water? Does it hold water for a northern governor to come and state expressly that he now prohibits spare parts trading in the north? If you are talking of constitutionally guaranteed rights, the better approach to it is to perhaps go back to ensure the constitution is amended. Freedom and liberty of movement among others established by the constitution, if by an inch you want to have any compromise over it, the better approach goes back to the national assembly to say open grazing should be prohibited and see whether you can have the desired support for the constitutional amendment. It is a dangerous provision for any governor in Nigeria to think he can bring any compromise on the freedom and liberty of individuals to move around.” That Mr Malami, who holds a prominent position in the Nigerian judiciary, reduced the issue of open grazing to the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of movement is painfully reminiscent of the untutored positions of certain public figures who spoke on the matter before him. His absurd grasp of the conflict also confirms the private fear of many Nigerians that he has not been giving accurate legal advice to the federal government. As he must now be aware, the right to freedom of movement that is guaranteed in the constitution is with respect to citizens, not cattle. Cattle do not enjoy the same right that their herdsmen enjoy, so while a herdsman may choose to move freely within the country, he must not do so grazing his cattle openly. Herdsmen must adopt modern, less destructive ways of migrating their cattle and grazing them. By the same token of skewed jurisprudence, Mr Malami drew an analogy between open grazing and trade in mechanical equipment. His argument was balanced fatally on the premise that both trades were inherently economic by nature. He failed to take into cognizance the fact that animal husbandry was not banned by the governors; open grazing was. If, therefore, a herdsman procured a piece of land in conformity with extant tenement laws and reared cattle on such a parcel of land, then he would not be in violation of the ban on open grazing. Cattle trading was also not prohibited in the Southern part of the country, contrary to the AGF’s presumption. How then does his analogy hold water? The sentimentality, prejudice and illogicality that attended his reaction to the ban on open grazing justify his critics who claim that his appreciation of national issues is ethnically biased.  It would have been expected that a legal mind such as his would have developed the detachment expected of his position for equitable adjudication of issues. The attacks that he has been subjected to must make him rue his decision to speak on the matter. His perceived ethnic predisposition compromises the second principle of natural justice – nemo judex in causa sua (no man can be a judge in his own case) – and this clearly does not sit well with Nigerians. They will wonder by what legal philosophy he advises the presidency. There will be opportunities for the AGF to redeem himself and prove that he is worthy of the lofty judicial position he holds. He must shake off his prejudices when the time comes and grab the opportunity with both hands to display the erudition expected of an attorney general to the federation. His very office, not his background of emotions, should dictate where his loyalty lies.    THAT no one is safe is not new knowledge to any except, perhaps, the presidency. Those within the corridors of executive power feel that they are doing all they can, and purely on that merit, Nigeria is safe. They have, for instance, tried to absolve themselves of the responsibility of bringing kidnappers and bandits to book. While the executive plays the truant on responsibility for kidnapping and banditry, the populace continues to suffer, and the judiciary, that castrated and pinioned arm of government, is not exempted. From being buffeted by the executive, to being victims of a government it is a part of, this is not an encouraging time to be in the judiciary. Three days ago, a Sharia Court judge was kidnapped from a court in Katsina State. The circumstances surrounding his kidnap are not clear. Was he kidnapped because he was a judge? Was he kidnapped simply because he was a mark that his abductors perceive could fetch a tidy ransom? Or was he kidnapped because he had offended someone somewhere? These are questions that remain unanswered for now, but it is clearly an indication of the brazenness that now attends the acts of bandits and kidnappers in the country. These are no longer the days of post-colonial kidnapping of Ishola Oyenusi or Lawrence Anini, where kidnapping could be perpetrated by overlords. Neither are they the days of the conservative kidnappers like Evans. No; these are the days of post-modernist kidnapping, and it is characterised, like its academic counterpart in literature, by a sort of madness in its method. The kidnappers have become too numerous to be reduced to the acts of a few overlords. They kidnap just about anyone and compel them to pay ransom. They kidnap with a freedom and numerical bravado that defies logic, and they do not threaten emptily. Is the president in a town? They will kidnap there. Does the governor of a state have enough sympathy to help pay the ransom? They will kidnap. Is their mark a government official? They will kidnap. In a word, should a governor be their mark, there is little evidence to show that they will exercise restraint in trying to kidnap him. For a crime that has been speaking for itself, it is a national source of embarrassment that the current administration has to be reminded on a daily basis to stem it and stop deflecting responsibility. The government’s negligence, if in fact it cares, or its apathy, if it does not, feeds the beast of post-modern kidnapping in Nigeria. And what is to stop the beast from attacking a governor when all is said and done?