The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has officially received a former Information Minister, Prof Jerry Gana, back to its fold two years after he left for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) over disagreements during the 2019 nomination process. Gana was received by the leadership of the PDP at a closed door meeting at the party’s Abuja secretariat. This is coming just as the party is set to begin its zonal stakeholder consultations to consolidate its membership strength across the country. In a statement by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said it’s working on templates that will enable it to, within the ambits of the law, further harness suggestions from Nigerians on democratic means to tackle the festering insecurity, guarantee the safety of life and property as well as restore national stability and cohesiveness. The PDP spokesman quoted the party National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, to have said that the main objective of the PDP is to rescue the nation from misrule, adding that it was imperative to tap from the wealth of experience of leaders like Prof. Gana. “The main objective of the PDP is to rescue our nation from collapse. Our country is threatened and this is not a joke. We are confronted with a guerrilla warfare and the very foundation of our country is being threatened. “That is why the PDP is leading the charge in seeking solution to the ugly situation our nation has been plunged into by the All Progressives Congress (APC),” Secondus was quoted to have said. Stating that the party is glad that Prof. Gana was back to its fold, the National Chairman was said to have urged the returnee to deploy his wealth of experience and intellect in the collective quest of well-meaning Nigerians to forge a direction for the nation. Gana was quoted to have declared that Nigeria is in a dire straits and that it required all hands to be on the deck to rescue the nation. “Nigeria is on the brinks. The economy is stagnated. There is insecurity everywhere. Nigerians are beginning to doubt our nationhood. “The political answer to the situation today is for the PDP to take back power. Nigerians do not deserve what we are going through today. We must take decisive steps that will help rescue our nation,” Gana was quoted to have said. The former Minister was said to have commended the Secondus-led leadership of the party for its efforts in stabilising the party, adding that he was happy to be back to the fold.