The Companion, an Association of Muslim Men in Businesses and Professions, yesterday described the recent statement by the National Secretary of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) accusing President Muhammadu Buhari of taking side with the Palestinians in the conflict with Israel as “unfortunate and condemnable.” Its Lagos District Amir, Abdul-Ghani Abdul-Majeed, urged CAN leadership to always exercise constraints and issue statements based on facts instead of speculation and figments of their imagination. “Though we are not spokesmen of President Muhammadu Buhari or the federal government, but, as a concerned organisation and stakeholder in Nigeria, we wish to say that CAN leadership is portraying Christianity as a religion of oppression and hypocrisy where might is right,” he said. The CAN leadership, Abdul-Majeed, said failed to realise that the “conflict” in the Palestinian territory was not about religious fight between Islam and Christianity. He said: “It is about genocide, oppression, apartheid, violation of human rights, injustice and economic domination being perpetrated by Israel against the Palestinians. “The world has cried out against Israel and people of all races including Jews in diaspora, have held demonstrations in major cities of Europe, America and Asia, condemning the Israeli aggression and destruction of Palestinian territory and wanton bombing of children, women and the aged, as well as building housing media organisations such as Associated Press and Al-Jazeera. “The leadership of CAN should not allow their dislike for Islam to justify and promote violence and crime against humanity. They should not be seen to be endorsing the killing of defenseless Palestinians, some of whom are Arab Christians. They should not be seen to be happy with violence as long as they are perpetrated by Jews whom CAN leadership is equating with Christians to deceive their followers in Nigeria. If CAN leadership does not know, it should be educated that the percentage of Palestinian Christians is more than the percentage of Israeli Christians.  We strongly advise CAN to stand up on the side of justice and humanity.” 