Forty women drawn from 20 host communities in Abia, Akwa Ibom and Rivers States, have been handed starter packs after being trained in five different vocations by the Nigerian Gas Company (NGC) Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The 40 lucky women, who were participants of the NGC’s ‘Women Empowerment Programme,’ were presented the starter packs at a handover ceremony held at Golden Tulip Hotel, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, during the week. Although, the women were trained in various vocations such as makeup artistry, fashion and design, computer, catering and hair dressing in 2016, they were not given their starter packs due to some unforeseen circumstances. The Managing Director, NGC, Engr. Seyi Omotowa, said the empowerment workshop was organised for the company’s host communities because it strongly believes in the development of its host communities. Omotowa, who was represented by the Executive Director, Support Services, NGC, Mrs. Uche Ossai, said the structure and intent of the workshop was to train and empower women between 20 and 40 to be self-reliant in all facets of their lives, providing support to their families and by extension, the community in which they belong. He added that the handover of the starter packs to the participants of the programme was a reality and a testimony of NGC’S commitment to actualising it’s promises despite the time lag, largely due to budgetary constraints and restructuring exercise within the corporation. “On our part, we shall continue to solicit for your cooperation and assistance in the maintenance of peace and support for our business growth aspirations, in the interest of our people in these host communities and Nigeria in general,” Engr. Omotowa said. Speaking for the beneficiaries, Mrs. Ugoeze Sandra from Abia State thanked the management and staff of NGC for training and empowering the women with various skills as well as handing over starter packs to them. She assured the NGC that the starter packs will be put into good use.