Four persons, including an indigent student, have been abducted by gunmen in separate operations in Ogun State between Wednesday and Saturday. The first abduction occurred within Ijebu – Ode on Thursday around 7m with Mrs B. L. Abimbola, who is the Deputy Director, Information Communication Technology, Tai Solarin University of Education(TASUED) Ijebu – Ode as victim. The other abduction took place in a farm in Abule Itoko village in Odeda Local Government Area of the state. The Nation gathered in the abduction that occurred at a farm in Abule Itoko village, a 400 – level student of the Federal University of Agriculture (FUNAAB), Abeokuta, the farm owner identified as Dominic and a 17-year-old female Togolese, were plucked off the farm while they were there working on Saturday. Although abductors of Abimbola of the TASUED were yet to contact her family, The Nation learnt that their counterparts that operated in Odeda had reached the wife of Dominic for N150m ransom to release the three captives in their custody. It was also learnt the FUNAAB student, being an indigent, had been working in that farm in the last three years to eke out a living and fund his education before he was kidnapped. Authorities of FUNAAB have identified the abducted student as Toyinbo Nathaniel Olayinka, a 400 level student of Aquaculture and Fisheries Management. The University through its Head, Directorate of Public Relations, Kola Adepoju, in a statement on Sunday, said Toyinbo was abducted around 8 am on Saturday at Abule – Itoko, Odeda – Ibadan road about 25 minutes drive from the University Permanent Site at Alabata Road, Abeokuta. He stated: “A 400 Level Student of Aquaculture and Fisheries Management, Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB), Toyinbo Nathaniel Olayinka has been abducted by suspected kidnappers in a private Farm at Abule, Itoko, Odeda, Ibadan Road. “Abule Itoko where the student was reportedly abducted around 8 a.m on Saturday is about 25 mins drive from the University Permanent Site at Alabata Road, Abeokuta “According to the friend of the abducted student and a nursing mother who witnessed his abduction, he was kidnapped by gunmen at a private Farm in Abule Itoko, a village in Odeda Local Government where he’s been living and working as a practicing livestock farmer for the past three years to sustain himself as a self-sponsored indigent student of the University. “The Management of the University has reported the abduction at Ogun State Police Command headquarters, Eleweeran and it’s working earnestly with the Command to ensure the safety and release of the kidnapped student.” However, while Ogun Police spokesperson, Abimbola Oyeyemi, earlier confirmed to The Nation the abduction of Abimbola of the TASUED in Ijebu – Ode, he was yet to respond to enquiries in respect of the alleged abduction of three persons in a farm in Abule Ikoko.