A smart Igbo boy was asked by his master: “How many times will you make mistakes before learning your lesson?” And he retorted: “I will not wait to make mistake, but will learn from the ugly experience of somebody who made mistake.” The terrorist activities of the Boko Haram at Northeast have kept the economy of the zone in tatters. The banditry in Northwest makes the zone insecure for both human and domestic animals. The militancy in South-south scares the hell out of oil companies, forcing them to locate their operational headquarters outside the oil bearing states. The ‘smart Igbo boys’ could not learn from these, instead, they are embracing insurgency, to alter the security equilibrium in Southeast. The bad boys and their recruiters who are burning public and private institutions/properties are sowing wind and Ndigbo would reap whirlwind. Nobody claims responsibility for the dastardly acts across the Southeast, so, it would not be a surprise if the security operatives including the military start hounding young men around the crime area. Though, the target of the security operatives will be to fish out the perpetrators, every able-bodied young man in the crime area becomes a suspect. That will sow fear in the minds of the citizenry, thereby crippling economic and social activities in the Southeast. Ndigbo will be the biggest losers. As the search for the perpetrators continues, we might not look farther than agent provocateurs/accelerationists. In Nigeria situation, the accelerationists could be the extreme subset of tribal warlords.  The basic tenet of accelerationism argues that since governments are inherently corrupt, the best (and only) thing supremacists/chauvinists can do is to accelerate the end of society by sowing chaos and aggravating political tensions. The goal of accelerationism is to burn everything down and to use violence both to target enemies and instigate an overt and extreme response from the government. If the insurgencies at Southeast are being perpetrated by agent provocateurs/accelerationists or other bad actors, we can expect a lot more violence in the lead up to the 2023 election. The response of the governors of the Southeast to the attacks on police and other public institutions is the announcement of regional security outfit, Ebube Agu; thereby altering their earlier pronouncements of sticking with individual state vigilante to their peculiar security challenges. Ebube Agu, meaning fear of a lion in Igbo, is fashioned after the Southwest security outfit, Amotekun, launched early last year amidst furore from the security institutions. Ebube Agu, with its headquarters in Enugu, is charged with the responsibility to coordinate all the activities of vigilantes in the Southeast, and to checkmate rising unrest in the region. I hope and pray Ebube Agu would do well in controlling the vigilantes. So often in training we talk about “thinking outside the box.” But if we are wanting everyone to think the same, then how can this be done? While we may not always agree with other’s ideas and viewpoints, it is often how we “disagree” with them that is the stifling component. When we disagree, do we still encourage the other person’s creative thinking? Or do we stifle it? Do we show them respect as an individual, or do we put them down for not being “part of the group?” In some people’s opinion, the governors must not think, they must copy what some other regions are doing, because the spirited defenders of the people have said so. We must show some respect to elected leaders, especially the governors and not stampede them into copying what others do, even when theirs is yielding positive results. One of the major developments in public responses to crime in recent years has been the rise of collective, organized efforts within communities to reduce or prevent crime or fear of crime. These efforts have taken many forms, including: neighbourhood watch programmes, and police-community councils. Neighbourhood watch has been the centrepiece of community crime prevention in many countries.  The principal goal of such programmes is to increase surveillance of the neighbourhood by residents, extending, as it were, the “eyes and ears” of the police. However, in Nigeria, many residents of crime hotspots are watching the back of the criminals, tipping on the movement of security operatives. That is self-destructive. Relying on non-state armed actors to counter insurgencies might well be a necessary evil – but it ought to be a limited and finite one. The gravest dangers are posed when vigilantes pursue their own political-ethnic agenda; lack strong command and control structures, enabling battlefield commanders to promote their own interests; are largely unsupervised by either local or national authorities; or are ignored, unrecognised and cast aside once their military utility has expired. If I understand the governors’ intention, Ebube Agu must ensure the various vigilantes across Southeast adhere strictly to the rules of engagement. We must avoid repeat of the infamous Bakassi Boys.  Vigilante groups more often than not are guilty of committing egregious abuses, preying on civilians and becoming involved in illicit activities. Marginalised, persecuted or vulnerable groups may find joining terrorist or organised criminal groups an attractive option where they see insufficient return from the legitimate economy, or where feelings of isolation or lack of potential for social advancement are an issue. Perceived corruption, impunity or political, social and economic inequality further exacerbates these tendencies. Moreover, communities in which terrorist and organised criminal organisations seek legitimacy by creating social services and programmes may be more sympathetic to such groups and provide a potential recruitment pool. Principles of good governance, anti-corruption, countering impunity and social marginalisation and exclusion seem critical to breaking down the strategic objectives and capacities for leverage of both criminal and terrorist groups, regardless of their manifestation. So, it behoves the governors to deliver dividends of democracy to the citizenry, as core approach in preventing crime.