The #OccupyNigerDelta protest organised by the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide against the failure of the Federal Government to inaugurate a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) entered day two on Thursday with hundreds of the youths barricading the new NDDC headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The protest gathered momentum following the release of the abducted IYC President, Peter Timothy Igbifa, who led the demonstration along the Mbiama axis of the East-West road and later joined a similar event in Port Harcourt. It was further gathered the protesters shut the NDDC office in Uyo, Akwa Ibom, the home state of Minister for Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Akpabio and the Interim Administrator, NDDC, Effiong Akwa. At the Port Harcourt headquarters of NDDC, the aggrieved youths hoisted the council’s flag, danced and sang solidarity songs in front of the complex. They also mounted canopies in front of the main gate, killed a goat with which they prepared pepper soup in the area. Their activities brought work at the NDDC headquarters to a halt and stopped human and vehicular movements into the building. The Ijaw youths vowed to continue the protest until their demands were met. A team of policemen with security vehicles were seen at the complex watching the protesting youths who vowed to remain until the NDDC board was inaugurated. He said: “We are here under the directive of the IYC President to shut the NDDC complex after the expiration given to the Federal Government to constitute a substantive NDDC board expired yesterday (Wednesday). “We believe that instead of an Interim Management or caretaker committee a well-constituted board will be better placed to address the underdevelopment in the Niger Delta region”. Along the East-West road, the youths blocked all vehicular movement causing heavy traffic congestion as they advised the motorists and commuters to seek alternative routes to their destinations. Igbifa, who addressed the youths, thanked them for their commitment to the struggle and used the occasion to narrate his ordeals in the hands of his kidnappers.