 The past week had thrown many political pundits into confusion over the responsiveness of the National Assembly leadership to the crisis afflicting our country. Not that the sky was clearer before last week, considering their silent disposition to the rivers of blood, which has become our way of life. The confusion arose from their antagonistic rebuttal of the Asaba resolution of the states of southern Nigeria, amongst which they demanded for a restructured Nigeria. It is the reactionary statement of the president of the senate, Ahmed Lawan, to the resolution which drove this writer to the inimitable work of the immortal Chinua Achebe in the Arrow of God for anchor. Before the two leaders of the National Assembly bared their minds, many thought that President Muhammadu Buhari was the only one out of sync with the enormity of the crisis facing our country, and unwilling to submit to a paradigm shift to save our nation. But as Lawan has shown, there are others, who like Ezeulu, the chief priest of Ulu, in the ‘Arrow of God’, who are more anxious about their powers and privileges, damn the impending tragedy that may consume their people. While the House of Representative Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila nuanced his reaction to the resolutions of the southern states, Lawan out-rightly condemned the governors as hypocrites, insisting that they should first restructure the states they govern, before calling for national restructuring. The Ezeulu story is therefore a fitting metaphor of the crisis of leadership pushing the country to implosion. As written by Chinua Achebe, at the book’s back page: “Ezeulu, the chief priest of Ulu, finds his authority is under threat. He has rivals in the tribe, in the white government, and even in his own family. Surrounded by trouble, he adopts an increasingly cosmic view of events: surely in the battle of the deities, he is merely an arrow in the bow of his God?” Achebe went on: “Armed with such ideas, Ezeulu is prepared to lead his people on, if necessary to destruction and annihilation. The power of the people, however, reasserts itself.” In the battle for the soul of our country, her leaders are replicating the traits of Ezeulu as our country roils in crisis. Even while some of the governors may have exhibited totalitarian tendencies in their states, it is not enough reason for the National Assembly leadership to dismiss with a wave of hand, the Asaba resolutions that can stem the national crisis. One particular resolution that requires a constellation of forces to actualize is that on open grazing in the southern part of Nigeria. They said: “ the incursion of armed herders, criminals, and bandits into the southern part of the country has presented a severe security challenge such that citizens are not able to live their normal lives including pursuing various productive activities leading to a threat to food supply and general security. Consequently, the meeting resolved that open grazing of cattle be banned across southern Nigeria.” Of course, except the senate president is himself a hypocrite, the call for an end to open grazing is one he should readily support. All across the country, particularly in the middle belt and southern Nigeria, the poor handling of open grazing has exposed our country to the danger of food insecurity, as farmers have been chased out of their farms by the trained armed herdsmen. With herders raping women, killing farmers and now kidnapping persons in the country-side for ransom, going to farm has become suicidal. And with the national economy buffeted by inflation, and Boko Haram forcing farmers away from their farms in the northeast, such that food prices have skyrocketed, every leader worth the name should support every measure to help farmer return to their farms in the southern part of the country. The senate president who knows that our country is broke, arising partly from the expensive war in the northeast, should therefore be supportive of any efforts to make other zones as productive as possible, for the country to be able to sustain the war. So, instead of berating the governors, and tagging them regional champions, Lawan should call their representatives to a meeting to offer ideas on how the National Assembly can intervene to make the country more liveable. Or has Lawal like Ezeudu now become only interested in being in the good books of President Buhari, who has enough influence to threaten him in his plum position? That can only be the reason for the quick dismissal of the resolution of the governors of 17 out of 36 states in the country. While not asking Lawal to antagonise the president, he must strike a balance between what is of paramount national interest and fending off potential disruptions to his authority; after all the position he occupies is to keep the executive under check. Another of the Asaba resolutions, which is aimed at stemming the crisis bedevilling the country is the recommendation that “in deference to the sensitivities of our various peoples, there is a need to review appointments into federal government agencies (including security agencies) to reflect federal character as Nigeria’s overall population is heterogeneous.” It must be said that the senate, which Lawan heads partly bears responsibility for this malaise of the Buhari presidency, since most of the one-sided appointments passed through the senate for confirmation. If as senate president, Lawan had shown a measure of independence, the senate is in a position to check-mate the one-sided appointments. By allowing the president to make appointments that are glaringly sectional, non-state actors like Nnamdi Kanu and Sunday Ighoho get the impetus to preach their separatist agenda with some measure of justification. It is interesting that the initial equivocation by the speaker of House of Representative, Femi Gbajabiamila, has yielded to reasonable composition that the house does not oppose the Asaba resolutions. Gbajabiamila would have shot himself in the foot to push otherwise, for while he could secure the confidence of the president for an unreasonable stance against the resolution of the southern governors, he could so malignantly antagonise his constituency such that he would pay dearly at the next election. This column hopes the senate would also bend their president to be reasonable in appraising the Asaba resolutions after all, Lawan is not the president of the executive, but that of the legislature. As Ezekwesili said to Ezeulu, in the ‘Arrow of God’: “An adult does not sit and watch while the she-goat suffers the pain of childbirth tied to a post.” The National Assembly must wake up to their constitutional responsibility, and save themselves and the country from ruin. Lawan should avoid the tragedy of Ezeulu in the ‘Arrow of God.’