 Coscharis Mobility has introduced a finance scheme at potential vehicle buyers and existing vehicle owners intending to replace them with new models. The firm said the initiative was aimed at making ownership of brand-new automobiles easy with the peace of mind. Unlike conventional vehicle finance usually midwifed  by banks, the firm said the new scheme is an arrangement with its parent company, Coscharis Motors Plc, requiring interested individual or group to make a down payment of 10-30 per cent of the cost of any vehicle of their choice available at the Coscharis and structure the balance over a period not later than 36 months. Managing Director, Coscharis Mobility, Christian Chigbundu, said at a briefing in Lagos, said apart from numerous benefits such as comprehensive insurance, registration, training of drivers, after-sale service and reasonable interest, the entry and exit agreements had been flexibly designed to suit individuals’ situations. He explained that the decision to come up with the new scheme was informed by the challenge of scarcity of funds facing both individuals and corporate entities to purchase some necessities and needs following the COVID-19 pandemic that had wreaked havoc and disrupted businesses globally. “Such needs clearly include the purchase of automobiles which is the solution we are offering Nigerians today with our fantastic offer of pick any vehicle brand of your choice from any Coscharis Motors showrooms nationwide and leverage instalmental payments, courtesy of Coscharis Mobility,” he said. According to him, interested people or groups are expected to select from a collection of Coscharis brand of vehicles such as Rolls-Royce, BMW, Mini, Jaguar Land Rover, Ford, Renault and Morris Garages. Chigbundu said: “For the service we are launching today, the steps are simple: identify the vehicle of your choice in any of our Coscharis Motors showrooms nationwide; make an initial deposit ranging from 10 per cent to 30 per cent; the vehicle will become yours then; pay the balance over a period of time. “Coscharis Mobility Limited as a leasing company and not a bank is showcasing this service with the following: fast-track transactions; flexibility in terms; customised service; customer service; and continuous support throughout the lease period.” Coscharis Group General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Abiona Babarinde, said the partnership between the two companies within the Coscharis Group was to jointly delight their “common stakeholders with combo of exciting options from the brand of vehicles to pick from coupled with ease of paying for them; from the premium brands to the budget brands.You will agree with us that this offer remains an offering that offers you nothing but value for your money as our pay offline states”. He noted that the collaboration would be “a watershed within the auto sector in Nigeria going by the strong pedigree the two entities have as industry leaders in auto sales, aftersales and logistics amongst others. Coscharis Motors’ impressive portfolio as the exclusive representative of globally respected iconic auto brands in Nigeria. “Coscharis Mobility has the exclusive franchise representing the renowned respected brand when it comes to logistic business globally, which is sixth in Nigeria.” Babarinde added that Coscharis had invested so much in quality parts, right tools and technicians to handle all its vehicles, stressing that the company’s after-sale service was robust and meant to stay with its customers through the period of using the vehicles.