Commercial activities and vehicular movements were paralysed in Enugu metropolis, on Monday, in compliance with the sit-at-home order declared by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to honour fallen heroes who died in the struggle for Biafra. All the markets in Enugu and its environs, banks and parks were shut down as there was no vehicular movement. All the schools scheduled to reopen for the third term today remained shut even as some private schools which had already resumed for the third term before now in the state were also closed. Our correspondent, who monitored the exercise, also observed that most private hospitals were closed except those that had inpatients. The Nation also gathered that roads were deserted as no vehicle was seen around the popular Holy Ghost, Old Market, Agbani, Ogui Roads, New Haven, Abakpa and Independence Layout as of the time of filling this report. However, there were security operatives patrolling the city in a show of force to ensure that nobody breached the law. Some other security operatives were stationed at various areas such as the three-arm zone, 82 Division of Nigerian Army, various police formations across the state and the Correctional Centre in Enugu. Most ever-busy roads and streets were taken over by youths who converted them to football pitches, our correspondent observed. Apart from the youths playing football, it was also observed that people were afraid to be seen in clusters for fear of being attacked. A visit to Ogbete Main Market, Kenyatta and Mayor Markets along Agbani showed that the gates to the market and all shops were locked while no trader was seen around as it was the usual practice in the past. Residents who were seen trekking on the streets were identified by our reporter as those searching for food vendors, as most of them did not envisage the compliance to be total. A few others were seen trekking to their various destinations as there were no commercial vehicles, motorcycles or tricycles to convey them to their various places, while a few private vehicles were moving around without any hindrance. A resident of Obiagu Street in Ogui New Layout, Emeka Ugwu, described the sit-at-home as an annual ritual where every Biafran, anywhere in the world, would respect and honour those who fought and died for the freedom of the people. “We are observing the sit-at-home. This is not the first time. But it is the first time it is becoming a huge success in Enugu here. So, it is an annual exercise in Biafraland. We want to honour our dead heroes for dying to liberate us”. Another resident, Odoh Anthony, said he simply obeyed the sit-at-home order to avoid the problem. According to him, “What is the need of going out and when there is a problem, the police will come and arrest the innocent people. So, it’s better that I stayed at home and avoid their problem” Meanwhile, the Enugu State government, Monday, shifted the resumption date for primary and post-primary schools in the state to June 7, 2021. The schools were earlier billed to resume today, May 31, 2021. In what appeared to have been influenced by the sit-at-home-order by the Indigenous People of Biafra, IPOB, in commemoration of the Biafran Day today, the state ministry of education shifted the date by one week. The state commissioner for education, Prof Uche Eze, advised parents/guardians to ‘ensure that their wards complete all holiday assignments given to them before schools reopen’. The state polytechnic, Iwollo, also cancelled all academic activities billed for today (Monday). The registrar/secretary to the council, Dr Mrs. Oby Igwesi, in a statement, said, “I am directed to inform you that all activities in the school today, Monday 31st 2021, have been cancelled. “This is due to unforeseen circumstances. Please be guided accordingly.”