Singer Victor Eugenie Adere, aka Victor AD or Red Eye has denied viral rumour he wrote the song ‘Jowo.”
Controversy erupted on social media Tuesday after rumour emerged upcoming singer Victor AD accused multiple award-winning singer, Davido of stealing his song, “Jowo.” Victor AD came to realisation of the uproar on social media and decided to clear every doubt and put all false wagging tongues to sleep. The “Tire you” singer emphatically stated he did not write the song “Jowo” and was baffled at where the viral rumours emanated from. He advised that people should allow “Omo Baba Olowo” crooner bask in the euphoria of his celebration as a performing artiste for uninterrupted 10years. Red Eye tweeted: “Omo no be me write JOWO for @davido. I don’t know where all this is coming from. Make una let baba celebrate him 10yrs in peace #olofofo.” Tweeps have reacted by commending Victor AD for clearing the air on the matter while reiterating that Davido remains a king in the music industry regardless of stunts those who hate him try to pull. @_freshlyf_ tweeted: “Lmaooo haters gon hate Potatoes gon potate.. OBO still gon be KING!” @FunmiKolz wrote: “Thank you for saying the truth. They just keep hating on Davido for no reason.” @AkinolaAguda1 said: “I knew it. You don’t sing love songs, just hustle hustle songs.” @PrettyMichella stated: “Evil agenda again in the mud….. @davido is Love & Love always wins.” @30BGpikin tweeted: “Thanks for proving them wrong. Davido haters have failed.” @donsettlenaija said: “Wahala…una don hear..how does jowo even relate to this man.” @EEkemenah tweeted: “I don’t know why there’s so much hate on this young man! OBO has been nothing but a blessing to the music industry and upcoming artist, no matter what I’ll forever love this guy#@Davido.” @smaIIshaq stated: “Omo u bam tnks for been honest.” @bangs_jnr wrote: “Clear the air!!!! Who dey brreeett!!!” @Morrisvibe1said: “Chaiiii @davido don too see things for this life…… Who first bring this false allegation.”