Controversy yesterday trailed alleged killing of Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau, by a splinter group, Islamic State of West African Province (ISWAP). The Nation gathered from an intelligence source that the Boko Haram leader was killed in a supremacy battle with ISWAP fighters, who criticised his mode of operation, especially attacks on mosques, killing of women and children. Another source, however, said he was “badly injured and rescued by his fighters. The Nigerian military has, however, placed Army and Air Force formations in Borno State on alert over possible movement of dislodged insurgents. The Defence Headquarters could not confirm the killing of Shekau, Nigeria’s most wanted terrorist as at the time of filing this report. Acting Director Defence Media Operations, Brig.-Gen. Bernard Onyeuko, said the military could not confirm the development yet. The DHQ had, while defending repeated claims of killing of Shekau by troops, explained that “Shekau” is a mere title bestowed on the leader of the group and not a name of an individual. Former Coordinator of the Defence Media Operations, Maj.-Gen. John Enenche, now retired, told reporters that “Shekau” had been killed by troops on several occasions. The ISWAP recently dislodged Boko Haram in some section of the Sambisa forest, it was learnt. The splinter group was reported to have carried out several raids on Boko Haram camps and carried away their women and children. According to situation report by one of the intelligence services, “on May 19, 2021, about 1829hours, ISWAP top fighter Baana Duguri – on this selector – geolocated around Sambisa forest Pulka Gwoza LGA BRS, informed ISWAP Logistics Commander Modu Sulum – geolocated opposite General hospital Konduga LGA Borno State that they killed Abubakar Shekau… “Duguri disclosed that the ISWAP fighters’ team surrounded the Boko Haram leader with his team and shooting ensued between the two factions. Duguri further added that Shekau detonated a bomb and killed himself when he observed that the ISWAP fighters wanted to capture him alive. “Furthermore, Duguri informed Sulumi that the two sides also lost some fighters during the shooting. He averred that even yesterday, ISWAP was pursuing Abubakar Shekau and he Shekau discarded his cap and ran. But today, the pursuit continued and he was finally killed. Duguri asked Modu Sulumi if the other Boko Haram members, who fled are returning to their houses. “In his response, Sulumi rejoiced over the death of Abubakar Shekau and glorified God over the success. He also said few Boko Haram members are returning to their houses.”