Members of the Civil Society Groups (CSOs) have pushed for press freedom, restructuring, gender and disability inclusion for review in the 1999 Constitution as the Senate holds zonal public hearing across the country. They made this demand at a one-day Citizens’ Roundtable on Constitutional Review and Electoral Reform, organided by Yiaga Africa under its European Union Support to democratic Governance in Nigeria and International Press Centre. The zonal public hearing by the Senate held between May 26th and 27th while the House of Representatives will hold its zonal public hearing between June 1st and 2nd 2021. Executive Director, International Press Centre, Lanre Arogundade, said the roundtable was organised to ensure that issues of utmost concerns to citizens are factored into the constitutional amendment. Arogundade noted the previous constitutional amendments did not reflect all the memo submitted by various citizens’ groups but raised optimism this process would yield positive results. He noted the review of the constitution affords opportunity for Nigerians to have a say on the framing of statements in a documents that should bind us together as a nation. He noted the group proposes amendments in the following priority areas which are: People With Disability and Status recognition/ Social integration, women and Political Positioning, restructuring of the Nigerian Federalism, media Freedom, socio-economic rights and restructuring. Arogundade pointed as members of the civil society groups, we are speaking with one voice and common understanding on issues that matters for the general populace. Lagos coordinator, Yiaga Africa, Ayodele Taofiq-Fanida, said: “The time we are in, in the country demand for a great action for peace and development to happen and my expectations is that citizens will be able to push for this amendment genuinely, and will reflect the concerns of the people for a better country.” Sharing his position on the constitutional amendment, Director, Centre for Citizens with Disabilities, CCD, David Anyaele, Executive said: “We are concerned about Sections 15, 48, 49 and 223(B) of the constitution which subjects persons with disabilities to various forms of discrimination.” Executive Director, Institute of Media and Society, IMS Dr. Akin Akingbulu, noted to ensure media freedom, “the National Broadcasting Commission must be independent and have full regulatory power to do its work without interference.”