In this memorandum to the National Assembly Elder statesman Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye urges President Muhammadu Buhari and the lagislators to resolve the contentious national question for peace to reign in the country.  I cherish the opportunity given to the public to submit memoranda on the above subject matter. It is a golden opportunity to correct a major stumbling block to Nigeria’s greatness for our country is a uniquely blessed land. I am referring to item No.2 in the 13-point agenda in your call for memoranda i.e. The Federal structure and Power Devolution. Let us seize this opportunity to jettison the 1999 Constitution crafted by the Military in the borrowed gown of “we the people” and revive a truly federal constitution which our political founding fathers painstakingly agreed to after a series of constitutional conferences in Nigeria and Britain (Lancaster House) between 1956 and 1960! The constitution of a country is the supreme law (grundnom) of the land. It is different from and superior to other numerous enactments like bye-laws which local government councilors are empowered to enact; state laws within the purview of state legislators, federal laws effective in all parts of the country and which the National Assembly is constitutionally authorized to make and treaties/similar international agreements which only the National Assembly (NASS) can incorporate into our municipal laws. As the truth must be told, powerful as the National Assembly (NASS) is, as regards enactment of laws as stated above, the NASS cannot prescribe itself into existence. The NASS itself is a creation of the law i.e. the constitution of the country. The english translation of a nigerian proverb is that “a sharp knife cannot carve its own handle” As better illustration, let me give a few examples to learn from as follows:  God’s creation: The holy books – bible and quran, both testify that the almighty God (Allah) created light, firmament, land, hills and mountains, bodies of water, plants, animals, all living and inanimate things etc by His divine, miraculous and unfathomable power of proclamation i.e. “Let it be” or “ kum faya kum”. (See genesis chapter 1 verse 3 and quran al-baqarah surat chapter 2 vs 30 and 117. But, God’s final and greatest masterpiece of creation was preceded with the words “let us create man in our own image” (see gen. 1v 26). In other words, “God consulted before creating man”. The lesson to draw is that if God condescended to consult, who are we mere mortals to refrain from deep consultations among ourselves before drafting our country’s constituion? We, the over 250 ethnic nationalities that inhabit nigeria must be given a chance to have a say through representatives purposely chosen to represent them after due consultation/mandate to write a constitution which will prescribe the powers, functions and limits of responsibilities of all persons, human, soles and corporate. After all, we have done this many times in the past both pre-independence and in 1979, 1989 (constituent assembly in which i served as chairman of public funds committee) and in 2014. The constituent assembly as in the past should dissolve after finishing their draft constitution which should be submitted to the country – vide referendum for the country’s single ‘yes’ or ‘no’ vote, without any subsequent amendment, alteration or embellishment.  The usa 1776-1788 example Authorised representatives of the 13 colonies that fought and won the “American war of independence” from britain (on the theme of “no legislation without representation”) assembled in philadelphia to enact one of the most enduring and successfully practiced constitutions in human history. The lesson to learn is that it is the political leaders nominated by their respective states (colonies) that sat for some months to draft the constitution of the original “we the people…………” Some of who, like John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, James Maddison etc. Later succeeded George Washington – the first President of the United States of America. The Assembly voluntarily dissolved after completing its constitution-making assignment. The Constitution which became operative since June 21, 1788 still stands today with comparatively few amendments over 233 years i.e. about two-and-a-third centuries!  Collapsed empires: One common feature of all great empires recorded in history from the Greek Empire (under Alexander the Great), the Roman Empire (most famous under the twelve Caesars), the French Empire under Emperor Napoleon Buonaparte, a South African Empire under Chaka the Zulu, is that their powers dwindled and their authorities ebbed into oblivion. Even the British Empire over which “the sun never set” adroitly metamorphosed into a Commonwealth of friendly nations recognizing the Queen and the English Language as symbols of our association! The underlying factor is that you cannot rule or hold together unwilling people for endless period of time. It is unwise trying to ride an “unwilling horse.” Something must snap causing pains to both the horse and the horse rider! Arising from the many examples given above, my humble suggestions are as follows:  A (1)     another constitutional conference: (Or revisit of the latest one of 2014!) The federal government, (hopefully for the last time) should convene a constituent assembly or “national confab. We already have many models to go by in terms of well-spread representation including ethnic nationalities that existed before Lord Lugard arrived. They have their customary leaders, economic and political interests, gender, labour, youths, security, intellectual, technical, professional and other similar interests and legal experts to assist in drafting the constitution clause by clause.  True federalism as central focus: This is a Constitutional format in which residual powers reside in the federating units and only symbols of nationhood like defence of national boundaries, national currency and foreign affairs are delegated to the centre. This was the main theme of the 1960 Independence Constitution. Allocation of revenue was largely on the basis of derivation. But, the first military incursion on January 15, 1966, Nigeria drifted towards unitary system of government. Ostensibly, people thought it was in order to redress the drift and restore a weak centre and strong regions that the second coup took place about six months after the first. But, with Generals at the centre and Brigadiers and Colonels in the regions/states, revenue allocations vis-à-vis sources of derivation dwindled to an amazing low of 13 per cent. While Civil War strategies and popular clamour thereafter necessitated creation of more states from four to 12 to 19 to 21 to 28 and now 36, we have got to a situation where only a few states are truly viable or able to engender full employment, consistently balanced budgets etc. This propels more attention to the centre as “he who pays the piper dictates the tune.” Let me quote the preamble to the 233-year old constitution of the United States of America: – “We the people of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common Defence, promote the general Welfare and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America”.  Insurance against centrifugal forces: It will be an act of pretence to deny knowledge of the clamour of many Nigerian Youths, especially in the Southern parts who are pessimistic about their future welfare and who believe that the way out is to secure independence of their own part of the country. But, many people of my age and background who appreciate the value of territorial size and big population in attainment of “greatness” by modern Super-power countries like the United States of America, the Republic of China, the former USSR, India and Canada etc would prefer we stay together, not only as one country but also as a centre of a possible United States of West Africa (ECOWAS). But, we cannot in all conscience ignore the grievances of the youths. We must be determined to openly, sincerely and critically persuade them with the belief and assurance that all will be well. The new draft Constitution must also ensure this position. Prudence and Statesmanship warrant a careful examination of the grievances of the youths and try to accommodate and assuage as much as possible their fears to avoid any drift towards balkanisation of our beautiful and potentially great country. Persuasion will be preferred to resort to force. This country has fought an expensive civil war before. We cannot afford a second one. Let true patriots and Statesmen and women confer on the best way out. Having exhausted my opinion on item 2 of the 13-point agenda in your “call for memoranda” on the issue of “Federal Structure and Power Devolution,” I now wish to give brief comments on the other twelve topics/outlines as follows:  B1) gender equality for women and girls: This is the trend in the modern world today. I support it.  The federal structure and power devolution: In summary, I repeat the making of a new truly Federal Constitution or for reason of lesser cost, review and adoption of the 2014 Constitution by a “yes” or “no” Referendum approval, after a re-check by a panel of experts.  Local government/local government autonomy: I agree in principle but as recommended above, occupiers of traditional stools in existence before 1914 should not be subservient to Local Government Chairmen. Certain traditional functions pertaining to the customs and traditions of each area should be carefully identified and retained under the purview of major traditional heads.  Public revenue, fiscal federalism and revenue allocation: The higher percentage (about 80 per cent) presented in the 1960 Constitution on basis of derivation should be re-instituted in place of the unequitable 13 per cent. With discovery of more valuable mineral resources in virtually all parts of the country vis-à-vis projected dim in the value and contribution of petroleum resources to national revenue, there is scarcely any justification to “rob Peter to pay Paul” on this issue. I support fiscal federalism. If we re-group or restructure the 36 states we have today to six regions, then, the cost of administering the whole country should be lower. Every region will be wide enough to cover old and new areas of agricultural, mineral, modern digital resources/huge sources of revenue for all the federating regions of the country.  Nigerian police and nigerian security architecture: It has always been odd and anomalous to designate governors as responsible for security of their respective states and yet have no control over the police posted to each state by the Inspector General of Police who issues directives from Abuja. I also suggest, supplementary security services by local “gendarmes” like “Amotekun” and Hisbah, Egbesu boys etc as recently introduced in some parts of Nigeria. This should be spread all over the local governments/regions of the country. Local security men/women have advantage of local dialects to gather ‘intelligence’ and they know their native terrain better than Federal Police.  Comprehensive judicial reforms: Let the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) and the National Judicial Council (NJC) submit memoranda on this subject.  Electoral reforms to strengthen inec to deliver transparently credible free and fair elections: I support this.  Socio-economic and cultural rights as contained in chapter 2 of the constitution: I have no objection to this. With a six-regional set-up in the country such as (a) Northwest Region (b) North Central Region (c) Northeastern Region (d) Southwest Region (e) Southeastern Region and (f) Southsouth (or Delta) Region, the cost of administering the country will be lower and there should be greater funds available for capital and welfare development for all concerned.  Strengthening the independence or oversight institutions and agencies created by the constitution or pursuant to an act of national assembly: This is not quite clear to me. So, I have no “yes” or “no” comment on the topic.  Residency and indigene provisions: This is an appropriate constitutional subject. But, provision should be made, if not already made, to expunge numerous non-Nigerians who have unlawfully crossed through our porous borders to wreak criminal assaults on indigenous Nigerians’ safety and security e.g. the Boko Haram malfeasants and non-Nigerian herdsmen plundering our rich pastoral land!  National Assembly: The bicameral or two-chamber national assembly comprising the senate and federal house of representatives appear ‘ok’ to me.  State creation: By military fiat/decrees the 24 provinces established in a previous Colonial Constitution of Nigeria (i.e. 1946 Richards Constitution) have been expanded into present-day 36 states plus a Federal Capital Area in Abuja. But while some of the provinces have become states (such as Niger, Katsina, Calabar etc.), some have been split into two states each (such as Oyo, Ondo, Enugu, Kano provinces etc) while a few old provinces have been split into three states each (examples being Sokoto and Borno provinces). The only odd Provinces were Ijebu and Abeokuta Provinces which both merged into one – Ogun State. This was why, at the instance of the Awujale of Ijebu land – Oba S. K. Adetona, many indigenes of Ijebu, including me as their representative in the Senate from 1999 to 2003, argued that once the number of States exceeded 24, the old Ijebu Province should become a state. But, the economic realities of today and the heavy burden of running the present 36-state-structure, I am of the opinion that Nigeria should be reconstituted into six regions with the federating units exercising residual powers earlier indicated in this memorandum. 