President Muhammadu Buhari has approved the appointment of Comrade Issa Aremu as the Director/ Chief Executive Officer of the National Institute for Labour Studies (NILS). Meanwhile, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has congratulated Comrade Aremu on the appointment, describing it as an honour to the Nigerian labour movement. Comrade Aremu, a gubernatorial candidate of the Labour Party in Kwara State in the 2019 general elections, member of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) and Vice President of Industrial Global Union, was Vice President of NLC and General Secretary of the National Union of Textile, Garments and Tailoring Workers of Nigeria. This appointment was contained in a letter signed by the Minister of State for Labour and Employment, Hon. Festus Keyamo copied to the Minister and Permanent Secretary and tagged appointment as substantive Director/CEO of the National Institute for Labour Studies. The letter reads, “I am pleased to convey to you the approval of President Muhammadu Buhari appointing you as the substantive Director/CEO of the National Institute for Labour Studies, effective from the 18th of May, 2021. “Your appointment is made pursuant to Section 8 of the National Institute of Labour Studies Act. You are to hold office for a period of 4 years in the first instance as stipulated in Section 3(2) of the Act, subject to re-appointment by Mr. President on further recommendation by the Minister. Kindly accept my hearty congratulations.” In a congratulatory letter signed by the NLC President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said, “we bring you fraternal greetings from the Nigeria Labour Congress. We write to congratulate you on your recent appointment as the Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Michael Imoudu National Institute for Labour Studies (MINILS). “There is no doubt that this appointment is an honour to the Nigerian Labour movement and an acknowledgement of your contributions to
the development of industrial relations in Nigeria. “Our expectations for you in your new assignment are huge. We expect that you use your great experience and expertise to occasion a turnaround of the Michael Imoudu National Institute for Labour Studies to better play its role as a foremost institute for industrial relations. We wish you success during your term in office.”