Operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) have smashed an online drug trafficking cartel that sells illicit drugs to residents of Abuja and its environs. Director, Media and Advocacy Femi Babafemi said the operation happened at the weekend. Five suspects were arrested in sting operations carried out between May 7 and May 8 by officers of the agency, Babafemi said. He said different brands of illicit drugs were recovered from the suspects. The arrested suspects were listed as Queen Nvene, Collins Ozoemena, Samson Peter, Chika Nvene, and Habila Musa. The statement reads, “The group specialises in clandestine production of drug-based cookies, brownies and other edibles; markets and sells same online, through their Twitter and Instagram handles. They also market and sell all types of marijuana; Arizona, Colorado and Loud, among other illicit drugs, online. “While Queen Nvene, a graduate of Business Administration, produces drug cookies and brownies and sells same on Instagram, Collins Ozoemena sells all types of illicit drugs, especially Loud and Skunk online. “Samson Peter on the other hand, is the manager of SK express courier company, who manages motorcycles and dispatch riders to deliver illicit drugs from Collins and drugged edibles (cookies, cakes and brownies) from Queen and Chika, both sisters. “Members of the cartel operate from different locations within the Federal Capital Territory, FCT, but operate as a network. Their arrest followed online orders of drug-based edibles by undercover agents. Supplies of brownies and cookies were delivered and received from different SK Express dispatch riders at various times by narcotic operatives before the final sting operation. “According to the Commander, FCT Command of the Agency, Mohammed Malami Sokoto, follow-up raids of their various locations in Gudu, Kubwa, Lokogoma, Apo and Damangazo all in Abuja, led to the seizure of some illicit substances. “Seized from Queen include; 55 pieces of drugged cookies and brownies; 1.3 kilogrammes of skunk used as ingredient for making cookies and brownies, while 0.9 grammes of ecstasy, popularly called molley, 300 grammes of skunk, and 200 grammes of Loud were recovered from Collins. Also, 300 grammes of skunk were seized from Chika.”