 SIR: Eid al-Fitr marks the end of Ramadan, the Muslim holy month of fasting. It is celebrated during the first three days of Shawwal; the 10th month of the Islamic calendar (though the Muslim use of a lunar calendar means that it may fall in any season of the year). This religious Eid is the only day in the month of Shawwal during which Muslims are not permitted to fast. The holiday is widely called The Eid prayer which is performed in congregation in open areas like fields, community centres, or mosques. No call to prayer is given for this Eid prayer, and it consists of only two units of prayer with a variable amount of Takbirs and other prayer elements depending on the branch of Islam observed. The Eid prayer is followed by the sermon and then a supplication asking for Allah’s forgiveness, mercy, peace and blessings for all living beings across the world. The sermon also instructs Muslims as to the performance of rituals of Eid, such as the zakat. The sermon of Eid takes place after the Eid prayer, unlike Friday prayer which comes first before prayer. Some Imams believe that listening to the sermon at Eid is optional. After the prayers, Muslims visit their relatives, friends, and acquaintances or hold large communal celebrations in homes, community centres, or rented halls. According to certain traditions, these festivals were initiated in Medina after the migration of Prophet Muhammad (Peace Be Upon Him) from Mecca. Traditionally, Eid al-Fitr begins at sunset on the night of the first sighting of the crescent moon. If the moon is not observed immediately after the 29th day of the previous lunar month, (either because clouds block its view or because the western sky is still too bright when the moon sets), then the holiday is celebrated. Generally, Muslims prepare for Eid prayer by bathing, preparing themselves and dressing in new clothes. On their way to the prayer, traditionally held in an open area, Muslims recite takbeerat, praising God by saying “Allahu Akbar” meaning Allah is great. Each country has traditional desserts and sweets that are prepared before Eid or on the morning of the first day. These foods range from special biscuits and bread to cakes and puddings. Clothes are also important markers of Eid. Whether people choose to wear traditional or modern, or even western clothes, all must be well turned out. Throughout the day, family elders distribute cash or gifts to the children and women.