 A mentally ill woman was yesterday lynched by a mob over her alleged possession of firearms. The incident occurred at Abule Ado Underbridge in the Amuwo Odofin area of the state. It was alleged that the woman had three AK47 rifles and N3 million in a sack, in addition to an android phone, which raised suspicions that she might be working in cahoots with armed robbers or kidnappers. She was also accused of having a stolen baby, claims the police have described as false and unfounded. According to a statement by police spokesman Olumuyiwa Adejobi, investigation had commenced into the murder of the woman and those responsible would be prosecuted for murder when arrested. He said preliminary investigation revealed that the woman neither had any baby nor firearms as alleged, adding that those who killed her did so for reasons best known to them. Adejobi said the police found out the woman had lived in the area for many years. “The command wishes to state categorically that the woman was just murdered for reasons best known to the perpetrators of the heinous crime as investigation revealed that no baby nor AK47 rifles were found in her possession, neither were they recovered by the perpetrators or the police. It’s just a clear case of murder,” he said. xxxxxx “The Commissioner of Police has therefore ordered that the matter be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, for proper investigation and the culprits should be arrested and charged to court with murder. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, also warned against jungle justice which is inhumane, criminal and detrimental to smooth Administration of Criminal Justice in Lagos and in Nigeria at large.  “He equally warned that the command will not tolerate such act as the long arm of the law will catch up with anyone or group of persons who engage in jungle justice in the state,” said Adejobi. Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has attributed rising cases of money laundering in the country to the connivance of bank officials. Ilorin zonal Head of the commission Usman Muktar said this in Ilorin, Kwara state when he met with compliance officers of various banks in state capital. The EFCC boss said that the “interface” became necessary in order to check the rising trend of cases of money laundering involving bank officials. “There is no major fraud especially money laundering that is ever committed without the connivance of the bank officials, and this must stop,” Mr. Muktar said. He appreciated the banks officials support to the commission on the delivery of its mandate, urging them to do more He charged the banks representatives to be diligent in the discharge of their duties by playing active role in tackling money laundering and other fraudulent financial practices in the banking sector. The round table conference was aimed at building a better relationship and strengthening of partnership ties between the staff of this critical unit of banks and the Commission in the fight against corruption. He hinted about the creation of a tax fraud desk in the zone. He said that “the tax fraud desk in conjunction with the Special Control Unit against Money Laundering (SCUML) would greatly ease the problem of company registration currently being faced by people in the zone.” He added that the section would help in dealing with issues of corruption, tax evasion, illicit financial flows and money laundering within the state. On the issue of “know your customer” (KYC) and “know your customer’s business” (KYCB) the EFCC chief tasked the bankers to take the two requirements seriously as it would help to keep fraudulent customers on the radar.