Unless there is a volte-face, the widely speculated friendly match between the Super Eagles and Teranga Lions of Senegal during next month’s FIFA International window, will not see the light of the day. Top officials  of the Nigeria Football Federation(NFF) have been looking at the possibility  of securing some high profile friendlies  with African teams for the Super Eagles after the Confederation of African Football  (CAF) postponed  the start of the Qatar 2022 World Cup qualifiers  from June to September. The Super Eagles were to begin their long campaign towards a place in the first FIFA World Cup to be hosted in the Middle East with a home match against the Lone Stars of Liberia on the weekend of June 5 to 8 while they travel away to Cape Verde on  the weekend of June 11 to 14. Words were rife that  the NFF had  secured  two important games with Cameroon  and Senegal with further possibility of adding another country in what would have  been a four-nation  festival  to be held in Austria. Our  correspondent gathered  that the Fédération Sénégalaise de Football (FSF) have since backed out of the arrangement despite holding talks with the NFF. “ It is true  that officials of both the  NFF and FSF held talks about a friendly match in June but  in the end, Senegal will not  play Nigeria,” a reliable source in Dakar told NationSport. It would be recalled that  both  West African sides had clashed twice in friendlies  in recent times since coach Gernot Rohr took over the reins of the Super Eagles in 2016. Apart from the  1-1 draw recorded in 2017 in London, the Teranga Lions beat the Super Eagles 1-0  in a pre-2019 AFCON friendly match in Ismailia but a third friendly clash might not be coming too soon. But German coach Rohr is upbeat  that  Super Eagles would play two key friendlies in June in order to keep his wards in tip-top shape. “ We will do two friendlies on the 4th and 9th of June,” assured the 67-year-old German without a recourse to the likely opponents. “ There will be strong African teams and the NFF will communicate (on the likely opponents).”