 Techy Train, a training firm, which offers technology-based vocational skills primarily to women and youths, has concluded arrangements to empower 5,000 young women across Nigeria with digital skills over the next three years through her “Tech Up Girls” initiative. The Tech-Up Girls initiative, according to its founder, Anurika Joshua, was borne out of a resolve to solve the unemployment problem, reduce gender gap and inequality, enhance access to better opportunities for women, and ensure women have better options and leverage. She added that the initiative, which was targeted at women between 16 and 26, who can read and write, with an access to a smart phone, will also help enhance their digital skills and career enhancement, thereby positioning them for the jobs of the future. “With technology playing a role in all kinds of careers, from art and history to law and medicine and more, learning tech skills will set up women up for economic independence. And the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) sector needs more girls and women,” Excellence told The Nation. Pointing out that the jobs of the future will be driven by technology and innovation and “our women need to be prepared,” she said the scope of the initiative was to train 500 women per quarter. “Of this 500 women, they will be split into 10 smaller groups with no more than 50 participants where each of them will be coached by a mentor in technology on how to navigate the path and go further in the technology space. The course will be taken fully online via a mobile app,” Excellence explained. The Techy Train founder, reiterating that the initiative will ease connecting the unconnected and creating a brighter future for the  girl child, encouraged those wishing to be part of the initiative or to sponsor a girl child to visit www.thetechytrain.net/techup-girls. She said Techy Train, which is the training arm of Excellence Advisory Limited, an Abuja-based technology business support services provider, so far, has sponsors who are sponsoring up to 90 women, adding that the company is expecting more sponsors to come on board. The training is expected to run over three years with a target of 5000 women; there will be 500 women per cohort. The first cohort starts on June 1, 2021. And at the end of the training, the lucky trainees should be proficient in Social Media Management, Web Design, Social Customer Care, Basic Video Editing Skills, and Email Marketing. “Global figures show a startling economic disparity with women losing jobs at almost twice the rate of men and leaving 47 million more women and girls below the poverty line. “While girls across the world tend to outperform boys in reading and writing skills, they continue to be under-represented in Science,  Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM),” Excellence said, noting that the training will help change the narrative. Registered as a business in July 2019 and formerly called Animations with Excellence, Techy Train is the training arm of Excellence Advisory Limited, where Excellence, a 2018 graduate of Biomedical Laboratory Sciences from the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan, is Team Lead. The platform (Techy Train) provides access to technology based vocational skills mostly to women and the youth. It does this by using “accelerated learning” techniques that allow trainees to learn faster and remember more of what they learn. 