The rumor mills are rolling and transfer speculation in on. One name that has shown the potential to feature prominently through the summer Paul Pogba’s. The Manchester United midfielder has won the best of the top titles in the world and he may not be faulted for wanting to make another big money move. Pogba is on his second spell at Manchester United, a club he rejoined from Juventus for a club record $123m and with his contract earlier set to expire at the end of the current campaign, he was offered a one year extension, which will see him stay at Old Trafford to the end of the 2022 campaign. For years now, Pogba has been linked with a move to Spain and in recent times, it has emerged that the destination could be the capital. Real Madrid are expected to restructure as they seek to return their identity, with free-flowing football and world class players in the team. Pogba fits the bill well. The Zinedine Zidane influence could work on this projected move too, though it remains speculation for now. At Manchester United, a new deal is said to be worked on, as they look to hold on their prized asset. That deal though, may just be for purposes of attracting a good transfer fee as it is said a move to Spain holds some good appeal for the World Cup winner. His agent, Mino Raiola, who has brokered some big deals before, weighed in on the matter, saying it is by Real Madrid’s own doing that Pogba is not there already. A big statement by all means but with Manchester United’s dislike of selling big players to top rivals, this deal, if it ever comes to be will not be as easy as the Frenchman packing and leaving. First of all, Real Madrid are going for the Champions League title and will be hoping to win this to aid in pushing their prestige further up for such top signings. The team has also been linked with Borussia Dortmund striker Erling Halaand who would cost an arm and a leg. The club’s top hierarchy has already declared the availability of funds to make the big moves happen but at the moment, focus is trained on winning two Champions League games, which would guarantee another of the coveted trophy heading to the Santiago Bernabeu. The Spanish giants take on Chelsea in the second leg of an evenly poised semi final, having drawn 1-1 in the first leg. As they seek that, the expert betting tips on Wincomparator predict another low scoring affair, which is also favored by most bookies and for first time users, the site has ready offers and bonuses with available promo codes making navigation easy. As Real go for the Champions League title, Pogba and his Manchester United mates will be up for the Europa League title. They already have one foot in the final after their 6-2 win over AS Roma in the first leg of their semi final.