 SIR: Professor Ibrahim Gambari, one of the greatest diplomats that have shaped the international status of Nigeria since independence, berthed in Aso Villa, Abuja, on May 13, last year, armed with the Presidency’s most strategic task: Chief of Staff to the President. As he marks his one year in office, the reflections since his time in the saddle will be an admixture of the pleasant and the not so pleasant. His stint has never been a stroll in the park, and may not be in the near future unless the insecurity pervading the nation is nipped. But men of steel are produced at times like this. He came in at a very testy time in the annals of the nation, and has managed to keep his head above the turbulent waters. So far, he has exhibited the nature of his profound calling: less visibility but more strategic actions. A year ago, the rationale for his choice after the sudden demise of Mallam Abba Kyari couldn’t have been far-fetched. Gambari understands politics and diplomacy; he has in his pouch top level bureaucracy, administrative sagacity and ingenious skills that had been deployed previously in hostile environments. President Muhammadu Buhari needed loyalty and he found it in a man wired by long diplomatic service. He needed a close ally, someone he would be most comfortable with and in whose hands he could literally hand over his soul. He found it in a man he had crossed path with during the military era, and who had been the perfect fit to handle the nation’s diplomatic shuttles at the time. Abba Kyari expanded the frontiers of his office, becoming the heartbeat of the Presidency and the de facto emperor of the presidential bureaucracy, leaving behind big shoes at his transition. Gambari filled those shoes without fuss. Did he? His appointment was dogged with controversies in some quarters, not borne out of his competence to hold the mantle of the office, but the politics of it. He was seen as a recycled figure to hold the reins at the twilight of his career. Some saw him as a spent force seeking to hibernate and spend time in a “Retirement Home.” And for others, the office of the Chief of Staff demeaned the weight of his decades-long achievements. Whatever the permutations and ventilations then and now, the pedigree of the Super Diplomat cannot be underrated and the office he currently occupies is too strategic to be sacrificed on the altar of political sentiments. Besides serving as Minister for External Affairs between 1984 and 1985, he was Nigeria’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations, and was twice President of the UN Security Council; Under-Secretary-General for Political Affairs in UN; Head of the African Union-United Nations Mission in Darfur; Chairman of the UN Special Committee Against Apartheid and UN Secretary-General’s Special Envoy on Cyprus, Zimbabwe and Myanmar. Gambari is a tactician, negotiator, mediator and moderator – all qualities that have become invaluable in managing the complexities of the office he presently occupies. President Buhari couldn’t have found a better soul mate and confidant!