President Muhammadu Buhari’s associate and aspirant for All Progressives Congress (APC) national chairman, Mallam Salihu Mustapha has said he is not intimidated by the pedigree of other aspirants who are ex-governors and senators. Salihu said: “There was no to be worried or intimidated, the former governors also started from somewhere before getting elevated to national status.” He stressed that the chairmanship race should not  be reduced to ‘titles and status’, but should be centred on offering good leadership. He said ‘before  they became governor, they were ordinary citizens, they were not born as governors or senators’. The aspirant spoke with reporters in Ilorin at a programme organised by the Correspondents’ Chapel of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, NUJ, Kwara state council. Said he: “The ideas and ideals that drove the founding fathers to establish the APC were not new to me and that my membership of the party was not by accident. “Being a member of the APC has to do with ideological conviction and that I have always been a member of political parties not seen as ‘conservative.'” He added that “APC is an ideological pathway , I  didn’t come to it by accident.” Giving reasons for joining race, Salihu  said “I took decision to go into politics more than two decades ago,  and considering the experience garnered as deputy national chairman of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC)  which was one of the political parties that fused to become the APC, I am of a considered opinion that I still has more to offer the country  and contribute my quota to purposeful leadership in the country cognizant that political party serves as vehicle  for achieving control of government. “I ventured into politics more than two decades ago, I was with Chief Olu Falae, I was  in APP, ANPP. I have learned the ropes I have gotten the needed experience,  I only need to be just and fair to all.” The politician urged other aspirants not to consider it a ‘contest’ but rather an endorsement of what he represents-a generational shift that stands for a new face with fresh ideas. “It should not be somewhat a cult thing and the media should help us to change the narratives. They should not see us as one that is recycling faces, we have opponents seeking to win people’s hearts, if the electorate can see a new face with new ideas, let us say four million people are APC members, we will need others to vote for our party, how do we enjoy their support if we do not connect with the people? “That was why I expressed hope that my co-aspirants will not see it as a contest but rather an endorsement of what I represent,” he said. 