Victor Ola, CEO of TravelbySelf, a travel agency in Nigeria, is set to host a free webinar to provide Nigerians with travel knowledge on Canadian Immigration. The webinar is open to those in need of guidance on the simplest and most reliable way to study, work and live in Canada without writing the IELTS exam or paying an exuberant fee to travel agents. Speaking about the purpose of the webinar, Ola stated that there are opportunities available for Nigerians to obtain knowledge, skills and gainful employment in Canada. He said the webinar was born out of the need to help people avoid hasty disappointments and prepare them for an intensive professional path towards international immigration. “I know how arduous it is for youths to get access to the kind of education that they deserve in the country. TravelbySelf agency has been set up to help young Nigerians secure admission placement in Canada and also gives visa support to help bring their study ambition burgeons to life without being duped by fake visa agents,” he said. “This is my way of giving back to the community, by providing a unique opportunity for young stars to leverage on my experience to help fulfill their dreams. “Many people are on the verge of giving up on their dreams of relocating to Canada, it may appear to be a difficult path to tread but it’s not impossible. There’s an easier way to go about it, the webinar will provide a solution to all the travel fears that people might have. “I want to ensure that the youths get all they need to have that great future without having to break the bank. I’ll be disclosing the surest way for anyone to secure lucrative jobs that can guarantee them over $50,000 per annum. “The good news about the pathway I’m revealing in the webinar isn’t limited by class or status, but works for all – skilled or not skilled, rich or average, there will be key learning to help every class of Nigerian.” He added: “Participants of the webinar are expected to discover how to fast track permanent immigration to Canada, how to properly apply for a work permit, how to obtain a Canadian passport for themselves and their family members, the proper process to migrate a family to Canada legally and how to land a well-paying job with six months of arriving in Canada.” Ola is an emigration expert with many years of teaching experience on Canadian immigration and citizenship. Having studied in Canada via a fully funded scholarship, his teaching ranges from immigration process, applying for work permits and successfully immigrating families to Canada legally.