 Former Anambra State Chief Judge Prof Peter Umeadi has praised the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN)  and former President of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) for their efforts in the fight for judicial autonomy. Courts have been shut nationwide since April 4, following the JUSUN strike to compel governors to implement judicial financial autonomy as provided in the constitution and two court judgments filed separately by Agbakoba and the union. Umeadi, an All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) chieftain, described the strike as the judiciary staff’s “best moment”. In a chat with The Nation, he said: “In my speech of the legal year ceremonies of 2014/2015 held on September 22, 2014, I stated that it was fitting that I would start with praising the effort of JUSUN in ushering in the much needed financial autonomy to the Judiciary in Nigeria. “I have been constant and continue in the expression of my faith and appreciation to the contribution of the Judiciary staff. “At no time more than now should I ask of all Judiciary staff in Anambra State in particular and the Nigeria Judiciary in general to stand up and take a bow… “The men and women who guard, sometimes with their lives, the files, documents, exhibits and other court property without which the courts cannot function. “They turn up to their duty posts daily under rain and sunshine sometimes with their meagre salaries to produce vital documents that are of grave importance to the life and death struggles that represent many a legal battle.” He reasoned that people seemed to be taking judiciary workers for granted “because these facts happen daily we tend to take them for granted.  “But I consider them heroic deeds. The best moment of the Judiciary staff seems to have arrived. They filed a suit for financial autonomy for the State Judiciaries pursuant to Section 121(3) of the Constitution of Nigeria 1999 and Judgement was given in their favour. “When the various state governments delayed in obeying the judgement of the court they embarked on a nationwide strike which was only called off to allow those states still sitting on the fence to obey…. I congratulate JUSUN for this historic feat.” He noted that the way the legal profession is fashioned, the Bar is the bulwark of Bench and that ideally the Bar should be in the forefront of the struggle for financial autonomy for the Judiciary. Umeadi said: “I doubt if that is the case. Rather the JUSUN with their meagre salaries are the ones who went to court and won financial autonomy for the courts which the Governors neither implemented nor appealed against. The senior lawyers who earn fees from court appearances were nowhere to be found. “I speak here with all sense of responsibility that the leading lights of the Bar were harassing and intimidating the JUSUN to stop their fight.  There may be few senior lawyers who have sympathy for the cause of the independence of Judiciary and did something about it but we would not fail to chronicle that Dr. Olisa Agbakoba (SAN) on his own went to court to enforce the financial autonomy of the Judiciary. “Like JUSUN he got a court judgement which the Governors neither implemented nor appealed against.” The former CJ urged the mainstream media to also review its role “because in the final analysis everyone runs to the court for protection. “The full import of independence of the Judiciary means that even Judges would also face the wrath of the law if they transgress in their official duties. “They would be tried accordingly to law and if found guilty would suffer the penalty for their offence. The same would apply to all and sundry.  Nobody is above the law.  It is with this mindset that we need to support financial autonomy on the basis of separation of powers, to strengthen the rule of law as a corner stone for the development of our country Nigeria.  On this subject the JUSUN are the undisputed heroes.” Umeadi said as Chief Judge his greatest challenge was how to maintain the independence of the Judiciary. He added: “The concept of separation of powers is irritating to the political class, which is accentuated from our years of military rule.  In America, the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary are referred to as co-equal arms of government.  In Nigeria it is anathema to suggest such. “The independence of the Judiciary rests on the constitutional concept of separation of powers which drive the rule of law.  All these would be a mirage without financial autonomy for the Judiciary.” Independence for the judiciary has failed and how do you think we can get it right this time around? 