Asiwaju Volunteers Solution 2023 has been launched in Lagos to sensitise and mobilise Nigerians as well as pressurize the former Governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, to contest for the presidential election in the 2023 General Election in Nigeria. The group’s Director-General, Hon. Abiodun Ogidan, said that though Tinubu has not declared his intention to contest, the group is working ahead of time to mobilise Nigerians for the National Leader of All Progressive Congress (APC) to actualise his ambition of succeeding incumbent President, Muhammadu Buhari. “We are a group supporting Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s 2023 ambition. We are a group coordinating all other groups. Everybody is a volunteer. We are on ground in all the states of the federation. We are encouraging other groups to register with us because our plan is to have a database so that we won’t have groups scattered around working for the same purpose.  The Director-General disclosed that the Asiwaju Volunteers has the backing of notable politicians and respected leaders across the six geopolitical zones of the country, adding that all hands must be on deck to ensure that Tinubu listens to his followers to come out and declare his intention to contest. According to him, 430 various groups have registered under Asiwaju Volunteers, as they are looking forward to having a database of all groups working for Tinubu’s 2023 ambition. Secretary-General of South West Agenda for Asiwaju (SWAGA), Hon. Dotun Oladele, who was a Special Guest at the event, commended the vision behind forming the Asiwaju Volunteers, adding that members should go into the nook and crannies of the country to sensitise Nigerians on reasons Tinubu should become the next president of the country. Chairperson of Unique Ladies for Jagaban, Nollywood actress, Ms. Bukky Ogunnote, described the forming of the group as the right thing to kick start the long work to pressurize Tinubu to contest for the president’s position. She said that her group is ready to join forces because Asiwaju has touched many lives in the country. 