 House of Representatives Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, yesterday described as unfortunate the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 others in a plane crash in Kaduna. State governors, including the Northern Governors Forum, and the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) also mourned them. Gbajabiamila said the death of the Army Chief, which came at a time that the Nigerian military was finding solutions to the security challenges in the country, was shocking and sad. Gbajabiamila said having taken over from the immediate past Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Buratai, a couple of months ago, Attahiru had shown a lot of commitment in tackling the security situation in the country. The Speaker, in a statement through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, recalled the few meetings he held with Attahiru in search of solutions to the challenges, adding that the late Army Chief came across as a core professional officer. According to him, the Nigerian military, especially the Nigeria Army, has lost a dedicated and committed senior officer whose services to fatherland will be sorely missed. We’re shocked, say Northern govs The Northern Governors’ Forum said it was shocked by the news of Attahiru’s and others’ death. Chairman of the Forum and Governor of Plateau State, Simon Bako Lalong, said: “Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru was a committed soldier whose passion for defending Nigeria was very clear throughout his military career even before his appointment as the Chief of Army Staff. “Since his appointment, we have engaged him as Northern Governors Forum and individually as governors towards enhancing the security and safety of our states, region and the nation at large. “Within the few months he held sway, we have seen improvements and high resolve to bring an end to insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and other criminal activities. “We had been working on consolidating this before this tragic incident that took his life and that of others working with him. We are highly shocked and pained.” He prayed God to grant the deceased eternal rest and comfort their families. Obaseki: He served meritoriously Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State said Attahiru served Nigeria meritoriously, “bringing his skill, experience and expertise to bear in prosecuting the war against terror.” “He will always be remembered for his gallantry, commitment to service and dedication to our fatherland,” Obaseki added.  Bello says COAS gave his all Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State said Attahiru gave his all to “the service of his fatherland and similarly died while attending to his duties.” Bello described the death of the COAS as a “colossal loss to Nigeria, particularly at a time the country was confronting numerous insecurity challenges in different parts.” Oyetola too Governor GboyegaOyetola of Osun State commiserated with President Muhammadu Buhari, the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky E.O Irabor and the entire country on the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and other persons on board the ill-fated aircraft. “My thoughts and prayers are with the families of the deceased. May God grant their souls eternal rest,” he said in a condolence message. We’re in deep shock -APC The All Progressives Congress (APC) said it was in deep shock over the plane crash and loss of lives. National Secretary Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee (CECPC) of the party, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, said: “While the air crash is being investigated and reports on its cause sketchy, the APC commiserates with President Muhamadu Buhari, Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, the Nigerian military and the families of the deceased for the tragic loss of the officers who have gallantly served the nation with honour and dignity.” Fani-Kayode, others express sorrow on social media Other Nigerians including Former Aviation Minister Femi Fani-Kayode took to social media to mourn the dead. Fani Kayode described Attahiru’s death as a monumental tragedy to Nigeria. Television journalist Babajide Otitoju said: “Goodbye my friend, Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, our new chief of army staff. This is so difficult to take, so devastating. RIP good man.” Malami scales down son’s wedding event Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN called Attahiru’s death as a national tragedy. Malami who, according to his spokesman Umar  Gwandu, received the news of the crash while attending to guests in preparation for the wedding ceremony of his second son, Abiru Rahman Malami billed for today, described the late Chief of Army Staff and members of his team as dedicated and patriotic Nigerians whose efforts to improve the security situation of the country were manifest. Malami prayed Allah to grant eternal salvation for all those who lost their lives in the air mishap. He also prayed that the family members have the fortitude to bear the loss Malami said the wedding fatiha would be low key in view of the national tragedy. 