Airline crew and passengers travelling through the Murtala Mohammed  International Airport (MMIA), Lagos have been called upon to embrace premium hospitality services as a new facility – Lagos Marriott Hotel, Ikeja – opens its doors for business. The N45 billion infrastructure put together by SIFAX Group, an investment conglomerate spanning aviation, oil and gas, maritime, haulage and logistic as well as hospitality sectors, according to its managers, has been positioned to drive a hub status for MMIA  in West and Central Africa. Speaking at a briefing to herald the opening of the facility next week, General Manager, Lagos Marriott Hotel, Janse Van Rensburg said the facility was delivered after six  years of spadework in a partnership with  SIFAX Group and the renowned global hotel brand Marriott International. The 250-bed, five-star hotel built on 11 floors, has modern facilities, including exclusive flight crew lounge, VIP lounges, 1,000 – capacity ballroom, executive meeting rooms, 400- capacity car park, 206 standard rooms, 44 suites; including three presidential suites, well equipped gym, continental restaurants and other facilities. He said a team from both groups had been working round the clock to use the infrastructure as a signature offering to redefine the nexus between the travel industry and hospitality. He said though the company was conscious of the cluster of brands around its location – Ikeja GRA, it intends to utilize the value of premium  services to pull the aviation and allied sectors to leverage patronage. Using the Lagos Airport as catchment, the managers said they are working out a template to leverage value to pool patronage for the facility. Rensburg said the desire to offer premium hospitality services to the Lagos market was responsible for the huge investment in the hotel. He said: “”Every client of Lagos Marriott Hotel is set for an unimaginable premium experience like never before. We assure them of world-class hospitality, super customer satisfaction and royalty treatment. Frequent travelers who have points using the Marriott hotel franchise globally can also redeem their points here in Nigeria too. We have an in-club system for our premium members located on the first floor of the hotel. “The unique selling propositions of this hotel are the various amazing products we offer our clients which are non-existent in the country’s hospitality industry. The security of our guests is very paramount to us and that’s why every door and window in the facility is bomb-proof. Our pricing is also very commensurate with the quality that we offer.” Rensburg further noted that the hotel, which is in the classic premium category on the Marriott quality ranking, will be managed by the franchise owner, Marriott Hotel, for quality assurance purposes. Speaking also at the event, Chike Ogeah, Managing Director, Mac-Folly Hospitality Limited, the SIFAX Group’s hospitality subsidiary, applauded Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, for bankrolling the multi-billion naira investment, adding that his vision of a premium hospitality business in Lagos has manifested through the new hotel. He said: “The building of this hotel took us six years. We took our time to tastefully select all the materials and equipment that were used in order to serve our clients the best. As a man that has travelled all over the world and experienced first-hand hospitality at its peak, our Chairman, Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, decided to build this hotel in Nigeria in order to promote the hospitality and tourism industry in Lagos and provide opportunities to further improve the economy.