 In the ENGLISH PREMIER LEAGUE, Fulham will play their first game after their demotion to the lower league was confirmed, today when they travel to St. Mary’s Stadium as guests of Southampton with  Ola Aina, Josh Maja, Ademola Lookman and the rest of the Cottagers ready to fight in their final three games of the season. Super Eagles’ Semi Ajayi with 30 games under his belt might get a look-in as West Brom face Liverpool tomorrow. He was available for the duration of their 3-1 defeat to Arsenal last weekend. Will he be given another chance by Coach Sam Allardyce for the clash against the former champions? Alex Iwobi’s Everton with a place in Europe still a possibility host already-relegated Sheffield United at the Goodison Park tomorrow. Iwobi has featured in 30 league games for the Toffees and has complemented it with a goal. In the GERMAN BUNDESLIGA, super-charged Kevin Akpoguma smarting from scoring his first league goal is very likely to be in the Hoffenheim’s squad ahead of their today’s fixture with Arminia Bielefeld. Taiwo Awoniyi was in the sparkling form before he got injured in February and he has only been certified to resume training today for Union Berlin. He is definitely out of Berlin’s tough away duel with Bayer Leverkusen also billed for today.  It has not been the best of a loan move for Emmanuel Dennis who crossed from reigning Belgium Jupiler League champions, Club Brugge to German Bundesliga lightweight, FC Cologne. He has been overlooked in the Goats’ last two games and has only played nine games without a goal yet since his January move. In the ITALIAN SERIE A, Napoli will continue their hot pursuit of Champions League football as guests of Fiorentina tomorrow. There are two more games to the end of the season and if the Partenopei managed to win both, they and Super Eagles hit man, Victor Osimhen will play in Europe’s flagship clubs competition next season. Osimhen with five goals in his last five games has plundered home 10 goals from 22 games. Despite his fantastic season on a personal note with Crotone, Simy Nwankwo was unable to inspire the Rossoblu to top-flight stay in their return season. Crotone will visit Benevento tomorrow with all eyes on the Nigerian to break more individual records. In the FRENCH LEAGUE, Nigerian players are flirting with the relegation zone. Samuel Kalu’s Bordeaux who are in the 15th position with 39 points are only two points away from safety. They host Lens aware that anything other than a win could see them slip into the demotion zone. Kalu who has had several injury problems this season was missing when Moses Simon’s Nantes decapitated them 3-0 last weekend. He has played 20 games with four goals but it unknown if he will be in the squad for tomorrow’s tie. Simon and Nantes continued their mini-revival last weekend with their third straight victory over Bordeaux. They will slug it out with Dijon today with the three points the only remedy to their quest to remain in the French League. They have almost closed the gap on their rivals in the race for the league survival with 37 points from 36 games in the 18th spot.