President Muhammadu Buhari, on Sunday afternoon, departed Abuja on a four-day official visit to the French capital, Paris. The President is expected to attend the African Finance Summit as well as hold critical bilateral talks with the President of France, Emmanuel Macron, on a range of issues, including security. The President departed Abuja around 3:14pm. Announcing the President’s departure on his verified Twitter handle, @BashirAhmaad on Sunday, Personal Assistant to the President on New Media, Bashir Ahmad, stated some of the President’s itinerary in France for the four-day official visit. “President Muhammadu Buhari has departed Abuja for Paris, France ahead of the African Finance Summit which will be focused on reviewing African economy, following shocks from COVID-19 pandemic, and getting relief, especially from increased debt burden on countries,” Ahmad said. The Presidency on Saturday disclosed the President’s plan to attend the African Finance Summit in Paris, as well as his scheduled meeting with President Macron on a range of issues, including security. In a statement by Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, on Saturday, the Presidency had said President Buhari would also be having talks with key players in the oil and gas, technology and telecommunications sectors, as well as representatives of the European Union (EU) and others. “The Summit, to be hosted by President Emmanuel Macron, will draw major stakeholders in the global finance institutions and some Heads of Government, who will, collectively, discuss external funding and debt treatment for Africa, and private sector reforms. “During the visit, President Buhari will meet with the French President to discuss growing security threats in Sahel and Lake Chad region, political relations, economic ties, climate change and partnership in buoying the health sector, particularly in checking spread of Covid-19, with more research and vaccines. “Before returning to Nigeria, President Buhari will receive some key players in the oil and gas sector, engineering and telecommunications, European Council and European Union Representative for Foreign and Security Policy and Commission, and members of the Nigerian community”, the Presidency had revealed. He was accompanied to France by Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyeama, Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, Minister of Trade and Investment, Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, and Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. Also on the trip were the National Security Adviser (NSA), Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (Rtd.) and the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Ahmed Rufai Abubakar.