 Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Lucky Irabor and Executive Director of Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA) Aisha Osori have differed on the need for human rights campaigners to deploy equal measure of pressure it mounts on government forces to compel Boko Haram and Islamic State of West African Province (ASWAP) fighters to drop their weapons and come to the negotiation table. Irabor and Osori spoke at the opening ceremony of a three-day training on African Commission Guidelines on Human Rights in Counter Terrorism Operations organised by the Centre for Strategic Research and Studies of the National Defence College in collaboration with OSIWA. The CDS had noted that if the human rights campaigners take the campaign for the respect of the human rights provisions to the terror organisations, the conflict will be resolved faster with attendant reduction in the carnage perpetrated against innocent citizens. According to him, “what I need to put forward to you and of course the rest other actors within the human rights system, is that often times you find out that greater attention is given to the government forces that are dealing with terrorism with little or very minimal attention being given to the adversaries, the Boko Harm and the ISWAP. “I believe that the conflict can be easily resolved if or will be resolved faster than this if the same measure of pressure that is being brought on the government forces to respect human rights commissions is brought on the adversaries to the extent that conflicts of such nature can be resolved, thereby reducing carnage that is being perpetrated against the innocent citizens, who in the first place are even aware of the contending issues that gave rise to the conflict.  “On this area, I request you to do more work so that while we as the fourth forces continue to train and ensure that our forces come to terms with the legal provisions that attend to war fighting, same has to be done for those who want to use violence as a means of resolving their grievances against the state.” But, Osori said it was not the duty of the rights groups to mount pressure on terrorists or force them to surrender. According to her, “we don’t recognise terrorists and they also don’t recognise us and we can’t mount any pressure on them. That is why we are holding our Armed Forces to task to put an end to those who have taken up arms against the state. But in doing, so we should not degenerate to the level of the terrorists by disrespecting human rights”. She added: “In Nigeria, there have been reports of excessive use of force by the military in operations across the country. With the military deployed in 35 out of the 36 states of the Federation, the need for human rights training and re-training cannot be over stated. “Nigeria will adopt counter terrorism policies that reflect progressive respect for of human rights in counter terrorism operations, including the incorporation of principles and guidelines in its national counter terrorism and preventing violent extremism strategies, in its legal frameworks and rules of engagement and in counter terrorism operations that are human rights compliant”. Executive Secretary, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) Anthony Ojukwu advocated for intelligence-driven counter terrorism operations that will shield innocent citizens from the carnage of war. He stressed the need for the Armed Forces to cultivate the friendship of the citizens to ensure robust intelligence gathering mechanism. 