Gunmen suspected to be cultists have invaded Kono Boue community in Khana LGA of Rivers State, killing four men. The incident reportedly happened Saturday night, after the ground reception event of the state Governor, Nyesom Wike, by Ogoni people in Bori, the headquarter of Khana Local Government Area of the state. Some of the victims are identified as Lekara Bira (32), Torka (40), and two others. The Nation learnt that the assailants who were armed with AK47 riffle targeted only the male youths of the community, who were shot and killed at sight. Speaking about the attack, the paramount Ruler of Kono Boue Community, Dr. Taalor Nwidekpo Tu-nwee accused their neighbouring community of perpetrating the attacks. “Some group of people came from Nwegwere community to attack my community. Two days ago I had a meeting with all the communities in my Kingdom, including the Nwegwere community and we resolved that there should be no attack from any community. “I have already written to the Commissioner of Police (CP) Eboka Friday about the plan, when the attacks were going on, I called the DPO in Bori and he came, but before he arrived, they had already killed four persons,” he regretted. The King dismissed the insinuation in many quarters that it was a community crisis, but said it was the handiwork of cultists. “It is not a community crisis; it is these cult boys that are causing the problem- they are taking advantage of the crisis between the communities to deceive people into believing that it was the community that attacked the other. “They are using the cover of one community to attack the other community, when they attack a particular community they will run and hide in the other community so that the community will think it was that community that attacked them from there. “But I have appealed to the people of my community to sheath their swords and remain calm. We will we meet to find a way to resolving these incessant killings,” he appealed. Meanwhile the spokesman of the Community Development Committee (CDC), of the place, Golden Nwibakpo, had earlier absolved the “unfortunate” victims of any involvement in cultism and its related activities. He called on the Police Authorities to consider setting up a police station in the community to be able to curb, nip mindless attacks in area in the board. He noted that the community has deserted for fear of further attacks and suggested that a police station be built in between the two communities to check the excesses of the cult boys and their killer squad members, and the failing ports of the road in the area be rehabilitated, if not completely rebuilt for easy patrol of security men in and out if the communities. It would be recalled that unknown gunmen penultimate Sunday killed Nkpa Awolowo, a 58 year old Man in Kono Boue communit