Maize has grown in recent years, with several countries registering impressive growths in production and productivity. However, the increasing demands come various problems. At a conference in Abuja, which was streamed online, stakeholders discussed the industry challenges and proffered solutions, DANIEL ESSIET reports.  In Nigeria, maize has grown in importance, due to high demand. The demand for the crop has been on the rise because the grain, apart from being used for feeding poultry, serves as a staple food in many households. Majorly, it is used by flour millers, brewers, bakers of bread and confectionery and animal feed manufacturers. Notwithstanding its high production, analysts noted that maize farming in Nigeria, which yields an average of 1.8 metric tonnes per hectare (MT/Ha), is the lowest among the top maize producers in the world. According to Knoema, an international research report, the United States (U.S.) is the top country by maize production in the world. Last year, the world’s total maize production was estimated at 1.07 million tonnes. Also, the report said maize production in the U.S. was 360,252,000 tonnes or 33.66 per cent of the world’s maize production. Yet, Nigeria had 11,500 tonnes. In 2012, it was 8,695 tonnes. Experts, however, said there was the need to boost production. It was a highlight of a maize conference held in Abuja. It  attracted participants from within and outside  the country. Entitled: “Much more maize”, the event was organised by Bayer Nigeria, a German international group, with a focus on developing and deploying new technologies to enhance food production. It featured a panel discussion. The panelists included the National President, Maize Association of Nigeria (MAAN), Alhaji Abubakar Bello; and Director, National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC), Dr. Olusegun Ojo. Apart from the national research and extension system partners, who participated in the conference, there were experts from Bayer Nigeria, including Agronomic Operations Manager, Mr. Joseph Kibaki, and Market Development Regional Manager, Dr. David Wangila. The objectives of the conference were to assess specific priorities to enhance production,  share the latest knowledge on cutting-edge technologies and generate awareness among stakeholders for better uses of maize as food, feed, and as an industrial crop. While scientific achievements in the recent past have led to higher yearly growth in maize, the Country Cluster Commercial Lead for Bayer, Lauren Parez, noted that production  in Nigeria is constrained by many factors. However, there remained a large scope to increase production, as well as opportunities to boost innovations in crop improvement, management and diversification. As the demand for maize is expected to increase, he further emphasised the need for improved technologies and management practices. He said Bayer wishes to promote the culture of providing farmers with high-performance products to eradicate the environmental constraints in agricultural yields. The MAAN President, Alhaji Abubakar Bello, discussed in details  the situation of maize in Nigeria. To grow the industry, Bello urged for increased focus on  enhancing  farmers’access to  quality seeds, along with climate-smart agronomic management practices. The MAAN President, who spoke on the topic; ‘Revolutionising the maize production in Nigeria,’ explained that the association was  responsible for driving improvement and development of the maize value chain with emphasis on increasing production capacity of its members with the motto: “Food for all.” He listed Niger, Kaduna, Ogun, Kogi, Taraba, Ondo, Katsina, Oyo, Plateau, and Kano as states with the highest cultivated area accounting for 60 per cent of maize production in the country. His words: “Nigeria is producing more maize yearly. The figure of production from 2014 to 2019 was the highest ever, which took Nigeria to the second spot among maize producers in Africa with an average of 12.9 million metric tonnes, yearly. “Rising from 10.1 million tonnes in 2014 to 10.6 million in 2015 and 11.6 million in 2016. In 2017, the figure held to 10.4 million metric tonnes, but lifts in 2018 to 11 million tons and the figure was maintained in 2019.” Despite this, the low adoption rates of improved varieties and challenges of accessing of quality seeds, suggest that there is significant space for growth. One of the key challenges facing the industry, the Director, National Agricultural Seed Council (NASC), Dr. Olusegun Ojo, noted, was access to quality seed, which is the most critical factor for improving productivity. Ojo reiterated that the council was focused on regulation and coordination to enhance reliable access to quality planting material and seeds of superior varieties at the right time and at an affordable price for farmers. According to him, the Council and partners introduced the Plant Variety Protection (PVP) Bill to ensure the protection of plant breeders, granting them intellectual property rights over their planting materials and supporting the development of new plant varieties. “The PVP law when in place will protect plant breeders as it grants them an intellectual property right over their planting materials,” he said. He expressed gratitude to Bayer Nigeria for its contributions to Nigeria’s seed industry, especially as it concerns maize. Technical Lead for Maize, MAAN, Dr Sam Ajala, noted the damaging effects of weeds on maize. Emphasising the need for an efficient and affordable weed management system to enhance yields, Ajala canvassed the use of safe and environment-friendly herbicide options in maize production. He added that using Bayer’s agrochemicals such as Lagon, an herbicide, has produced positive impact on maize crops. Agronomic Operations Manager, Mr. Joseph Kibaki, and Market Development Regional Manager, Dr. David Wangila, who spoke on “Good agronomic practices,” said Bayer provides field agronomic advisory applications and decision support tools to help farmers make profitable investments and achieve higher yields.  