The Southsouth geo-political zone is not spared by the escalating insecurity. Southsouth Bureau Chief BISI OLANIYI; OKUNGBOWA AIWERIE; ELO EDREMODA; POLYCARP OROSEVWOTU; MIKE ODIEGWU; ROSEMARY NWISI; NSA GILL; BASSEY ANTHONY and SIMON UTEBOR report that the region has known no peace in recent times and the development has been attributed to different factors  Relative peace had returned to the Niger Delta region, which includes the six states of the Southsouth geo-political zone, following the implementation of the amnesty programme by the late President Umaru Yar’Adua in 2009. But, in recent times, the region has been experiencing some level of insecurity across the various states.  IPOB infiltrating Rivers: The security situation in Rivers State, which has been on the edge since last year’s #EndSARS protests further degenerated recently with unimaginable attacks on security formations by gunmen identified by security agencies as members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The gunmen, who came in their numbers from neighbouring states destroyed the Police Area Command and station in Oyigbo Local Government Area (LGA), killing four policemen and five soldiers. They burnt vehicles and set the Magistrate Court in the area ablaze. Though, the Rivers State government and security commanders have rolled out strategies to restore peace in the troubled council, there has been foreboding that the gunmen could spring surprise attacks in other parts of the state. For instance, a few days ago, over 70 gunmen raided checkpoints along the busy Port Harcourt-Owerri Road and killed eight security operatives. The gunmen attacked four checkpoints from Elele to Omagwa in Ikwerre LGA. Out of the eight operatives killed, three were said to be military personnel; three Customs officials and two policemen. Some were reportedly beheaded, while others were burnt beyond recognition. The bandits gained entry into Omagwa and Elele through the border towns in neighbouring Imo State. They marched through the bush paths and swooped on innocent security men on duty. A police situation report identified the gunmen as members of IPOB. One of the attacked checkpoints located along Airport Road, Omagwa, belonged to the Joint Task Force (JTF) and was manned by nine policemen and two soldiers. The bandits later invaded a checkpoint of the Nigeria Customs Service at Isiokpo, killing three customs officials. The hoodlums carted away the rifles of the security operatives and their patrol vans with sirens. They advanced to attack the Police Area Command at Isiokpo, but were repelled by gallant policemen on duty. A combined team of security operatives immediately launched a manhunt for the fleeing gunmen. While the authorities were still searching for the marauders, gunmen struck again, killing five soldiers on duty. The gunmen attacked the soldiers at Abua/Odual LGA. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and the security commanders were jolted by the emerging trend, compelling them to engage in marathon emergency meetings. In search of solutions, the governor after one of the meetings resolved to impose a curfew on all the state’s borders. Initially, the curfew started at 8 p.m. at the borders Rivers shares with Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Imo states. Wike insisted that the action was necessitated by the recent security breaches and deadly attacks on security personnel by unidentified gunmen. He said: “The Government of Rivers State has decided to restrict night movements into and out of the state from the land borders of the state. Consequently, a night curfew is hereby imposed and no person or vehicle is allowed into and out of Rivers State from 8 p.m. to 6 a.m., from April 28, 2021, until further notice.” Two days later, the Rivers State governor reviewed the curfew, following new intelligence, by imposing a dusk-to-dawn curfew on the entire state. He said it became imperative for the state government to take further necessary measures to secure Rivers State and safeguard lives and property. He said: “Accordingly, the State Security Council has, after exhaustive deliberations, decided and advised that a statewide curfew on human and vehicular movements be imposed, as part of additional measures to prevent the faceless criminals from unleashing their deadly actions. “Consequently, a night curfew is hereby imposed on the entire 23 LGAs, prohibiting any human and/or vehicular movement within or any part of the state from 10.00 p.m. to 6.00 a.m., from today, April 29, 2021, until further notice.” Wike also urged the people to be vigilant and promptly report every suspicious movement in their neighbourhoods to the security agencies, for immediate actions. A serving senior official of the Department of State Services (DSS), who spoke in confidence disclosed that security issues in the Southsouth zone could only be prevented through intelligence gathering, but he lamented that despite knowing the importance of intelligence in security management, the government was not interested in it. He said just like the President, the governors were only interested in intelligence linked to them and their family members but would “pass away” any intelligence that did not affect them. The top DSS official blamed the rising insecurity on the collapse of intelligence gathering. His words: “The only known way to guarantee security in any part of the world is intelligence gathering. The government knows this, but has paid lip service and totally neglected this critical aspect of maintaining the security of lives and property. What has been happening over the years is a politicisation of intelligence gathering. Intelligence is only good when it affects the governors and the President, as well as their family members. But when it does not serve their personal interest, the intelligence is ‘passed away’ and treated as if it never existed. “We (DSS operatives) have the capacity to infiltrate the ranks of bandits, IPOB, major kidnap gangs and even the Boko Haram insurgents, but they (senior government officials) will not do it, because they are not interested in it.” Owing to the recent development, the Rivers State Neighbourhood Safety Corps (RSNSC), which was inaugurated in 2018, but was not allowed to take off by the military, has resumed operations. Its Director-General, Dr. Uche Chukwuma confirmed that the local security arrangement had just resumed operation. A retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), Valentine Ntomchukwu  said the entire Southsouth zone was suffering from years of police neglect. He said the only way to guarantee security in the zone was to equip the police with modern policing tools, adding that handing over only AK-47 rifles, without other necessary gadgets would never guarantee the safety of the personnel and the security of the zone. Ntomchukwu said: “We should build our police to give them the capacity to respond to internal problems in the zone. The police have been neglected for decades and if we do not start now, to build the police, there will continue to be a gap in internal security, because the police are the lead agency. We have had reforms after reforms and white paper after white paper, but they remain largely unimplemented. This is why we are having these results. Police capacity must be built holistically. Police need to be decentralised and funded.” The retired DIG also stated that the area commanders, commissioners of police and zonal heads must have the capacity to help and complement one another, pointing out that as currently structured none of them had the capacity to match the dynamism of the society. He declared that policemen were being killed because they lacked the capacity, equipment and gadgets to protect themselves, especially during unexpected attacks, regretting that even policemen in the lines of duty had no bulletproof vests to ward off arsenal directed at them in an ambush. Ntomchukwu said the conditions of police offices and stations speak volumes of the magnitude of lacks plaguing their operations. He added that unless drastic actions were taken to reposition the force, policemen would continue to lack the capacity to discharge their functions. Some of Governor Wike’s kinsmen, under the auspices of the Ikwerre People’s Congress (IPC), also pleaded with the Federal Government to identify, arrest and prosecute persons behind the emerging terrorism in the Southeast and Southsouth zones. While condemning the resurgent attacks on security operatives, the IPC convener, Livingstone Wechie said it was a desecration of the entire state. He declared that it was time for the governors to activate intelligence networks to isolate and arrest persons behind the emerging trend. He said: “IPC wishes to state that Ikwerre being a lead ethnic nationality in Nigeria and in the lower Niger owes a leadership obligation to give direction and hereby charge the Federal Government, as well as the governments of the Southsouth and the Southeast states to consciously and proactively boost and activate intelligence, as a measure to arrest these avoidable attacks and multiple killings in our region. He said: “The duty and primary purpose of government to protect lives and property remains sacrosanct and cannot be compromised. IPC cautions that the attempt by the enemy forces to create tension, destabilise and hold an artificial atmosphere of insurgency in this region must be contained, without further delay. “While the government should take necessary actions accordingly, knowing that it has requisite capacity, it is, however, strongly advised that the government should avoid the temptation of unwarranted force and reprisal in addressing these issues, with a view to ensuring justice, peace and development in our region, particularly bearing the innocent citizens in mind.” IPC also stated that Ikwerre land or any part of the East, particularly the entire Niger Delta, would not be conquered or made a victim of genocide. Insecurity in Rivers State is no doubt on the rise, but the state’s police command has assured the residents that it is committed to curb it. Its spokesman, Nnamdi Omoni, a Superintendent of Police (SP), assured that the command was doing everything possible to ensure that the lives and property of Rivers people were saved. He said: “We are not going to discuss our security strategies in the media, but we are on top of the situation in Rivers State.” Omoni also called on members of the public to support and cooperate with the police by divulging useful information to security agencies, while staying security conscious and observing all personal security tips, being championed by the police.   Hoodlums on rampage: The hitherto peaceful Edo State suddenly became notorious for criminal activities, with the October 19, 2020 jailbreaks at the Maximum Correctional Centre, popularly referred to as While House, on Sapele Road and the Oko Medium Correctional Centre on Airport Road, both in Benin City, during the #EndSARS protests that were hijacked by hoodlums, thereby leading to the escape of 1,993 inmates, mostly condemned criminals, who immediately returned to crime. Prior to attacking the correctional centres and setting free the inmates, the hoodlums first razed seven police stations in Edo State  and carted away huge arms and ammunition, police uniforms and other valuables, while also setting ablaze the patrol vans and other vehicles parked at the police’s facilities. For many months, the displaced policemen and the Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) were operating from the police headquarters, near Government House, Benin, since they had no office or patrol van to work with, before they were later redeployed to other police formations. The Edo jailbreaks and looting/razing of the seven police stations made kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism and other criminals activities to be on the increase in the state, with the Benin-Ekpoma-Auchi-Abuja road now turned into a no-go route by kidnappers, who abduct innocent travellers on a daily basis, with huge ransoms being paid before the victims would regain their freedom, while the women would be gang-raped by the dirty kidnappers. Most kidnappers and other criminals from neighbouring states, mostly Ondo, who felt the heat from the no-nonsense governors decided to relocate to Edo, thereby heightening insecurity and tension in the state. For instance, the police arrested 357 suspects for kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, murder, rape, burglary, attempted murder and other criminal activities two weeks ago. The suspected criminals were subsequently paraded by Edo Police Commissioner, Phillip Ogbadu, with a large cache of arms and ammunition recovered from the suspects also displayed. Ogbadu said: “The command is faced with violent crimes of kidnapping, armed robbery, cultism, murder, rape and burglary, among others. As such, the command has continued to devise security strategies to prevent criminal activities and to ensure a secure, safe and stable environment for economic growth and social interaction. It has also continued to adopt due diligence, intelligence system of administration, robust tactical operations and ensuring that cases are properly investigated and prosecuted.” The Edo police commissioner also disclosed that the command had continued to work with vigilance and hunter groups in the host communities, which he said was geared towards building people’s confidence in Nigeria police for information sharing. He said: “I want to use this medium to once again appreciate the cooperation received from Edo State Government, under the leadership of Governor Godwin Obaseki and the good people of Edo State, since my assumption of office, in our efforts to make sure that the state is safe and secure.” Ogbadu also called on all stakeholders to assist the police and other security agencies to make the state a peaceful and secure environment. A Benin-based human rights activist, Kola Edokpayi said the government must find ways to provide employment opportunities for the teeming qualified youths. He also called for community policing as one of the solutions to end insecurity in the country. He said security must be everybody’s business because states and the Federal Government alone cannot handle security in the country. He added: “To ensure adequate security in Nigeria, emphasis must be placed on the provision of employment opportunities, tackling poverty and encouraging community policing, while President Muhammadu Buhari should stop being clannish and henceforth also avoid double standard.” The human rights activist also declared that President Buhari had failed abysmally to provide adequate security for Nigerians and their property. He urged the President to wake up to prevent another civil war that may be worse than that of 1967 to 1970, where millions of innocent persons lost their lives.  Unemployment, job creation: Some security experts in Delta State have blamed rising insecurity in the region on poverty, youth unemployment and social injustice. A former Commissioner of Police in the state, Ikechukwu Aduba and a retired Commander of Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Desmond Agwu urged the Federal Government to tackle youth unemployment, stressing that many youths were lured into crime, largely due to unemployment. They said terrorist groups and bandits are enticing the mostly unemployed youths with fantastic monetary offers that ensure a steady supply of willing foot-soldiers, while urging the government to improve on the parlous economy. Aduba and Agwu said violent crimes cannot be tackled only by the force of arms, stressing that social justice must be factored into the equation, for better results. In separate interviews, they called for an overhaul of the security architecture to ensure that the drift was halted. They said Nigeria is under policed. Aduba said: “With personnel strength of a little over 400,000, the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) lacks the numerical strength to tackle rising insecurity across the country, especially in the Southsouth states. “Government should discontinue the practice of using the military to fight internal security. Well-trained and better-equipped policemen are preferable to combat internal threats. The Federal Government must also invest in the use of modern weaponry and equipment, in order to effectively fight violent crimes. With the numerous water bodies, gunboats are a necessity. Low morale among police personnel is also an issue, following repeated attacks on them. I wish to plead with both states and federal governments to address poor remuneration and welfare, for effective policing.” Aduba also called for the rehabilitation of several police training schools across the country, through injection of funds. He equally advocated for massive investment in the welfare of policemen. The former commissioner of police said proper funding of the Nigeria police would go a long way in checking banditry and other violent crimes. Agwu said the issue of poverty could not be overemphasised because many youths resort to crime out of frustration borne out of joblessness. He urged Southsouth states and the Federal Government to create a thriving economy to support industries, so as to employ a large number of graduates churned out annually from the country’s tertiary institutions. The retired commander of NSCDC admonished top officials of the Federal Government to resuscitate moribund refineries in the Southsouth zone, in order to stem the tide of youths’ unemployment. He said: “The way forward is for governments, both states and federal, to provide jobs for the teeming population. If the government is able to provide jobs for youths in the Niger Delta region, the issue of bombings and killings will stop.” Similarly, a former Minister of Police Affairs, Alaowei Broderick Bozimo said the government should adequately equip “idle” youths to patrol the forests in the area. In an interview with The Nation, Bozimo reechoed the call for state police, adding that the current level of insecurity could not be centrally controlled.  He also rejected the suggestion that Nigeria should employ foreign mercenaries to help address its security challenges. In his view, controlling them may become a problem, “as they could lose the agenda, as is the present case”. He recalled that the Boko Haram insurgency started after the assassination of the founder of the group, Mohammed Yusuf. He said: “State police will be able to concentrate their efforts on the marauding attackers, Boko Haram fighters and the criminal herdsmen, among others. The state police will be able to identify and isolate them, because of their knowledge of the local community, thereby dealing decisively with them. Of course, you must fund and train the policemen.  More policemen, equipment needed: “Our problem is that we do not have enough policemen. When I was a minister, the police population was about 400, 000, more than 10 years ago. When you ask the authorities, they keep repeating the same statistics. That is ridiculous. So, you must increase the number of policemen or soldiers and give them adequate training and equipment. Our policemen and soldiers are well trained. So, it is the equipment and welfare packages that they need. Make them look like a serious force, not the rag-tag army that is a bunch of jokes for most Nigerians. “We Nigerians must make our own inputs and contributions. We always make the police a laughing stock and ridicule them. Honestly, we do not have any other police than the Nigeria police. The police generally reflect the kind of society they find themselves in. So, we have a duty to empathise with them and assist them. The present Police Trust Fund (PTF) that is in place, I hope it is being properly funded. I can remember we pushed this concept during my tenure and we did not quite get it right then. But now, I hope it is got right. With new strategies, I believe we will get improved results.” He said: “In the Southsouth zone, the governors have been trying to work out a similar security outfit like the Amotekun in the Southwest zone. If the Federal Government is able to allow state police, then all they need is to cooperate and see how they can coordinate the efforts of their various policies. Cooperation is the keyword. You know that in the Southsouth, kidnapping is just a new thing. Kidnapping, as you know is just an avenue people use to make money. Like the organised criminals, when they are running out of funds, they will kidnap a few people and coerce relatives to pay huge amounts of funds as ransoms. “It is so painful, what is happening in universities and other schools, where children are kidnapped and parents and government are forced to pay ransoms. Kidnapping is relatively new to our interiors in the Southsouth, but it can be managed, once we have a coordinated security system, where the people are serious, the people are paid properly and they have sufficient vehicles to patrol the areas, especially our forests. “In those days, we had some helicopters we used for patrol. We should now purchase more helicopters. Drones can be employed, but more importantly, we should have our people who know the forests, well equipped to go around physically. Now that kidnapping is getting quite prominent all over the country, it was not so serious in the Southsouth, except during the early militancy years. But now, it is all over the place. “We are from the thick forest area, not like the Savannah. What happens is these kidnappers and Boko Haram criminals just take our people, young and old, into the forests. If we engage our youths, who are mostly idle-handed now, they know the terrain. Pay them well, equip them and let them go in groups and comb the entire forests and get the criminals arrested. The bushes are meant for farming, but these are the bushes where the kidnappers and other criminals hide their victims and cause trouble. So, if the forests are patrolled like Amotekun is trying to do, in the Southsouth and all over the country, I think we would have good results.”  Failure of leadership: A prominent Niger Delta leader, Chief Julius Babogha has blamed President Buhari and some northern political leaders over the growing insecurity across Nigeria. He noted that Buhari’s administration has failed Nigerians abysmally. He, therefore, called for the immediate resignation of the President, adding that he is no longer fit to solve the insecurity challenges facing the country. Babogha said: “Nigerians are tired and they can no longer put their hope in a leader they no longer have confidence in, because of his weakness to save lives and property of Nigerians. “No president or leader will allow his people to pass through this agony and he is silent, without finding lasting solutions to the lingering problems, especially the insecurity across Nigeria. The security agencies and members of the National Assembly are not helping with the insecurity in the country that claims to be the giant of Africa. We cannot continue this way. “Until President Buhari, other political leaders and the security chiefs rise up to their responsibilities, Nigeria will remain a laughing stock across the globe.”  Kidnapping in Cross River: Cross River State facing serious security challenges, especially kidnapping, cultism, communal clash, militancy and armed robbery. When the situation became alarming, owners of businesses, including vehicle and electronics spare parts’ dealers, timber market and a host of others in Calabar, the state capital, had to recently close their shops for two days, to protest the insecurity, thereby prompting Governor. Ben Ayade’s administration to take quick action, particularly by inaugurating, in November 2020, a joint security task force, codenamed Operation Akpakwu. But, high-profile kidnappings are still being recorded in the state. For instance, on March 21, 2021, the state’s chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ben Ukpekpi was kidnapped at his residence. Forty-three days counting, as at May 1, he was still in captivity. A former Speaker of Cross River House of Assembly, Chief Dominic Aqua Edem was also kidnapped in his farm at Bakassi in March 2021. But, he was released after a week and some days. Medical doctors had to embark on massive protest and strike to demand the release of their colleagues that were kidnapped at different timese. Besides kidnapping, unidentified gunmen have attacked policemen at checkpoints in Cross River State. Six policemen were killed in two separate attacks. Four of the security operatives were gruesomely murdered at a rural road leading to Akpabuyo LGA, while the two others lost their lives at the Obubra axis of the Calabar-Ikom federal highway.  Footprints of IPOB: In the last three months, no fewer than nine police officers have been killed and their vehicles burnt at security checkpoints by unknown gunmen in Essien Udim, Ika and Ikono LGAs of Akwa Ibom State. The perpetrators of the heinous attacks are suspected to be members of the proscribed IPOB or the Eastern Security Network (ESN), while there are unconfirmed reports that the assailants hoisted their flags at some locations in Akwa Ibom State. The sudden rise in criminal  activities in Akwa Ibom have raised serious security concerns, not just in the state, but also in the Southsouth, thereby heightening fears that the situation in the zone would further degenerate. Arising from the senseless attacks, experts, including former military and police officers have been analysing the security situation, with a view to proffering solutions. A former Military Administrator of Ogun and Rivers states, Group Captain Sam Ewang (rtd.) and a retired Deputy Inspector General of Police (IGP), Udom Ekpoudom believe that marginalisation, youth unemployment and lack of equal access to benefits from crude oil resources, among others, are the major drivers of insecurity in the Southsouth zone. In fact, they surmised that the nature and complexion of security challenges in the region is quite different from other zones, where banditry, kidnapping and terrorism have taken firm root, without any known solution. They said marginalisation and deprivation of some sections of the country, particularly the Southsouth and Southeast zones, which feel they have been cheated in terms of appointments, control of resources and political power can be blamed for the growing unrest and civil disorder. Ekpoudom said the insecurity in the region could be viewed from the deliberate neglect by successive administrations to do the right things by ensuring that every part of the country is treated fairly, without recourse to ethnic and religious considerations. He said: ”IPOB wants to secede. The Federal Government should treat all Nigerians equally. The administration of President Buhari should not select some parts of the country and give them juicy appointments, while relegating the others. “The Federal Government must provide better equipment, arms and ammunition for the police and other security agencies, in order to enable them to fight crime. There is also the need for improvement in the welfare of the police, in terms of salaries and allowances. The police force and other security agencies have to be properly equipped to be able to fight criminal elements. The police and the military are not well equipped. It is unfortunate that criminals have more sophisticated arms than the police.” Ewang was equally of the opinion that the root of the security challenge in the Southsouth was purely economic, insisting that if poverty and unemployment were frontally tackled, the zone would be much safer for human habitation and investments that would enhance economic prosperity. He said: “The governors of the Southsouth zone must be willing to be committed to solving the problems of their people, without concentrating on themselves, their families and their political parties, because political parties’ activities end, once winners emerge after the elections. The Southsouth also needs a security outfit such as ‘Amotekun’ in the Southwest and ‘Ebube Agu‘ in the Southeast. “Governors of the six states should invite former police and military chiefs from the zone to a meeting, where the security situation in the Southsouth would be discussed and solutions proffered. As far as I am concerned, even though much of the Southsouth is water, we do not have to depend on the security apparatus of the nation. What I expected before now was that the governors would have come together to think of security in the zone.” The former military administrator also said he would rather recommend a comprehensive security structure for the Southsouth, since other zones were doing, which he maintained would be the best  in the circumstance. He said: ”The problem is that are we ready to sink our differences and look at our common threat? It is not that you are going to infiltrate anybody’s territory. We need a synergy on intelligence. “We do not have a body that looks at security. That is why I am saying that we must have a security outfit, not necessarily to have a fighting force, but the one that will gather intelligence and help in planning. The security outfit can interface between the police and the civil populace, so as to find out why there are frequent frictions between them and will resolve whatever problems there are.” Ewang also urged the governors and security agencies based in the Southsouth to be proactive, rather than being reactive, so as to ensure the protection of lives and property of the residents of the zone.  Regional collaboration: An intelligence specialist and counter-terrorism expert, Prince Philip Diete-Spiff, advocated collaboration between the Southsouth governors, on the use of intelligence and technology to address the security challenges facing the zone. He said the component states of the Southsouth needed to sit together and look at the challenges in-depth, thereby seeing how each of the challenges affect each state singularly and collectively, in order to proffer timely solutions to them. Diete-Spiff said the security challenges facing the region were numerous, interconnected and multifaceted, hence the states must work in synergy to tackle the menace head-on. The counter-terrorism expert contended that if the Southsouth governors were able to tackle particular crimes plaguing the zone, especially cultism, sea piracy, kidnapping and armed robbery, among others, there would be ripple effects on other security challenges faced by the zone. He also advocated the need for police authorities to come up with proper strategies to be able to address crimes in the zone, stating that one of the major challenges confronting the police was the use of reactive approach, called the traditional policing model. He said: “The policing agencies want something to happen first before they will react. This approach makes them look like a lame duck. This is 21st century, the policing agencies need to adopt a proactive approach. The proactive approach is anchored on the use of intelligence. “The policing agencies also need to employ community-oriented policing or problem-oriented policing. If you are able to first identify the problems that you are facing, imminent or eminent, it will help you to allocate proper resources to tackle the challenges that you are confronted with. “Unfortunately, the policing agencies lack strategic planning. There are many factors responsible for crimes and when you are able to identify them, you will be able to properly address them, one after another. Some of them may be mutually exclusive, others are interconnected.” The intelligence specialist also rationalised that there was a point of consensus nowadays that criminals were being equipped with sophisticated weapons, sometimes more than what security operatives could have. He added that in situations where the criminals’ weapons were better than what the policing agencies had, the battles would be lost. He likened the scenario to bringing a knife to a gun battle. He said: “The authorities need to regularly review their strategies. We are a nation and we should be able to be the one with the most advantage over the criminal elements. “The technology aspect of policing is missing in Nigeria. There are many things that technology can do for the Southsouth zone and by extension the country. The Nigeria Police are still backward in technology. It is imperative to employ technology, in order to tackle the security challenges we have.” The security expert also admonished Southsouth governors to do an in-depth study of what the problems are for each state and then collectively quickly agree on how to fashion out ways to address the insecurity in the strategic zone. He said: “Once the Southsouth  governors have the in-depth study, it will be the first step to review the situation of things and based on that, they can come up with active measures to tackle the challenges. “Just like what is happening in Nigeria, there is a high rate of organised crime in the Southsouth. It is very unfortunate that we have not been able to tackle that seriously. Organised crime has taken over a lot of countries and businesses. “If you look at one particular issue, for instance, the proliferation of arms, you might look at it in isolation. If a group of people are importing these arms, when they import them, there are people who will go and procure the arms and use them for armed robbery and other crimes. “The people using arms for crimes constitute one problem, which is the issue of armed robbery. Those who will go and buy the arms for insurgency are also there on the other hand. You have all sorts of things associated with that. By the time you look at just the proliferation of arms, you will find that it links to different other crimes and other security challenges. “One of our major challenges in the Southsouth is the issue cultism. It has become a norm in the zone. Now, you have a situation where primary school pupils belong to cults. The same issue of cultism is linked to political thuggery, drug addiction, robberies and other crimes.” Diete-Spiff also stated that there must be conscious efforts on the part of the Southsouth governors and other stakeholders to tackle insecurity in the strategic crude oil and gas-rich zone. He said: “In order to put an end to insecurity in the Southsouth zone and other parts of Nigeria, emphasis must be placed on the provision of employment opportunities for the teeming qualified youths, addressing poverty, putting community policing in place and strengthening intelligence gathering, in order to attract investors and investments, thereby paving the way to the development of the country and empowerment of the people, so as not to repeat the civil war of 1967 to 1970.” Provision of adequate security in the Southsouth zone and other parts of Nigeria should not be left for the government, as the people also have vital roles to play, in order to make Nigeria a much greater nation, in view of its potential, with the residents to be at peace and to always sleep with their eyes closed. 