  The All Progressives Congress (APC) will unfold a timetable for its national convention, following consultations with stakeholders across the zones, it was learnt yesterday. The tenure of the Caretaker Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee headed by Yobe State Governor Mai mala Buni is expected to end next month. It Secretary, Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, told reporters in Abuja that the President, Vice President, governors and other stakeholders will determine when the convention will hold. The APC National Executive Committee (NEC), at an emergency meeting on December 8, last year extended the tenure of the Caretaker Committee by six months till June 30 to organize congresses and the convention for the election of new members of the National Working Committee (NWC). Asked if the party will not run into crisis, if at the end of the tenure of the committee, the convention could not hold, Akpanudoedehe said: “I want to assure that there will be no crisis in our party in June. “Convention can be done in June and congresses can start and end in June but it all depends on what the leaders of this party agreed upon.  “We are aware that party members are desiring to hear from the Caretaker Committee. I can tell you that we are looking into so many things and I can tell you that we have to consult extensively before we will do anything. We have major stakeholders like Mr President, Vice President, Governors among others. We have to consult so that when we are coming out there will be no dissenting voice. We are still at the level of consensus.” “We have lots of problems in the country, not only the national Congress of the party. We have serious security issues like the agitations going on the zones. He added: “We are very conscious of Nigeria as a country not only the Congresses. We are mindful that our party must be strong. We just welcome the Governor of Cross River State and assuming it is Congress, how would we have accommodated him. Be rest assured that the overall interest is paramount to us. We have taken lots of things into consideration to ensure that the party is peaceful and united.” On the recently concluded membership registration and revalidation, the Secretary said the caretaker committee has received reports from 21 states, adding that the compilation of the register is on-going. Akpanudoedehe said the meeting stepped down the decision on the ratification of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) party primary elections held last month.