Travelling by road could be an amazing experience, depending solely on where you are heading, your purpose of visiting and the mode of transport. Travelling by road is cheap and very exciting. It enables you to sight see, interact and take pictures along the way. It is a flexible mode of transport as it gives you the options of cancelling or setting out without much preparation. To leave the shores of Nigeria legally by road, you are required to have a Nigerian passport, Valid Identification Card, Yellow card or certificate that shows you’ve been vaccinated from Yellow fever and of course Money. 1. GHANA: The journey from Nigeria to Ghana by road is quite a long one but it’s the scenic route. So brace yourself for the adventure. You can either choose to go directly with a transport company or hire out a taxi to take you. You can also get a bus from Jibowu or Maza maza heading to Accra or Weija. Ghana has great street foods, tourist markets and amazing people. To avoid extortion on the road, arm yourself with your passport, yellow card and Ghana Cedis before travelling. It is also advisable to have other means of identification like a driver’s license or a student/work ID Card. 2. MALI: Travelling by road to Mali, a sub-Sahara African country is more popular and cheaper through Northern Nigeria. The famous Katsina –Maradi route is still in operation regardless of the hiccups on the way. Another alternative is to board a vehicle from Togo heading to Mali or go to Northern Ghana and board a bus. 3. CAMEROON: To travel to Cameroon, first you need to head to Akwa Ibom in Southern Nigeria from where you’ll travel to the city of Calabar. The second half of the journey is to the town of Ekom and to the Cameroonian border. Lastly, you can board a bus from Ekok to Douala. 4. IVORY COAST: Ivory Coast, also known as Côte d’Ivoire, is a country located on the south coast of West Africa. Travelling to Ivory Coast by road allows you to see some nice places in Cotonou, Togo and Ghana and take good pictures of them. Basically, travelling to Ivory Coast by road is good for sightseeing. You can board a bus going to Côte d’Ivoire by road in Maza Maza, Lagos State. 5. BENIN REPUBLIC: There are a lot of amazing places for sight-seeing and fun activities in this country, places like Hotel Benin Marina Beach, The Pendjari National Park and Cotonou craft market. If you won’t be traveling with a transport company, you can board a bus at Mile 2 Motor Park in Lagos going to the borders of Seme. From there, you can board a taxi to Cotonou. 6. TOGO: Togo is a country in West Africa bordered by Ghana to the west, Benin to the east and Burkina Faso to the north. The country extends south to the Gulf of Guinea, where its capital Lomé is located. You can travel to Togo with transport companies or board a bus at Mile 2 Motor Park in Lagos. 7. SIERRA LEONE: Sierra Leone is on the southwest coast of West Africa. It is bordered by Liberia to the southeast and Guinea to the northeast. The capital of Sierra Leone and its largest city is Freetown. You can travel directly from Lagos to Freetown with a transport company or by a private car. If you are looking for a cheaper way to get to Sierra Leone from Nigeria by road, Mile 2 Motor Park in Lagos is your other option. There you can select the vehicle that you wish to convene you.