The Federal Government is considering how to adjust the Premium Motor Spirit (petrol) template to address the demands of members of the Nigerian Transport Owners Association (NARTO) that withheld their services recently. Petroleum Equalization Fund, Executive Secretary, Mr. Ahmed Boboi, noted that the review will not necessarily increase the pump price of the product but it would cushion the plights of transporters. He spoke at an engagement with reporters in Abuja. He said since members of the association withheld their services over the non increment of their cost of bridging to N9.11, the Federal Government summoned a general meeting for the stakeholders. According to him: “We are looking for a way of coming up with even if it is a temporary measure to review the template without adding anything to cushion and provide succour for the transporters”. He also revealed the Federal Government is considering the possibility of transporting petroleum products for marketers by rail across the country. It is also planning for the transportation (bridging) of gas to different parts of the country. Bridging means the transportation of petrol to all over the country to ensure that the product is sold at the same price. The PEF categorised and pays for the transportation according to the distance. However, the government has to wait till the framework for implementation of the gas bridging is put in place with the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill (PIB) that is now in the National Assembly. On the transportation of products by rail, he explained State Governments were already complaining that heavy duties were destroying the roads. According to him, employing the trains to convey petroleum products will reduce the cost of transportation also reduce the cost of road maintenance, save the roads and increase the quantity that can be transported. His words: “We are also looking at the possibility of getting marketers to transport products by rail. The government is reviving many critical rail lines. “And we say if marketers will patronise the railway system, that will reduce the pressure on the road. “It will also increase the time because one journey will the turn around of the road because rail journey will take 20 or more. It saves a lot of cost. ” It reduces pressure on the roads. This is because most State Governments are complaining that heavy duty that ply the roads are the ones that destroy the roads. ” I think it will reduce cost of road maintenance for governments”. He noted that the same way the PEF has been bridging and transporting petrol is the same manner the organisation has planned to transport gas.