 All-new Changan Hunter pick-up built by Changan Auto and Groupe PSA, the second-largest car manufacturer in Europe, has been unveiled in Nigeria. Also launched are two trims of eye-catching Changan Mini-buses targeted at meeting the needs of commercial transporters as well as small and medium Enterprises (SMEs) and logistic concerns. A Chinese truck with strong European DNA, the Hunter midsize pickup and its minibus siblings premiered in Lagos last Saturday on the Victoria Island. Stallion Motors’Head of Sale and Marketing, Vijay Singh, said the launch was aimed at serving the  business community and government sectors with vehicles that combine quality, ruggedness with affordability. “Available for sale in Nigeria are two trims of Mini-buses, namely Star 9 and 5, each named according to seating capacity. “Positioned as a leader for both business passengers and urban logistics, the star 5 and Star 9 mini-buses are new generation of highly efficient commercial vehicles, powered by C10 1000cc engine tuned up to withstand the daily rigours of commercial transportation. “Both mini-bus versions come with Electric power steering, power windows and Central locking system,” he said. The Hunter displays uncommon characteristics, especially stunning design, intelligent safety features and ruggedness, making it the right truck for the Nigerian roads. Engineered to scale through the PSA-Changan”CA-TVS” dual system verification, the 2021 Hunter did not only meet the strictest European standard, its total galvanised process guarantees 10 years anti-corrosion, Singh said. It also with an exciting feature known as forest air purification system, which means, no matter how harsh the road environment outside the van, Hunter will maintain fresh air, thereby providing drivers and passengers with a comfortable and healthy experience. It features 2.4-litre turbo patrol engine with manual and automatic transmission equipped,  led lamps, premium leather seats, Reverse camera, cruise control, push-button start, rear AC vent, 10“ display with touch screen, Bedliner with 226mm ground clearance. Crafted with amazing features of unmatched quality, Changan Hunter pickup is 5330mm long, 1930mm wide and 1835 mm tall. In the process of designing the pickup, the skilled and creative Changan design team fashioned muscular interior and exterior curves to convey surging power, which explains why the truck exudes uncommon character and charm. The hunter is equipped for safety and comfort. Installed on its cargo area is a rear view camera and a rear parking sensor. On board, the driver is faced with easily accessible control buttons and functions, rearview camera monitor, automatic climate control, along with very comfortable seats and seat belts for safety. The Hunter Pickup is powered by 2.4-litre turbocharged Petrol engine (Bosch Turbo Intercooler Injection), which is mated to a six-speed manual gearbox, made by Getrag (now Magna PT), the world’s largest supplier of transmission systems based in Germany). With an 80-litre capacity fuel tank, the Hunter supports 1000km supper driving mileage. To ensure the best overall performance, the chassis tuning of Changan Hunter is done by the Changan Detroit R&D Centre and the Global R&D Centre.