Reconstruction of some parts of Holy Ghost Cathedral, Enugu, Enugu State, partially vandalised by followers of fiery priest and founder of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, penultimate week, has commenced. Parish priest of Holy Ghost Cathedral Parish, Enugu, Rev. Fr. Raphael Ozonwafor, stated this during Sunday Mass at the cathedral. Mbaka’s followers, believing him to be missing, had vandalised the cathedral and episcopal residence in Enugu penultimate week. They had stormed the residence of Bishop Callistus Onaga of Enugu Diocese demanding to know the priest’s whereabouts on May 5 and in the process destroyed property after desecrating the altar of the city’s cathedral. Following the shocking incident, Bishop Onaga declared one- week of prayer in atonement and reparation before Fr Mbaka apologised last Sunday to his bishop and to the Church after his reappearance. Speaking after his homily to raise funds for reconstruction of the Cathedral gates on Sunday, Fr. Ozonwafor said over N1.4 million had been spent so far to replace some of the property destroyed. He added the most urgent work was the replacement of the destroyed gates The cleric said: “We’ve spent over N1.4m to replace some of the things that were destroyed in father’s house. We’re replacing the cathedral gate. It was not good and we need about N1.5m to replace the gates. “With the sample we’ve got now, the new gates will last and will be difficult to destroy or pull down. If we had had a strong gate, that incident wouldn’t have taken place. This is because it is when the gates are open for you that you will enter the cathedral” In his homily titled ‘That we may be one’, Fr. Ozonwafor stated that the incident that happened last time in the cathedral showed that “we’re still divided in the church. “Even amongst the bishops, Cardinals, there may be such division. That’s why Jesus Christ prayed in the scripture that we as his body may be one. “In the Church today, we look at people where they come from: Anambra, Enugu, Mbaise, and all that. “We promote this division by over ambition, jealousy, lack of love and unhealthy competition. That’s why Judas Iscariot sold Jesus Christ. This is why we still have Osu Caste system in Igboland “Most of these things start from the home front. Is your family united? Is your family in a position where it is supposed? “When we love each other as prescribed by Christ, we will no longer categorize people and that will mark the beginning of the united church. When we are united, we will conquer any attack from outside”.