The Police Service Commission (PSC) on Monday vowed to investigate alleged police misconduct contained in the report of the Action Group on Free Civic Space in Nigeria. The report was submitted to the Commission in Abuja. The group led by Zikora Ibe and accompanied by Okechukwu Nwanguma and Kingsley Godwin presented the report titled “#ENDSARS: Police Brutality, Protests and Shrinking Civic Space in Nigeria”. Speaking while receiving the delegation on behalf of the Chairman of the Commission, Justice Clara Ogunbiyi, retired Justice of the Supreme Court and Honorable Commissioner representing the Judiciary in the Commission said the report was far-reaching and that the Commission will need to further investigate the serious allegations contained in it. Ogunbiyi said the report contained a lot of allegations and information which the Commission will need to verify. He commended the group for the painstaking job. She noted that the Commission will continue to do its best to improve the workings of the Nigeria Police Force and will continue to ensure that it operates within defined rules and regulations and with respect to democratic tenets. According to a statement issued by PSC Head, Press and Public Relations, Ikechukwu Ani, the Leader of Delegation, Zikora Ibe in her brief presentation said the group is demanding that erring Police Officers of the dreaded SARS must be held accountable. Her words: “we urge the National Human Rights Commission and the Enugu state Judicial Panel of Inquiry to commit to bringing the Officers and politicians named and identified by victims in this Report to justice for their various roles in perpetrating and aiding Police brutality”. She also demanded an investigation of the alleged black-market trade of bodies murdered by SARS operatives to University teaching hospitals as cadavers for the teaching and practice of medicine in Nigeria’s tertiary institutions. The group is also demanding that the capacity of oversight bodies like the Complaints Response Unit (CRU), the Police Service Commission, Ministry of Police Affairs and the National Human Rights Commission, to enforce discipline in the Police should be strengthened.