A former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof Peter Okebukola, has denied a message being shared on some social media platforms claiming that there is an ongoing plan by the curriculum review committee to scrap some undergraduate programmes in Nigerian universities. Okebukola, who is the Head of the Universities Education Curriculum Review Committee, said the report is false as the committee had no such plan either now or later and therefore asked people in the academic circle and members of the public to disregard the news which he described as fake. In a said WhatsApp message purportedly addressed to members of the Nigerian Academy of Education, it was alleged that the education review committee headed by Professor Okebukola was planning to scrap some undergraduate programmes that included Educational Administration & Planning (or Educational Management); Guidance and Counselling; and Early Childhood Education/Primary Education, and that members should speak against the move. In a statement on Thursday, Prof Okebukola said there was no plan anywhere to scrap any education programme in Nigerian universities. According to him, the claim is fake news as all current programmes in education in the nation’s universities are being maintained and strengthened. Prof Okebukola urged Nigerians to await the outcome of the review exercise so to see how far from the truth. The statement reads: “It is fake news! No programme is being scrapped in Education. All current programmes in Education are being maintained and strengthened. “Instead, new programmes are being proposed for Education to respond to the needs of our great country for teachers who are nationally relevant and globally competitive. “Since studies have consistently shown that Education graduates who have no teaching subject reflected in their certificates have had challenges with employment and even placement for teaching practice, the Education Curriculum Group after consultations with stakeholders including members of the Nigerian Academic of Education, have agreed to recommend to NUC, that as much as possible and where applicable, Education programmes should have a component of a teaching subject. “The purveyors of the fake news are not aware of these developments and instead of cross-checking the facts, they went about misleading the public in a most disingenuous way. “Nigerians should await the outcome of the exercise and they will see how far from the truth these mischievous people are. To make Nigeria’s teachers the best, is a task that must be done collectively.”