After the initial panic of being infected with COVID-19 and the people and government taking measures to ensure the COVID-19 safety protocols, the people and the government seem to have relaxed to the point that even the basic safety measures are being neglected.  JUSTINA ASISHANA analyses how people’s behaviour may threaten the containment of the second wave of the pandemic.  Physical distancing, wearing of facemasks, hand washing and use of sanitisers are some of the non-health measures put in place to contain the spread of the Coronavirus disease. The initial compliance with these safety protocols seems to have waned. People in Niger State have abandoned the COVID-19 safety protocols, or so it seems. Mrs Sylvia Adams, a trader in the Kure Modern Market, was without facemask when the reporter bought ‘garri’ (cassava flakes) from her. Seeing the reporter wearing a facemask, Sylvia asked “Aunty, why are you wearing this facemask? Shebi there is no more Coronavirus?” When told that the virus was still around and that cases of those infected were being reported daily, Sylvia just laughed. “They are just deceiving you, aunty. There is nothing like that. It is all the government’s way to eat money. See us in this market, only a few are wearing facemasks. We left it behind us a long time ago,” she said. Sylvia is not alone in this warped belief. The handwashing stations, the wearing of masks are no more. And there is little that is being done to enforce the safety precautions that the state government has urged citizens to observe to stop the spread of the virus. From the markets to supermarkets, parks and commercial garages, to government and private offices and local government areas, there is almost zero adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocols. Some of the places where these protocols are enforced are at the Niger State Government House, the State Police Headquarters, some churches and some private schools. In many of the schools visited, students were only expected to wash their hands before being allowed into their schools. Wearing facemasks is not being enforced either. The temperature checks which are supposed to be mandatory have all been suspended. Physical distancing is impossible as there are too many students in each class and the classrooms are not enough to allow for the recommended 1.5-meter-distance between desks. Similar disregard of the rules was also observed in several public schools in Bosso and Chachanga local government areas, including Limawa Model School, Nkangbe Primary School, Gidan Kwano Primary School, Government Girls’ Secondary School along Bosso Road and Government Science College, Tunga. Some of the private schools visited in Chachanga and Bosso local government areas—New Divine Success College, Kingdom Garrison International College, Al-Amin International School and Redeemer’s College— were enforcing the safety precautions. Indeed, students who arrived at the school gate without face masks were sent back home. In the classrooms, attempts were being made to ensure some physical distancing. School gatherings and the daily assemblies have been suspended. Teachers who spoke to our reporter in confidence to avoid censure from the school authorities said the monitoring committees set up by the Ministry of Education to ensure that schools adhere to the protocols have not been doing their job.  Unused hand washers in schools, MDAs It is not only the mandatory wearing of face masks that is being ignored. An estimated 1,500 hand wash basins manufactured by the Niger State Drugs and Consumables Agency in collaboration with engineers in the state are also lying idle in the schools. The hand basins, according to the Executive Director of the Niger State Drugs and Consumables Agency, Mohammed Audi, were made in such a manner that whoever uses them would not need to touch the liquid hand wash or sanitisers. He explained that the hand washers were mechanically made to pour out the water, hand wash and sanitisers using a foot pedal. Audi also disclosed that the majority of the handwashing basins were distributed by the Ministry of Education and installed in public schools while others were installed in government offices to encourage visitors and workers to sanitise their hands before entering offices such as the Niger State Secretariat, the Ministries of Finance, Health, Education, Women Affairs, Agriculture, Justice and the Office of the Head of Service, Government House or the Office of the Secretary to the State Government. As of last week, visits to several ministries revealed that the handwashing basins were not in use as there was no water, or hand washing liquid or sanitiser. At Government House Minna, nobody is allowed to go in without wearing a face mask but hand washing is no longer a prerequisite to entering the offices. The use of hand sanitisers is only compulsory when one is entering the council chamber. In the public schools, none of the handwashing basins was in use. Sources in the schools said after the initial donation by the Ministry of Education, the schools are supposed to provide subsequent water, hand washing soap and hand sanitisers which they do not due to lack of resources.  Weak law enforcement  The poor adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocols can be attributed to the failure of the state government to provide the facilities and services that would enable the public to adhere to the safety guidelines. In the state capital, there seems to be a little semblance of compliance, especially in banks and some offices of government officials. The case is different at the local government level as there is no sign of the people obeying the directives. On January 28, the state government issued an Executive Order making it mandatory for everyone to wear face masks in public places. Those violating this order would pay a fine of N5, 000 and would be tried in a mobile court. The Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello directed the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice to ensure that the directive is enforced. More than two months since this mandatory mask-wearing came into force, nobody has been fined or even charged for not wearing a face mask in public. The Secretary to the Niger State Government Ahmed Ibrahim Matane said people were taking advantage of the state government’s reluctance to introduce another lockdown as they were aware it was unable to meet the needs of the people if this was done. People were also defying the protocols as they knew the government cannot enforce its guidelines. On lack of enforcement of the COVID-19 safety protocol by the government, the Secretary to the Niger State Government (SSG) and Chairman, Niger State Task Force on COVID-19 pandemic Matane confirmed that the people are no longer obeying the safety protocols. “It is sad to see that a lot of people do not obey the COVID-19 safety protocols. When you ask them to wear facemasks, they put it in their pockets and when they see you coming, they quickly put it on and remove it after you are gone. Directive on physical distancing is no longer obeyed,” he said. But despite the SSG’s lament, the government seems to be doing little in monitoring and ensuring that the safety protocols are kept. However, Matane said there is no sufficient manpower to enforce the government’s directives on the safety protocols which is why the people continue to flout them. Matane maintained that the government will continue with the advocacy and sensitisation through radio and television jingles. “We believe the people have been sensitised enough and what is left is compliance. We hope that the people will develop a safe-discipline attitude to obey the safety protocols,” he said. The Attorney-General of Niger State, Nasara Danmallam said it has been difficult for the government to enforce its directives, adding that law enforcement requires a lot of resources that are currently not available. He said the Executive Order for the compulsory use of facemasks and all other directives regarding the COVID-19 are still on the ground. “The law is still there. All the instruments are still in force. But enforcing the COVID-19 laws and directives have faced a lot of challenges.  COVID-19 in Niger State According to the Report by the Niger State Task Force on COVID-19, on March 15 2021, the total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases discharged in the state was 894 with 24 local government areas affected. The report further showed that the total COVID-19 cases fatality rate in the state was 2.16 per cent, total health care workers infection was eight per cent with total health care workers’ death at 10 per cent while the total highest age with the confirmed case is 21 to 30 years. Out of the total number of 928 cases, 86 were cases confirmed for NYSC out of 3,794 NYSC members screened. The Niger State COVID-19 gender status has 67 per cent male and 33 per cent, female with a total death ratio of 1:45  COVID-19 protocols enforcement in other countries  In Pakistan, soldiers in April 2021 were deployed to patrol the streets in 16 major cities of the country to enforce the COVID-19 safety protocols to mitigate the spread of the virus. The soldiers were to enforce measures which include the wearing of facemasks in public places and the closing of non-essential businesses after 6:00 p.m. Kenya still observes night curfew from 10:00 p.m. to 4:00 a.m., bars operate until 7:00 p.m., hotels and eateries operate until 9:00 p.m. and wearing of face masks is compulsory in public places, while public transportation carry half the capacity. A journalist in Kenya told our reporter that those found without facemasks or even breaching the curfew are being made to clean the streets or engage in another community service as a sanction for failing to observe the regulations while more severe measures attract prosecution. 