 Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa has said ranching is a better alternative to open grazing being practiced across the country. The governor urged the Federal Government to support states willing to establish ranches. He said the current hike in food prices across the country is the fallout of farmers abandoning their farms due to constant attacks by herders and bandits. The governor stressed that farmers have abandoned their business for fear of being killed by herders. Okowa spoke yesterday at the third session of the 15th Synod of Asaba Diocese of Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, held at St. John’s Anglican Church, Okwe in Oshimili South Local Government Area. The governor noted that open grazing has caused serious conflicts among farmers and herders, leading to deaths and sacking of communities in different parts of the country. He said there was no way the Federal Government could increase food production and put food on the table when herders were destroying farmlands with their cattle.  “The Federal Government should support the development of ranching because it is in the best interest of the country. “I want to thank God for Delta State. We have challenges in almost every state in this country, but I want to thank God for the relative peace in the state. “I know we still have farmers-herders clashes in Delta State, but our Southern governors have come out to make a statement and we are going to follow it through. “Thank God, our Northern brothers are beginning to realise that the suggestions we made were right and they are for the best interest of this country. “We just hope that the Federal Government will put things together that will enable us to stop open grazing. “We know open grazing can’t be stopped in one day, but an action must be started and pursued in such a manner that we are able to truly ensure that the cattle in this country are properly grown in the ranch in such a manner that we would not have the cattle destroying people’s crops,” Okowa said. On allegations of recycling of politicians, the governor urged political leaders to ensure that they occupy every office at the instance of the people and work in the best interest of the people they represent. 