Imo Police Command said it has neutralised killers of the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Ahmed Gulak, Its spokesman, Bala Elkana who disclosed this in a statement, said the suspects met their waterloo at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area. According to him: “Police Special Forces made of Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Tactical Units from the Command were deployed to the scene at Obiangwu Junction at Ngorokpala LGA of Imo state. “The teams were given a clear instruction to identify and apprehend the perpetrators of the act with a view of bringing them to justice. “Eye witnesses account, especially the account given by the driver of the vehicle conveying Ahmed Gulak to the airport before the attack, gave a vivid description of the assailants and the vehicles they used in carrying out the attack. “The assailants were said to have used a Toyota Camry 2005 model with silver color; Toyota Sienna 1998 Model with golden color; Toyota Hilux with white color; and a Lexus RX 330 with golden Color. (Registration numbers are withheld for security reasons). “Having established the identity of the assailants and the description of the vehicles used in carrying out the attack, the teams further got details of the direction the hoodlums have taken. “With further leads, the team was able to establish the location of suspects. The suspects were rounded up at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area. “The hoodlums were met distributing onions to locals from a trailer they confiscated. The trailer was loaded with onions from the Northern region of Nigeria.” According to him, on sighting the Police, the hoodlums providing security coverage to those sharing the onions opened fire on the Police teams. “The gallant and battle ready Police Officers swiftly returned the fire. The six hoodlums who carried out the killings and four other members of their gang were fatally injured. Three out of the four vehicles used in attacking Gulak were recovered,” he added. He listed the items recovered from them to include three AK 47 rifles, one pistol, five AK 47 magazines with ninety two rounds of live ammunition and criminal charms. He said “the driver who drove late Ahmed Gulak and a co- victim who survived have all identified the dead body of the IPOB/ESN members.”