 The International Air Transport Association (IATA) has applauded the growing number of countries making data and evidence-driven decisions to open their borders to vaccinated travellers. Nigeria is among countries where vaccination is not mandatory for international travels, but airlines, aviation/health authorities require  COVID-19 tests carried out by outbound passengers 72 hours before the date of departure. The latest data collected by IATA, including its Timatic service, shows that more than 20 countries, including Nigeria, have wholly or partially lifted restrictions for vaccinated travellers. Though the global airlines’ regulator supports unrestricted access to travel for vaccinated travellers, in  cases where vaccination is not possible, access to quarantine-free travel should be provided through COVID-19 testing strategies based on  available, free tests. But, many passengers in Nigeria are groaning under the yoke of the high cost of COVID -19 PCR tests conducted in accredited laboratories for less than N50, 400. Investigations by The Nation reveal that passengers are spending not less than N200,000 for a return trip requiring four layers of COVID-19 tests. Investigations further reveal that the huge costs of mandatory tests required for international travel  are contributing add-on costs to expenditures for international travel. Experts are getting worried over the development, urging governments to review the template of tests required for travel. Besides, the experts, said many countries were getting worried over the add-on costs to international travel lodged under COVID – 19 tests. IATA polling, according to its Chief Executive Officer and Director-General , Willie Walsh,  indicates that 81 per cent of international travellers are willing to get vaccinated to be able to travel. Moreover, 74 per cent  of people in the same poll agreed that those vaccinated should be able to travel by air without restrictions. The decision of increasing numbers of countries to accept vaccinated travellers without quarantine measures, he said, adds pressure for a digital solution to manage vaccine certificates and COVID-19 test results. Paper-based processes could lead to extremely long processing times at check-in and border control. Also, he said the process also opens the door to fraud. Digital vaccine/test certificates, coupled with passenger apps such as the IATA Travel Pass, he further added,  would be needed to manage travel health credentials efficiently and securely in the restart. “A gap is opening up between countries responding to scientific evidence, and those exhibiting a lack of preparation or excessive caution in reopening borders. Countries that seize the opportunity offered by the increasing numbers of vaccinated travellers can protect their populations and reap an economic reward,” said Walsh. “A safe opening of borders to international travel is the goal. And scientific evidence and data such as that presented by RKI, ECDC and USC CDC should be the basis for the decision-making needed to achieve that. There is increasing scientific evidence that vaccination is not only protecting people but also dramatically reducing the risk of COVID-19 transmission. “This is bringing us closer to a world where vaccination and testing enables the freedom to travel without quarantine. “Germany and at least 20 other countries have already taken an important step in re-opening their borders to vaccinated travellers. These are the best practice examples for others to quickly follow,” Walsh added. It was gathered that Germany is among the latest countries to make quarantine alleviations for vaccinated travellers. Vaccinated travellers are no longer subject to quarantine measures ,except from certain high-risk countries. Germany has also removed quarantine requirements for travellers with a negative COVID-19 test result, except from certain high-risk countries. The German government’s decision followed a review of scientific advice from the world-renowned Robert Koch Institute (RKI), which concluded that vaccinated travellers are no longer significant in the spread of the disease and do not pose a major risk to the German population. Specifically, it stated that vaccination reduces risk of COVID-19 transmission to levels below the risk from a false negative rapid antigen test. The implementation of this policy aligns Germany with recommendations from the European Commission and the European Parliament, based on similar scientific advice from the European Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (ECDC). In its interim guidance on the benefits of full vaccination, the ECDC said that “based on the limited evidence available, the likelihood of an infected vaccinated person transmitting the disease is currently assessed to be very low to low.” 