You made history as the first black woman member on the board of the Association for Project Management (APM) in the UK. What does the appointment mean to you? Firstly, let me say that it cannot be confirmed that I am the first black woman member of the board. It is, however, an honour to be appointed to the board. Right now, I feel privileged to hold such a position, especially as I did not get on the board via the election process. There were many people who applied through the election stage, but only 3 people got elected. I was number 4 missing the election by less than 100 votes. I had planned to go through the election again this year, but God was ahead of me. He got me on the board by appointment, sooner than I thought. I am delighted and forever grateful to God for the opportunity. Can you tell us your foray in project management? I stumbled on Project Management after graduating with my first degree in Social Policy and Management. I had to do a temporary job whilst looking for a permanent job. My temporary job was as Project Administrator. Whilst supporting project managers, I got curious about project management. At the time, Project Management was very new to the United Kingdom and my instincts told me the profession was here to stay. I attended internal Project Management training and looked out for role opportunities that would be my first step into the profession. This opportunity came within eight months after I made up my mind that Project Management would be my newfound career, especially as things were not working out with Human Resources Management, my first choice career. Since that decision, I continued to develop myself in the field, and never have I once regretted it or looked back. I am now a Registered, Chartered Project Professional, a full member, and an appointed board member of the Association for Project Management. Did you have a mentor or support structure in place when you started out? Throughout my career, I have had many mentors who have impacted me in different ways. I love learning from other people as much as I like training and developing others. I have an open mind. So long as someone is more experienced than I am, I am always eager to learn from them. Most of my line managers in the past have mentored and supported me. However, I must say that I am also self-driven. The number one person that drives me the most is my husband, Pastor Peter Adeshile. He always encourages me to go beyond what I think I am capable of achieving. He always says “Your project management will take you places.” I think he still wants me to deliver an international project abroad somewhere. He has been exceptionally supportive over the years. Given the strident calls for the inclusion of black women in top key positions of the corporate ladder, do you see your appointment as an opening for other black women in the United Kingdom? If my memory serves me well, I know that there have always been calls for more black women in top key positions of the corporate ladder. I remember a colleague of mine approaching me about 10 years ago, saying he wanted me to meet his mum who would want to hire someone like me in a top job in the US. He said the job was just a phone call away. I declined. Unfortunately, at the time, I didn’t think I was worth it or ready for it even though my husband encouraged me to go for it. I was afraid of the change and of failing. This same feeling and thoughts have stopped many black women from taking up these roles in the past, which is why we still have this gap today. I definitely, do hope that this appointment will open up new opportunities and encourage other black women to step forward. You worked on projects that interfaced with ‘Brexit’. What do you make of the whole ‘Brexit’? I worked on projects that interfaced with or were impacted by Brexit. How do you juggle being a John Maxwell certified leadership expert, Registered, Chartered, and experienced Project and Programme Management professional, likely the first black woman on the APM board member and parish Pastor? Being a John Maxwell Certified Leadership Expert actually supports me in all my other leadership roles. The training and network, help me to be a better leader in all areas of my life. Project Management is my main profession, so being a Registered, Chartered, and experienced Project Management Professional who is also on the Board provides me with a greater opportunity for collaboration in my profession. What lessons from being on the global stage of public speaking, mentoring, community service and politics, do you believe transferred well in being a good Chief Executive Officer and mother? I think the most important things that connect all the work that I do are, people, their development, and welfare. I have a passion for people and seeing them transferred from the current state to a better state. I like to see people taking opportunities and using them to their advantage. I also believe in justice for all and equality. To make this world a better place, equality has to be a bit better balanced. 