 Workers of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, have until Friday to submit their memoranda to the Presidential Visitation Panel inaugurated by the Federal Government last week. Chairman of the seven-man panel and wife of the former Ondo State governor, Mrs. Olufunke Agagu, said when she met with workers that the memoranda would help the panel’s complete its assignment and submit its report, which is due in some five weeks. Addressing workers at the Paul Alabi Multipurpose Hall of the institution last week, Mrs. Agagu said the panel’s investigation would cover the past 10 years.  She reiterated that the visitation exercise is not meant to witch-hunt anyone but to review the performance of the institution of higher learning in different areas. “The purpose of this visitation exercise is to review the performance of the college in the areas of governance, academic standards, quality assurance, management of finances, the relationship between management on the one hand, staff and students on the other, the condition of physical infrastructure as well as instructional facilities and thereafter advise Government accordingly”.  “This exercise is not a witch-hunt exercise but a fact finding/stock taking exercise, for the purpose of improving the college by making recommendations to the government”. She said. Principal officers of the college attended the meeting with members of the Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), Non Academic Staff Union (NASU) and Women in Colleges of Education (WICE). In his remarks, COEASU Chairman, Comrade Oje Ebenezer said: “I know my fellow colleagues share in my joy to have the presence of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria ably represented by great men and women of integrity in this Visitation Panel. This shows a purposeful leadership and vision of this administration which is capable of taking education in Nigeria and in this college in particular to a better level.” The Chairperson, WICE, Dr. Oluwakemi Aladenusi expressed confidence in the panel’s ability to produce positive results. “I’m assuring you that this panel will not be like the last one that visited did not come up with a white paper because this panel is chaired by a woman. Women are conscientious workers. When we want to do anything we follow it to the letter,” she said. Other members of the panel are: Mrs. Anu Olajubu (secretary), Pastor Ituah Ighodalo; Chief Chinedum Adindu, Prof. Boniface Oloche, Dr. Jeniola Aminu Abdullahi and Dr. Wahab Ademola Azeez.