The Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCN), Nigerian Export Processing Zone Authority (NEPZA) chapter Chairman, Yakubu Isa Samari, has rejected plans by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment Adeniyi Adebayo, to transfer NEPZA’s duty to Ogun Free Trade Zone (OGZA) . Samari said this could not be done because OGZA is a Public- Private Partnership (PPP) and not government-owned. He added that the union was aware of the Technical Working Committee set up to ensure the process was carried out, the reason for their grievance. The Chairman who reacted to a statement sent out by the office of the Managing Director NEPZA, Adesoji Adesugba on agitation by staff to undermine NEPZA’s status said, the union has written a petition copying the Presidency, the National Assembly on plans by the Adebayo to give power to OGZA, which should not be done, if the government does not do anything this matter will have very negative effect on the welfare of NEPZA workers. “This same thing happened during the former Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enalema before it was stopped and now the present Minister want to come and transfer power without considering the welfare of staff. Adesugba is calming down mounting agitations of NEPZA workforce over alleged surreptitious attempt to undermine the legal status of the Authority by a report of the Technical Working Committee constituted by the Ministry of Industry Trade and Investment. The outcome of the committee’s alleged investigation was titled: “ Draft Report Performance Evaluation of Free Trade Zone (FTZ) Licensees’’. Adesugba in a statement signed by Head, Corporate Communications, NEPZA Martins Odeh stated that  it is important to realise that NEPZA is a creation of Act 63 of 1992 of the National Assembly’’. According to him, the reformation of NEPZA is definitely not within the competence of NEPZA’s management, while explaining that the Authority was aware that there had been discussions on the remodeling of government agencies for efficiency from the time of Steve Oransaye’s Panel recommendations. These discussions as far as we are aware are still ongoing and no decisions have been made nor the enabling laws to effects such changes enacted’’, he said. The MD added that, with respect to the said report of the committee from the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, such report has not been officially communicated to NEPZA and at the right moment, the position of NEPZA will be conveyed by its board to the appropriate authorities. The NEPZA’s CEO, however, urged the workers and the local branch of the labour union, Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN), to exercise restraints so as not to send the wrong signals to both operators of zones and enterprises operating in the zones. 