There has been increased tension in the Bayelsa State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) since a faction of the party, reportedly loyal to Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, opened a parallel secretariat in Yenagoa. Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, and Simon Utebor in Yenagoa, report on the genesis of the renewed face-off and the way out  When, on the first week of May, 2021, the Ebierien Fala Itubor-led faction of All Progressives Congress (APC), believed to be loyal to Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, opened a parallel secretariat in Yenagoa, observers who believed the disagreements that trailed the party’s primaries ahead of last governorship elections in Bayelsa State had been resolved, realised that the face-off had continued to fester. Before the announcement of the former campaign office of Lokpobiri as a parallel secretariat of APC in Bayelsa, most of the leaders of the party in the state had tried their best to give impression that all was well and that the disagreements that trailed David Lyon’s dramatic emergence as the party’s governorship candidate had been resolved. But with the current development and the verbal exchanges from stakeholders in the various factions, it has become evident that except something is done quickly to restore peace in Bayelsa APC under one leadership, the party may be in for a hard time as it prepares for the 2023 elections.  Genesis of the face off It is widely accepted that before APC’s primary that ushered in David Lyon as the party’s candidate, all was well and good with the party in the state. But after Lyon’s emergence, some stakeholders accused the leader of the party in the state, Chief Timpre Sylva, of single-handedly installing Lyon as the party’s flag-bearer. Others alleged that the leader, Sylva, only took into confidence few of his loyalists. It was these allegations and misunderstandings that gave rise to factions and divisions in the state chapter of the party today. The disillusioned members alleged that some other party chieftains, such as Preye Aganaba and former Minister of State for Agriculture, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, were sidelined in the political equation. Lokpobiri, in particular, did not hide his disagreement over Lyon’s emergence as he openly described the governorship primary as a charade. He also challenged the outcome of the primary that produced David Lyon as the candidate in court. But the court ruled against him, affirming Lyon as the authentic candidate of the party for the November 16, 2019 governorship poll. It would be recalled that Lyon progressed to win the election. But the Supreme Court stopped him on the eve of his inauguration as governor because his running mate, Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo, submitted forged certificates to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Senator Douye Diri of the PDP, who actually came second in the election, eventually became the governor. Since that political loss, APC has reportedly made efforts at reconciling stakeholders and re-unifying the party. But it seems not much progress has been made. Explaining the development, a party source loyal to the Ebierien Fala Itubor-led faction said, “It is the leadership’s fault that we have not achieved unity in Bayelsa APC. After the great political loss, the party executive committee loyal to Sylva suspended 14 chieftains of the party, including Lokpobiri and Preye Aganaba for alleged anti-party activities. Ever since then, the APC has remained greatly divided and factionalised along many camps with the party leader, Sylva, carrying on as if all is well.” Also, other critics of Sylva’s leadership of APC in the state accused him of ‘poor’ leadership. The criticism and disillusionment peaked with the decision of a faction to open a parallel party secretariat in the state. Another source also claimed that apart from the Lokpobiri and Sylva factions in the party, there are many other camps waiting to snowball into factions in the state if the needful was not done quickly to resolve the differences. Reacting to the development and to the claims, an APC chieftain, Comrade Wilfred Frank-Ogbotobo, who is also the Coordinator of Legacy Forum and former Member, National Renewal Committee of the Defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), said: “The APC in Bayelsa State is one, under the leadership of the Minister of State, Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva. Under his exemplary leadership, in terms of perseverance, foresight and conviction, the party was able to accomplish the extraordinary feat of winning a government in power. This has never happened in Bayelsa politics. “His charismatic leadership was the beacon that attracted notable personalities to the APC in Bayelsa state. “He is the founding father and leader. His name and personality grew the party to its enviable status in Bayelsa politics today. Those who worked with him from the scratch know this fact. It is only a stranger who will accuse the Honourable Minister of State, Petroleum Resources of poor leadership. “Those who are making these allegations do not know the foundation and growth of the APC in Bayelsa State. And the irony is that these opportunists going about creating this confusion cannot play their politics without Sylva. The only source of their present relevance and reckoning in Bayelsa politics is Sylva’s personality and politics. Who would have considered them for ministerial appointment or branded them to such popularity and acceptance to win governorship elections in Bayelsa? “They are accusing Sylva of neglecting to summon stakeholders meeting to resolve issues arising from the last governorship election. What issues are they referring to? What about the last senatorial bye-elections? Have they, as “stakeholders” summoned any meeting to resolve their deplorable traitorous conducts? Have they gathered in their respective senatorial zones to express remorse for their despicable betrayals that denied us of the two senatorial seats that were safe bets for the party? “Bayelsans know these people and their brand of bread and butter politics. The National Caretaker Committee knows what it takes to build and reposition a party, and I strongly believe they won’t fall for these shenanigans. Anyone who has experienced party building from scratch to opposition to power will not do what these jokers are trying to do to Bayelsa APC. In their political kingdom all that matters is their way or no other way. Selfishness that is self-centred. Politics and political parties are not built on such foundations. Nothing meaningful can be achieved on such a path. “I’m not familiar with the names being mentioned in local radio broadcasts. The APC, as far as I know, has roots and lineages. You can’t deny that. We had the Grassroots Movement, comprising the Legacy parties, and the formidable Sylva political structure. We never had any Heineken or Lyon structure,” he said. He explained further: “The problem with some people that come into contact with Sylva is adapting to the man’s convictions and political mission. They can only perch on his wings to attain certain altitudes in their politics. Beyond that they lose understanding and capacity. Sylva’s politics is not about raw power. It’s not about core or non-core Ijaw propaganda. It’s about the development of Bayelsa State; it’s about the progress and brotherhood of the Ijaw Ethnic Nationality. These bigoted minds can never grow beyond these low, unprogressive spheres. “Sylva is not perfect. He is human. But we must respect the area where he is gifted with comparatively higher strengths which is leadership. But we must respect him in the areas where he is exceedingly gifted which is leadership. “All these nonsensical circus shows started because Heineken was not given the governorship ticket. When he was Minister of State nobody heard about Sylva’s poor leadership. No parallel secretariat was commissioned. How many weeks did he spend as a member of APC before he was given the ministerial slot? You were a minister in an APC administration and was still dragging a senatorial ticket in PDP. Are you a real stakeholder? Some people just feel it must always be their way or no other way. “In the case of David Lyon, the circumstances were clear. The judgement was painful. Nobody envisaged what happened. We won the election. Degi had used the same certificates. The same Nigerian Courts have cleared him after the Supreme Court judgement. You cannot hold Sylva responsible for that. So, for David Lyon to allow his name to be mentioned in such circumstances is incredible.” Frank-Ogbotobo also believes that the current development is part of the politics of 2023. As he puts it: “Another factor that is playing out is the 2023 elections. You know Sylva is one politician that is highly gifted in the art of politics. He has the staying power. You cannot underestimate him in the Niger Delta zonal leadership. The presidency will likely rotate to the South. He is a fine gentleman politician and detribalised. He is the eyes and ears of the fourth largest and arguably one of the richest ethic groups in the Buhari progressive dispensation. He has a predominant reckoning in the 2023 equations. So, as we approach 2023, the regional rivalries are expected to play out a clash of supremacy. Some people are bound to offer themselves as pawns. But Sylva is one politician you cannot mess around with when it comes to real politics. “We don’t have issues of leadership in Bayelsa APC. The rank and file of the party are with Sylva, and we are satisfied with his leadership. What is paramount is to give him the needed support for him to draw federal presence to Bayelsa State for economic empowerment and infrastructural development.” He also warned that “those who are out for chaos and confusion should know the limits of running errands for ambitious politicians. Ambitions should be put in check. Of course, we know they will come begging again at the end of the day. However, we must avoid the precipice. The solution is self-restraint. Every member is aggrieved. Every stratum of leadership must play its part. It’s not by heaping all responsibility and blame on Sylva. It is the Grassroots Movement of the Legacy parties that can rightly claim to have been shortchanged in the scheme of things in Bayelsa APC. “All these nonsensical circus shows started because Heineken was not given the governorship ticket. When he was Minister of State nobody heard about Sylva’s poor leadership. No parallel secretariat was commissioned. How many weeks did he spend as a member of APC before he was given the Ministerial slot? You were a minister in an APC administration and was still dragging a senatorial ticket in PDP. Are you a real stakeholder or you were a bat? Some people just feel it must always be their way or no other way. In the case of David Lyon, the circumstances were clear. The judgement was painful. Nobody envisaged what happened. We won the election. Degi had used the same certificates. The same Nigerian Courts have cleared him after the Supreme Court judgement. You cannot hold Sylva responsible for that. So, for David Lyon to allow his name to be mentioned in such circumstances is demeaning and irresponsible. Another factor that is playing out is the 2023 elections. You know Sylva is one politician that is highly gifted in the art of politics. He has the staying power. You cannot underestimate him in the Niger Delta zonal leadership. The presidency will likely rotate to the South. He is a fine gentleman politician and detribalised. He is the eyes and ears of the fourth largest and arguably one of the richest ethic groups in groups, in the Buhari progressive dispensation. He has a predominant reckoning in the 2023 equations. So, as we approach 2023, the regional rivalries are expected to play out a clash of supremacy. Some people are bound to offer themselves as pawns. But Sylva is one politician you cannot mess around when it comes to real politics. We don’t have issues of leadership in Bayelsa APC. The rank and file of the party are with Sylva, and we are satisfied with his leadership. What is paramount is to give him the needed support for him to draw federal presence to Bayelsa state for economic empowerment and infrastructural development. Those who are out for chaos and confusion should know the limits of running errands for ambitious politicians. Ambitions should be put in check. Of course, we know they will come begging again at the end of the day. However, we must avoid the precipice. The solution is self-restraint. Every member is aggrieved. Every stratum of leadership must play its part. It’s not by heaping all responsibility and blame on Sylva. It is the Grassroots Movement of the legacy parties that can rightly claim to have been shortchanged in the scheme of things in Bayelsa APC,” he repeated.  NASS caucus, others to the rescue? It seems the intervention by Bayelsa APC members at the National Assembly under the aegis of the APC Caucus has not made much impact yet as their overtures, dismissed by the aggrieved as belated, have been rebuffed by the Ebierien Itubor-led faction operating in the former governorship campaign office of Lokpobiri. The APC caucus, made up of Senator Biobarakuma Degi-Eremienyo (Bayelsa East), Preye Oseke, member, representing Southern Ijaw in the House of Representatives and Israel Sunny-Goli (Brass-Nembe Federal Constituency) has expressed concern over the parallel party administrative structure. They therefore called on the Itubor-led faction of the party to sheathe their swords and embrace peace in the interest of the party. But a member of the faction and chieftain of the APC from Southern Ijaw, Sunday Frank-Oputu, waved off the position of the Bayelsa Assembly caucus. He described their peace move as “deceitful” and an attempt to cover up the grievances of party members in the state against the alleged poor leadership of Chief Timipre Sylva. Frank-Oputu insisted that the National Assembly caucus failed the multitude of aggrieved members when their wisdom and intervention were needed most in the party. He stated: “I am not too surprised, but many are surprised on the grounds that we never had the NASS caucus of APC in Bayelsa until the parallel secretariat issue came up. There has been no time we have ever heard them speak on any issue. “So I am calling on Bayelsans and well-meaning Nigerians to discountenance whatever position they have taken. For me, they are people without conscience. They should hide their faces in shame because these same NASS members cost Bayelsa the victory of our governorship election. “What was their position then? What did they say when we were supposed to be looking for political solutions to sustain that victory?” However, the NASS caucus, in their statement, said their call for peaceful resolution of the crisis became necessary following the purported use of Senator Heineken Lokpobiri’s former campaign office as a factional state secretariat of the APC. The statement said the publication on electronic and print media about party members’ displeasure with the leadership of the party in the state is also a serious concern. The statement said: “It is against this backdrop that members of the National Assembly (Bayelsa State) APC caucus do hereby state that there are no factions in the APC family in Bayelsa State. “The Bayelsa State chapter of the APC has Jothan Amos as its Chairman, while the leader of the party remains His Excellency, Chief Timipre Sylva, the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, who is ably supported by thousands of Bayelsans across the length and breadth of the state, who are comfortable with his all-inclusive disposition for good governance and accountability. “The caucus members hereby stress that as it has always been, party men who have the right to be aggrieved at any point, could find expression and ultimately seek redress using legitimate laid-down mechanisms as provided within the party structure in doing so. “They should not allow external forces to factionalise the party. We urge party faithful to be rather more united in purpose as this is the panacea for bringing about the much-needed democratic dividends to the people.” Also, the Secretary of the Extraordinary Caretaker Committee, APC, Bayelsa State, Mr. Alabo Martins, reaffirmed that there is no faction in the party in the state. Martins, speaking recently in Yenagoa, the state capital, against the backdrop of the reported opening of a parallel state secretariat by some aggrieved persons in the party, maintained that Timipre Sylva remained the leader of the party in the state. He said the party operates fully at the state Secretariat at Yenizue-Gene, along the Melford Okilo Expressway in the state capital. He rationalised that those who allegedly created a parallel secretariat did not know what they were doing. He asked: “Have they attended NEC meetings any day? That’s to tell you that they are jokers. Jotham Amos remains the Chairman of the Extraordinary Caretaker Committee. The duo of Orubebe and Itubo were suspended from the party for anti-party activities last year and therefore have no locus to claim any positions in the APC. “The secretariat being talked about is an office of one of APC’s governorship aspirants, Hon. Heineken Lokpobiri, in the last election and not a state secretariat as they claimed.” But commenting on the state of affairs of the party, a former Chairman of the party, Mr. Joseph Fafi, contended that the divisions in the party are there; so glaring and would be difficult for the party to work together during the impasse. He said that the principal actors: Lokpobiri and Sylva, are the cause of the division and that they hold the ace for reconciliation and unity of the party. On how the squabbles began, Fafi shed light: “It all started with the governorship primary election. Of course, there was a clash of interest. But the issue was that there was no proper reconciliation after the whole episode. “Unfortunately, we work in a system whereby when a candidate emerges, if you are not in that camp, even though you are in the same party, you will be sidelined. All those who were not in support of the candidate, David Lyon, then were sidelined. “So, that disagreement has been there and there was no proper reconciliation. I think it is from the leadership. The leadership ought to get the people together and reconcile them so that we can work together. It was not done and has not been done. So, this is the reason. “People have not sat down together to see if they can work together. Everybody is going their separate ways in anticipation of the forthcoming congresses to see who will produce the exco and all that. “The whole development will certainly have serious implications for the party in the state. Personally, I don’t think any exco will emerge from the stance of the two actors. It will also be difficult for any party to support any candidate except a neutral candidate emerges. I don’t think any camp will allow the other to produce the exco and even the governorship candidate.” He stated also that there are other camps in the party apart from those of Sylva and Lokpobiri. For instance, the ex-party chairman mentioned the Preye Aganaba camp but he was quick to add that Aganaba is a gentleman and a party man that believes in the unity of the party. He added: “But we can say that there are two camps that are warring. There may be other camps but there are two camps that are fighting for superiority; those of Senator Heineken Lokpobiri and Timpre Sylva’s camps. Until these two people reconcile, there will continue to be problems in the APC. “We are of the view that the party should be all inclusive. We should be holding meetings and we should respect the leaders who have worked for the party and carry them along. If that is done; I don’t think all these divisions will be there. “It is not a matter of who wants to be the leader of the party. Sylva is the leader of the party; we can’t take that away from him, but whether he is doing his job properly is another question. “I don’t subscribe to the insinuation that Sylva traded off the governorship candidate. I can say ‘no’ a million times. After all, they won the election. It was not about Sylva. Nobody could have saved the situation. It was a mistake from the beginning and the party paid for it. “The problem in the party is that there is no love. Let there be the spirit of love and forgiveness and everything will be fine,” he said.