Federal Government’s Visitation Panel to the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) has called on the institution’s community to submit their memoranda and be actively involved in the assessment of the university for its overall development. They have until May 18, 2021 to submit their memoranda to the panel. In a statement signed by the secretary to the panel, Mrs. Bukola Olatunji, its chairman, Prof. Gambo Laraba Abdullahi, said the assignment was a very important one aimed at addressing the challenges facing the institution in order to proffer solutions to them. Prof. Laraba, a former Vice Chancellor of the University of Abuja, said the panel is to review the institution’s performance and advise the Federal Government in the areas of governance, academic standards, quality assurance, management of finances, relationships between management, staff and students as well as conditions of physical infrastructure and instructional facilities, among others. The Federal Government constituted Visitation Panels to all Federal tertiary institutions.  The panels were inaugurated by the Education Minister, Malam Adamu Adamu last month at the National Universities Commission, Abuja. The panel has 60 days to submit their reports covering 2011 to 2015 and 2016 to 2020. Other members of the UNN Panel are: Prof. Prekeyi Tawari-Fufeyin, Alhaji Jimoh Ayinla Bankole, Prof. Danladi Slim Matawal, Prof. Osy Ezechukwunyere Nwebo, and Abdul Ibrahim Radda, a lawyer. The Federal Government had constituted Visitation Panels to all Federal tertiary institutions and they were inaugurated by the Education Minister, Malam Adamu Adamu last month at the National Universities Commission, Abuja. Given 60 days to submit their reports, covering 2011 to 2015 and 2016 to 2020, their Terms of Reference are: iii.            To look into the financial management of each institution, including statutory allocations and Internally Generated Revenue over the recommended period and determine whether it was in compliance with  appropriate regulations; vii.          Examine the Law establishing the University, including the relationship between the various internal organs, units and offices and indicate the ways the Law has been observed by the competent authorities and also suggest any modifications to the Law; viii.         To trace the historical evolution of the University and take stock of its net achievements and problems as well as its style and direction; Other members of the UNN Panel are: 