The Auditor General of the Federation has queried the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) over alleged failure to release records of Global Fund grants for audit. The query is contained in the 2016 report of Auditor General of the Federation being considered by the Senate Committee on Public Accounts chaired Senator Matthew Urhoghide. The committee sustained the query against the agency while Urhoghide also berated NACA for failing to include the financial activities of the Global Fund such as amounts received from the Fund and their utilization in the 2015 Financial Statements of the agency. The query reads: “The records of Global Fund with the Agency were not released for audit examination despite repeated demands. “As a result, it was not possible to ascertain the total amount received from the Fund during the year to form an objective opinion on the judicious utilization of the money. All efforts to obtain the records, including explanations, were not successful. “Similarly, the financial activities of the Global Fund such as amount received from the Fund and its utilization were not incorporated into the 2015 Financial Statements of the Agency, to form part of the Agency’s Incomes and Expenditures for the year. “The Financial Statements of the Agency are expected to disclose not only funds from the Federal Government of Nigeria, but also incomes from other sources such as the Global Fund, World Bank, etc. “Details of the utilization of the funds should also be disclosed, to give complete information regarding the financial position of the Agency and to avoid misleading the public. “The Director-General did not respond to my report dated 29th August 2017. He should therefore be compelled to explain the incomplete financial statements.” However, the Director of Finance and Accounts of the agency, Nsikak Ebong, told the Committee that “the global fund grants’ records are always available for review. These documents have always been made available to auditors for review on demand.” Representative of the Auditor General of the Federation, Eyitatyo Agehsin, faulted the Director of Finance and Accounts of NACA. He insisted that when the request was made in 2016, the NACA failed to present the documents for audit. According to him, the report was written in August 2016 and NACA responded on February 20, 2017, almost about seven months after. “We asked them to respond within 21 days but they didn’t do that. When NACA responded after seven months, they simply said ‘This is noted.’ “That means that they agreed that they committed an error and you now said, the records are ready and available for your office at your convenience. “That means we should come to your office again the second time. We don’t have that time. We expect you to bring your records to the office as proof because the onus is on you to defend that record. You didn’t bring it,” Agehsin said. Senator Urhoghide said: “There is no proof before us that gave details of what you got from global funds. DFA (Director, Finance and Accounts) you were there when this query was raised in 2016. “Why didn’t you bring the necessary documents that would show us what you got from global fund? “You were coming to the Senate to respond to the query raised against you and you didn’t bring any document to show us?”