Kid model and Little Miss Damsel Nigeria 2020, Queen Biobele Longjohn, has stated her aspiration is to be a supermodel. She also advocated that rapists should be tried in special courts. In a post on her social media page, @littlemissdamselnigeria, Biobele said since “I won the little Miss Damsel Nigeria 2020 I have had lots of encouragements from top models.” Biobele, who hails from Kalabari Buguma, Asari ‐ Toru Local Government Area of Rivers State, said: “I am a child with much prospects in the entertainment sector. If I keep doing my best, I’ll create an upset in the modelling industry. “Top entertainers have been encouraging me to stay focus and not be distracted. Combining academics with modeling is a huge task.” She added: “I am working daily to ensure that I emerge the best wherever I find myself. I hope that I’ll win more awards and sign on for top brands, and also win modelling competitions and bring back honours to my family, my state and the country.” She charged kids to celebrate the achievements of their counterparts as a way of motivating themselves. According to her: “For you to go far in life, you must celebrate the achievements of others. Even as we gather here to train our minds on the future, let us enlighten ourselves on what it also means to achieve great things. “When you see kids strive to achieve so much, you must also strive to succeed. As young minds, we could also look at great men and women who have succeeded in their fields of endeavours, and make them our role models. “These men and women are people we can take as mentors and role models. As kids, when we are taking over the leadership structure of our county, we should be prepared for leadership. “Every child should be challenged to succeed, and parents should also encourage their wards, that success comes with hard work and commitment, not mere wishes.” Reacting to the rising cases of rape in society, she said the delay in dispensing justices in regular courts could pose as a threat to our judicial system. According to Biobele, “when rapists see that on weekly basis, others are convicted, some to life imprisonment, others to death, we would have a reduction in cases.” She added: “Minors are got through sexual harassments from adults who ought to protect them. It is sad that a 50-year- old man could want to have carnal knowledge of a child. “The government should help us tackle this menace, and rid our society of despicable characters, because, it doesn’t boost the morale of a child who has been a victim. “Members of the public owe us a duty as children to protect us, and not vilify kids because we are growing and we only learn from what we experience in the society.”