The Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) Plc is optimistic of improved returns to shareholders as the ongoing diversification of its businesses and investments in human resources are expected to drive sustainable growth in the years ahead. Its Managing Director, Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri, who spoke at the company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM), said CSCS has laid a solid foundation that should provide a viable base for improved performance in the years ahead. According to him, while the years ahead look challenging, they look more promising than ever, as the company reinforces its commitment to leveraging best-in-class technologies and continuous investments in human capital in delivering value to  stakeholders. “Having laid a solid foundation over the past three years, we are more than ever optimistic on the prospect of our business, especially as we diversify the business for enhanced resilience against macro and market volatilities,” Jalo-Waziri said. He noted that the impressive performance of the company in 2020 reflected its enhanced collaboration with various stakeholders and their unflinching support and loyalty to CSCS, as the core infrastructure for the capital market. He said the company would continue to invest in the collective objective of deepening the capital market and broader financial system, even as it seeks new and efficient ways of enhancing its partnerships for mutual prosperity. At the meeting, shareholders approved N1.17 dividend per share for the 2020 business year, representing a total dividend of N5.85 billion, some 36 per cent growth in return to shareholders, when compared to the N4.3 billion dividend or 86 kobo per share paid for the 2019 business year. Chairman, CSCS, Mr. Oscar Onyema  explained that despite the challenges last year, the company emerged stronger, delivering outstanding growth in top and bottom-lines, and executing far-reaching initiatives that would sustainably strengthen the competitiveness and resilience of the business. According to him, growing profit by over 41 per cent in such a challenging year to deliver 20.3 per cent return on average equity, the board of directors is more than ever upbeat on the value accretive prospects of CSCS. “More importantly, we are enthusiastic on the progress made thus far in repositioning the business to efficiently play a more active and leading role in deepening the  capital market. With continuous investments in new technologies, talent, and work environment, we expect productivity to grow, as the board continues to work with the management to exceed stakeholders’ expectations,” Onyema said. Shareholders, most of who participated through proxies due to the COVID-19 precautions, were excited at the performance of the company and unanimously approved the dividend proposal of N1.17 per share, as presented by the Chairman, on behalf of the Board of Directors. Mr. Eric Idiahi, one of the proxy attendees at the AGM and Managing Director, Verod Capital LLC, a core shareholder of CSCS Plc, lauded the management for the performance in such a challenging year and reiterated the support of shareholders for the company, especially as the diversification of the business and culture of innovation should enhance the sustainability of the business and ensure its capacity to deliver superior returns to shareholders over the long term. Commenting on the conduct of the meeting, Mr. Obong Idiong, the Chief Executive Officer of Africa Prudential Plc, the Registrar to CSCS said, it was  a well conducted general meeting, with due observance of all relevant statutory requirements, including COVID-19 precautions. “I congratulate the Board and shareholders of CSCS on the impressive performance during the 2020 financial year and more importantly for a successful General Meeting,” Idiong said. CSCS afforded shareholders who nominated proxies for physical attendance to observe proceedings of the general meeting via Zoom and YouTube, as the event was streamed live throughout the session. CSCS has a diversified shareholder base, including the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, some of the largest Nigerian banks, private equity firms, other institutional investors and retail investors. Its shares are traded over-the-counter through the NASD-OTC, the premier market for trading unquoted securities of public limited companies.  