The House of Representatives on Tuesday urged the Federal Government, acting through the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), to review the status of licences issued to indigenous businessmen  for the establishment of modular refineries to revoke some of them to “competent and reliable operators”. Adopting a motion on the need to review the licences sponsored by Rep Alex Egbona, the House asked the NNPC to give technical assistance to those who have started construction work on the modular refineries to enable them commence operation to meet up the demands of Nigerians for petroleum products. The House also mandated its Committees on Petroleum Resources (Upstream and Downstream) to liaise with the licensees with a view to finding out their challenges before the revocation of their licences. Egbona recalled that in 2018, the Federal Government, through the NNPC, issued 38 licenses to indigenous firms to set up modular refineries in different parts of the country. According to him, the decision to approve the setting up of modular refineries was to prepare grounds for the full deregulation of the downstream sector and to checkmate the incessant cases of crude oil theft and piracy in the oil-producing communities and the high seas. He explained that approval for the setting up of the modular refineries was in response to the outcry that government should intervene and address the perennial problems that were plaguing the oil and gas industry in the country; Egbona stressed that the modular refineries, when operational, would be expected to close the gap of importation of petroleum products for local consumption, but regretted that out of the 38 licenses issued, only two have been reported to be at advanced stages of completion preparatory for commencement of production. He said that the inability of the modular refineries to commence operations has continually forced the Federal Government to import petroleum products and sell to consumers at subsidized rates. He said “with the deregulation of the downstream sector and final withdrawal of subsidy, Nigerians are being compelled to pay more on petroleum products” and expressed “concerned that COVID–19 pandemic was already having an effect on the citizens and the additional burden of paying more for petroleum products would make the already bad situation worse”. He said: “The essence of issuing the licenses have been defeated as the beneficiaries have not been able to put them to proper use which is to refine petroleum products for local consumption and export.” The motion was unanimously adopted by the House without any debate.