Duke: I am writing to acknowledged the N14,033.57 instead of N50,133.67. PTAD has been reducing my monthly pension. I was also not paid in February and March, this year. Please I want to know the reason  the continuous process of deduction and omission. PTAD: The pensioner’s monthly pension has been corrected effective April 2021. Balance of arrears will be paid soon. Akinfewa: My name is Akinfenwa. This is my second reminder on the pensioner’s verification with reference OYO/PF/033/73404 carried out by PTAD for the non-harmonisation and short payment since the submission my papers. May I remind you that up till now, there has been no result nor any information on my payment. I am still alive by God’s grace. PTAD: At the moment, the department is working on complaints of pensioners that are not on payroll. Complaints on short- payment will be resolved as soonest. However, the pensioner should scan his verification slip and complaint and send to our e-mail: complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Muritala: I am Muritala. I resigned from the National Youth Service Corps in 1996, after 12 years of service. I am under the old Contributory Pension Scheme. My monthly pension has been paid up till last September, but that of October is yet to be paid. Please assist me to solve the problem. Thanks PTAD: Inform the pensioner that he was dropped from the payroll last October because he was not verified. Advise pensioner to scan his service documents and phone number to verification@ptad.gov.ng Abraham: My name is Abraham, son and next-of-kin (NOK) to the late Inspector Samuel Adem, from Benue State. My late father served the Nigerian Police and retired from service on June 29, 2004,  after 26 years. Until his death, his monthly pension was yet to commence. This means he was not on the police pension payroll till he died on October 6, 2010. Please, where do we process his pension and other death benefits. Is it at the PTAD or PenCom? PTAD: Tell NOK to scan his late father’s service documents and  phone number to verification@ptad.gov.ng. He should also state deceased’s date of retirement from service. Ige: I am Ige, a pensioner under PTAD. Please, is it true that PTAD is asking for certain documents through some individuals claiming to be PTAD staff members? Secondly, before our verification in 2019, we were told that after the exercise, they will pay our arrears but till today, we have not been paid. why? PTAD: Advise pensioner to scan his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. 