 The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila, has assured Nigerians that the report of the security summit, organised by the House, will be speedily considered and implemented by the government. The Speaker, who spoke at the end of the three day summit, said the report would be presented to President Muhammadu Buhari who has already given assurance that the recommendations will be implemented to address the security challenges facing the country. He expressed appreciation to Nigerians for the quality of inputs received during the summit, describing them as unprecedented, adding that Nigerians have shown that they could come together for a common good. He said: “For the past couple of days, patriots honoured the invitation of the House of the Nigerian people to discuss a very important issue that has become the concern of all of us – insecurity. “As it is often said, so far, so good. I am very impressed with the way well-meaning Nigerians have come together to proffer solutions to a national issue.  “I want to assure all stakeholders and Nigerians that this Special Committee of the House will consider all your inputs, come up with a report that would adequately proffer solutions to the problem and the report will be considered speedily. “As I said during my speech at the opening, we would present our report to President Muhammadu Buhari for implementation by the Executive. The President has given assurances that the report would be considered.” The Speaker said stakeholders in the security sector, “have rekindled the hope in me that Nigeria and Nigerians are capable of coming together for a common good. I want to thank everyone here today for their commitment to this task of finding lasting solutions to the insecurity problem bedeviling our country. “I must say that the quality of input we received – over a thousand of them – from Nigerians was unprecedented. And the contributions from stakeholders from Wednesday to date have been phenomenal.” The Chairman of the House Committee on National Security and Intelligence, Rep. Sha’aban Ibrahim Sharada, applauded the leadership of the House for the vision and implementation of the summit. He said the summit took place in the shadow of the loss of the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and other officers of the Armed Forces in a tragic plane crash, and assured that the work done so far in the summit, and the work that will be done afterward, will honour their memory.