The Ichikowitz family foundation, a leading African foundation encouraging active citizenship across the continent, has won two prestigious SABRE awards for its global campaign to raise awareness of its inaugural African Youth Survey 2020. The foundation was awarded winner of the non-profit category and a certificate of excellence in the Southern Africa region for exceptional branding, reputation and engagement, alongside African Public Relations network Burson Cohn-Wolfe (BCW) Africa and the Washington D.C.-based Amsterdam Group. The SABRE awards, produced by PRovoke Media, are the world’s largest Public Relations awards programme, dedicated for more than 20 years to benchmarking and commemorating the best campaigns from across the globe. The foundation’s African Youth Survey 2020, an unprecedented, multinational study designed to examine the critical issues affecting Africa’s youth and thus offer the world a better understanding of this important demographic, was conducted by global research and polling firm, PSB Insights. The study encapsulated the polling of 4,200 young African men and women aged 18-24 across 14 Sub-Saharan African nations, including Congo-Brazzaville, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Mali, Malawi, Rwanda, Senegal, South Africa, Togo, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Ivor Ichikowitz, chairman of the foundation, said: “Our vision for the African Youth Survey was to give a voice to one of the world’s most important and least understood demographics. “Africa’s young people want their voices to be heard. They demand the opportunity that inclusivity brings for their community, their nation and their continent to compete on a global stage like never before. “They advocate for tolerance in the face of refugee crises and conflict, acknowledge the fragility of democratic values, showcase a commitment to make their lives and those around them better and in doing so, offer for the continent the promise of a brighter tomorrow.” The key findings of the research have identified a strong sense of ‘Afro-Optimism’, confidence in entrepreneurship and that despite facing numerous challenges a significant majority of Africa’s youth believe the 21st Century will be the African century. Ivor Ichikowitz added: “Only by reaching an audience of billions will we be able to counter the outdated and negative stereotypes of the African continent. “We are very proud of this campaign and we believe that it has a crucial role to play in changing the hearts and minds of people around the world. “The Ichikowitz Foundation dedicates this award to the youth of Africa and to the future of the continent they are creating.” Among other themes, the survey explored crucial issues such as African identity, innovation and entrepreneurship, citizenship, infrastructure, leadership, inclusivity through the embrace of modern technology, appreciation for governance, education and the environment. The foundation has commissioned second edition of the African Youth Survey, which will be conducted across 15 African nations. Results of the 2021 Survey are expected during the second half of the year. The winners of the 2021 SABRE Awards Africa will be celebrated on May 27th, 2021 through a virtual global ceremony.