An ex-bank manager and business owner, Tito Obaigbo, has introduced an initiative to promote reading culture among women. The initiative, named Smart Book Club (SBC), which boasts of over 40 members, Obaigbo said was informed by her observation a dwindling reading culture in the society and to afford women the opportunity to learn and associate. Obaigbo, who is the club’s President, runs Oakhill Group of Companies, comprising of Oakhill Books, Oakhill Mart, Oakhill Schools, Oakhill Gardens, in addition to a non-governmental organisation (NGO) – the Charity and Development Initiative (CDI) – which she founded to empower women and youths through social and developmental initiatives, which she said, has empowered well over 100 women and youths. She said women should continue to aspire to get more knowledge by reading, noting that “knowledge is power, reading broadens your horizon. It gives you a bigger, clearer and broader perspective to life. The secrets of making good success in life, businesses, marriage, finance, governance, etc are all embedded in books,” She also spoke of plans by the all-women club, which was founded on the 1st of April 2018 to hold its anniversary this year in the form of a two-day event, which is scheduled for the Rooftop, Turaka Restaurant Ebony Place, Victoria Island, Lagos, with the theme: “Changing our reading culture.” “On the first day, May 28, 2021 beginning from 10am, we will be having our PSL, we call it Project School Library. So on that day, we will be visiting one of the public schools in Lagos and donating books to their Library. “We will also be donating other items like sanitary pads, toilet soaps, detergents writing materials, hand sanitizers, face mask, wipes, among others. “The second day, May 29, which is the D-day, will feature our anniversary dinner to just unwind and thank God for how far He has started with us and where He is taking us too. “The vision for the club is huge. That’s story for another day. So we are going to be having guest appearance. That’s a big surprise for members.”