  In the US and India, their movie industries, Hollywood and Bollywood, are big money spinners. And while in Nigeria, where Nollywood, the nation’s movie industry comes third in terms of production of movies, the money is coming in, it can still be better. And one filip I always thought that Nollywood, and indeed, every industry needed, was fusing the professionals into the policy making and enforcement process. Hence, I was happy reading news that the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, not only inaugurated a nine-man committee on entertainment, but chose five professionals, heavy stakeholders in the entertainment industry, to be on it. To be chaired by veteran actor, lawyer and former Delta State Commissioner of Tourism, Richard Mofe-Damijo, the committee’s task is to come up with proactive ideas to boost tourism and entertainment in the state. Also on the committee are notable actors, filmmakers and film enthusiasts like Tunde Kelani, Mo Abudu, Kunle Afolayan and Peace Anyim-Osigwe. The others, representing Lagos State on the committee, are Adebukola Agbaminoja, Ferdinand Tinubu, Taju Olajumoke and Mrs Funke Avoseh. Besides inaugurating the committee, Sanwo-Olu also reiterated that Lagos has set aside a seed capital of N1 billion to support ideas in the creativity and tourism sector. “Nigeria is the second largest film producer in the world and Lagos is the centre of this huge creative enterprise,” Sanwo-Olu wrote via Twitter on inaugurating the committee. True, while it’s referred to as Nollywood, the industry actually sprouted roots and gained momentum in Lagos. Many years later, it has become a major source of revenue for the country. According to a PwC report forecasting 2017 – 2021, Nollywood, “is a significant part of the Arts, Entertainment and Recreation Sector which contributed 2.3% (NGN239biliion) to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in 2016. It is one of the priority sectors identified in the Economic Recovery and Growth plan of the Federal Government of Nigeria with a planned $1billion in export revenue by 2020. Nonetheless, existing challenges will have to be addressed to take Nollywood to the next phase.” But the report did not foresee the challenges of a coronavirus pandemic disrupting the global economy. To say that the entertainment and tourism sectors were among the hardest hit by the coronavirus lockdowns would be an understatement. However, we cannot continue to moan about covid. In July last year, the Lagos State government approved a one billion Naira hospitality fund targeted at the entertainment and tourism sectors. At that time, Sanwo-Olu said that seed capital will be domiciled in the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) and would be disbursed to Micro, Small and Medium (MSMEs) operators in the sector. The support may reach N40 million per beneficiary. It is in this regard with the importance of movies that I commend Sanwo-Olu’s strides in the sector. “This is a signpost of all pockets of intervention we have created for development of creativity and tourism sector,” the governor said. “Aside the N1 billion set aside for the hospitality industry, this scheme is specifically targeted at our movie industry which is known all over the world. This is with the belief that we can further raise the status of our creative output and commercialise the returns to a level it can compete with Hollywood and Bollywood. “We realised most of our film production experts and directors face a lot of funding impediments. We are intervening to close this gap and bring credible veterans who have knowledge and have demonstrated capacity in the industry to drive this project. That is why we carefully selected five key practitioners in the industry to lead. The committee will be supported by four government officials to limit bureaucracy for the committee to achieve its objectives.” But, asides for mere entertainment, I know the professionals understand the many uses of films. For instance, films can investigate historical or contemporary issues such the practice of female circumcision, the origin of banditry and insurgency, the Aso-ebi phenomena and our local festivals.  They can also harp on topics such as the rape epidemic, the rise of internet fraud among our youths, frequent strikes by workers and the challenges of feeding a nation. Also, who says the beauty of Lagos, highlighting tourist attractions can’t be packaged in movies. I recall how I fell in love with Miami and Hawaii by watching Miami Vice and Hawaii Hi Five-O – both detective series- respectively. Anyway, the committee members have been charged to identify film projects eligible for the newly launched scheme. Also, I like the fact that in considering appointments of persons, Lagos did not fall into the trap of considering mainly her ‘citizens’ like is common among some Nigerian states. To it, excellence is top priority. Hence, while RMD, Kelani, Afolayan, Mo Abudu and Anyim-Osigwe respectively hail from Delta, Ogun, Kwara, Edo and Imo states, it cannot be contested that they are leaders in their chosen fields. It is simply in the DNA of the Lagos government to welcome all Nigerians. In May 2020, the Lagos State Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture inaugurated a six-man Lagos State post-COVID-19 Pandemic Review with a mandate to re-activate the state’s creative industry. That committee was chaired by veteran actress, Mrs. Joke Silva, MFR, and it had others as Atunyota Akpobome aka Ali Baba (comedian), Patrick Donald Lee (cinema expert), Dr. Adun Okupe (Tourism Advisor), Mrs. Nike Okundaye (renowned artist) and Mr. Gbenga Sunmonu (Lagos State chapter of the Federation of Tourism Associations of Nigeria). Anyway, it gladdens me that the Lagos State government is rewarding these veteran artistes by offering them the opportunity to do more work. Other states can do well to emulate this. Already, I like the enthusiasm of RMD, the chairman of the committee is ready to give it his all. “We don’t have any excuse not to perform in this assignment,” RMD said after the inauguration. “We will do everything in our capacity to ensure that result which the governor has envisioned comes to reality.” Another reason I commend the move is that the entertainment and tourism industry have become a huge source of employment in Nigeria. Little wonder it is a key pillar of the Sanwo-Olu administration’s T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda. T.H.E.M.E.S highlights Sanwo-Olu’s focus on Traffic Management and Transportation; Health and Environment; Education and Technology; Making Lagos a 21st Century state; Entertainment and Tourism; Security and Governance. “As we roll out this scheme, we want to be able to help the industry around job creation and bring youths out of unemployment, using the creative industry,” Sanwo-Olu said. “We want to support industry practitioners to raise capacity, support development of local content and discourage the action of taking proceeds from the industry out of the country, thereby denying local practitioners the benefits of their talents. We will not restrict your (committee’s) ability; we will give you leeway to do your job.” Film-wise, Lagos, with a population of over 20 million, rubs shoulders with giants such as Hollywood and Mumbai. But in spite of its prominence, it generates way less revenue than those cities because of challenges beyond its control. As Sanwo-Olu is seeking to accelerate the country’s fortunes via the entertainment sector, I pray the federal government does not let him be saddled with the task alone.  