At first, the story came across to me as one of those sponsored stories by our politicians for cheap political popularity. Indeed, any discerning reader of Nigerian newspapers would get that impression, seeing the headline: “Bayelsa councillor rejects fundraising after building bridge with funds meant for official car”. How could a councillor do such a thing in a country where many people struggle even to be councillors because of the privileges of that office? Councillorship is the lowest political position that can be contested for in the country. Then, somebody who is lucky to win such a seat would now decide to use money meant for his/her official car to build one goddamn bridge for the community? Even members of that community would ask the councillor’s parents if witches from the village had not tampered with their child’s faculty. However, when, somehow my attention was drawn to it while preparing for this newspaper’s editorial board meeting last week, and I decided to read the story, something told me the report was about genuine philanthropy from the bottom of the heart of a philanthropist. For me, this is heartwarming, especially in our kind of clime where one is bombarded with depressing news left, right and centre almost 24/7. I love celebrating such stories. This is much more so when the newsmaker is not one of those big names that can ‘spoil’ one with money. I am glad that many Nigerians have also shown appreciation for her kind gesture. That is the way it should be. Such people need to be celebrated for their selfless service in order to encourage them to do more, and also to ensure that the source producing such kindhearted people does not dry up. Let Councilor Tyna Miracle Onem step out for recognition. She is the councillor from Otuokpoti community representing Ogbia Ward 2 in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. What the female councillor did is spectacular in several respects. She decided to build a link bridge between her community and the neighbouring community with the N2.6m she got to buy an official car. Prior to the time she constructed the bridge, people in the two communities passed through hell to access medical care or even to seek police assistance or protection in times of emergency. It was reported that several women fell into the creek in the process of crossing the dilapidated wooden bridge which had served several generations. According to Tyna, “It got to a point that I got confused but the reality to me then was that, without the bridge, vehicles could not have access to the only police station and health centre in my community. Another issue was that the  wooden bridge was the only bridge connecting our farmers to their farms. In fact, the elderly almost always fall off the bridge while going to the farm or health centre. In many cases, they got injured in the process.” In other words, people had their hearts in their mouths whenever they had cause to use that bridge. The narrow wooden bridge, called monkey bridge, was constructed by the community. Miracle said she had been nursing the intention of fixing that bridge ever since she was a child, seeing the hassles people in the two communities passed through in their attempts to interact. This is the second thing that makes her intervention spectacular. “Growing up as a child, I have been crossing that creek before a narrow wooden bridge known as monkey bridge was constructed across it. So, when I became a councillor, I said to myself that this is the opportunity for me to change this situation.” Miracle is definitely not the first councillor in that community. The communities must have had council chairmen who never gave a thought to the bridge, close to home as it was. Many of us nursed such ambitions as children. But as soon as we have the opportunity to do the needful, we get distracted and start pursuing less  important  things. Talk about the power of focus. “While I am focus on making lasting impact within the little at my disposal, I know and I believe without doubt that H.E Senator Douye Diri will support me 2 do more for the people. Let’s all stay focused on being a true Servant to the people.” The other key word is impact. Then, true servant-leaders. These are concepts that are lacking in many of our politicians today. First, there is no focus. They are perpetually distracted, dissipating energy on things that add no value to the lives of their constituents. Second, they are not seeking political offices to impact their environment, and when they do, it is for the negative values. Thirdly, many of them are leader-servants. That is why they become inaccessible after being voted into office. That is why they want powers to sack local council chiefs that they did not create. Then, there is doggedness or determination. The can-do spirit. This was what made Miracle see possibility where many others would have seen impossibility. This was what urged her on even when some elders were dissuading her from pursuing the cause because they knew she did not have the financial wherewithal to see it through. She said “after commencing the project, it got to a point where I had the fear that I wouldn’t be able to finish the project because the money available to me was not enough to complete it. But, because of the zeal I had for the project, I added the money that was given to me to buy an official car to the project.” That was N2.6m. This, plus the N2m that the governor gave her for ward project made a total of N4.6m. Yet, the money was not enough. She said, as should be expected, some people had already started mocking her that she had started a thing she lacked the capacity to complete. It was at this point that the governor, Douye Diri, mercifully invited her and gave her some money to complete the project. Many people would have abandoned the cause midway when all hopes seemed to have been lost and it appeared the world was going to crumble under their feet as soon as they had exhausted the money on them without the dream project making any headway. Mercifully, the state governor,  came to her rescue at the very point of her need. Perhaps the most spectacular thing Miracle did was her rejection of donations from appreciative Nigerians who felt touched by her selfless generosity. They wanted to compensate her and I am sure, knowing Nigerians well when it comes to such cause, they would have donated generously in spite of their own economic difficulties. Miracle would have had many portions of what she parted with to construct the bridge. That a car was not her priority in the face of the sufferings her people were passing through due to lack of a bridge is significant. According to her, the bridge gift was a sacrifice she had to make because she saw it as something that was more important than driving a car at the moment. She appreciated those who wanted to organise the Gofundme project but declined the offer. How many of our politicians reason this way? We have had cause almost every National Assembly cycle to protest their extravagance lifestyle, sometimes to no avail. They still go ahead to do as they please with our common patrimony. They want to ride some of the best exotic cars even as they are busy approving billions in loans to the executive government. Meaning they too know there is no money or the government is broke. Without producing any product that could fetch foreign exchange for us, our NASS members are said to be some of the highest paid law makers in the world. And in what way has that impacted our lives? Is the substandard and subhuman standard of living we are in today the best we could get for the fat envelopes our NASS members take home monthly? Only last week, I had cause to draw Nigerians’ attention to the plan of our House of Representatives to increase by 111 the number of National Assembly members, with all the financial burden. Their reason is that they want more of women representation in government. Who says that cannot be achieved within the current strength of the NASS? But they do not want to do that apparently because many, if not all of them intend to return to the comfort zone in the next elections. The zone where there is immunity to economic hardship, irrespective of what becomes of the economy. The House of Reps would rather shift the unsustainable burden to the hapless Nigerians that they claim to be representing. However, with people like Miracle, we should not lose hope that this country can still get its bearing right. But she needs to be consistent as she would have all kinds of trials and tribulations on her way in a bid to do things differently. As a matter of fact, it may even get to a point where the very people she is serving selflessly would be the ones to make her stumble. I remember the story of a legislator in the southwest who gathered his people and was preaching to them about making them fishermen instead of their unending pleas to be given fish. He wanted to empower them with some tools and they told him to forget about that, that he should just put the money he brought for them down so they could share! If this could happen in the southwest which is supposed to be better enlightened, one can imagine how much perversion values have suffered in the country. I join Miracle’s community to celebrate and thank her, at least for giving me the opportunity to write something refreshingly positive today, instead of the usual depressing news that dominate our news channels.