 The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has set up a committee to audit its Engineering and Operational units. This is coming on the heels of last week’s plane crash in which the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and 10 other senior officers died. A NAF Beechcraft 305 conveying the Army Chief and his entourage crashed at the Kaduna Airport, on May 21, killing everyone on board. There has been an outrage among Nigerians that the NAF recorded three air crashes in which 20 lives were lost within three months and called for an independent probe as well as an overhaul of the Air Force fleet. The committee is chaired by Air Vice Marshal Abraham Adole, the Deputy Theatre Commander of Operation Hadin Kai and has less than four weeks to submit its report. A statement yesterday in Abuja by NAF’s Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, reads: “The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has constituted a committee of serving and retried senior officers to conduct a safety audit of all NAF operational and engineering units. “The committee is to, among other terms of reference, analyse safety reports from operational and engineering units, conduct safety evaluation of NAF units and recommend measures to enhance safety of operations in the units. “The committee is also to interact with unit operational and technical personnel for views, observations and contributions on safety measures.  “Chaired by Air Vice Marshal Abraham Adole, the Deputy Theatre Commander of Operation Hadin Kai, the committee is to submit its report not later than June 18, 2021.” Also, the apex Islamic body in Northern Nigeria, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), has called for a probe of repeated air crashes in Nigeria with a view to unravelling the causes of the air mishaps. In a statement by its Secretary General, Shaykh Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, also urged the government to release reports of previous crashes in which innocent lives were lost and implement same, so as to serve as deterrent, as well as take necessary steps to forestall recurrence. According to the statement, “as Muslims, we believe that every soul shall taste death and at the appointed time, as declared and confirmed in the Glorious Qur’an. We, therefore, wholeheartedly submit to Allah (SWT) in total obedience and faith in everything that happens in our lives; good or otherwise. “We would like to call on the Federal Government to look into these repeated air mishaps by constituting a formidable investigative panel of experts to unearth the recurring mystery of air mishaps involving senior servicemen. “This is necessary because  the nation is seriously losing human capital. This human capital is not just easy to come by, as it is consciously and determinedly acquired. “Similarly, for posterity, we implore the government to release other reports of happenings in which innocent lives were lost and implement same to serve as deterrent as well as take necessary steps to forestall recurrence.”  