 If the Federal Government eventually carries out its threat to arraign about 400 alleged Boko Haram sponsors, it would be a departure from the usual practice in government of shaming without naming those suspected to be troubling the peace of Nigeria. Nigerians are usually regaled with such threats without any follow up by the government. We have heard successive governments threatening to expose those behind many kinds of rackets like ghost workers, pension and other fraudulent activities, etc. In the end, the matter would be swept under the carpet. And this is not only about the Federal Government alone. It is the same experience in many states. Governments simply lose the political will to follow many of the issues to their logical conclusion, a major reason why the country is perpetually swimming in corruption and allied iniquities. That the Federal Government now says it will prosecute those suspected of sponsoring terrorism is therefore heartwarming. The search for the suspects began last year with massive gathering and analysis of financial intelligence and uplink analysis, leading to initial marking of some 60 businesses and individuals. Those to be arraigned include bureau de change operators, gold miners and sellers, as well as other businessmen who were arrested in Kano, Borno, Abuja, Lagos, Sokoto, Adamawa, Kaduna and Zamfara states. Their arrest by the Defence Intelligence Agency in collaboration with the Department of State Services (DSS), Nigerian Financial Intelligence Unit (NFIU) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was sequel to the jailing of six Nigerians in the United Arab Emirates over allegations bordering on terrorism financing. The media aide to the Minister of Justice, Dr Umar Gwandu, reportedly said prosecution of the suspects “will commence as quickly as possible.” They have been undergoing interrogation to determine the level of their involvement with the terrorist group. Already, billions of naira traced to businesses belonging to the suspects have been reportedly blocked in banks through “post no debit” letters sent out to banks by the CBN and NFIU after the apex bank had obtained court injunctions to that effect. It is gratifying that the Federal Government seems determined to prosecute these suspects. But, given government’s prevarication on similar matters in the past, we cannot be too sure of anything at this stage. At best, we can only look forward to the arraignment of the suspects, in line with the threat by the government, with cautious optimism. But if the government must be told, it cannot afford to dilly-dally on this matter. The charges for which the suspects have been arrested are too weighty to be treated with the usual levity. Terrorism is a global scourge, hence the several multidimensional approaches by nations collaborating with each other to defeat it. Boko Haram has wreaked a lot of havoc in Nigeria. Although it started in the northeastern part of the country, it has spread to other parts of the north even as the south is equally bedeviled by banditry, kidnapping and sundry other crimes. More specifically, tens of thousands of people have been killed since 2009 when the Boko Haram insurgency started in Nigeria and about 2.3million others displaced from their homes.  Many schoolgirls and other persons have been kidnapped by the extremists whose intention is to first Islamise the northern Nigeria pending when they would be able to conquer the entire country. So brutal is the terror group in its operations that Global Terrorism Index at a time classified it as the world’s deadliest terror group. Boko Haram’s activities have contributed significantly to regional food crises and famines. That government’s efforts to defeat the terrorists have not yielded much result is indication that some influential persons must be funding their operations or assisting them with other logistics. Unless such sources of oxygen are blocked, the country is not going to witness any peace. And, in the absence of peace, development becomes a mirage. We therefore urge the Federal Government to let the suspects have their day in court. That way, their identities would be revealed. Not only that, having their day in court implies they would get fair hearing and also have the opportunity of legal representation, both of which are vital in a serious charge like terrorism, to avoid miscarriage of justice. We urge too that the trial be conducted in the open. However, it is up to the civil populace to ensure that this matter is not swept under the carpet like many previous ones. The social and traditional media must keep the matter in focus. Successive governments succeed in covering up those behind many heinous crimes because of complacency and nonchalance on the part of the people, the civil society groups and especially, the media. They must all be alive to their responsibilities to keep the governments on their toes.