Embattled traders at the Ikosi-Isheri Complex, located at Ketu, Lagos, have called on the Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwoolu and member of Lagos State House of Assembly, to come to the rescue over recent demolition of the shops and stalls by the chairperson of Ikosi-Isheri Local Council Development Area (LCDA) Mrs. Simiat Bada. From available information, the distraught traders who protested the demolition last Monday, accused the chairperson of demolishing the complex, without any prior, said the singular act has taken away their livelihood, while some of them have been bedridden due to the shock they have over the sudden demolition of the complex. Leader of the traders, Mr. Amusa Isiaka, who claimed to have lost two shops to the complex demolition, said they were caught unaware by the developer, named Onyenachi, whom he said claimed to be working for someone. He said: “it all happened in January this year, when we saw some people in the market and told us that someone that is called ‘Onyekachi’ wanted to develop the complex, we asked them that if the complex is to be redeveloped, is it not we that owns it that supposed to develop it? They did not give us any further information. “As at the time the developer came, the complex was not defective and we always make sure that its clean and tidy. We thought that it was joke, we mobilised ourselves and went to the chairman and told her some people came and told us that they wants to develop the complex. “She told us to go and promised to talk the people, for that week, there was no message from her. When there was no message from her for that week, we went to the DPO and report the matter. The DPO promised to intervene and we were called for a meeting, the developer said he is on errand and there is nothing he can could and that he has to do as order.” Also speaking, 81 years old Madam Esther Ogunleye described the act of the LCDA chairman as unexpected and sad. Solicitor to the displaced traders, Barrister Shakirullahi Obale, also expressed dismay at the attitude of the LCDA for ignoring all letters written by the affected traders. Obale said if not that the protest by the judicial workers, the matter would have been in court. Efforts to speaking with the council boss, Mrs. Abolanle Bada, proved abortive, as one of her aides, Mr. Ayo Idowu, who claimed to be Chief Press Secretary said she was indisposed. 