FUNMILOLA: My name is Funmilola, wife to the late Sgt Ramonu. He served at No 2 Squadron Police Mobile Force Keffi Street Obalende Lagos, Force No 152028 until his death  on February 26, 2004. His next-of-kin is Ismaila Omogboye, and children Sakirat Omogboye, Ismaila Omogboye, Mohamed Omogboye and I. Since 2004, only his gratuity of N239,000 was paid to the family and N314,000 for pension. The children and I were told that the pension will be paid monthly to children till 18 years but nothing has been paid. I was told that we will be given N500,000 for insurance and children will be entitled to scholarship because their father died in active service. PTAD: NOKs should let us know if they have been verified. If Yes, should provide Verification slip. If No, they should visit the HQ (Maitama,Abuja office) for their verification with all the required documents. Muritala:  I thank The Nation for being there for pensioners. I have been complaining since October, last year. According to the Executive Secretary of PTAD, about 2,100 retirees were put on pension payroll. In her last statement, she said, we didn’t want the retirees to sweat before getting their entitlements. But why did they remove my name from payroll since October? At present, I have no money to feed. I withdrew my service from National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 1996 after spending 12 years in service. Kindly help solve my problem. PTAD: Inform the pensioner that he was dropped from the payroll in October, last year because he was not verified. Advise pensioner to scan his service documents and phone number to verification@ptad.gov.ng. Akinfenwa: Dear Omobola, this is my second reminder in respect of pensioner’s verification exercise with reference OYO/PF/Anonymous. My complaint is on for the non-harmonsation of my pension by PTAD. May I remind you that up till now, there is no result despite the submission of my documents to PTAD. No information. I am still alive by God’s grace. PTAD: At the moment, the department is working on complaints of pensioners that are not on the payroll. Complaints on short payment will be resolved as soon as they are through. However, the pensioner should scan his verification slip and complaint to our e-mail: complaints@ptad.gov.ng Florence: Hello Omobola of Pension Solution, my name is Florence. My complaint is on PTAD’s deduction of my pension since last December. They reduced my pension from N8000.to N3000 in what they call overpayment in November. 2020. I told them to pay my gratuity that has been pending since May 2005 and then subtract the overpayment. But they carry on with the deduction. This is not fair. Please help me get PTAD to pay my gratuity to enable me benefit from my retirement from the Federal Service since 2005. They wanted my retirement papers for confirmation which I presented to them in October 2018. Kindly help me. PTAD: Please advise the pensioner that her gratuity will be paid as soon as funds are made available. Medu: My name is Medu. PTAD is owing me pension arrears of 3 months since 2015. I was verified in October 2019, and have been promising to pay me after 6 months. It is over one year but they have refused to pay me. PTAD: Advise pensioner to state the period of arrears in question and also bank statement starting six months before his complaint till date. Folarin: I retired from the Federal Ministry of Works & Housing in April 2006. My monthly pension has been short paid since my retirement. During the verification exercise of September 25, 2017 in Lagos, the case of my short payment was noted but nothing has been done about it since then in spite of series of letters to PTAD and the Executive Secretary. Kindly assist. PTAD: Please tell pensioner to scan his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. The pensioner number he provided is not correct Baiyegun: My name is Baiyegun and my complaint is on incorrect monthly pension. PTAD paid me N7000 the monthly payment last month December 2020 instead of N15000 that they have been paying me monthly. Please I want to know the reason for this short payment and solicit you to resolve this issue for me. PTAD: Inform the pensioner that, his December, 2020 pension was short paid because he was over paid in November, 2020. However, his subsequent monthly pensions have been correctly paid till date. Kareem:  My name is Kareem, a retiree under the old scheme. My monthly pension was stopped since December 2020 and efforts to restore it proved abortive. Kindly help me out. I have since submitted my bank statement of account and pension verification form to PTAD to peruse in order to pay me. PTAD: Tell pensioner to scan his bank statement from September, 2020 till date to complaints@ptad.gov.ng