Members of the Islamic Movement in Nigeria (IMN) popularly known as Shi’ites on Monday accused the police of killing ASP Ezekiel Adama. There was pandemonium in Abuja last Friday as police and members IMN clashed at Berger round about in Abuja during a protest over the detention of their leader, Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenah. This has led to serious altercation between the police and the protesters and while dispersing the protesters a police officer, ASP Ezekiel Adama was according to the police authority stabbed to death by one of the protesters. Reacting to the development, a top member of the Academic Forum of the Islamic Movement, Abdullahi Musa, while briefing reporters in Abuja denied killing the police officer. The Shi’ites vowed to continue their peaceful protest till El-Zakzaky and his wife are released from custody. His words: “Our attention has been called to a press release by the Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Yusuf Mariam that the FCT Police Command successfully restored calm at Berger Roundabout after it had professionally dispersed a violent protest on Friday, 7th May, 2021 and during the operation ASP Adama was stabbed to death by the protesters. “With respect to the alleged killing, we wish to categorically disassociate Free Zakzaky protesters and the Islamic movement under the leadership of his Eminence Sheikh Ibraheem Zakzaky (H) from the killing of ASP Ezekiel Adama. We are not party and also not responsible for what happened to ASP Ezekiel Adama around 3pm at Berger Junction. “The residents of Wuse District, Abuja are living witness that on Friday 7 May, 2021 we started our Free Palestine and Free Zakzaky protest from Fu’ad Lababidi Jumu’at Mosque by Customs’ Office, Wuse Zone 3 around 1:40pm and follow through Wuse Zone 3 Junction and finally ended the protest on Kashim Ibrahim Way in front of Wuse Market. Similarly, people at Wuse Market are witness that we ended our protest in 30 minutes without having any contact with the Police Patrol Team dispatched by the FCT Police Command to stop the protest. “In the mosque, where we started the protest, there are numerous top government officials including a serving Governor, with their security details and we neither harass nor attack anybody. While protesting, we pass across Wuse Zone 3, Police Station and Police officers, we neither attack nor harass anybody. We finally finished the protest and disperse without having problem with anyone. “After the protest, the Police arrested a Toyota Coaster Bus with more than 60 people including women and children, protesters and Abuja residents. After the arrest, the Police assemble them in Eagle Square and tortured them. Up to this moment, numerous people tortured by the Police are unconscious. A lot of Civil Servant working at the Federal Secretariat shared pictures and video clip on how the Police tortured those arrested inhumanly.” Members of the IMN condoled with the family and the Police on the passing of ASP Ezekiel Adama and prayed Allah: “to expose and punish all those that have hand in this inhuman act.” While condemning the killing of Adama, the Shi’ites reiterated their demand for the unconditional and immediate release of Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife, Zeenah. The Forty-nine (49) members of the sect who were arrested according to the police will be arraigned in court upon conclusion of the investigation.