 Authorities of the Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB) have disclosed that the institution had written to the “appropriate quarters” seeking the return of its management courses by the Federal  Government. The university Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof. Kolawole Salako, said the Alake of Egbaland, Oba Adedotun Gbadebo, was at the forefront of the push to have management courses back. He said the institution’s argument for the restoration of the courses was that the Federal Government should check other specialised universities in advanced countries, including South Africa, to see what prevails there and re-examine its decision on FUNAAB. Salako said it would be a “human tragedy” to scrap the management courses from FUNAAB after the institution had gotten the approval to run them. Salako, who spoke last Wednesday after the conferment of professor emeritus to two retired professors  – Olufunmilayo Adebambo, who nurtured the department of Animal Breeding and Genetics since its inception in 1993 and Michael Adetunji, a soil scientist and Soil chemist who worked on rock phosphate using natural resources found in Ogun State. The VC said if the nation wants to practise agriculture for commercial purposes, management sciences must be returned to FUNAAB, saying the erroneous concept that agriculture is about hoe and cutlass or putting maize in the soil and waiting for it to mature, informed why some people concluded that agric varsity don’t need management courses. He bemoaned the fate that awaits both the graduates and lecturers of the FUNAAB’s College of Management Sciences, saying scrapping the programmes would rob the students a  sense of identity upon graduation while the lecturers already employed to teach would also need to hunt for other jobs. He said: “There is a humanitarian angle to the issue. One is that those students if they fizzle out completely, then it would be difficult for them to ever explain that they graduated from FUNAAB. It means that they are not going to have a home base. Let us look from the angle of the old teachers colleges, they are no more existing but people attended those colleges. “The other aspect is that the lecturers who have been employed will need to be looking other jobs if the government does not get it back. But above all, the scientific argument we are pushing is that government should check what is