The Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission (OGSIEC) has amended the earlier released timetable, as the duration of party primaries has been increased from five days to 22 days, starting from May 5 to 27. Campaigns are now to end midnight on July 22, as against the earlier slated time, while the election date remains July 24. OGSIEC Chairman Mr. Babatunde Osibodu spoke at the launch of political activities leading to the local government elections, at the June 12 Cultural Centre, Abeokuta. He urged the political class and aspirants to embrace the guidelines and shun violence. Osibodu said the commission would waive the payment of a non-refundable deposit by intending candidates for female aspirants, adding that it was a gesture to encourage more women to participate in the election. “The Electoral Law 2007 provides for payment of a non-refundable deposit by intending candidates. For chairmanship candidates, the fee has been set as N200,000, while for councillorship candidates, it is N100,000. As a gender-sensitive institution, we wish to encourage women candidates. Accordingly, the commission has resolved that this deposit will be waived for female candidates,” he said.  The chairman enjoined parties to comply with the laid down rules governing the elections as guided by enabling laws, paramount among which is Section 197, sub-section 1(b) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999, which authorises the establishment of the State Independent Electoral Commissions across the country. “Also, Section 14 of the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission Law 2001, empowers it to organise, undertake and supervise all elections to local government councils in the state, in accordance with the provisions of the law or any enactment, guidelines, rules or manuals issued or made by the commission. Likewise, the Ogun State Electoral Law 2007 provides guidance on the processes and procedures to follow in the electoral process,” he said. Osibodu said parties would be met accordingly within the 85 days before elections. He sought the support of the media and implored youths to embrace dignity, self-esteem and eschew anti-democratic activities. The Permanent Secretary, OGSIEC, Mrs. Mojisola Dosunmu, sought the cooperation of parties and aspirants. She thanked them for prompt response to the ceremony. 