Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said local content in the technology sector will contribute to the growth of the economy, adding that the local production of smart cards at the highest quality is not only viable in Nigeria but also brings a plethora of opportunities with it for Africa. Osinbajo spoke yesterday during a visit to the manufacturing facility of SecureID Limited on the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, Isolo, Lagos. He lauded the smart card manufacturing and digital solutions firm for creating jobs and bringing the country to the fore of global competitiveness with its world-class smart card manufacturing plant in Lagos. He said the recent GSMA certificate and other global certificates the company has bagged bore glowing testimony to the level of high standards demonstrated in its production of quality smart cards in the country. Osinbajo said: “Today marks a momentous occasion in the history of the technology and manufacturing sector, and I am delighted to be a part of it. SecureID Limited has proved to us with this state-of-the-art manufacturing plant that local production of smart cards at the highest quality is not only viable in Nigeria but also brings a plethora of opportunities with it for Africa. “I must commend this indigenous company for laying the precedent for other local manufacturers to follow. I must also congratulate the founder and CEO, Kofi Akinkugbe, who through her grit and passion to contribute to the growth of the economy, has committed innumerable resources and manpower to bring this factory to fruition. It warms my heart to see a woman take charge and create something indelible for other young women to emulate. She is an attestation to the fact that women are dependable collaborators in our quest for nation building.” He lauded Akinkugbe for creating copious jobs for Nigerians, stating that this would bolster growth through local content. Also, Akinkugbe said SecureID upholds high quality standards and protocols to manufacture an array of smart cards in line with global best practices, emphasising that the company worked resolutely, to attain the GSMA certificate and other certificates. According to her, the company is demonstration that local production of smart cards at the highest quality is possible in Nigeria. She said: “As an indigenous company, we are able to produce high quality SIM cards and at the same time, providing job opportunities for Nigerians. The government has seen it, its volume, value and growth that we are able to contribute is something we would showcase and further prove that this can be done locally. On our journey, we sought and received support from many institutions, agencies, and initiatives that have been established to encourage startups SMEs and enterprises. “Some forward looking organisations also bought into our dream, early on and we must thank the Bank of Industry, in particular for the instrumental and continuing role. “First Bank of Nigeria Plc, was also an early financial assistance, and they remain our primary lender. “We are extremely grateful and proud of the patronage, that we received from most of the retail buyers, some of whom are represented here,not just in Nigeria, but across the continents, she said. Also speaking at the event, Executive Director, Bank of Industry (BoI), Mr Simon Aranonu, said the bank was excited about SecureID because it was a pioneer project led by  a woman. “We are happy to be part of this journey which started 10 years ago, the BoI will continue to support the company because it is a good innovation,” Aranonu said adding that the company would help safe foreign exchange in Nigeria. The company recently bagged the esteemed Global System of Mobile Applications (GSMA) making it the first in Nigeria and third in Africa; adding to its other global certifications including Visa International, MasterCard Incorporated, Verve, Card Quality Management (CQM) and ISO 9001/2015 for Smart Card Manufacturing and Personalisation of credit and debit cards for all banks in Nigeria and clients in 21 countries across Africa. SecureID also manufactures subscriber identity module (SIM) cards for telecom companies, loyalty cards for retail and security documents for public sector: driving license, national identity cards, international passports and more.