 Life and breath, the Rivers State government might not give. But the state has given part of what it has to the widows and children of 14 security personnel who were murdered by gunmen in the line of duty, during a recent attack on some security formations in the state. The governor, Nyesom Wike, had, during a condolence visit to the state commissioner of police, Mr Friday Eboka, and officers of the state police command on May 10 pledged the donation of N20million to each family of the slain officers. He fulfilled the pledge on Monday. Cheques were presented to 11 of the bereaved police officers’ families on behalf of the state government by the secretary to the state government, Dr Tammy Danagogo, at the state police command, in Port Harcourt. Two bereaved members of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) and a widow of Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corp (NSCDC) official in Port Harcourt also benefitted from the state government’s generosity. The gesture cost the state government N280million. Without doubt, this is huge, even as we acknowledge that no amount of money could bring back the dead. It is doubtful if the insurance covers for the affected officers could have fetched so much for the bereaved families. The state government realised this much: “Governor Nyesom Wike deeply sympathises with you. We know there is nothing else he can do to bring your husbands, fathers and brothers back to you but he has asked me to tell you that in situations like this, we look unto God and pray that God will continue to support you and show his grace to you”, Dr Danagogo said at the highly emotive event. Perhaps there is no better way the state government could have showed appreciation to the slain officers beyond ensuring that their dependents do not suffer. The advantage in this is that other officers are encouraged to do even more to protect the people, knowing full well that their dependents would not suffer should any harm befall them on duty. We cannot put any monetary value to this. We commend Governor Wike for this large-heartedness. Many government officials often do not redeem such pledges. They only pledge on the spur of the moment and move on, until history repeats itself and they pledge again in what would later become a cycle of unfulfilled pledges. The commissioner of police was obviously elated by the prompt manner the governor honoured his words. Not only did he thank the governor for the kind gesture, he assured the government and people of Rivers State of his men’s readiness to serve them diligently to the best of their ability. “We are happy that the governor has extended his hand of friendship to us. We have been sad all this while, but today, the governor in his magnanimity has come to wipe out our tears. We appreciate the governor and pray that God will continue to help him the way he is helping us”, Mr Eboka said. He also admonished the beneficiaries to spend the money wisely and on the education of the children of the deceased. “We know that money cannot bring back life but invest the money properly so your children will not drop out of school”, the commissioner added . This is very important and we hope the beneficiaries would take this to heart always. In the same vein, Group Captain G. E. Laha, Commander, 115 Special Operations Group, Nigeria Air Force, Port Harcourt, expressed appreciation to the state government for the kind gesture. He assured that the NAF would not relent in its efforts to secure the state. Similarly, the widow of Inspector Paulinus Bassey, Mrs Grace Bassey, on behalf of the slain officers’ widows expressed gratitude to the governor for the kind gesture. It is instructive that this is just one of the ways by which the Wike administration has been supporting the police force. The state government had in the past donated several vehicles and other working tools to facilitate policing in the state. It is equally important to stress that many other states have more or less adopted the police force as a foster child, even though it is supposed to be catered for by the Federal Government. Governors are not comfortable watching their people being killed or injured by mindless criminals with the police only reacting after the harm has been done, due to several challenges militating against their efficiency. It is an open secret that votes from the Federal Government cannot sustain its police force. The force suffers from all the ills one can think of: it is ill-motivated, ill-equipped and I’ll-funded. That is why it is usually ill-prepared to respond adequately to emergencies. In spite of these inadequacies, the Federal Government does not want to let go of its stranglehold on the force. It is reluctant, if not outright unwilling, to let the federating units have their individual police force as obtained in other federal setups in the world. It is high time it reconsidered its position on state police. Governors on their part can also use their clout to bring this to fruition. It is an idea whose time has come.