Elvaridah is a Lagos-based business development and consulting company, focused on providing strategies and solutions to African businesses of all sizes. After serving over 500 businesses with its bespoke services and reaching over 5,000 entrepreneurs with its courses, the company looks good to achieve its target of becoming Africa’s number one business solutions company, with its own business incubator and funding capacity for entrepreneurs. Its Principal Business Consultant and founder, Nkechi Alade, also shared plans to expand to other parts of Africa in the next few years with Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA  She discovered the power in entrepreneurship and its capabilities to revolutionise Africa early. Right from school, the Principal Business Consultant and founder of Elvaridah, a business development & consulting company, Nkechi Alade, knew she wanted to throw her hat into the business development ring. And to demonstrate her resolve and passion to leverage the field of business development to unleash the power immense in entrepreneurship, she studied Business Administration in Babcock University, Ilisan-Remo, Ogun State, where she graduated in 2011. “Right from school, I knew I wanted to do business development, which was eventually what I studied in the university. I worked in several industries during the holidays to understand the rudiments and how things really worked before graduating from school,” the Onitsha, Anambra State-born business strategist said. She told The Nation that it was in the course of working in various industries and fields such as Human Resources, Finance, international bodies as well as beauty & cosmetics that she discovered the increasing rate at which small businesses were collapsing. According to her, the high mortality rate of small businesses in Nigeria and Africa generally was as a result of a fundamental problem. “Businesses were set up without proper research, plans, strategies, customer service and the right people,” she told The Nation, pointing out that Elvaridah came into the business development space to help change the narrative. “At Elvaridah, we bridge the gap between business ideas and execution. We don’t just tell you ‘what’ to do. We show you ‘how.’ That’s our competitive edge,” Nkechi declared, adding, “I was that person my friends and family always asked business solutions because it was, indeed, my passion to help people find solutions to their businesses.” Launched in 2018 and located in the highbrow Admiralty Road, Lekki Phase 1, Lagos, Elvaridah, according to its Nkechi, has been running the company unofficially even before 2018. It has so far served over 500 businesses one way or another. Over 5,000 entrepreneurs have also taken its courses over time. Yet, there is no stopping for Elvaridah, which has concluded plans to expand its services beyond Lagos, and establish its foothold in other parts of Africa within the next five years. To achieve the target, the company draws strength from its proven track record in building and managing start-ups, scaling businesses to profitability, product development and management, attributes that have made it the destination of choice for owners of businesses of all sizes. Backed by a full-fledged team of highly dedicated and motivated staff, Elvaridah, under Nkechi’s watch, is the toast of startups and existing businesses wishing to reach their full potential by taking advantage of the company’s bespoke services to achieve set goals and objectives. This, no doubt, attests to its towering status in the business development and consulting space. Specifically, the company with key functions including Business Planning, Recruitment and People Management, Research and Data Analytics & Structure and Process Formation has been providing solutions that deliver value to stakeholders. And with her Founder’s great strategic, analytical, critical thinking and problem-solving skills, Elvaridah is inching closer to realising its target to become Africa’s number one business solutions company. Charming, unassuming and hardworking, with eyes sparkling with determination to change the dynamics in Africa’s entrepreneurial landscape, Nkechi is also the founder, Connect 360 Africa, a platform to connect entrepreneurs across Africa for the purpose of networking, collaborating and building their businesses. By riding on both platforms (Elvaridah and Connect 360 Africa), the award-winning business strategist passionate about helping entrepreneurs and business owners start, improve, scale and differentiate their businesses, has been able to position herself as the go-to-person for the execution of the most challenging ideas or projects by organisations and entrepreneurs. As proof of her entrepreneurial prowess, Nkechi was in 2006 selected to represent Nigeria at the Global Young Leaders Conference in the United States of America. She was also among the first set of women entrepreneurs to receive funding from the Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) in 2015 for the establishment of her business. The Global Young Leaders Conference provides an out-of-classroom learning experience and rigorous curriculum that equips students from all 50 United States and more than 145 countries with the confidence, independence, skills, and global competitiveness required of the next generation of leaders. The TEF, on the other hand, is a private African foundation championing youth entrepreneurship across the continent. Its objective is to empower women and men across Africa, catalysing economic growth, driving poverty eradication and ensuring job creation. Since she launched Elvaridah as a business building platform for startups and entrepreneurs, Nkechi has never looked back. She said the Idea came about as a result of meeting a lot of entrepreneurs with failed businesses and individuals who wanted to start up businesses but could not because they really did not know how to go about the whole process. According to the budding entrepreneur, who has since carved a niche for herself in the development of startups and re-engineering of existing businesses, Elvaridah has been providing business consulting services from the idea stage to the reality phase. ”We do this by offering one-on-one coaching, mentorship programmes, online courses and grants,” she said. She also said the company aims to build a business that will become a household name for entrepreneurship and business building in the country, where entrepreneurs can be sure their ideas will become reality. ”Elvaridah is here to bridge the gap between fear and reality for aspiring and existing entrepreneurs; between ideas and execution,” Nkechi reiterated. While admitting that funding is indeed, an issue for small businesses and startups, she, however, said “Before you get funding, you need a good product and a ready market. A lot of entrepreneurs forget that money is only an amplifier. Without a good product and ready market you cannot have a successful business.” A brilliant business strategist with a good understanding of the specific business challenges that startups face, Elvaridah conducts market research, develops business plans, creates business proposals, generates financial projections, and carry out feasibility studies to ensure every aspect of a business including finding a good product and a ready market is fool-proof. She also prioritised people management, knowing that people are the heart of every organisation as they help solve problems and deliver results, which in turn, drive business success. Accordingly, Elvaridah has been helping businesses identify, attract, recruit, and retain the right people –developing them into outstanding performers. The company, according to her, also believes that it is essential to empower employees to perform at the peak level through carefully curated and implemented learning programs. She said in a bid to establish a flourishing learning culture that drives invention, Elvaridah supports organisations by identifying their competency gaps and designing bespoke solutions. Although the company does not run an empowerment programme that directly targets aspiring women entrepreneurs and girls, Nkechi, however, told The Nation that: “We are always willing and ready to partner with organisations that target women entrepreneurs and girls.” With several certifications in HR, Business Solutions, Business Data Analysis, and Project Management, both within and outside Nigeria, Nkechi whose interests range from entrepreneurship to music as well as design and writing, appears determined to call the shot in the field of business development in Africa.