The estimated Nigeria’s population of over 206.1 million  based on the United Nation’s data has a projected deficit of between 17 and 22 million housing units. This presents an opportunity for the private sector  and government partnership in bridging the country’s housing gaps. As the private sector innovates to see improved mortgage financing, the government creates a conducive environment by formulating policies that ensure easy realisation of the plan. The establishment of the Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company (NMRC) also showed the Federal Government’s commitment to growth in the housing sector. The NMRC is providing secondary mortgage market services to mortgage lenders and introducing various stimulus packages. These include the  N500 billion Federal Mortgage Bank (FMBN) cash, the Family Homes Fund (FHF), Mortgage Warehouse Fund Limited and the take-off of the Nigeria Mortgage Guarantee Company (NMGC) aimed at providing more insurance and promoting the ease of doing mortgage business adversely affected by the Land Use Act. Besides, the outbreak of the COVID-19, which  led to lockdowns in various parts of the world gave rise to renewed housing opportunities. As individuals and businesses  began to adapt to the new reality of the environment, professionals began to demand  larger apartments that could accommodate a home office. This was accompanied by a gradual shift towards garden-style communities that offer environments fit for social distancing with open spaces, lower density, and greater air circulation. Also, to reduce the severity of the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on various sectors of the economy, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) led by Godwin Emefiele had in April, last year,  said the apex bank would focus on bridging the housing deficit by facilitating government intervention in three critical areas, namely housing development, mortgage finance, and institutional capacity to boost job creation, household incomes and  growth. To achieve this, the regulator said it would pursue the creation of a fund that would target housing construction for developers that provide evidence of profiled off-takers with financial capacity to repay. The identification framework in the banking sector called for the need to use the bank verification number (BVN) to verify the information provided by the off-takers before the developer can access the funds. It will also consider ways to assist the mortgage finance sub-sector while building capacity at the state levels for their land administration agencies to process and issue land titles promptly, implement investment friendly foreclosure laws and reduce the cost of land documentation, as these have remained major inhibiting factors in the provision of affordable housing. Group Chief Executive Cititrust Holdings Plc, Yemi Adefisan, explained that among the mortgage banks championing reduced housing deficit is LivingTrust Mortgage Bank Plc, a member of Cititrust Group. The bank is accredited by the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) for the National Housing Fund (NHF) scheme and a subscriber to the Nigerian Mortgage Refinance Company Plc (NMRC). So far, the bank has funded or executed projects worth more than N130 billion in mortgage loans (NHF, residential mortgages and estate development loans) from inception  and prides itself as being supportive of numerous clients. Also, the bank has  established a pipeline to partnership strategic relations with FMBN approved estate developers and other reputable estate developers in the funding of exquisite residential properties all over Nigeria. Cititrust Financial Services Plc invested in the bank – LivingTrust Mortgage Bank Plc – in 2019 and became the majority shareholder, setting the stage for it to be more competitive with a wider coverage in its service delivery. This move led to a name change from Omoluabi Mortgage Bank Plc to LivingTrust Mortgage Bank Plc, a member of Cititrust Group, thus positioning the over 27-year-old bank from a regional powerhouse to an emerging leading national player in the mortgage finance sub-sector of the economy. Meanwhile, to strengthen the operations of NMRC, the FMDQ Securities Exchange Limited, following the due diligence of its Board Listings and Markets Committee has approved the listing of the NMRC Plc Series 3 N10 billion Fixed Rate Bond under its N440 billion Bond Issuance Programme on its platform. The listing joins other corporate securities issued on the FMDQ Exchange Platform to kick off the year in addition to Total Nigeria PLC, Valency Agro Nigeria Limited, Mixta Real Estate PLC and Flour Mills of Nigeria Plc. In view of the sustained disruptions occasioned by the impact of the pandemic to businesses and economies alike, the capital market has continued to provide the much-needed succour for corporate entities looking to raise funds to meet shortfalls in their working capital needs as well as capital expenditures. The real estate sector has evidently been one of the worst-hit sectors with financing remaining a core challenge for property developers and prospective homeowners. The NMRC is a private sector-driven mortgage refinancing company. It promotes home ownership for Nigerians and deepens the primary and secondary mortgage markets by raising long-term funds from the capital market, to enhance access to affordable housing finance in the country. The bank was also among the four listed firms to be migrated to the growth board of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) last year to leveraging the exchange listings to raise long-term capital, facilitate liquidity in the trading of its shares and provide a cost-effective platform to raise the capital needed to scale, attract investors, enhance its corporate visibility and regulatory structure that fosters growth. The bank also witnessed the unveiling of a new website (www. livingtrustng.com) with enhanced capabilities for account opening, loan application and online repayment simulations which has increased the bank’s loan application and customer acquisition processes and aims at delivering superior quality products and services to all customers, regardless of their status and locations in line with the increasing cultural diversity of her fast-growing customer base. As part of the bank’s digital transformation efforts, it has launched a new mobile banking smartphone application, Trustmobile Plus with features that enable easy banking such as funds transfer, utility bill payments, airtime recharge, account statement and balance inquiry, amongst others; while it commenced the use of USSD *723# and on-boarded numerous Automated teller machines (ATM) across her branches and other business units to enable customers gain unrestrictive access to their funds 24/7. LivingTrust Mortgage Bank is also supporting the drive towards improving access to finance for MSMEs. As part of efforts to proffer solutions to the funding challenges faced by small businesses, the bank last November  joined the league of other participating financial institutions appointed by the Development Bank of Nigeria (DBN) to access funds for on-lending to qualifying Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the country. The benefits of MSMEs funding include, but are not limited to, increased contribution to the economy in terms of output of goods and services; the creation of jobs at relatively low capital cost, especially in the fast-growing service sector; provision of a vehicle for reducing income disparities; development of a pool of skilled and semi-skilled workers as a basis for future industrial expansion; improvement in forward and backward linkages between economically, socially and geographically diverse sectors of the economy; provision of opportunities for developing and adapting appropriate technological approaches; and offer an excellent breeding ground for entrepreneurial and managerial talent. In months ahead, LivingTrust Mortgage Bank will be focused on consolidating on the gains of previous years. It will be building a stronger balance sheet by deepening its core mortgage business, maintaining strategic investments and partnership with businesses complementary to its core services, strengthening customer relationships, digital transformation and driving  strategy of being a market facing adhocratic organisation.