  The Presidency has explained why President Muhammadu Buhari did not attend the funeral of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 other military officers who died in an air crash in Kaduna. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, who spoke on Arise TV programme monitored in Lagos, hinted that the President does not like “this idea of closing roads, security men molesting people on the road” whenever he is out for an event outside the Aso Rock. He said: “I was in Europe myself on an assignment and I have not spoken to the President on this matter. But let me give you just one example. The President is somebody who is very concerned about the safety and wellbeing of ordinary Nigerians on the streets. “Do you know why he now prays his Jumaat in the State House and doesn’t go to the National Mosque? It’s because he doesn’t like this idea of closing roads, security men molesting people on the road for the President to have the right of way.  “These are small things to many people but they are important for President Buhari. So, it is a mourning situation and the President didn’t want to take away attention from that.” Also, the 1 Division of the Nigerian Army in Kaduna has opened a condolence register for the late Lt.-Gen. Attahiru and other military officers who died in the May 21 plane crash. The Deputy Director of Army Public Relations, Col. Ezindu Idimah, announced this in a statement yesterday in Kaduna. “The general public, who want to sign the condolence register, are please requested to come to 1 Division between the hours 10 a.m and 2 p.m, during the mourning period of May 22 to May 29,” he said. Also, the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) has described the late Lt.-Gen. Attahiru and the other 10 military officers as patriots who were committed to the Nigerian project. The institute expressed sadness over the plane crash. NIPR President and Chairman of the institute, Mallam Mukhtar Sirajo, stated this in a letter of condolence to the Chief of Defence Staff and the wife of the late Army Chief. 