The 59, Airport Road Benin secretariat of a faction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) loyal to Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki before he defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has been taken over by members of PDP in Ward 2, Oredo Local Government Area. Leaders of the governing PDP in ward 2, while approving the relocation of the party secretariat, cited administrative conveniences for the decision. The resolutions were contained in a three-point communiqué on Tuesday in Benin read by Victor Enoghama. The ward leaders also stated a committee should be set up to look for a ward secretariat within four weeks after a voice affirmation at the enlarged meeting. The communiqué reads in part: “We, the leaders and members of PDP, Ward 2 in Oredo Local Government do hereby support the position of the leader of the party, His Excellency Godwin Obaseki, on the proper integration and harmonisation of all party members at all levels of the party administration and structure. This will promote peace and unity in the party.” They also passed a vote of confidence on Obaseki while hailing him for his good work, infrastructural and human capital developments. It was however gathered the takeover of the former APC secretariat by PDP members loyal to Obaseki was a prelude to having Anslem Ojezua, the immediate factional chairman of APC, who defected with Obaseki become chairman of the PDP. On May 10, the Dr. Tony Aziegbemi-led State Working Committee (SWC) of Edo PDP reported Obaseki to members of the Prince Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) over his alleged plot to dissolve the PDP’s executives at the ward, local government and state levels to accommodate those who defected with Obaseki. They described the plot as undemocratic and unacceptable while asking Edo Governor to drop his deputy, Philip Shaibu, for full harmonisation. On May 12, Obaseki met with members of PDP SWC while begging them to sheathe their swords to move the party forward. But some stakeholders insisted the Governor should not be trusted with the olive branch he extended to SWC members