First Bank of Nigeria Limited has won the Retail Banking CEO of the Year Nigeria, Most innovative Retail Banking App Nigeria and Best CSR Bank Nigeria awards by Global Banking and Finance magazine. The awards are in recognition of the roles the bank plays in deepening financial inclusion; advancing the digital banking eco-system as well as impacting people in its host communities with technology to make learning available to individuals, among others. They reflect the innovation, achievement, strategy, progressive and inspirational changes taking place within the global financial community. They were created to recognise companies, which are prominent areas of expertise and excellence within the financial world. FirstBank’s Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Adesola Adeduntan, said: ‘’We are proud to be recognised with these awards, which speak to the investments we have made over the past years in bolstering our electronic platforms for our customers; enhancing financial inclusion through agent banking as well as empowering our communities in the education space especially by bridging the digital divide through e-learning initiative. “These awards are dedicated to all our customers, as the trust they reposed in us being their bank of first choice in meeting their business and financial needs has been instrumental to the success we have achieved in our existence of over 127 years. We remain committed to putting You, our customers First as we contribute to the growth and development of our host communities.’’ With its over 750 branches and 100,000 Firstmonie Agent banking network spread across across the country, FirstBank’s  retail framework has been at the forefront of bridging the financial exclusion gap, and empowering Nigerians to carry out their financial and business-driven activities. Also,  the bank’s app, FirstMobile, is configured with modern features, perhaps better than overs in the industry. The app is also embedded with a card protection service for customers. What is more,  with the FirstMobile, customers can replace a lost or damaged debit card. The over century old bank has been supporting various sustainable activities in its host communities and the nation. 