Villarreal manager, Unai Emery, said  Samuel Chukwueze and his Villarreal teammates must be at their best to progress past his former charges Arsenal and secure their spot in the finals of the Europa League. The Yellow-Submarines will visit their Premier League opponents at the Emirates Stadium tonight with a 2-1 advantage from last Thursday’s last-eight first leg. “I expect Arsenal to be at their best,” the former Gunner’s boss said at the pre-match press conference in London yesterday evening. “From there, we need to know how to compete and show off the best version of ourselves. “ They are a team who link up well, they have players who are comfortable on the ball, who know how to run into space. They also have important players coming back. I am expecting Arsenal to be at their best individually and collectively. “We are going into the game with the idea of being ourselves, and when we need to dig in, try and win the duels, be solid in covers and fight with them for the control of the game.” “I think we will see a more dangerous Arsenal side than in the first leg. We want to show personality, a clear identity and to be competitive.” “We are in a nice moment, in the Europa League, we have had a good journey. We have been mature, solid and consistent in every tie. We want to do that again. Our aim is to build on the first leg.” Villarreal, who have never reached the final of the Champions League or Europa League, have put together a promotional video ahead of the clash against Arsenal starring Pau Torres, with the message: “Let’s flip the script… It’s our time.” “To the fans, I will say that it is going to be very difficult, but we are ready to face that difficulty,” Emery added. “We want to enjoy the tie. We are going with all the excitement of the fans and we can promise them that we will play with pride, we know that we’re defending this club’s beautiful history. Tomorrow, we have a historic chance and we will face it with our all and the desire to reach a final.” While Arsenal and Villarreal fans face a nervy night, Manchester United are virtually assured of a place in the final of a competition they won in 2017 after hammering Roma 6-2 in the first leg.  