The Senate has summoned Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume, over the alleged failure of lottery operators in the country to remit revenues to the Federation Account. Chairman, Senate Committee on Sports, Senator Obinna Ogba, stated this after his panel met with the lottery operators and the regulatory agencies handling their affairs. Senate President Ahmad Lawan had last month asked the panel to conduct an investigation into the alleged loss of hundreds of billions of naira it should be generating from lottery proceeds annually. The directive followed a debate on a motion moved at plenary by Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, who also called on the Senate to probe the non-execution of terms of settlement between the Nigerian Lottery Regulatory Commission and one of the lottery firms, Ghana Games in Nigeria. There was however a mild drama at the committee’s session when representatives of Western Lotto and Premier Lotto clashed at the event. Western Lotto, which claimed it has the franchise to run the Ghana Games in Nigeria, was established by the late Senator Buruji Kashamu while the Premier Lotto, which is challenging the claim, is believed to be owned by Chief Kessington Adebutu, popularly known as Baba Ijebu. Trouble started when the Managing Director of Western Lotto Company, Mr. Olumide Adedeji, informed the Committee and the management of the regulatory agencies his firm had relevant franchise documents from the Ghana Lottery Commission as its main representative in Nigeria. He claimed the NLRC has failed to implement the terms of the agreement to set up the Ghana Games Lottery Commission in Nigeria so that his firm would be earning its due commission. The Managing Director of Premier Lotto, Mr. Ajibola Adebutu, asked the Red Chamber to disregard the claims of the rival lottery agency. Adebutu said granting such a request would make the Western Lotto, an operator, to be a regulator as well. Attempts by Adedeji to explain the NLRC would be the main regulator of the proposed Ghana Games Commission was resisted by Adebutu and the situation led to a stalemate which forced the panel to meet behind closed doors. Speaking with reporters after the session, Ogba said the meeting was inconclusive behind the closed door. He said the committee had decided to summon the Minister of Special Duties and the NLRC board members to resolve the contentious issue next Monday. He also said Akume would be expected to tell the Senate why the South-East and the South-South geopolitical zones were not represented on the board of the NLRC. Senator Ogba said: “The issue was not finally resolved. Our interest is to ensure that the Federal Government generates revenue into its purse. “All over the World, the lottery is an avenue to generate revenue. What we discovered is that the country is not getting much revenue from the lottery operators. “However, the operators are also saying that they have been paying a lot of money to the government. “In fact, one of the operators, Bet Naija claimed that he paid N18billion to the Federal Government coffers in the last three months. We want to find out where these monies have gone to. We want to find out. “About the Ghana Games, some operators are scared that the operators should not play the role of a regulator. “We have resolved that all monies generated should go to the Federal Government directly. It is now the Federal Government that will determine who has the franchise and pay him the percentage due to him. “The Committee has adjourned till Monday and we have invited the board of the lottery commission. We are also inviting the Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume. “We will also raise the issue of the non- representatives of the South-East and South-South on the board of the lottery agency. “It is Mr President that constitutes the board so we will ask the minister to communicate to the executive that it had contravened the Act that established the commission for not including the South-East and South-South geopolitical zones on the board.”