The Nigerian Export-Import Bank (NEXIM) has intensified efforts to support women and youth in the export value chain through the recent launch of its “Women & Youth Export Fund (WAYEF).” The facility’s objective was to stimulate and increase deliberate funding to indigenous women and youth towards broadening Nigeria’s export basket and facilitating regional industrialisation for value added exports. It was also aimed at improving access of women and youths to concessionary finance in a bid to expand and diversify the non-oil export baskets, while also supporting women and youth towards up-scaling and expanding their export operational capacities. The Head, Strategic Planning, NEXIM, Mr. Tayo Omidiji, however, said WAYEF, launched late last month targeting women and youths in the non-oil export sector, was one of several financing instruments to encourage exporters. Omidiji, who spoke at the Quarterly Workshop of Association of Business Editors in Nigeria (ABEN), in Lagos, last week, listed the other financing instrument by NEXIM to boost export to include the N500 Billion Export Stimulation Facility (ESF) managed in collaboration with the CBN to support export oriented projects. He said there is also the N100 billion Export Development Fund (EDF) provided to NEXIM by CBN and targeted mostly at the Small & Medium Enterprises (SMEs). The theme of the workshop was “Strengthening economic recovery in a  pandemic through aggressive non-oil export drive: Prospects and challenges.” Omidiji, in his paper on ‘Financing Nigerian non-oil exporters to penetrate global markets in a pandemic,’ said as an Export Credit Agency (ECA) and Nigeria’s Trade Policy Bank, NEXIM’s objective was to implement initiatives aimed at mitigating the impact of the pandemic on the non-oil export sector. Eligible borrowers/beneficiaries of the WAYEF include duly registered/incorporated export-oriented Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Nigeria with women or youth as promoters. They must also be structured organisations with the mandate to empower women or youth along the export value chain, as well as registered export-oriented co-operative societies, associations, clusters for women or youth. Eligible projects/transactions include projects or transactions in thenon-oil export sectors that impact women and youth employment and projects with deliberate focus on women and youth empowerment programs in the export value chain. Transactions connected with export of goods wholly or partly processed/manufactured are also eligible.