TODAY, Nigeria is home to a whole lot of foreign nationals from different parts of the world who are in the country to execute one mission or the other, including diplomatic and foreign relations staff of other nations, aids workers from the various international organizations, as well as tourists both domestic and business among others. Nigeria at the present is facing an existential threat to her national stability and this no doubt has continued to send rather disturbing signals to the global community, especially to the friends of the country in the areas of business, economy, and foreign relations. The recent heightened security situation in Nigeria is a major source of concern to every right-thinking individual and government all over the world. From the daily accounts of an orgy of violence being unleashed on the country and her citizens as well as her visitors, as well as the gory spectacles they are confronted with on a daily basis, the country appears to be under siege as people are being killed at close intervals. This precarious security situation in Africa’s largest economy has continued to heighten doubts for the home government of nationals of other countries of the world domiciled in Nigeria, in terms of the safety of their citizens and that of their investments in Nigeria. Nigeria is Africa’s largest economy, largely thanks to its production levels of oil and gas, which are also the highest in the continent. Over the last ten years, the country has enjoyed conservatively average GDP growth and has been the biggest beneficiary of Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in Africa. With a lot to gain from FDI, Nigeria cannot continue to toy with the safety of foreign nationals which can adversely affect the requisite FDI flow into the country. It is a fact that foreign investment has a lot to offer in promoting the country’s economy through infrastructure development and revenue generation. More importantly, it has encouraged exports of local products, which has brought about further investment in the country. According to the UNCTAD 2020 World Investment Report, FDI flows to Nigeria totaled USD 3.3 billion in 2019, showing a 48.5% decrease compared to the previous year (USD 6.4 billion in 2018) under the effects of austerity measures. The total stock of FDI was estimated at USD 98.6 billion in 2019. It is therefore, preposterous for Nigeria to continue to toy with the handling of her foreign relationship by not doing enough to safeguard the lives of foreign nationals in her domain. Nigeria has a lot to gain from ensuring the safety and continued stay of nationals of foreign countries, especially from her key trading partners. For instance, it is on record that Nigeria has witnessed cases of kidnapping of Chinese workers more than any other citizens of other countries in Nigeria. Whereas it is the usual practice for developed countries to quickly evacuate their nationals from countries experiencing insecurity challenges like Nigeria is experiencing it now. What has been however observed is the fact that the Chinese for instance for reasons best known to them have always remained no matter the situation. This perhaps shows how much they cherished their relationship with Nigeria, and it will be appropriate for Nigeria to handle the insecurity situation quickly to assure the foreign nationals, especially the Chinese, who have been buffeted by the activities of the armed bandits repeatedly. There is no gainsaying the fact that the staying back of such countries serves as a sign of the belief that Nigeria will overcome her challenges and come out stronger and firm. Therefore, it is important that the Nigerian government as the host takes urgent actions to address the spate of insecurity and not let down her allies at a time like this. From the foregoing, the federal government should take steps to engage the diplomatic community in the country. The state governments should also engage the different foreign communities in their respective states to further give mutual assurances on safety. The simple truth is that Nigeria cannot afford to disintegrate. Nigeria is central to maintaining stability and peace in Africa. It is therefore expedient for the government of the day to find lasting solutions to the worrying insecurity situation by exploring all means possible to guarantee the safety of her citizens and that of the foreign nationals domiciled in the country. This trying period no doubt calls for global solidarity and an urgent reawakening on the part of the Nigerian government to continue to tie all the loose ends in bringing about sanity to the already battered security situation in order to give reassurance to the international communities that, all is and would be well. Going forward, the decision of the Nigerian government to seek foreign help towards bringing a halt to the issue of criminality and insurgency is after all a welcome development and efforts should be sustained in that regard. Also, the call in many quarters on the need for the Nigerian government to urgently consider a review of her security architecture in order to quickly arrest the situation before it further degenerates into a crisis of an unimaginable proportion is not misplaced or mischievous as there is the need for a robust plan of action to bring the situation permanently under calm and restore peace and tranquility. Furthermore, the decision of the Nigerian authorities to establish the National Centre for the Control of Small Arms and Light Weapons as part of the ongoing restructuring of the nation’s security architecture to address emerging threats and strengthen the regional mechanism for the control, prevention, and regulation of small arms is very much apt and timely. It is only advised that such an establishment should be made to live up to its billings. The proliferation of small arms and light weapons has resulted in unimaginable cases of terrorism, human trafficking, organized crimes, and all forms of insurrections. It is hoped that the development will go a long way in addressing the prevailing situation and help to bring the situation under control. May the peace and orderliness of the Nigerian nation continue to wax stronger.