The management of Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL) Abeokuta, Ogun State has confirmed one person died and another was severely injured during a gas explosion within the facility on Thursday morning. The explosion, which it said occurred around 11.04 am, created a huge emergency crisis. It occurred at the main event Marquee of the complex, leading “to the death of a technical vendor and serious injury on the second vendor.” Managing Director of OOPL Ventures, Vitalis Ortese, in a statement, explained the explosion occurred when the technical vendors were conducting routine servicing of the air conditioning units. Ortese said the emergency team of the library took swift action to prevent further damage and subsequently moved the injured to the hospital while visitors to the complex were temporarily limited to contain any fall outs from the explosion. He lamented there have been reports of similar incidents across the state in the last one week and called for a thorough investigation into such cases by the appropriate authorities. According to him: “The management of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library wishes to confirm that there was indeed a gas explosion today, at the main event Marquee of the complex in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. “The explosion emanated when a pair of technical vendors were conducting routine servicing of the air conditioning units. “There have been reports of similar incidents across the state in the last one week, which calls for an investigation by the appropriate authorities. “The explosion, which occurred at about 11.04 am, unfortunately, led to the death of a technical vendor and serious injury of the second vendor. “The emergency team of the Library immediately took action to prevent further damage and subsequently moved the injured to the hospital. Visitors to the complex were temporarily limited to contain any fallouts from the explosion. This has, however, been restored after clearance by the fire service authorities. “The management assures the public that all visitors to the library, guests at the Green Legacy Resort, the pupils at the CCGK nursery and primary school, clients at the cultural villages, and staff present on the premises at the time of the incident are safe. “Management wishes to condole with the families of the victim that died while sending a get well message to the injured. “The management promises to keep to global safety best practices and wish visitors a good and memorable stay at the OOPL.”