The emerging ugly trend of attacks on offices and facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), like attacks on police facilities and formations in the South East and South South regions, has continued to generate controversies. In recent weeks, Abia, Akwa Ibom, Ebonyi, Enugu and Imo states have witnessed calculated attacks on INEC offices and facilities. In all these, electoral materials, operational vehicles and facilities were either vandalised or set ablaze. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Mahmood Yakubu, has said the continued attacks on its offices may affect voter registration. He said the attacks have challenged the commission’s commitment to improving the electoral process. Checks by The Nation revealed that at least 23 INEC offices across 10 states had been attacked, vandalised or set ablaze within the last 24 months. The wave of attacks in May is raising concerns especially ahead of the Anambra gubernatorial election in November. *May 2 – Arsonists burnt the INEC office in Essien Udim LGA in Akwa Ibom state. *May 9 – Gunmen razed down INEC offices in Ohafia LGA of Abia state. *May 13 – The commission’s office at Udenu Local Government Area headquarters in Obollo-Afor, Enugu was completely razed down. Nothing was spared in the office after the attack, including 16 generators. *May 14 – A total of seven Toyota Hilux vans belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were burnt in a night attack on the headquarters of the commission in Awka, Anambra State. *May 16 – The state office in Enugu suffered yet another arson and vandalisation in which parts of the building were ransacked and several vehicles razed. *May 18 – Two more offices in Ebonyi and Ezza North local government areas of Ebonyi State were burnt down. *May 23 – Gunmen razed headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Anambra State. *May 23 – The Commission’s office in Ahiazu Mbaise Local Government Area of Imo State was set ablaze. *May 23 – The Commission’s office in Igboeze South Local Government Area office in Enugu State came under attack.