President Muhammadu Buhari has conveyed his goodwill message to former goalkeeper of the Nigerian senior national football team, Emmanuel Okala, as he clocked 70 years of age. In a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, President Buhari described Okala one of the world’s best goalkeepers. According to him, the former national goalkeeper, who was party of the Nigerian team that won the 1980 African Cup of Nations, represented the best of Nigerian talent and dexterity. “President Muhammadu Buhari joins sports loving Nigerians in wishing one of the world’s best goalkeepers, Emmanuel Okala, a happy 70th  birthday. “As a goalkeeper for the senior national football team in his prime, President Buhari recalls that Okala represented the best of Nigerian talent and dexterity. “The President thanks the 1980 Africa Cup of Nations Winner for inspiring many with his brand of patriotism and dedication to duty each time he donned the national colours on duty. “The President believes that Okala is worthy of honour and celebration as a coach and mentor who has helped many footballers succeed in their chosen careers. “He prays Almighty God to grant the elder statesman more memorable years of health and fulfillment in all his endeavours”, the statement said. Equally, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has described former Green Eagles goalkeeper Emmanuel Okala as one of the greatest goalkeepers Africa ever produced whilst thanking the former Enugu Rangers star for  his services to his fatherland. The minister said this in a statement in Abuja yesterday while congratulating the football legend as he clocked 70. “On behalf of the Nigerian football family, let me sincerely congratulate Emmanuel Okala as he turns 70.On this your special day, I wish you God’s guidance, protection, mercy, favour and good health, happy birthday,” Dare said. He described him as an icon whose place in the history of Nigerian and African football would not be forgotten.