 The falsehood is as brazen as it comes: that Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, the last of Nigeria’s military strongmen who nevertheless handed over to civil rule in 1999, was the “owner” of a grounded helicopter, allegedly ferrying arms to bandits and sundry criminals in Niger State. But quick too, was the swift disclaimer, from the Abdulsalami camp: “This kind of fake news has the potential of aggravating the already tense security situation in the country and should not be condoned,” a refutal by Dr. Yakubu Suleiman, on behalf of the general said. “I urge Nigerians to ignore such treacherous acts and be careful with the kind of information they dish out or share on social media.” That would appear another low blow from the so-called social media, how reckless rumours could be easy tinder for avoidable catastrophe and why a concerted effort must be made to curtail such wild and irresponsible behaviours. The downing of the rogue chopper itself was replete with the seeming fantasy that brewed the alleged Abdulsalami involvement.  Local charmers were claimed to have conjured a hive of bees to disable and down the machine! But if the former military head of state’s denial checks out, who owns that chopper?  What criminal racket is behind it?  Is the chopper really used to aid, abet and fuel criminal enterprises?  What link does it — and probably other aircraft — have with the Zamfara gold rush, which seems to have helped to spread banditry and sundry insecurity in the North West and North Central geo-political zones? That is where the call by the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), for a comprehensive investigation of the affair, can’t be faulted.  Indeed, the Federal Government owes us all a sacred duty to get to the bottom of it all; and brief us in record time. “The Arewa Consultative Forum is convinced that there is a need for an open and transparent investigation,” the body said in a release by Emmanuel Yawe, its national publicity secretary. “We hope the result of this investigation will clear whatever doubts there are about righting our security challenges.” It cannot be better put.  A chopper is no miniature object that noiselessly enters and exits with absolutely no fuss.  So, the particular owners of this one, and possibly others  making illicit sorties and allegedly shipping in arms and provisions for criminals, are of prime public interest. The Federal Government just announced the impending prosecution of alleged sponsors of terrorism, running into tens.  Assuming that these suspects form the backbone of the financial infrastructure fuelling banditry, kidnapping, insurgency and allied violent crimes, do they have any link to the owners of the arrested chopper?  If there is any link, then the first jigsaw, in the Nigerian insecurity puzzle, could well be on the way to being resolved. By the way, what happened to the chopper’s pilots?  If they are in police net, why not an update?  Besides, a Facebook account, which identified itself as “NaijaRealitynews, Accra, Ghana”, named its source of the alleged Abdulsalami involvement as one “Ihemenadu Bennyali”.  The investigators should probe further into that name.  Is it real?  Could he prove his allegation?  Or is it a deliberate dummy, throwing  hounds off-scent? But without prejudice to whatever this probe might throw up, there appears a case of culpable laxity, if not outright negligence or even collusion, by some elements among those responsible for the security of Nigeria’s air space. Audu Ogbeh, ACF chairman and former agriculture and water resources minister, had much earlier warned of talks about rogue aircraft dropping arms and provisions for bandits.  Other sources alleged that those rogue services were paid for with rogue gold, from rogue mining sites.  That was alleged to have triggered the heinous Zamfara violence, in which bandits appeared to massacre helpless villagers, for no just cause. If the local Shiroro folks had not downed this particular chopper, none — especially including the security agencies paid to man and secure the Nigerian airspace — would still have been wiser.  So, aside from going after the rogue owners of this chopper (and others, if any), the probe should also target possible colluders in the system and their motives. Security is everyone’s business.  By arresting this chopper, the Shiroro folks have played their part, as patriotic, if harried citizens, sworn to the security and safety of their country and compatriots.  It’s time for the authorities too to play their part, by bringing to book the owners and operators of this aircraft.