For Enku Ekuta, it’s like a mother-like daughter phenomenon  after breaking the odds to  qualify  for the judo event of the  delayed Tokyo Olympic Games. The 22-year-old  student  of University of Port Harcourt  started her foray into judo under the watchful eyes of her parents -who are both judokas- to begin an  early romance with the combat sport. “There is no reason that I can give for my taking to judo but I just knew I like the sport because my parents were  judokas and it was just natural for me to take after them,” she admitted. Aside winning  silver on her international debut at Cameroon African Open in 2019 ,  the climax of Ekuta’s adventure  in judo was defeating the 2019 African Games Champion and 2014 Commonwealth Games Silver medallis,  Helene Dombeu of Cameroon, in the final of the women’s 63kg category to bag gold at the 4th  African Judo Open in Dakar, Senegal in 2020. But her  dream of competing at the Olympic Games was effortlessly ignited by her mother (Katherine Ekuta)  who after returning from the 2004 Athens Olympic Games , gave her an Olympic pin from which she drew a lot of inspiration from. Ekuta has been to several tournaments including the World Judo Tour event, in Tashkent, Uzbekistan where her dream to be at Tokyo was again fired up. “I was lucky to fall in love with judo at a very young age,” she offered. “I was still a baby actually, but both of my parents were judoka and my mum was an Olympian herself. She competed in the Athens Olympics in 2004. “I was barely five years old when she went to Athens but it inspired me to become an Olympian myself. “Of course, I want to win medal but everything comes in its time. Here in Tashkent (qualification) it was the first step.” Not ready to rely on judo alone, Ekuta  did not abandoned her studies as she is at present a year three student of the University of Port Harcourt pursuing a degree in philosophy. “You know when you pick a course and the university changes the course you wanted, so that was what happened because I wanted to study law but I was given admission to philosophy but I am grateful they gave me philosophy because the course allows me to combine schooling and sports,” she said. “In fact, there is a lot in common between judo and my studies; in judo we have to constantly think quickly and use our brain to analyse a situation. “There is a real connection between the two; judo teaches me to have a philosophy of life.” She admitted that the support from her parents has been her pillar: “I have not gotten support from anybody because it has been the same people that have taken care of me that is still taking care of me. “My coach (my dad) is still the same and I am still in the house training for competitions because you don’t just qualify and relax because when you relax, your point will go down. “So I am still training for competitions and basically no support from anybody, just my sponsor, Arco Gas Energy and my parents. “My father is my coach and without him, the training is not always interesting. Also my mum supports and gives me encouragement. So my parents are playing a very big role in my life today because without them I would not be where I am today. “It is not easy for a young woman like me to be recognised as an athlete as there are many cultural barriers to break down. “I am lucky to have parents who support me and I also have a sponsor now (ACCUGAS), who accompanies me for my travels and who will soon allow me to go to train in the United Kingdom to prepare for the Games and participating in the Tokyo Games. “It will be difficult to stay in Nigeria and train at the highest level for the Olympic Games. As an athlete, I had a very fast transition because normally, we start in cadets, then juniors, before seniors. I went directly from cadet to senior. “In Nigeria there are not enough girls in judo and I have to train with the boys. I need to travel to discover other aspects of the sport. “Preparing for the Olympics has not been easy because before you can qualify for the Olympics you need to have 27 tournaments back then I did not have a sponsor but with my sponsor on board, I was able to attend three different tournaments to qualify and it was the third one in Madagascar that I confirmed my qualification for Tokyo Olympics,” she added. With the dream of competing at the Commonwealth and African Games, Ekuta would also love to groom judokas like her in the near future. “My big dream is to be able to learn as much as possible abroad before coming back to help my people. I am convinced that sport and judo in particular can help anybody to do great things. Ekuta shared her tall dream for Tokyo 2020. “My dream of going to the Olympics is to go there and do my best. What is there for me to have excellent preparation and I have put in a lot of time in training and preparations before most of my competitions. “I think my mum knows God has taken me far beyond where she reached, which is a sign of blessing for her. It shows that my parents helped in directing me through the proper procedure of getting to where I am for this outstanding progress I have made in sports. “I cannot compete against my mother; I can only get better than I was yesterday”. In continuation of her build-up to the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, Enku claimed a confidence-boosting gold medal in the 63kg category at the 20th National Sports Festival in Benin City, Edo State. Ekuta’s gold medal – the first for team Akwa Ibom in Benin – heralded a medal rush in judo for the state as they finished with an additional five bronze medals in the event. Ahead of Tokyo Olympics, Ekuta sounded like a philosopher: “No matter how long the road is, to achieve your goals, you have toke it, and believe in it. You just have to get it right.”