BY ADEKUNLE ADE-ADELEYE  Parents of the abducted students of Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna, are not as radical as many would have expected them to be. When their children were finally released last Wednesday after Sheikh Ahmad Gumi and ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo intervened, the police led them to be received by the Kaduna State governor, Nasir el-Rufai. It is not clear why they dignified the governor with the honour of receiving the 27 students that remained in captivity after 10 had earlier been released and two had escaped. But given what he had to say about the experience of the bedraggled students abandoned to the caprices of their abductors, it was obvious the governor was in a dilemma. He had abjured his belief in negotiation or payment of ransom for victims of kidnapping, insisting that such approach encouraged the crime; but beyond that, the governor was flat-footed, even bellicose, in bringing the infamous abduction to an end. Tongue-tied and obviously unsure what to say or how he should calibrate his enthusiasm in order not to betray his disinterest in the whole saga, the governor, according to Samuel Aruwan, the state’s Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, “charged them (the students) to view their ordeal as a motivator to put the past behind and work hard towards a happier and successful future ahead.” Whether the audience made any sense of the governor’s suggestion is unknown. They were probably too glad to see the end of the tragedy to care whether the governor was enthusiastic about the release or made any sense in his admonition. Except newspapers cruelly abridged the governor’s remarks, it was impossible to see any enthusiasm in his statements. But perhaps he had justifiable reasons to suggest to the students to let their ordeal be a motivator for their future. No one is ever going to make sense of the ‘motivator’ suggestion. Not only was it inappropriate, it was also even hard to place or interpret in the context of the gruelling deprivation the students suffered at the hands of their abductors while the governor theorised about the usefulness of negotiation as a tool for resolving abduction, and the inapplicability of ransom. By casually suggesting to the students to put their ordeal behind them and look forward to a happier future, the governor made light of the trauma they must be experiencing and the scarification the brutality of their abductors must have occasioned. For about 56 days, the students were numbed by how their government, at federal and state levels, engaged in hand-wringing and dithering, perhaps also wondering whether their fate would not end up like that of the over 100 forgotten and abandoned Chibok schoolgirls or Leah Sharibu. Thankfully, Mallam el-Rufai did not say anything about his earlier abominable threat to prosecute anyone negotiating with kidnappers, be they intermediaries or parents. Weeks ago, when the abduction threatened to be prolonged, and seeing that the government was too impotent to do anything but theorise, grieving parents swore to defy the governor as well as dared to be prosecuted for negotiating with the abductors. They were prepared to give their lives for their children if it came to that, convinced that the governor read the riot act about not negotiating with the bandits out of ignorance or misguided self-importance and bureaucratic high-mindedness. The governor had sworn to crush and exterminate the bandits, but it was clear to everyone, including the affected parents, that he was all bark and no bite. In the end, not only did parents reach out to the bandits, they also pressured influential and well-meaning individuals to wade into the matter. Chief Obasanjo and Sheikh Gumi finally brushed aside the state’s misgivings and negotiated the release of the students last week. There were indications by those close to the negotiations that additional ransom was paid, some N15m, and that a prisoner exchange also took place. Judging from the harrowing looks on the faces of the released students, their parents and the rest of the country must have heaved a great sigh of relief that the students were finally free. So much for the Kaduna policy. There are suggestions that overall, some N32m ransom was paid, after the first installment of N17m, and a bandit previously incarcerated in Kano was released. Parents of the five murdered Greenfield University students (another set of abductions) would have gladly offered much more, if they had the means. Why the Kaduna State government overlooked the emotional part of the saga is hard to fathom. However, both Mallam el-Rufai and Chief Obasanjo continue to waffle over the appropriateness of ransom, believing that it encouraged kidnapping, and that it was counterproductive to engage in it. Chief Obasanjo more realistically shifted ground by suggesting a stick and carrot approach. Mallam el-Rufai adamantly preferred to bluff the bandits, thus turning the abducted students into guinea pigs. Sheikh Gumi was probably the most sensible of the three. He suggested that negotiations be entered into and ransom paid, after which the government, by subterfuge, should descend heavily on the abductors.  There will of course be more abductions, for the government which should make the crime unattractive and even impossible to carry out, has proved embarrassingly impotent. By failing to put security measures in place to prevent or combat abduction, they incentivise the crime. And by failing to negotiate or pay ransom in the absence of any other coherent policy on the crime, they indicate that human life means nothing to them. No elite anywhere else in the world can be more callous and irresponsible. They can’t have their cake and eat it. Hopefully, the burdened people of Nigeria will vote their next set of leaders more responsibly. The current set has no clue, no energy and no feelings.      The forum of parents of the 39 abducted forestry mechanization students may not be radicals, but they do not lack resoluteness and commonsense. In their formal statement of appreciation to those who facilitated the release of their children from the camps of bandits who seized them on March 11, they listed a number of people who worked tirelessly for that noble cause. They were careful not to mention the presidency or the Kaduna State government. It is not clear yet who influenced whom, whether Kaduna took a cue from the feds or vice versa, but there is no dispute about whether both had a policy on kidnapping, negotiation and ransom. One aped the other, and both consequently became paralysed by their own lack of policy. In their statements celebrating the return of the abducted students, the presidency and Kaduna were both subdued in their emotions. “We are happy they have been released,” said the presidency through Garba Shehu, while also thanking those who facilitated the release, “in particular the defence and security agencies, the officials of the Ministry of Environment and the government of Kaduna State. We thank Nigerians for their prayers.” Subdued and shamefaced. How did the defence and security agencies play significant role? For Kaduna, this was how they expressed their own gratitude: “The Kaduna State Police Command has reported to the Kaduna State Government the release of the remaining students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation. The government rejoices with the freed students, their families and the management of the institution over this development. Governor Nasir El-Rufai charged them to view their ordeal as a motivator to put the past behind and work hard towards a happier and successful future ahead.” Kaduna was more truthful. The police reported the release, they moaned. Were they by any chance waiting for the negotiation to go awry, and possibly for the bandits to lose their cool, in order to demonstrate how tough the state and feds are? Well, whether they like it or not, abductions will not end soon, and they had better save whatever is left of their honour by developing a coherent and workable policy on the crime. They must not assume that they can still not be made to pay a huge political price for their callousness and neglect.