Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) on Tuesday threatened to reduce capacity if the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) fails to invest. The energy distributor said across the 12 TCN substations that supply it with capacity of 1,819megawatt (Mw), there is capacity to meet demand in nine stations, adding this may reduce to eight in 2024, if further TCN investments were not made. However, from the Performance Improvement Plans (PIPs) that the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) approved for some electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos), EKEDC, Abuja Electricity Distribution Companies (AEDC), Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company (KEDC), and Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) have proposed to attain 100 per cent metering at various times in the next five years. EKEDC planned to achieve 100 per cent metering of customers by installing 204,000 meter over three years. It also planned to reduce Aggregated Technical Collection and Commercial (ATC&C) from current 26 per cent to 20 per cent by 2024. Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has also planned to achieve the metering of 100 per cent of its customers by installing 698,606 meters within its franchise area in the next three years. Similarly, KEDC has also planned to “achieve 100 percent metering by installing 508,000 meters in five years”. The energy distributor also planned to increase number of new customers from the current level of 560,000 to 931,723 over five years. From the plan, the KEDC will within the period, according to its PIP, reduce ATC&C from the current level of 58 per cent to 25 per cent in 2025. It also planned to interface with the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN)on projects that are required in resolving existing constraints and meeting electricity demand. The firm planned the “installation of metering systems to capture all electrical parameters involved in commercial transactions with Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) and TCN and amount of energy injected into the network operated by the DisCo”. In the next five years, KADC will invest N117,846,000,000 in distribution management, ATC&C loss reduction plan, customer service improvement and management improvement plan. Meanwhile, Enugu Electricity Distribution Company (EEDC) has proposed “to achieve 100 percent metering of all customers by 2024”. It has projected to reduce losses to 29.2 percent in 2022. The EEDC also planned to reduce death from accident to zero. The company has planned the installation of metering systems to capture all electrical parameters involved in commercial transactions with Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) and TCN and amount of energy injected into the network operated by the DisCo”. The EEDC has proposed a total investment programme of N67.3billion in next five years. In the same vein, the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC) planned “ installation of metering systems to capture all electrical parameters involved in commercial transactions with Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Company (NBET) and TCN and amount of energy injected into the network operated by the DisCo”.