A number of Crystal Palace fans have been sharing their love for star player Eberechi Eze after a story emerged on Twitter regarding the 22-year-old. The £30,000-a-week, hotshot has been dropping off hot meals to people in need on any Sunday he has available. @GilesyL14 shared a post on Eze where a Facebook user claimed the attacking midfielder has been quietly helping with foodbank drop-offs. The midfielder drops hot meals off at South London churches every Sunday in his Audi 4×4  Eze, who was born in Greenwich to Nigerian parents grew up in Greenwich and has been going above and beyond to help. In a sport blighted by selfish billionaire owners, the footballers themselves prove to be the most charitable. Manchester United forward Marcus Rashford has publicly campaigned on homelessness and child hunger issues and has been praised for using his platform to drive societal change. Similarly, his Manchester United teammate Juan Mata founded the charity Common Goal, an initiative that encourages professional football players and coaches to pledge at least one per cent of their salaries to a collective fund that supports football charities worldwide. So, it appears Eze is doing his bit to help the community. Eze, who hails from Greenwich delivers food bank drops every Sunday (when he isn’t playing footy) to churches across Lewisham in his Audi 4×4. But the volunteer helping out was perhaps not much of a football fan – as it sounded like they hadn’t heard of Crystal Palace, and even asked what division they played in. Another volunteer helping out said in a post on Facebook: “He rocked up and saved the day in his Audi 4×4. “My colleague met him to hand over the food before she asked him if he was in his mum’s car. “He clarified he was in his car. “She asked how old he was; he said 22. “The windscreen was cracked; she asked if it was ok to drive a car like that and how it happened. “He said, a football hit it at the training ground.”  When the volunteer quizzed Eze on who he played for, he said Crystal Palace, and they replied: “what division are they in?” This reportedly brought a laugh from Eze, who was probably relieved not to be recognised as a Premier League star. The volunteer posting on Facebook finally added: “Turned out every Sunday [Eze] is free; he drops hot meals for the church to people who need it in the borough. One person said: “Bless you, great thing to do.” Another said: “Great work”. A third added: “That colleague was well nosey, but thank you, Eberechi!” Palace fans react It didn’t take long for @GilesyL14’s Twitter post to reach a number of Palace fans, with many heaping praise on the England Under-21 international. @andytheeagle described his volunteering as ‘wonderful’. “OMG!” Another @PatrickIDSDoyle wrote “Gave me goosebumps” And the next @jdhrecruiter said “WOW” Another fan @royhodgsonoutt shared; “You are a wonderful person, I love youuu @EbereEze10“ Growing up, he reflected on his life, saying: “There are the nice parts [of Greenwich] and the not so nice parts. “I grew up in a not so nice part. It wasn’t the easiest life, and you don’t have as much as other kids around you. “The first place we’d go after school is to the cage [football court]. We’d stay there till our parents called us in, not eating, playing all day and night. “There wasn’t really anything else to do, but that’s where the love comes from. “[At the time], you don’t realise it’s actually how you’re learning your trade.” As for his giving and sacrificing habit, Eze said he learnt it from his mum, whom he called ‘a living example.’ On field On field, Eze is a also rare talent. Rare in that he controls a game from midfield by playing like a winger. Recently, Eze dictated an entire contest by dribbling around and through a helpless Sheffield United side. Two such runs saw him create one goal – for Christian Benteke – and score another. On first viewing, it looks as if Eze belongs out wide, such is his skill-set. But that would be to conform, to limit his impact to one side of the pitch. Rather, by positioning him in the middle of it, Eze’s influence is multiplied. In a related interview with Crystal Palace TV, Eze said his showmanship moves are a creation of his football idol growing up. “I don’t think there’s anything anyone can show me now that I haven’t seen of him of Ronaldinho. I’ve watched so many videos of him… I want someone to show me a video that I haven’t seen.” The man in question is Ronaldinho and Eze is speaking with the excitement of an eight-year-old boy, enamoured by his idol’s ability to entertain. It’s not such a jump from that young boy to Eze today, with the Palace midfielder retaining much of his formative wonder for the great Brazilian. “Honestly,” he continues, “we’d come home from school or whatever we were doing, go on the computer and just type in ‘Ronaldinho’. Any video we saw, whether it be him playing football or doing whatever, we just watched it. “There’s probably no video you could show us that we hadn’t seen before. Even now, I type in ‘Ronaldinho’ and still watch him. That’s how much of an impact he’s had on me.” It’s all too easy to inflate a footballer’s affection for another player beyond reality, with most naming their generation’s prescribed idols when asked. In today’s game, that starts with Zinedine Zidane, moves on to both Ronaldo and Ronaldinho, continues with Thierry Henry and, inevitably amongst the Academy ranks, and ends with Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo. But Eze’s reverence for Ronaldinho extends beyond platitudes trotted out to the press: a fascination with football’s ability to enthral was birthed by his example. Today, as Eze glides across the found challenge. The answer, again, lay in his earliest years. “The way you’re brought up and the resilience you get from playing in the cage and from experiencing different things – it sort of numbs the feeling of someone else’s opinion of you. You’ve got control of that. “Over the past year I’ve learnt that you can’t let your emotions dictate the way you behave and the way you act. More often than not I think the more consistent you stay, the easier it’ll be to handle anything that comes.” Today, crucially, Eze has got back to enjoying football – it’s how he regained his spot at QPR and secured his first Premier League move. Unburdened by the tide of opinion, pressure of academy football and stress of over thinking, Eze can play how he wants; like an eight-year-old boy inspired by Ronaldinho. Just like he’s meant to. Roy Hodgson Manager Roy Hodgson insists Crystal Palace will do everything in their power to fend off interest in Eberechi Eze, as he insists ‘I wasn’t contemplating that it was an investment that would only last one season’ Eze’s influence is even greater now he is playing in the middle and his impact is not limited He was 80 yards from goal when he collected the ball, evaded John Lundstram’s flying challenge and floated upfield before finishing from inside the area, albeit via John Fleck’s attempted block. Hodgson insists Crystal Palace will do everything in their power to fend off interest in Eze, as he insists ‘I wasn’t contemplating that it was an investment that would only last one season’ The attacking midfielder has enjoyed a promising first season in the Premier League following his arrival from QPR in August 2020 in a deal worth £20milliion. On potential suitors trying to prise Eze away from Selhurst Park come the end of the season, Hodgson said: ‘It has not really occurred to me as we’ve only just signed him. It was quite an investment for our club to pay 15 (million pounds) and then five (million pounds) in add-ons – that’s quite a big investment for us. ‘I am pretty sure the club will work very, very hard to make sure any interest in him will be warded off because we bought him into the football club to play for us and to make us better. ‘We didn’t bring him into the club to make some small profit on a transfer at the end of the first season. It is his first season since coming from the Championship and you expect people to need a bit of time to get fully adjusted to play at this level, and we are delighted with him.’ While victory at Bramall Lane ensured Palace were safe from relegation, the Blades have long been resigned to their fate. They will be playing in the Sky Bet Championship again next season. Eze is a player who should be spending the month of May competing for more than the mere renewal of top-flight status, and that day will come. That Palace will be spending a ninth straight season in the Premier League is all thanks to the mercurial player with Nigeria ancestry. ‘We preach to him that we want to see that quality,’ said Hodgson. ‘We will never criticise him if he tries it and it doesn’t come off. ‘Today, he was bold when he got the ball. He drove us forward. He got his reward with a goal and assist, and we got ours with the win.’ Eze is an England Under 21 regular but has not featured in many conversations ahead of the European Championship. On this evidence, he is perhaps one or two injuries away from elevation to Gareth Southgate’s senior ranks.