The Group Chairman, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, and founder, The Tony Elumelu Foundation, Tony Elumelu, will on Wednesday speak on the economy,  investments, Africa’s economic development, philanthropy, entrepreneurship,  among other issues. The Africa’s leading philanthropist and entrepreneur, will be a guest on ARISE News, a 24-hour international television news channel. Elumelu is also the Chairman of Heirs Holdings, a family-owned investment company committed to improving lives and transforming Africa by investing in Africa’s most strategic sectors. The hour-long live broadcast, which will be aired at 8.30am during The Morning Show, a primetime breakfast magazine programme, will be anchored by Reuben Abati, a former presidential spokesman and award-winning columnist. Elumelu is the Chairman of pan-African financial services group, the United Bank for Africa, which operates in 20 countries across Africa, the United Kingdom, France, and is the only African bank with a commercial deposit taking presence in the United States. He also chairs Nigeria’s largest quoted conglomerate, Transcorp, whose subsidiaries include Transcorp Power, one of the leading producers of electricity in Nigeria and Transcorp Hotels Plc, Nigeria’s foremost hospitality brand. He is the founder and Chairman of Heirs Oil & Gas ,  an upstream oil and gas company, whose assets include Nigerian oil block OML17 with a current production capacity of 27,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 2P reserves of 1.2 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with an additional 1 billion barrels of oil equivalent resources of further exploration potential. Heirs Oil & Gas is committed to creating resource based added value on the African continent. Elumelu is the most prominent champion of entrepreneurship in Africa.  In 2010, he created the Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) , the pan-African philanthropy empowering a new generation of African entrepreneurs, catalysing economic growth, driving poverty eradication and driving job creation across all 54 African countries. The Morning Show airs live on DSTV 416, SKY519, GOTV 44 and ARISE News and YouTube page