 A prophet is not without honour,” goes that popular biblical saying, “except in his own country; among his own people.”  But it is a thing of joy that the Olusegun Osoba Press Centre, a media facility at the Governor’s Office, that the Ogun State Government just named after one of Nigeria’s journalism icons, bucks that biblical rebuke. It couldn’t have come together finer: Abeokuta, the 1859 birthplace of Nigerian journalism, via the epochal Iwe Irohin; long before it became the capital of the new Ogun State in 1976, now boasts a fitting monument in honour of home-boy and one of Nigeria’s finest journalists, of all time! It’s a classical return of the native, but happily not in the tragic sense of Thomas Hardy’s novel of that title. Incidentally, Chief Osoba’s triumphal return to the Oke Imosan, Abeokuta, Governor’s Office terminated what the honouree called 16 years of post-power trauma: no thanks to alleged bad politics, by his two immediate successors, across party lines. “In the first eight years, I was virtually declared persona non grata in Ogun State.  I couldn’t come to Abeokuta, not to talk of visiting the office of the governor.  The other eight years also became problematic,” he said, with emotions that seethed with sadness and joy. “You may not know how many hours you have added to my life with this action today.  It may be hours, weeks, days and years, but you have added something very great to my life today.” It was mild clouds on a sunny day.  Politics need neither be so base nor bitter. Nor should reportage or journalism, especially in times of tension and crisis, as Governor Dapo Abiodun said at the occasion.  Again, Osoba is the near-perfect model to underscore that point. Since the great Alhaji Babatunde Jose (famed mentor, manager and entrepreneur at the old Daily Times) discovered Osoba as his reportorial alter ego, Jose’s young ward of yore had bloomed into the model journalist — even during Nigeria’s most trying periods, starting with the January 15, 1966 coup, the July  29, 1966 “revenge” coup and the tragic Nigerian Civil War (1967-1970).  Osoba’s reportorial derring-do vaulted him to the editorship of Daily Times, in those troubled times. As a junior reporter, he found the body of the assassinated Prime Minister, Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa Balewa.  As deputy editor, his reportage, of the Murtala Muhammed overthrow of the Yakubu Gowon regime, while his editor was nowhere to be found, earned him the Times editorship, though for a brief spell, between August and November 1975.  As General Manager at Herald, he broke the news of the capture of Col. Buka Suka Dimka, the runaway leader of the 1976 abortive coup that killed Gen. Muhammed. But outside all of these, he strung for international news mediums like BBC, The Times of London, Newsweek, the US-based weekly international news magazine, and United Press International News Agency (UPI) — always the quintessential journalist. As editor of Daily Times, General Manager of Kwara State-owned Herald, Editor-in-Chief at Daily Sketch, Managing Director at Daily Times, two-time Governor of Ogun State and now, in his post-governorship years, Chief Osoba has remained the ageless reporter — not editor — of all season.  Whatever positions he held, he always readily identified with journalism and journalists, humble or grand.  He is, therefore, the fit and proper model for any young mind aspiring to a solid and flourishing journalism career. Which is why Governor Abiodun’s charge, of Osoba as model of reportorial sanity in an age of fake news lunacy, was spot on. “Please be responsible in your reportage,” the Ogun governor charged the media, at the commissioning of the Olusegun Osoba Press Centre. “Don’t sensationalise in your reportage but promote things that will bring peace to the country.” The idea is not to gloss over solid news, for whatever pretence.  It is rather to report responsibly, even the most shattering of news, giving credit to the reporter’s creed to disclose, and the reader’s right to be informed, sans any skew or embellishment, in the best tradition of democracy and open society, especially in times of high tension. The Ogun State government has earned high praise for thrusting honour on whom it is due.  The Olusegun Osoba Press Centre is the latest monument, in Abeokuta’s golden nest of Nigerian journalism history.  That Osoba is at the centre of it all bears eloquent testimony to his rich contributions to the profession. It is good that kind gesture has added happy days, weeks, months or years to Osoba’s rich life, by his own sweet confession.  But it is even better that the Osoba honour may have stirred, in the soul of many a starry-eyed, a glorious career in the honourable profession, where deadlines preserve lifelines. 