 The spate of killings and attacks on police stations has yet to abate. In five states of the federation, 17 persons were killed in attacks launched by gunmen, herdsmen and hoodlums from the weekend to yesterday. In Abia, two policemen were yesterday gunned down by assailants who attacked Ubakala Police Station in Umuahia South Local Government Area of the state. The gunmen numbering over 50 also razed down the police station in an attack that reportedly took place about 12:10am yesterday The police fought back but were overpowered by the assailants who launched explosive devices into the station, a source said, adding that it was the use of the IEDs that paved the way for the hoodlums to gain entry into the facility. A Sport Utility Vehicle belonging to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), other police and impounded vehicles were destroyed by the attackers. “They attacked from behind. The police team at the station repelled them and when they saw that the police team was having the upper hand, they threw IEDs, causing explosion. It was at that point that they gained entry into the police facility,” a police source said When our correspondent visited the scene, people were trooping in to have a view of the police station. Local government workers and traders in a local market in the area were seen carrying out their activities with a few gathering at different spots discussing the incident. Police spokesman Geoffrey Ogbonna confirmed the attack but denied that arms were taken away by the attackers. In Rivers, gunmen suspected to be cultists killed four persons in an invasion Kono Boue community in Khana council area of the state.  The incident reportedly happened on Saturday night after a reception organised for Governor Nyesom Wike by the Ogoni in Bori, headquarters of Khana Local Government Area.. The Nation learnt that the assailants armed with AK47 rifles targeted only the male youths of the community, killing four of them. Paramount ruler of Kono Boue Dr. Taalor Nwidekpo Tu-Nwee accused their neighbouring community of perpetrating the attacks. “Some group of people came from Nwegwere community to attack my community. Two days ago I had a meeting with all the communities in my kingdom, including the Nwegwere community and we resolved that there should be no attack from any community. “I have already written to the commissioner of Police Eboka Friday about the plan; I called the DPO in Bori but before he arrived, they had already killed four persons,” Tu-Nwee said. In Plateau, a herder and 52 cows were killed The state chairman of Miyyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) Malam Nura Abdullahi yesterday confirmed the incident, saying it happened in Jos South Local Government Area. Nura said over 52 cattle rustled on Sunday were later found dead in Maiyanga village of Bassa Local Government Area, adding that another herder, Salisu Umar, 13, was missing. In Benue, suspected herdsmen killed eight persons in separate attacks on Sunday night. Four farmers were killed in Gwer West council, four in Guma council area Two survivors of the attacks said they had gone to their villages to take some food when the herdsmen swooped on them with AK47s and cutlasses. They said they ran to safety but only narrowly so. Also in the state, barely 48 hours after an unsuccessful attack on the chairman of the state Internal Revenue Service (BIRS), Dr. Andrew Ayabam, some gunmen launched another assault on the Service’s tax point in Zaki-Biam, Ukum Local Government Area of the state. A passerby was killed in the attack, while another was injured but no official of the Service was killed or hurt. A local source Terkula Uganden said the gunmen numbering six in Nigerian Army attacked the tax point in a convoy of motorcycles shooting as they approached. One person was killed by stray bullets, while another was injured, it was said. Police yesterday paraded three suspects Ishoho Iorwuese, Timothy Shomgi and Orna Sunday in connection with the attack. The suspects were said to be officials of Ben Rozy Limited, a company which has been parading as tax consultants and allegedly fleecing unsuspecting tax payers. Gboko Police Area Commander said they were investigating the incident. In Delta, hoodlums on Sunday shot and killed a man simply identified as Opia in Kwale, headquarters of Ndokwa West local government area of thestate. Opia, 46, was said to have been killed about 8pm in the Umuseti area of the community. A source said he was walking along the street in the area when he was shot dead, adding that the attack may be linked to increasing cult activities in the community. 