Scores of Offa people in Offa, Offa local government area of Kwara state have urged Governor Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq to have another shot at the seat of power in 2023. The Governor’s second term endorsement came from the Offa monarch, market women and artisans. They hinged their decision on what they called the impressive performance of AbdulRazaq in the last two years. The people expressed their total support for last week’s endorsement of AbdulRazaq for the second term by the Olofa of Offa, Oba Mufutau Gbadamosi. Describing Abdulrazaq as a goal-getter, the people said the difference in the development in the state is very clear compared with what used to obtain in the past. They said this at a town hall meeting which had critical stakeholders in the affairs of Offa including representatives of Olofa, the Chief Imam of Offa, Christians Association of Nigeria( CAN) and Muslim leaders, youths as well as the business community in attendance. APC chairman in Offa local government Abdullateef Afolayan fired the first salvo, saying that, “come 2023, there’s no vacancy in Kwara Government House as we are determined as a people to return Governor Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq for a second term in office.” Afolayan’s declaration was greeted with ecstasy by Deputy Governor Kayode Alabi, the Special Advisers on Political, Political Communication and Strategy, Gidado Alakawa, Bashir Adigun and Sa’adu Salau, who graced the event. Speaking on behalf of Oba Gbadamosi, Asalofa of Offa, Alhaji Isiaka Shittu said that ongoing development efforts in the state by the governor, especially in Offa town should be commended. He listed renovation of the Offa general hospital, rehabilitation of Offa roads and Offa waterworks as some of the areas where the governor had impacted on the lives of the town. Iyaloja of Offa Alhaja Idiat Yesuf said that the people know the level of development which the present administration has achieved since assumption of office, commended the governor for financial empowerment, traders money, to support traders in the state. She said that Offa women backed the endorsement of the governor by the Olofa, “because, we know how the present administration met Kwara and how it is today” APC women leader in Offa, Alhaja Folake Shittu also canvassed support for governor’s second term in office, noting AbdulRazaq’s promotion of women inclusion in government.”