  President Muhammadu Buhari’s Senior Special Assistant (SSA) on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, was a guest on Arise TV during the week and, as was expected, tried valiantly to simplify the workings of the presidency. Many critics have noted that the president has seldom been as forthcoming on his policies as many expect; so he does it by proxy. But the rationale behind that style continues to divide Nigerians. There are those who think that the president is not the most natural of orators in the country, so it would be reckless to thrust him before a television camera. Others say that he would not speak extempore, no, not by a long shot. They make particular reference to when the president was asked his plans for inclusive governance and he laboured through it. They also make reference to when he waxed memorably lyrical on his wife’s spousal responsibility, declaring that it was limited to the kitchen and the other room. The president himself will remember those outings, and he will not be keen to play any more media outings by ear. He will, therefore, only grant interviews by proxy; and on the rare occasions he appears himself, it is to read a prepared statement and watch amused as Nigerians split hairs. But what is to be made of his retinue of misfiring spokesmen, and in recent times, his SSA? For a long time, the president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, was always in the news for his caustic and incendiary media excursions. Perhaps time has blunted his pungency; howbeit he has learnt to select his moments. Mr Shehu has not. So exasperating were his biting media exertions that he earned himself a telling off from the repertoire of an angry Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State who has recently tapped into a rich vein of political and administrative form. After the Asaba Declaration issued by a consensus of 17 southern governors, a matter close to Governor Akeredolu’s heart, silence reigned in Aso Rock as the presidency, shocked, pondered the administrative force of southern Nigeria with regard to the ban on open grazing. Then Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, always venturesome, embarked on a confounding interpretation of the constitution that earned him such public opprobrium that he retreated to think the matter over for a while. Finding nothing to learn from the AGF’s intervention on such a sensitive issue, Mr Shehu sauntered in and offered his unsolicited prejudice on the matter. He said: “It is very clear that there was no solution offered from their (the Governors’) resolutions to the herder-farmer clashes that have been continuing in our country for generations. But the citizens of the Southern States – indeed citizens of all States of Nigeria – have a right to expect their elected leaders and representatives to find answers to challenges of governance and rights, and not to wash their hands off hard choices by, instead, issuing bans that say: ‘not in my State’. It is equally true that their announcement is of questionable legality, given the Constitutional right of all Nigerians to enjoy the same rights and freedoms within every one of our 36 states (and FCT) – regardless of the state of their birth or residence.” For Mr Shehu’s troubles, Governor Akeredolu reminded him that he was but a political appointee and that he could not presume to superimpose his suggestions over the affirmative desires of elected representatives of the people. His words: “Anyone who has been following the utterances of this man, as well as his fellow travellers on the self-deluding, mendacious but potentially dangerous itinerary to anarchy, cannot but conclude that he works, assiduously, for extraneous interests whose game plan stands at variance with the expectations of genuine lovers of peaceful coexistence among all the peoples whose ethnic extractions are indigenous to Nigeria… The declaration that the recommendations of the Minister of Agriculture, Alhaji Sabo Nanono, a mere political appointee like Garba Shehu, are now the ‘lasting solutions’ which eluded all the elected representatives of the people of the Southern part of the country, exposes this man as a pitiable messenger who does not seem to understand the limits of his relevance and charge.” That should have been just that for the errant spokesman; but he would soon appear in the media again, this time to give vent to information he was not even sure of. He was neither under duress nor was he subpoenaed. Indeed, he was under no compulsion whatsoever when asked why the president was absent from the burial of the former Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, who died in a tragic aircraft crash. It is unclear whether Mr Shehu was sensitive to the issue (some Nigerians think the devil is in the detail concerning the crash), or he was simply blasé and could not be bothered about anything, but he answered anyway. Never had a political appointee’s statement been more designed for self-harm.  Said he: “I was in Europe myself on an assignment and I have not spoken to the President on this matter. But let me give you just one example. The President is somebody who is very concerned about the safety and wellbeing of ordinary Nigerians on the streets. Do you know why he now prays his Jumaat in the State House and doesn’t go to the National Mosque? It’s because he doesn’t like this idea of closing roads, security men molesting people on the road for the President to have the right of way. These are small things to many people but they are important for President Buhari. So, it is a mourning situation and the President didn’t want to take away attention from that.” If a president’s mere presence in the streets renders the populace unsafe, does it mean he has become a security threat? If his presence is an inconvenience or an avenue for molestation, then he is a bother, perhaps? Where the president is a self-declared problem, there are several solutions, but the least prudent one is hermitage – a reflection of the severance policy of the current administration. Amputating a leg for a scratch is archaic medical practice, and there is hardly any desirability of the same treatment regimen in politicking. That was the SSA’s excuse, however. Mr Shehu must learn the discretion that every media aide needs to be successful at their jobs. His job is already made unfathomably difficult by the president’s reclusiveness and taciturnity. But, it is in tough situations that a man’s mettle is known. The SSA is starting to unravel at the seams, except his provocative statements represent the genuine interests of his principal. That would indeed be bewildering.   During a weekly briefing organised by the Presidential Communications Team last week, Acting Inspector General of Police (IGP), Usman Baba Alkali, complained that the police were weakened since the EndSARS protests which led to a drop in police morale and the disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and formation of Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT). He is right, but his summation of the police’s woes can be misleading. Truth is a concept that is often subject to the speaker’s vantage point; but a public official occupying such a critical office as the IGP’s is expected to have a panoramic appreciation of the police’s woes. If his narrative is left unchecked, it will create a false trail that conveniently exculpates the police and lays the blame on a section of the populace that was legitimately and almost exuberantly afraid for its life. In a word, the truth can only be established by a careful deconstruction of facts till the first cause of an issue is identified. According to the IGP: “The morale of our personnel has been a little bit dampened since the ENDSARS came and went away. With the proscription of SARS and the establishment of SWAT, which has not been able to take off fully, we had a vacuum in tackling most of the violent crimes from a position of strength in terms of having a strike force that is dedicated for that, rather than having our conventional police doing the policing in conventional way.” Evading the causative factors of an issue and blaming an effect of that issue on another resulting effect does not help in solving the problem – something the IGP seems geared to do. For years, Nigerians complained about the oppressiveness of the police force, particularly the disbanded SARS which was accused of several abuses of human rights and violation of the constitution. It would be even wrong to identify this as the first cause of the problem. The root cause of the police’s woes was probably poor management occasioned by a fundamentally flawed organisational structure. Indeed, the IGP touched on the issue of state police, but only in passing, and that was as an effect of the weakening of the police force. After the removal of former IGP, Mohammed Adamu, one of the hopes Nigerians expressed was that his replacement would be able to marshal his forces together, understand accurately their needs, and give the sort of leadership that would occasion a better and safer work experience for the policemen in the country. Unfortunately, the new IGP may have glossed over that point. Even when his much-desired SWAT becomes fully operational, the current administrative structure of the police force and their penchant for lawlessness in the defence and execution of the law will probably come back to haunt them. He must remember that police brutality caused the EndSARS protests in the first place. The police brutality itself was a result of underlying issues that he must identify. Not all the tweaking of the police force and its component units will help the police force in the long run – except the IGP can employ the disquisitional savvy necessary to address issues weakening the police force he heads if the chickens are not to always come home to roost.