Nollywood actress Regina Daniels is super ecstatic as her adorable 10- month old son, Munir Nwoko, may have just indirectly revealed his career. She welcomed her first child with billionaire husband Ned Nwoko on June 29, 2020. In a new video shared on her Instagram page to mark “Children’s Day”, the screen star noted her son behaviour reveals what he’s going to be in the future. The video displays the actress’ husband using his hand to place a blue ball close to their son’s feet. However, each time he did that, young Munir kicked the ball back to his father rather than his hand. Electrified by the act of their son, Regina Daniels noted she does not mind watching the video for a long time. The video post had the caption: “I can’t help loving and watching this video a thousand times Guess our little boy @princemunirnwoko is indirectly telling us his career. @princenednwoko.” Social media users have taken to the comment section to react to video as they express their adoration for her son. A couple of persons have said little Munir will be a great footballer. Others have used the opportunity to hail the billionaire father noting that he is a remarkable dad. Pengfin wrote: “Awwnn he is so cute and grown,God bless and keep you and your baby boy.” 4tuneblog9ja said: “Such a great shooter.” Ogochithelma tweeted: “This is so beautiful to watch, lord may I smile this way over my own children amen.” baby_zina_ stated: “He’s going to be a legend in the history of footballer.” naomiedith89gmail.com6 wrote: “This so sweet I must say.very smart boy you’ve got here Regi love keep it up.” the_realabigail said: “Awwwn he’s a genius.” Ewheroroma tweeted: “I love this video so much, munir is trying to take the place of Okocha or Ronaldo love you moon.” kbaryens wrote: “OK this is so cute I smiled watching him kick the ball and wen he scored I clapped oohhh so adorable.” ibrahim.saheeda stated: “Such a caring daddy infact ur marriage was destined by God is not by chance.” Abangafor wrote: “Such a great father with patients.” babyl.ove78 said: “I can now see why she loves him so much…..how many of this generation husbands will be around let alone playing with thier kids. Awesome, Mr Ned Nwoko.” Egbooobianuju tweeted: “Wow.. wonderful. The man really cares. I love that.”