 There may not be a consensus on the gravity of the ailments currently plaguing the country. But, everyone seems to be united on the realisation that the nation is ailing. Also, there is a general understanding that the nation’s ailments require urgent pragmatic attention, but without an agreement on what mode it should take. While some have suggested a fundamental re-ordering of the nation’s structure in the form of restructuring, others want the retention of the status quo, but with minor tinkering here and there. The 17 governors of the Southern states rose from a meeting in Asaba, Delta State on May 11 to add their voices to the debate on how to fix the country. Besides stressing the need for restructuring, they also urged the President to provide a platform for national discuss on the way forward. Although some voices from the northern part of the country have since risen to counter the positions canvassed by the Southern governors, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum (PDPGF) met in Ibadan, Oyo State on May 17 to call for devolution of more powers to the states. In the communique issued at the end of the meeting, read by the forum’s Chairman and Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, the meeting urged President Muhammadu Buhari, “as the Chief Executive Officer of Nigeria and Commander in Chief of Nigerian Armed Forces to immediately send an Executive Bill to the National Assembly to amend the Nigerian Constitution to devolve more powers to the States with respect to security arrangements culminating in some form of State Policing and the general security architecture. “The meeting supports the earlier position taken by the Nigeria Governors Forum, Northern Governors Forum and recently by the Southern Governors Forum to adopt ranching as the most viable solution to the herders / farmers clashes in Nigeria; the restructuring of the Nigerian federation to devolve more powers and functions to the States; and reform of various civil institutions to achieve efficiency and equity for all sections of Nigeria.” The May 17 meeting was the second of such gathering, in recent time, by the PDPGF for the purpose of suggesting ways to address the nation’s many challenges, the first being on April 10, 2021 in Makurdi, Benue State.  Jonathan, Atiku challenge While many other groups and individuals are also making suggestions on the best way to go, a former President, Goodluck Jonathan intervened last week, arguing among others, that it was unhelpful for the governors to be working in silos, when they could easily achieve a lot by working as a group. Identifying the potentials of a united NGF at this trying time, Jonathan threw a challenge to the governors to lead the way in steering the nation’s ship away from the current turbulent course. Jonthan, who spoke during a recent visit to Benin, Edo State, said: “Governors themselves should continue to meet. I don’t really love a situation where the Northern governors will meet and then, the Southern governors will cry foul; then the Southern governors will meet then, the Northern governors will cry foul, that will not help our country. “The governors, through the Governors’ forum, should meet; they are the people, who run this country, the President is just one person in Abuja. The states, especially in a country where the local governments are very weak, it’s the states that people fall back to. So if the governors of the states meet and dialogue, interrogate things that are good for this country, then we will move forward.” Also, a former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar urged the governors to work in harmony and take the bull by the horn in evolving ways to salvage the country without necessarily waiting for a reluctant President. He told the governors to “forget about your party. Forget about your tribe. Respect your religion and allow it to bring out the better part of you. Meet together. Talk together. Come up with the solutions to all our collective challenges. And then go back to your states, and consult with your federal and state legislators, with a view to getting them to work with their colleagues to implement the solutions you came up with. That is how to save Nigeria. “To keep waiting for this Federal Government to take the lead and effect the changes that Nigeria needs to stop drifting, is to keep waiting for Godot. And that is a luxury we cannot afford.”  National unity A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Sebastine Hon expressed doubt that members of the NGF would be will and ready to cast aside their primordial differences to act in unison in the interest of a fast drifting nation. Hon said he barely shares the optimism of Jonathan and Atiku, because with the way things are, it would not be easy to assemble all members of the NGF together to agree to take common position on the challenges facing the nation, “since history has shown that the far north is vociferously opposed to any form of restructuring.”  He added: “we must be realistic enough to know that we are in this mess due largely to the activities of herders, who we all know are from the north. There is enough evidence to show that many governors from the north are either in support of the criminal activities of those herders, or they are too afraid to condemn them, or they care the least. “Even though Nigeria is one indivisible entity, we will only be playing the ostrich if we assume or posit that there is no north-south divide. On the other hand, I mildly agree with the ex-President that all the Governors sitting together may bring out solutions. But as I stated above, this is a tall dream, given the realities on the ground.”  Can NGF lead the way? Although members of the NGF have not always agreed all issues, they have in most, cases built consensus around contending issues and worked as a team to address such issues. Instances abound where all the governors have collaborated and worked hand in gloves to address a challenge. A ready example exist in the manner the governors agreed to all work to combat the problem of gender based violence. Mid last year, following the outrage expressed by groups and individuals over the increase in cases of rape and domestic violence, members of the NGF, at a meeting on June 10, 2020 unanimously agreed to declare a state of emergency on gender based violence. They followed up with a resolution for every state to enact laws, in the form of the Violence Against Persons (Prohibition) Act, to punish culprits of rape and other forms of domestic violence. The NGF’s approach to the gender based violence crisis was well applauded both within and without the country, with international agencies like the United Nations (UN) and the European Union (EU), at a meeting held on July 15, 2020 at the UN building in Abuja, particularly commending the NGF’s bold move on the issue. The NGF played a critical role in the handling of the coronavirus pandemic with its disruptive effects on global activities. At that critical time, members of the NGF spoke with one voice and acted as one. With their cooperation, the nation was able to overcome the challenge of COVID-19 with minimal bruises. NGF’s Director General, Asishana Okauru noted this point during a recent outing, when he observed that the COVID-19 threat afforded the 36 governors the opportunity to work in synergy. The governors have equally demonstrated their ability to work in synergy in the manner they have so far handled the issue of financial autonomy for the Legislature and Judiciary at the state level, and the accompanying Executive Order 10. While they are unanimous in querying the constitutionality of the Executive Order, which they have since challenged in court, the governors have emphasised the need to comply with autonomy provided for in Section 121(3) of the Constitution.  Why NGF as catalyst for national cohesion It is this same spirit of camaraderie that people like ex-President Jonathan, former Vice President Atiku and others want the governors to exhibit once again, particularly in this trying time in the life of the nation. As argued by many, members of the NGF have no option this time and lacked the luxury of looking the other way, but to accept the challenge thrown at them by these eminent Nigerians, who believe they have the capacity to proffer solutions to the nation’s many ills, because the country is at its crunch time. They further argued that the governors need to realise that the nation must first be salvaged before there can be states for them to preside over as governors. And, must therefore rise above clannish tendencies and confront the threat to our collective existence as a nation. 