Ebonyi State Government and the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) have directed the shutdown of illegal motor parks in Abakaliki, the capital. They said the closure, which is with immediate effect, is to check movement of arms and ammunition as well as a precautionary measure. Commissioner for Capital Territory Development Onyekachi Nwebonyi and the Chairman of NURTW, Anthony Oko Ewa, announced the ban on Tuesday in a statement in Abakaliki They said loading and offloading of commercial vehicles in the capital should take place at approved motor parks. They said: “In view of the rising insecurity in the country, the Ministry of Capital City Development has directed that loading and offloading of vehicles in Abakaliki should only take place at approved public and private motor parks. “This is to check movement of arms and ammunition, as well as criminals in and out of the state, as undercover security and precautionary measures are being put in place to avert further security breaches. “As a result, illegal and private motor parks not approved by the Ministry of Capital City Development are hereby closed.” The duo warned motorists and travellers to adhere to the directive, as anyone found contravening the order will be treated as a security threat and will be prosecuted. “Passengers boarding commercial vehicles or alighting from such vehicles at unauthorised places, that is, any place other than the approved public and private parks, will be arrested with the drivers,” they said. They announced the ban on parking of vehicles along major roads in the city, which include Afikpo Road, Ogoja Road, Waterworks Road, Nkaliki Road and Enugu-Abakaliki-Ogoja Expressway. “Any vehicle parked along the aforementioned roads, whether serviceable or unserviceable, will be confiscated by the Ministry of Capital City Development and the owners will be prosecuted.” They said tippers and heavy duty vehicles have their park at Ochudo Centenary City, opposite Margaret Umahi International Market, Abakaliki and also a mega park beside Akanu Ibiam Flyover (Spera In Deo), Abakaliki.