The Federal Government has said the implementation of financial autonomy for state legislature and judiciary would commence next week. Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, disclosed this on Thursday after a conciliation meeting to resolve the strike of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria (JUSUN) and Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN). In a statement by the Deputy Director, Press and Public Relations, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Charles Akpan, Ngige said the striking legislative and judiciary workers would  call off their prolonged strike as soon as implementation starts. This is just as the Presidency commended Ngige for the “swift resolution of the devastating labour crisis that engulfed Kaduna State between Monday , May 17 and Wednesday, May 19, 2012.” The Presidency described Ngige as an “excellent labour administrator whose wealth of experience and versatile  knowledge of governance at different tiers and arms of government, immensely contributed to the deft resolution  of the complex issues, involved in the autonomy for the legislature and judiciary.” The presidency’s praise on Ngige was delivered by Secretary of the Presidential Implementation Committee on the Autonomy of the Judiciary and Legislature and Senior Special Assistant to the President on Nigeria Delta Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, at Thursday’s meeting. Enang said: “Let me congratulate you for the manner you resolved the Kaduna labour crisis without causing harm to both sides. We know what it was for three days. I had the opportunity of  being around and have seen what you have done. “I think it is one of the greatest things you have been able to do lately. This is because in the history of this country,  labour has never marched on one state with the weight it marched on Kaduna. But you settled it and every party is now happy.” Speaking on  the resolution of challenges of autonomy for state legislature and the judiciary, he revealed that  the minister made his deep wealth of knowledge and experience  available for the committee to draw from. Ngige said  the parties signed a document containing the framework for each of the state governments to grant autonomy to their legislature and judiciary. He noted that  governors had studied the document and were in agreement with it, adding that the implementation would commence next week with the distribution of the April allocation from the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC).