Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu has extolled Total Exploration and Production (EP), Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and their partners, Sapetro, CNOOC and Prime for donation of a medical oxygen plant to the state. The Governor expressed excitement at the facility, which has the capacity to produce a hundred bottles of oxygen per day, noting it was the biggest of such plant to be commissioned in the State. The facility, which was commissioned by Sanwo-Olu, is sited at the Gbagada General Hospital, Gbagada, Lagos State. “I also want to commend Total/NNPC and their partners for putting together this Oxygen plant here. I have been informed that this facility has the capacity to produce a hundred bottles of oxygen per day, it is much bigger than the one commissioned earlier on. Total and its partners deserve a round of applause. “I want to put it on record that we continue to acknowledge all the various support that we have received from Total. I am aware that at the height of the Covid-19, when we were high on the storm, a lot of resources were also supplied and donated by Total Nigeria; both PLC and Total Upstream. Thank you very much,” Sanwo-Olu said at the handover of the plant. Managing Director, Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Mr. Mike Sangster, who was represented by the Deputy Managing Director, Deep Water, Mr. Victor Bandele, highlighted why Total and its partners embarked on the project. “The Covid-19 pandemic simply made an already bad situation much worse. As the number of cases spiked with Lagos as epicenter, we decided that building and donating a medical oxygen plant would not only help improve the state’s capacity to care for Covid-19 patients but could further strengthen Lagos’s ability to manage other conditions associated with oxygen deficiency. “So, in collaboration with the Lagos Ministry of Health and our partners- NNPC, CNOOC, SAPETRO, and PRIME 130, we decided to build and donate this medical oxygen plant to help meet some of our medical oxygen needs in the state. We believe that this facility would be useful even beyond the COVID-19 pandemic,” Sangster said. Group General Manager NAPIMS, who was represented by the General Manager Services, Mr. Yunusa Yahaya Jibril, said the NNPC had brought together all stakeholders in the industry to collaborate in the fight against the pandemic with the country as a constituency not just operational areas of the oil companies, in the fight against the pandemic. He urged the custodians of the oxygen plant to maximise the use of the facility for the benefit of the people.