The crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Bayelsa State on Wednesday deepened with the Ebierien Fala Itubor-led faction opening a new secretariat in the state capital. The faction accused Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Chief Timipre Sylva, of allegedly failing in his leadership role. The parallel secretariat is located at the Dimrose junction and occupies a building used by former Minister of State for Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Heineken Lokpobiri, during his quest to win the governorship ticket of the party in 2019. The APC secretariat is located at Bay Bridge area and occupies a building allegedly acquired by Timipre Sylva while he was Governor. But loyalists of Sylva, under the auspices of Timipre Sylva Supreme Ambassadors from Sagbama Local Government Area led by Comrade Ebikewenemor Romeo, dismissed the claim against Sylva, insisting there was no faction in Bayelsa APC. The Organising Secretary, Comrade Tari Emperi, said Sylva had proved himself as a credible leader that accommodates all party members. He described him as a performing Minister that had attracted more development to the state despite his party affiliation. He said the party was more united than before under Sylva despite the frivolous claims of the faction. But it was gathered the decision to open the parallel secretariat had exposed the anger among stakeholders against the leadership style of Sylva. It was also gathered most prominent stakeholders in the party including Senator Lokpobiri, Chief David Lyon and many others had resolved to confront Sylva over control of the party. They alleged the leadership style Sylva was driving away party members into the ruling Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP), including the recent defection of the APC Assembly member, Hon. Daniel Charles. They also claimed Sylva had failed to call a stakeholders’ meeting to resolve issues that arose from the last governorship election and had allegedly neglected the party as well as engaging in anti-party activities with the alleged negotiation of the party’s 2020 governorship victory away to the PDP. It was further gathered the decision by the Itubor-led faction came a few days after they wrote a letter to Governor Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee that the gale of defections of party members to the PDP could only be halted by genuine reconciliation. A close aide of the factional chairman of the APC, who pleaded anonymity, claimed some party members were angry with Sylva because of his alleged refusal to call an enlarged meeting of stakeholders to discuss the outcome of the 2020 governorship election. He equally claimed Sylva stopped his handpicked factional chairman Jothan Amos not to call for state executive council meetings, among other allegations.