 Expand Global Industries Limited (EGIL), a subsidiary of Henkel, has reaffirmed that leveraging the health and safety of its workers is central to the sustainability of its business. During a tour of the firm, its Human Resources Manager, Aliyu Jubril, said commitment to safety is an integral part of the company’s corporate culture for decades. “Henkel through EGIL has continuously invested in the improvement of the production tools and the Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) standards through the management, design, and operation of its facilities to maximise safety. “Regular and comprehensive training courses are held multiple times a year at all sites to ensure employees perform their duties safely and responsibly and they are provided with all the necessary personal protective equipment as they operate under close supervision. “The company has established a fully equipped medical clinic, manned by a qualified doctor and trained nurses, that is accessible to all staff on-site, including third-party workers with annual medical check-ups provided,” he said. Jubril boasted that since Henkel acquired EGIL in 2016, the company has been contributing to satisfy the local demand for products that combine high performance, reliability, and quality. He said: “EGIL provides thousands of jobs across the country with an estimated contribution of around 5,000 direct and indirect jobs in Nigeria. It generates direct employment for more than 1,000 people in the Ibadan plant. “Additionally, a growing industrial ecosystem comprising of local toll manufacturers and suppliers supports the daily operations such as raw material sourcing, packaging, transportation, trade marketing, and others, thus, contributing to the economy locally while satisfying the domestic demand for products. “A part of the WaW and Nittol range of detergents and bar soaps manufacturers’ long-term commitment to social progress is the health and preventive care programmes applied to safeguard against workplace and general health risks, and a comprehensive package provided to its employees. “EGIL is committed to complying with the various Nigerian Labour and Workplace Health and Safety laws by providing a safe working environment for our employees, third-party workers, and contractors by establishing a fully equipped medical clinic, manned by a qualified doctor and trained nurses. “Aside from safety, Henkel and its subsidiaries promote economic and social development through several roles as a local employer, purchaser, and investor. In Nigeria, through shared value, it fosters the responsible economic activity of both its employees and customers,” he said. 