 The Conference of Speakers of Southwest states legislatures yesterday called for a state policing and regional security summit to be convened by the Southwest state governors to proffer a practical way out of the present insecurity in the zone. Additionally, the speakers want the governors to jointly procure, at least, three security helicopters and drones for aerial surveillance of the region. These are part of the resolutions reached by the Speakers and majority leaders of the state Houses of Assembly in the region during a meeting which was held at Golden Tulip Hotel, Jericho, Ibadan. The Speakers and majority leaders of the state Houses of Assembly in the Southwest states, under the auspices of Conference of Speakers of Southwest States Legislatures, held the meeting to brainstorm on issues they said are affecting the peace and progress of the region. Issues bothering on security situation of the region, activities of the Western Nigeria Security Network (codenamed Operation Amotekun), financial autonomy for state legislature and judiciary as it relates to the ongoing strike of workers in the two arms of government, state policing and the impact of DAWN Commission were critically discussed and deliberated upon by the Conference.  The Chairman, Conference of Speakers of Southwest States Legislatures, Bamidele Oleyelogun, who is also the Speaker, Ondo State House of Assembly, chaired the meeting. In his opening remarks, the Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Adebo Ogundoyin, said the present state of insecurity in the country called for handing over control of the security apparatus to the state governors. In a remark, the Conference Chairman, Bamidele Oleyelogun, called on the federal government to rise and take concrete position by conveying a National Security Summit. In their separate remarks, Speakers Olakunle Oluomo (Ogun) and Funminiyi Afuye (Ekiti) called on the Southwest governors to be more assertive and take bold stances to protect the Southwest states, especially by empowering the forest guard. Speaking on behalf of the Forum of the Majority Leaders in the region, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade said the law of Amotekun should be strengthened to further comprise surveillance and give royal fathers a role to play in the issue of security. The Oyo State Chairman, Judiciary Staff Union (JUSUN), Comrade Kayode Martins, and the Zonal Vice President (Southwest), Parliamentary Staff Union (PASAN), Comrade Adu-Peters Olusegun, who were also in attendance, gave an update on the ongoing JUSUN and PASAN strike, while calling for the support of the lawmakers. The Director-General, Development Agenda for Western Nigeria (DAWN) Commission, Mr. Seye Oyeleye and some officials of the commission were also in attendance. Oyeleye wo briefed the lawmakers on the activities of the Commission and the plans ahead, appealed to the Speakers to impress upon the Office of the National Security Adviser (ONSA) the need not to play politics with security by granting permission to start governors to be able to deploy and fly drones for security surveillance of their states across the country. A communique presented at the end of the meeting by the Conference Chairman “charged the members of the forum to further strengthen cooperation in the Southwest states Houses of Assembly.” 