Leader of Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) Nnamdi Kanu has slammed Kelechi Iheanacho, Wilfred Ndidi for celebrating with the Nigerian flag after Leicester City defeated Chelsea to clinch the FA Cup over the weekend. The Nation reports Leicester City clinched their first FA Cup title in over 100 years of the club’s history. The attack drew the ire of some Nigerians who expressed disappointment over his comment. The duo of Iheanacho and Ndidi were spotted celebrating their victory with the Nigerian flag. The show of affection for the Nigerian flag by the Super Eagles players gathered massive attention on social media. But displeased Kanu, gave an example of Spaniard Gerard Pique who has been campaigning for Catalonia freedom from Spain, pointing out that the duo should follow Pique’s example. Iheanacho and Ndidi are both from the south-eastern part of the country. “Gerard Pique is a World Cup winner with over 103 caps for Spain. He never turned his back against Catalonia freedom. Severally, he has shown open support for Catalan freedom,” Kanu wrote. “But our Iheanacho & Ndidi with #Zoo flag? Shame! Difference btw White man & his Black counterparts.”  A Twitter user, Ekechukwu said, “Do what you must do and leave this footballers out of it. If you did follow them you see that they sing, communicate and promote the Igbo culture. Southern and some part of northern Nigeria supported them yesterday. They were only showing appreciation. Leave them out!” Adetola Abraham in his own reaction said, “Both senior man Kelz and Ndidi are members of the super eagles of Nigeria’s squad. The state of Biafra isn’t sovereign, recognised or known. “As for Catalonia, they have their own flag as a state; Pique raising that flag doesn’t mean he supports secession.” Ruth Madaki said, “Can they shine in peace please? Biafra no join them play match. They can choose to celebrate how they want to after all na their personal victory. May God give them even greater career success.” Igwe Chinonso argued “As if Kelechi Ịheanachọ and Ndidi are using Biafran passports to fly. For now, they are using Nigerian passports. This is not the best way to congratulate your heroes. They rep Igbo right from their names and the punctuations therein.”