 Capital market regulators are reviewing the rules to identify loopholes and prevent insiders and their related persons from taking undue advantage of the market and the investing public. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Nigeria’s apex capital market regulator, and the NGX Regulation Limited are reviewing  the rules to align them with realities and strengthened the regulatory frameworks against abuses. The NGX Regulation Limited is the new entity that took over the self-regulatory functions of the defunct Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) after the demutualisation of the NSE. The reviews and amendments include areas such as fairness and equitable treatment in material corporate changes such as mergers and acquisitions, corporate restructuring, spin-off, possession and trading on price-sensitive information, takeovers, consolidation and corporate split. The proposed amendments on material corporate changes come as Nigeria’s largest financial institutions seek major restructurings that may include mergers, acquisition, share reconstruction, spin-off and split-off among others. Many pundits see mergers, acquisitions and corporate restructuring as major themes for the highly influential financial services industry. Regulatory documents showed that while the NGX Regulation has started the implementation of amended rules on disclosures and restriction of trading by insiders with price-sensitive information, SEC has started the process for a material amendment of its rules and regulations to further ensure fair and equitable dealings and further hold insiders and major investors to best practices. The proposed amendments undergoing rule-making seek to widen the  coverage and clarity of regulations around major corporate changes while also vesting the regulatory authorities with independent vetting powers on fairness and equitable, beyond the advisory provided by relevant capital market operators. The amendments, particularly seek to block abuses and tighten regulations around the conversion of a public company or the reconstruction of its shares, a carve-out, spin-off, split-off or other restructuring of its operations and the acquisition or disposal of asset which results in a significant change in the business direction or policy of a public company or any other listed entity whether or not in relation to any proposal, scheme, transaction, arrangement or activity. They also improve regulations around divestments by companies and insiders’ roles in the processes. Under the proposed amendments, the approval of SEC “shall be obtained prior to undertaking a proposal, scheme, transaction, arrangement, or activity or issue of securities or offer for subscription or purchase of securities in relation to the conversion of a public company or the reconstruction of its shares; a carve-out, spin-off, split-off or other form of restructuring of the operations of a public company, the acquisition or disposal of the assets, business, subsidiaries, shares or other significant property of a public company which results in a material change in the business direction or policy of a public company or any other listed entity  whether or not in relation to any proposal, scheme, transaction, arrangement or activity and an amalgamation, merger or business combination involving a public company”. In a move that seeks to address the concerns of investing public and increase protection for minority shareholders, the proposed amendments place relevant approval for mergers, acquisition or corporate restructurings on the condition that the SEC is satisfied that “all shareholders are fairly, equitably and similarly treated and given sufficient information regarding the transaction”. The amendments also place the “obligation to obtain the approval of the Commission” in relation to such transactions on “the public company involved in the transaction”, which brings the company into the onus of responsibility alongside any engaged professional parties. Under the proposed rules, every public company shall notify the Commission prior to the disposal of a controlling stake or material assets of the public company. An asset will be regarded as material if its value constitutes 15 per cent of the total assets of the company or constitutes a business line. Besides, SEC may also decline request for exemption from making mandatory takeover bid or mandatory tender offer (MTO) by major investors that had acquired sizeable shares of a company. Section 131 of the Investment and Securities Act (ISA) and Rule 445 of SEC make it mandatory for any institution or person that acquires at least 30 per cent of a company to make an MTO to other minority shareholders. There are however exemptions in few instances. With the proposed new rules, SEC shall “consider the intent of the parties and trend of events” in granting any application for exemptions from MTO and “may decline the application of an exemption where it is determined that the transaction has been deliberately structured to avoid making a takeover bid”. New rules at the NGX disallow any company from suspending or postponing its “closed period” after it has announced such period. A “closed period” is a length of days prior to disclosure and assimilation of price-sensitive information known by insiders to the general investing public. Insiders are not allowed to trade on the company’s shares and other securities and products during the closed period. While the rules allow the NGX to permit certain trading relating to execution of transactions pursuant to statutory or regulatory obligations or court orders, stock options under a pre-existing employee stock option scheme and large volume trades or block divestments between insiders only, the Exchange “may refuse to grant approval for trading during a closed period, where it considers that such a trade if allowed will interfere with the fair and orderly functioning of its market”. The rationale for this is that the period prior to declaration of price-sensitive information is particularly sensitive for transactions, due to the fact that the insiders will, during that period, often possess unpublished price sensitive information. Providing justification for review of rules and amendments, SEC stated that the proposed amendments were pursuant to its mandates to ensure the protection of investors, as well as maintain fair, efficient and transparent markets. “In fulfilling these mandates, the SEC has a role to determine whether all shareholders are fairly, equitably and similarly treated and given sufficient information regarding the business combination or corporate restructuring involving public companies and its subsidiaries,” SEC stated. According to the Commission, the proposed rules are also intended to ensure that investors receive the financial information necessary to understand the potential effects of significant acquisitions or dispositions. Section 315 of the Investments and Securities Act, No. 29, 2007 (ISA), describes an insider as any person who is or is connected with the company in one or more capacities as a director of the company or a related company; an officer of the company or a related company; an employer of the company or a related company; an employee of the company, involved in a professional or business relationship to the company; any shareholder of the company who owns five per cent or more of any class of securities or any person who is or can be deemed to have any relationship with the company or member and members of audit committee of a company. The section also included insiders as any of the persons listed above who by virtue of having been connected with any such person or connected with the company in any other way, possesses unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the securities of the company, and any reference to unpublished price sensitive information in relation to any securities of a company is a reference to information which relates to specific matters relating or of concern, directly or indirectly, to that company, that is, is not of a general nature relating or of concern to that company; and is not generally known to those persons who are accustomed to or would be likely to deal in those securities but which would, if it were generally known to them be likely materially to affect the price of those securities. Also, Rule 400(3) of the SEC Consolidated Rules, 2013 and the Listing Requirements: Section B – Definitions of the Rulebook of the Exchange, 2015 describe an insider as an individual who is connected with the company during the preceding six months in one of the capacities as a director of the company or a related company, an officer of the company or a related company, an employee of the company or a related company, a person involved in a professional or business relationship with the company as above, a shareholder who owns five per cent or more of any class of securities or any person who can be deemed to be an agent of any of the above listed persons and members of the audit committee. Rule 400(3) of the SEC Consolidated Rules, 2013 and the Listing Requirements: Section B – Definitions of the Rulebook of the Exchange, 2015 also include insider as any person who by virtue of having been connected with the company as mentioned above and has obtained unpublished price sensitive information in relation to the securities of the company.  