 SIR: Nigeria our country as it is today is now on the road full of thorns.  Expulsion and displacements of people and the possibility of war can be an harrowing experience hardly forgotten by those who may have experienced same in a country they grew up in, in a community they took as their homeland. We must confess that nothing seems to be moving or clearly seen to be changing anymore. President Muhammadu Buhari is largely missing and it is difficult to trust those who are speaking for him if truly they are speaking his mind. The gaps in information dissemination are visibly in the open. It is therefore imperative for the president himself to show more interest in communicating one on one with Nigerians who he claimed to be representing  The recent meeting of the southern governors is needful and timely, more so when altercations of tongues rules the waves  Their call for true federalism and restructuring gladdens our hearts and their suggestions are not new  but an added voice to what can help bring peace to our nation. It is not out of place to clamour for justice, fairness and equity for all federating units in any nation.  Uneven standards, terrorism from one section of our country and other social vices including corruption are prominent under President Buhari’s administration. Any leader or leaders thinking that the calls are mere expressions of opinions should have their heads examined The call for national dialogue amongst others must not be delayed – we repeat. Such a dialogue must be arranged by government, funded by it, but not supervised by it . The inclusion of political office holders past and present must be absent.  It will be the duty of attendees from ethnic nationalities to put up a new constitution and spell out in it how we shall live together   This national dialogue is our last chance to save Nigeria as an indivisible nation in our own view. At this stage, we urge all agitators to redirect their efforts and make meaningful contributions that can move us away from secession.  We should sheath our swords while remaining ever vigilant. The killing of law officers especially the police and others must cease forthwith.  We do not agree with such barbarian behaviour. 