 There is a Yoruba proverb which when translated means, every day for the thief, a day for the owner. Until they are caught, criminals usually devise various means to outwit the owner of whatever they are stealing. Instead of backing off, repenting from their evil ways and sparing the owner of what they are stealing, there is always the temptation of doing it one more time until they are caught. Some think they are so smart, have perfected their criminal acts and covered their tracks only for the long arm of the law to catch up with them when they least expect. In a country like ours where anyone can just show up from nowhere and claim to be stupendously rich beyond comprehension, criminals have found a safe haven for their ill-gotten wealth. They sneak their ways into the social circles and we start reading about socialites we never knew of. They dole out some money for philanthropic gestures and we are all grateful to the kind-hearted fellow from ‘Mars’ They launch businesses with wide publicity and are projected as returnees from abroad who are very patriotic by investing at home to provide employment and other opportunities for Nigerians. Even when some of the businesses they are investing in don’t make economic sense and it is apparent that they are laundering their loot, we give them the benefit of doubt. Shouldn’t we be happy that they are back to help sustain our almost comatose economy instead of asking questions about what we didn’t lose as my people will say. Join politics, perhaps one of the most ‘legitimate’ ways to be reckoned with by those in power at all levels. They donate to parties, sponsor candidates, vie for office, get appointments and plot other shenanigans.  Some of them have been lucky to get elected into top political offices or appointed to protect themselves from possible prosecution if their past catches up with them. The criminals I am talking about are not only those from abroad, we have the locally bred ones who dupe people or steal government funds meant for development projects and siphon them abroad into foreign accounts, while those who the money is supposed to benefit are languishing in the country. The arrest of an aide of the Ogun State Governor, Abidemi Rufai who is charged in the United States with stealing more than $350,000 last year by filing fraudulent  unemployment claims with the Washington state Employment Security Department (ESD) using the identities of more than 100 Washingtonians is an example of how questionable the background of some personalities in and out of government are. Although he is yet to be found guilty, it is doubtful if he would  completely come clean of the allegations. While he is here giving the impression that he is an accomplished businessman who has made his money legitimately abroad, the case against him does not suggest so. Federal investigators reporters identified Rufai through a single Gmail account he used to file 102 claims for pandemic-related unemployment benefits from the ESD, as well as claims at programs in other states, according to the complaint. He reminds us of Ramon Olorunwa Abbas, popularly known as Hushpuppi who contrary to the false image of a successful businessman  he was projecting on social media was involved with his gang of committing fraud amounting to 1.6 billion dirham (N168bn) and scamming 1, 926, 400 victims. One can only hope that those still engaged in one criminal act or the other occupying top positions will learn from the experiences of those who have been caught. It’s up to them. If they don’t, sooner or later, they will be put where they rightly belong. 