Parents of 16 Greenfield University, Kaduna students left with abductors have appealed to the Federal Government to spare no cost to effect their rescue. They expressed fear over the safety of the remaining students following the release of one of them on Tuesday. The parents lamented the kidnappers were insisting on ransom of N100m, an amount they said is too much for them. One of the parents told The Nation: “We don’t know their health situation, we don’t know whether they are eating or they are not eating. We don’t know the treatment or maltreatment they are going through.” On the state of negotiation with the bandits, the parent said the bandits jettisoned the idea of individual negotiations since after the VOA interview. According to him: “You are a journalist and you are asking as if you have not heard what the bandits said on VOA yesterday (Monday). They have not changed their stand from what they said on VOA they are still insisting on N100 million ransom. “As it is now, we don’t know what to do, because we cannot raise such money as parents. ” So, we are calling on the government, we are begging that, they should do whatever it takes to rescue our children from the forest, from the bush, from the bandits where they have been for so many days now. “We are pleading with the government, particularly the Federal Government and well meaning Nigerians to please come to our aid, because that money they are calling, is way more than what we the parents can afford. “That is why we are calling on government, well meaning Nigerians, corporate bodies who can come under Corporate Social Responsibility to help free our children by meeting the demands of these people (bandits). “We are also calling on you the media to be in the fore of helping us to beg the government, especially the Federal Government to please come to our aid. We are really begging them, we really need their assistance. “Our children are law abiding Nigerians, so we beg the government to rescue its citizens from the bandits. That is our appeal.”