 The plan by Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to build a ‘befitting’ mansion as Governor’s Lodge in Asokoro, Abuja, at a princely N1.2 billion is another indication that many of those who found themselves on the seats of power were not really ready for the task of serving the people. At a time when most state governments are crying about paucity of funds for basic governance, it is shocking that a governor could make the construction of a gigantic edifice for personal fancy his priority. As a chieftain of the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Mr. Adebayo Adelabu reacted, a lot is required to put the educational institutions, health care facilities and other social services in line with the dictates of the twenty-first century. The pandemic that has gravely affected lives and livelihood in the world has exposed the poor state of facilities all over Nigeria, especially with regards to public hospitals, and Oyo State is not an exception. Yet, the state government chose to vote such a whopping amount for construction of a lodge in far-away Abuja. This amounts to taking the people for granted. Public fund is primarily for taking care of the needs of the majority – providing infrastructure, empowering the poor, plotting the way to a better future and ensuring security of lives and property, especially at a time when life has become cheap, short and brutish in the country. The state government’s response to Adelabu’s criticism is not good enough. Speaking through his chief press secretary, Mr. Taiwo Adisa, the governor sought to give the impression that sufficient fund had been allocated to provision of first class education and health facilities in the state. Nothing could be further from the truth as the state is as dependent on the little allocation accruing to it from the centre. If the state had sufficient fund, it should have allocated much more to economic projects that could boost its internally generated revenue than is the case at the moment. Governor Makinde should be prevailed upon to cease embarking on white elephant projects forthwith. He is a servant of the people and should seek their views on such matters.  Civil society organisations, traditional institutions and other citizen groups in the state should not leave the task of ensuring criticism of wrong moves in Oyo State to the opposition parties because it could then be lost in the usual brickbats that accompany partisan contestations. The same applies to the N100 billion bond being raised from the stock market. While loans are not strange to governance process, the purpose should be well stated and monitored by the people because succeeding administrations may have to service the loan to the detriment of public interest. Other states are known to toe the same line. While not embarking on projects immediately relevant to the needs of their states, they fritter scarce resources on expansive lifestyle of the governors. In moving about, they take along a long retinue of officials at a great cost to the state. Time is hardly regarded as a prime resource as many governors often relocate to the federal capital for endless meetings that add very little to development in the states. They seek to take up the running of party structure from apparatchiks who are more suited for the task. We call on Governor Makinde and others like him to sit up and face the task of governance squarely. They should realise that they received the mandate of the people based on promises presented during electioneering. They are not at liberty to indiscriminately change items of the manifesto already approved by the electorate. The rubber stamp state legislatures, too, should wake up to the task of keeping the executive arm in check, realising that if the people are aroused from their slumber, the political class would collectively be held to account.