 SIR: In a recent publication by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), the jobless rate in Nigeria rose to 33.3% in the three months before December. That’s up from 27.1% in the second quarter of 2020, the last period for which the agency released labor-force statistics. Nigeria’s jobless rate has more than quadrupled over the last five years as the economy went through two recessions. How to curb rising unemployment in the country remains a very topical issue since Nigeria’s return to constitutional democracy in 1999. Successive governments, especially at the federal level have introduced different programmes and initiatives to achieve this noble objective, yet the situation hasn’t yielded significant results as millions of our population are still without jobs. Like governments before it, the Buhari-led government introduced variants of Social Investment Programme as stop-gap. Undoubtedly, these efforts have helped a great deal in taking some Nigerians off the street, but there is still a lot more to do in this regards, especially as our population keeps growing exponentially. The question on the lips of many remains; how do we address the looming job crisis in Nigeria? This is where the National Sugar Development Council (NSDC) comes in. According to the executive secretary, NSDC, Zacch Adedeji, the nation’s sugar sub-sector has a lot to offer in terms of gainful employment and means of livelihood for Nigerians of all classes, levels and social stratification. To him, the sugar sector remains one of the many untapped goldmines in Nigeria, and that the sector is well positioned to provide direct and indirect jobs for millions of our country men and women. Today, the NSDC is currently implementing an ambitious sectoral policy initiative for the sugar industry with the cardinal objectives to raise local production of sugar to enable Nigeria attain self-sufficiency, stem the tide of unbridled sugar importation, create huge number of job opportunities for Nigerians as well as contribute to the production of ethanol and generation of electricity. The opportunities are huge. The Nigeria Customs Service, for instance, recently revealed that the country spent a yearly average of approximately N30 billion on the importation of sugar over the last decade (as at 2008). Moreover, that in 2009 and 2010 and 2011, Nigeria expended N53.6 billion N73 billion and N101.9 billion respectively on sugar importation. Now, under the Backward Integration Programme (BIP) of the NSDC, three major sugar operators; Dangote Sugar Refinery, BUA Sugar Refinery and Golden Sugar Refinery have employed hundreds of Nigerians working as factory and field workers on their BIP sites. These sites provide season and off season jobs for hundreds for Nigerians within and outside their locations. In terms of direct jobs, these sugar estates depend on independent sugarcane outgrowers for canes for their factory operations. A number of outgrowers are on the payroll of these companies thereby improving the economic wellbeing of members of the host communities and those from beyond. And this is not all, to address the lingering issue of skill-gap and dearth of skilled indigenous professionals in the sector, the federal government and major sugar operators came together to establish the Nigeria Sugar Institute (NSI), Kwara State. The institute seeks to train and meet the professional needs of both factory and field operators in the industry. The institute would among other direct benefits provide jobs for skilled and unskilled workers, and also boost economy of the host community and its environs. While government and other stakeholders make concerted efforts to reduce Nigeria’s job deficit drastically, citizens must equally try their hands on productive ventures that require little capital. Equally important is the need for our youths to develop interest in agricultural and entrepreneurship. Abuja.