  The Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and Joint Tax Board (JTB) yesterday faulted some provisions in a Bill that seeks to unbundle the Nigeria Postal Service (NIPOST). The Bill entitled: “Nigerian Postal Service Act (Repeal and Establishment) Bill, 2021” seeks, among others, to empower NIPOST to collect stamp duty for the Federal Government. The “Nationwide Toll-Free Emergency Number (Establishment) Bill, 2021” was also considered during the session. NIPOST and FIRS had been at loggerheads over which of the government’s agency is  mandated to collect stamp duty taxes in the country. Both are claiming ownership of stamp duty collection. But FIRS and JTB said the sections of the Bill that authorises NIPOST to denote, authenticate and validate instruments, as presently drafted, were a duplication of  legislation particularly Section 4 and 5 of the Stamp Duties Act. Representatives of the two federal tax agencies spoke at a public hearing on the NIPOST Bill organised by the Senator Oluremi Tinubu-led Senate Committee on Communications, in Abuja. The Coordinating Director Special Tax Operation of FIRS, Mr Matthew Gbonjubola, called on the committee to expunge the sections that give NIPOST power to denote, authenticate and validate instruments from the Bill. Gbonjubola said: “Asking the NIPOST to be exclusively in charge of stamp duty will be against the spirit of the Constitution. “We observe that if this bill is passed into law, it will be creating multiple tax agencies at the federal level and I believe it is not the intention of the Senate to create multiple tax agencies.” On her part, the Secretary of JTB, Nana-Aisha Obomeghie, insisted that the Bill replicated the task of stamp duty collection already contained in the Stamp Duties Act (SDA). She said the Bill has encroached on the role and duties of State Revenue Authorities regarding denoted stamps provided for wide and poorly articulated sections on electronic transactions and would usher in confusion and non-clarity concerning collection of Stamp Duties, if passed. Obomeghie said: “Section 4(2) of the Stamp Duties Act (as amended) states that the Relevant Tax Authority in the state shall collect duties in respect of instruments executed between persons or individuals at such rates to be imposed or charged as may be agreed with the Federal Government. “The implication of this is that there is the misrepresentation that the proposed Nigerian Postal Commission is mandated to administer the collection of Stamp Duties and to deal with all issues concerning ‘stamping protocol’ to the exclusion of state revenue authorities. This is misleading.” She said certain aspects of the Bill needed to be reworked to ensure clarity in respect of Stamp Duties, specifically the collection, production of stamps and electronic payment for stamps. She said: “A refinement of the bill will also ensure alignment with the provisions of the Constitution in respect of states’ mandate to collect Stamp Duties for transactions between individuals.” Senate President Ahmad Lawan, before declaring the session opened, said amendment of the Nigerian Postal Service Act would reposition the agency to provide efficient service delivery to Nigerians. He also said the National Toll-Free Emergency Bill before the National Assembly would establish a channel and put in place a structure to guarantee swift security response to Nigerians in times of emergencies.  According to the Senate President, the two bills under consideration by the National Assembly, when eventually passed and assented to, would bring about significant improvement to the country’s messaging systems. Lawan said: “It is a great pleasure to be involved in this important public hearing, organised by the Senate Committee on Communications on the two important Bills. “The Bills are on the Nigerian Postal Service Act N127 (Repeal and Establishment) Bill, 2021 and the Nationwide Toll-Free Emergency Number (Establishment) Bill, 2021, and are to improve our messaging systems. “We cannot undermine the place of communication in our lives, considering its ability to help us pass information around, not only for the development of understanding and knowledge, but for us to carry out physical responsibilities for social progress. “The Nigerian Postal Service Act is particularly in focus for its ability to strengthen the regulatory capacity of that agency, aside from enhancing its facility to meet the aspirations of the people. “The National Toll-Free Emergency Number (Establishment) Bill, 2021 is equally very important for offering citizens the outlet to freely seek assistance, in case of emergency, or for the prevention of incidences. “We underline the public service role of government in the two bills, in view of government constitutional responsibility to work for the security and wellbeing of the people.” Chairman, Senate Committee on Communications, Senator Tinubu said the Nigerian Postal Service Act (Repeal and Establishment) Bill, 2021, seeks to unbundle the agency, whose responsibility would be the provision of universal postal services in Nigeria. She said the bill makes provision for the administration and planning of a national post code system in line with global standards for efficient mail delivery. According to her, it seeks to establish the Universal Postal Service Fund (UPSF) to be applied for the deployment of subsidized postal services and infrastructure. On the National Toll-Free Emergency Bill, Tinubu said the Bill seeks establish a nationwide primary emergency telephone numbers reporting of emergencies to the relevant agencies of government. “The bill goes further to saddle the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) with the responsibility of supervising, managing and implementing this bill and its provisions,” Tinubu said. In his presentation, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr. Isa Pantami, lauded the National Assembly on its efforts to unbundle NIPOST. “What is more commendable in this bill is the fact that the bill plans to unbundle NIPOST by making a regulation to be independent of the operation. This is the global best practice. “A regulator is not supposed to be the operator because the regulator could compromise. “If a regulator is a player in the same market that he is regulating, there is a high probability that personal interest will not allow the regulator to regulate the sector effectively. “So, what is most important in this bill as far as I’m concerned is the fact that the regulator is going to be an independent body, and that regulator is not an operator. “That will make the regulator to be very objective in regulation, and I think this is highly commendable to the National Assembly,” Pantami said. On the National Toll-Free Emergency Number Bill, Pantami said the Ministry has already activated plans to have a minimum of one Emergency Communications Centre in every state of the federation. The move to activate existing centres as well as create new ones, according to the Minister, was particularly in view of addressing the spate of insecurity across parts of the country. Pantami, however, advised that the bill accommodate provisions for the establishment of the National Toll-Free Emergency Board, as against the creation of a separate agency, to be chaired by the Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof Garba Danbatta. “We feel the bill should expand more to make it a Board. However, we had a slight discussion with NCC on it. “NCC proposed having Nigerian Toll-Free Emergency Communications Agency, while the Ministry feels it is better to make it a board and that Board can be chaired by the Executive Vice Chairman of NCC. “Because if we make it another agency, it might make it a little bit difficult to manage looking at the challenges of revenue generation and many more, and government is working daily to reduce the number of unnecessary agencies that are duplicating their responsibilities,” Pantami said. The Post Master General of the Federation, Dr Adebayo Adewusi urged the National Assembly to expedite work on the bill, saying the present Act was obsolete and inadequate in view of the rapid developments and changes in the industry. He said passing the bill into law will not only bring the country at par with other countries which have reformed their postal sectors, but also boost postal revenues of the government and encourage local and foreign investments in Nigeria’s postal industry.