The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) in Anambra state has lamented growing cases of cultism in the state, disclosing plans to wage war against the ugly trend. Chairman of the body, Ven. Joseph Nweke stated this in Onitsha in his inaugural address saying his leadership would embark on youths’ re-orientation and re-indoctrination, including putting Bibles in the hands of those yet to be initiated and armed. He said, “It’s unfortunate that cultism has taken over our private and public schools and our villages. We intend to embark on reorientation, including putting bibles in the hands of our youths before criminals put guns in their hands. “We’ll need not less than 10,000 copies of Igbo and English Bibles for this exercise. We appeal to the state government and spirited individuals to come to our aid.” Nweke further regretted the absence of a befitting Secretariat and operational vehicles for the association in the state, noting that such were hampering the progress of the body in the state. “It’s only in this state that there’s no CAN office Secretariat throughout the South East and South-South. It’s only in the state that CAN doesn’t have a vehicle. CAN is a big organisation that we don’t just need a vehicle, but a bus for mass transportation. “Our office rent is running in arrears. We’re presently working from home. Our staff salary payment is a challenge to us. For CAN to perform optimally, we need to put all of the above in check so the church can produce the fruits,” he added. Earlier, Anglican Bishop of Nnewi Diocese, Rt. Rev. Ndubisi Obi called on the new executives to unify Christians in the state to form a formidable force against violence being meted against them by extremists. South East Zonal Chairman, Bishop Goddy Okafor enjoined the new leadership not to discriminate, but to carry everyone along, irrespective of the denominational affiliation. They said, “No matter your block or denomination, as long as you’ve been provided leadership through your block, you must not disappoint God and the people. You were not chosen because you’re the best, grace has found you. I beg you to carry everyone along. “You have become a father to all. Seek elderly and godly counsel regularly. Their experiences will help you a lot. Again, begin now to raise a successor, reliable and transparent one for that matter. But you have to be transparent yourself. You can’t give what you don’t have.” On his part, the southeast Zonal Secretary, Rev. Chinedum Nwokolo charged the leadership to avoid politics of calumny, stressing that expectations of the people on them was so high that they could not afford to fail in their assignments. He said, “Let the new exco avoid unnecessary bickering, playing politics of calumny to the detriment of God’s work. “Considering the core moral ethics of the church and high expectations of the masses, especially in this critical political history of our country where religious extremists are bent in distorting the destiny of our nation through heartless killings, let’s always bear in mind that as Christians, our destinies are inextricably bound together.” In his goodwill message, Governor of the state, Willie Obiano, represented by Head of Service, Mr. Harry Udu congratulated the new leadership for their emergence in a peacefully conducted election, assuring them of quick response to their requests.