 Monday last week, Michael Taiwo Akinkunmi, OFR, the man who designed the nation’s green-white-green flag clocked 85. Expectedly, the occasion did not pass without President Muhammadu Buhari offering his tributes. While joining family members and friends to celebrate an individual “whose creativity and patriotism remain remarkable”, the president spoke of Akinkunmi as one who “upholds the values that every citizen should emulate for nation-building, which include humility, selflessness, integrity and a keen interest in seeking greater good for country and humanity.” A lot more however could be said of the man who gave his nation one of its most enduring symbols. The first is that he did it at a relative young age of 23. That was the pre-independence period when Nigerian youths, imbued with lofty dreams about their incipient country not only embraced the future with optimism, but saw their roles as critical to shaping its future. The Akinkunmi story is however much more. In some way, it exemplifies the truism about luck happening when preparation meets with opportunity. He had entered the competition which he came across in his Norwood Technical College, London library where he was enrolled for an electrical engineering course. Said he of the challenge: “I took details of what is [to be] expected to design a flag that would be used by a country that was about to witness [its] independence. I took part in the competition and my design was selected as the best…” That was in 1959. The two green stripes on the flag represent natural wealth, and the white represent peace and unity. The green-white-green flag designed by Akinkunmi was first officially hoisted on Independence Day on October 1, 1960. But that was not the first Nigerian flag. According to Wikipedia, “The Flag of Nigeria between 1914 and 1960 was a British blue ensign with a green Star of David surrounding a Tudor Crown (later changed to a St. Edwards Crown in 1953) with the white word “Nigeria” under it on a red disc. It was adopted by the Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria following the amalgamation of the Southern Nigeria Protectorate and Northern Nigeria Protectorate.” Akinkunmi’s effort not only earned him £100 prize money; it sealed his place in Nigeria’s history books. The other part of the Akinkunmi story is the love of country. Like many in his generation, he would return to Nigeria – on completion of his programme in 1963 –to the same agricultural department of the Western Region civil service whence he had started out on leaving Ibadan Grammar School in 1955. He would remain in the service till 1994 when he retired as Assistant Superintendent of Agriculture. Even his modest Emerald Street residence in Dugbe, Ibadan, Oyo State, painted in the symbolic national colours he designed some 63 years ago, continues to attest to his love of country. It was therefore apposite that a grateful nation would – 10 years after retirement – precisely on September 29, 2014, confer on him a most deserving of its national award – Officer of the order of Federal Republic (OFR) as well as honorary life presidential adviser title. Today, we celebrate him for giving us the symbol that has not only endured, but has survived these decades. Whether described as simple, simplistic or elegant, the fact is that Nigerians have come to accept and settle for it as their national colours – which is a lot to say in a country whose basic governing document – the constitution – has remained not only contentious but controversial. At 85, Pa Akinkunmi has certainly seen his country live to its promise as a beacon of hope for citizens and the Blackman at some point. Which is why his generation cannot but rue the current slow descent of a once promising nation into the abyss of despair where nothing works and where leadership, service, justice and patriotism have come to mean next-to-nothing –- and now to such a point that its very survival is under threat. In the circumstance, the best birthday gift to Pa Akinkunmi is for all to live up to expectation of what the flag symbolises. To ensure that justice is done to all parts of the Nigerian federation.