Gunmen suspected to be armed robbers on Friday in Umuahia, Abia state killed a policeman attached to a foreign expatriate. The armed robbers also killed the driver of the expatriate. The expatriate reportedly escaped unhurt after he sneaked out of the car while the policeman attached to him tried engaging the gunmen. The incident, reports have it occurred along the busy Mission Hill road which serves as major entry and exit route into the state capital. Though there were different versions to the robbery incident that forced many to abandon their cars and run for safety, our correspondent gathered that the armed men trailed the expatriate from one of the commercial banks in Umuahia, where he had reportedly gone to withdraw money apparently to pay his workers to the point where they believed was safe for them to launch attack on their target only to meet their resistance from the police officer. Unconfirmed report has it that the driver was killed as he made attempt to drive away the expatriate from the scene. However, there was mild drama in Umuahia and its environs who quickly closed their shops and others businesses when the news that came into the town had it that the unknown gunmen who have been attacking the state over the past weeks have entered the state capital with sounds of gunshots renting the air. It was gathered that the situation also caused gridlock on the Tower end of Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt, leaving those entering and leaving the state through the route stranded for hours. “We started hearing sporadic gunshots renting the air. Police was shooting. They said unknown gunmen have entered Umuahia. “There was panic mood. People were forced to hurriedly closed shops. Banks and other institutions closed their offices in apparent move to safeguard their premises. “It is funny telling the story now, but it wasn’t funny as many may still be struggling to recover from the shock.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Geoffrey Ogbonna confirmed the attack and death of the Policeman and the driver of the expatriate.