The Oyo State Judicial Panel of Inquiry into human rights violation has ordered the state Hospitals Management Board to release the corpse of Kehinde Omotoso, to his family for burial. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Omotoso, a trader, died in police custody on July 21, 2020 after his arrested by police officers attached to Area Command in Iyaganku, Ibadan, instead of his nephew, over an alleged offence. The panel gave the order on Thursday after the defence counsel, Mrs Olokooba Jimoh, closed her case with the testimony of Insp Shuaib Ibrahim, who was one of the police officers that arrested Omotoso. Ibrahim confirmed to the panel during cross examination that nothing incriminating was found in the house of the deceased when it was searched. Mr Toyese Owoade, counsel representing the family of the deceased, had earlier applied for an order for the release of the corpse to the family, so that they could bury their dead, almost a year after his demise. The panel, chaired by former Oyo State Chief Judge, Justice Badejoko Adeniji, granted the request and ordered the hospital management board to release the corpse to the family. Adeniji further said that the panel would make its recommendations on the matter later. The panel had earlier summoned Dr Olawale Oladimeji from the State General Hospital to clarify issues on the location of the corpse and the condition of Omotoso when he was brought to the hospital. Oladimeji testified that Omotoso was brought to the hospital dead on July 21, 2020 around 11:15a.m. by Sgt. Shuaibu Ibrahim of the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Iyaganku, Ibadan. He said what the hospital did was to confirm him dead as there was no sign of life in him and after which the corpse was moved to the hospital morgue where the corpse was still kept. NAN reports that the family of the deceased had lodged a complaint on the Flagit App of Akin Fadeyi Foundation immediately after his death with the foundation contacting Afe Babalola chambers to take over the matter. (NAN)