The Enugu State Police command on Wednesday announced the arrest of 18 year-old young man, Ejike Okeke, who specialised in rail track vandalism within the state. The police disclosed that they also recovered one locally-made pistol with one live cartridge from the suspect. Okeke, who hails from Nkwubor-Nike Village, Enugu East Local Government Area of the state, was identified as a member of a syndicate of rail track vandals. According to a statement on Wednesday by the Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Daniel Ndukwe, the suspect was arrested on May 9 at about 11.00am at Nkwubor rail line. Ndukwe said that the arrest was achieved by police operatives attached to the Enugu Metro Area Command, in conjunction with operatives of the Vigilance group of Nchatancha-Nike in Enugu. He said that Okeke and others, who ran on sighting the operatives, were found attempting to vandalise railway tracks at Nkwubor rail-line, adding that investigation was ongoing to apprehend his other gang members that fled. In another development, the police also disclosed that operatives attached to Awkunanaw Police Division on May 11 at about 7:30 a.m., recovered one custom-coloured Toyota Camry Car with registration number: ENU 556 MH, along Amagugwu Road, Awkunanaw, Enugu. Ndukwe’s statement reads, “Preliminary investigation shows that the car was stolen from where it was parked at Abakaliki Road, Enugu, by the criminal gang, who abandoned the vehicle and fled due to intense pressure mounted by operatives.” The police spokesman said that already the command had launched a discreet investigation to fish out the fleeing suspects. He added that, on May 7, operatives attached to New Haven Police Division at 4:20a.m. recovered one yellow-coloured Bajaj Tricycle with UWN 468 VJ; MD2A25BY9LWG94183 and AN-101177 as its registration, chassis and engine numbers, respectively. The tricycle, suspected to have been stolen, he said, was abandoned by its occupants at Chime Avenue, Enugu, after a hot chase by police operatives. The police spokesman called on the rightful owners of the vehicle and tricycle to visit the respective police divisions, with relevant documents to identify and claim them. He appealed to residents of the state to remain law-abiding, vigilant and promptly report suspected criminals and their activities to the nearest police station.