Transcorp Hotels Plc plans to invest in more new businesses across Africa to drive sustained growth and ensure optimal value for shareholders and other stakeholders. Its Managing Director Mrs Dupe Olusola, who spoke during a facts-behind-the-figures event yesterday at the Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited, said the leisure and hospitality company aims to achieve incremental growth and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on global hospitality industry through continuous investment in new businesses. Mrs Olusola, who was honoured with beating the virtual closing gong for the close of the stock market yesterday, presented the underlying operational details that led to Transcorp Hotels’ impressive first quarter 2021 performance. “Our first quarter 2021 performance was quite impressive with a total revenue of N3.8 billion which is above budget of N3.15 billion by 21 per cent. This impressive performance was driven majorly by our intensive drive for leisure and staycation and unique packages for key events and activities such as the new year festive package in January, valentine’s package, mother’s day package, group conference and events activities from major companies and parastatals,” Mrs  Olusola said. She said the company will continue to invest in new businesses and asset-light initiatives that leverage technology to increase its footprint across Africa. She outlined that the company recently launched Aura, a digital platform for booking quality accommodation, great food and exciting experiences while it also recently commissioned a purpose-built co-working space at Transcorp Hilton Abuja, which it called Workspace by Transcorp Hotels. According to her, there are plans to expand this co-working space initiative to other locations. She pointed out that Transcorp Hotels is also developing a 3,000-capacity event centre at the Transcorp Hilton Abuja, which will cater to an existing demand for suitable venues to host medium to large scale events such as trade fairs, concerts, weddings, and religious programmes. “We have also engaged other strategic and cost optimizing initiatives across both our hotels in Abuja and Calabar, as we increase focus on our leisure and staycation business segments. We will constantly continue to challenge ourselves to ensure that we meet the diverse customer needs and provide excellent experience across all touchpoints,” Olusola said. Divisional Head, Listings Business, Nigerian Exchange (NGX) Limited, Mr. Olumide Bolumole expressed pleasure at Transcorp Hotels’ interaction with the market. He noted that Transcorp Hotels was recently at the Exchange to commemorate the formal listing of its N10 billion rights issue. “We are pleased that the company has again chosen to utilise our platform to engage the market about its financial performance as well as strategic and operational development within the organization through a FBF presentation,” Bolumole said. He noted that considering the impact of COVID-19 on the hospitality sector, organisations will need to reimagine how they operate to navigate the uncertainties of doing business in the new normal. He acknowledged Transcorp Hotels’ commitment to innovation, allowing the company to serve customers beyond the hotel premises through new businesses like Aura by Transcorp Hotels. He said Exchange recognises the efforts being made by the board and management of Transcorp Hotels Plc towards achieving business continuity by enhancing the organization’s operational efficiency. “We congratulate you on the successful unveiling of new product lines and efforts towards repositioning the organization, thereby reassuring investor confidence in the company,” Bolumole said.