  One person was feared dead yesterday and five others left with gunshot injuries at Gberigbe, a suburb of Ikorodu in Lagos following violence by suspected land-grabbers. The Nation learnt that the assailants came with law enforcement protection, shooting randomly and hitting no fewer than three persons. One of them, Matthew Adedokun, was said to have died yesterday at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) where he was rushed to. Footage from separate videos seen by The Nation showed three others with gunshot wounds in the thigh, back and arm. The victims were said to be members of the Gberigbe Orelade Family who are locked in legal tussle over land and chieftaincy matters with the Ladera and Odusanya families of Gberigbe. The thugs were reportedly protected by men in mobile police uniforms and military camouflage. It was gathered that two other men, Daniel Adebori and Segun Tijani Muhammed were shot at Gberigbe yesterday morning about 11am. The Nation saw both men receiving treatment at the Ijede General Hospital, Ikorodu. Police spokesman, Muyiwa Adejobi, was yet to respond to The Nation’s enquiries before press time, but Acting Deputy Director, 81 Division Army Public Relations, Major Osoba Olaniyi, said: “The army has no business in land-grabbing. We have been arresting many impostors for impersonating military personnel, so it could have been them. Also, don’t forget that the Army is not the only one entitled to military camouflage. “I was hit in my hand and legs. I heard people saying a land grabber said he would deal with everyone there if we didn’t leave the land for him. Soldiers and policemen were the ones shooting, they were all in uniform.” Adebori’s brother Adesoji Olaitan said he found his brother abandoned on the road in Gberigbe. “Someone called to inform me that my brother had been shot,” Olaitan said, “I rushed down there and found him on the ground in a pool of blood. My friends and I rushed him to the Ijede General Hospital.” The Gberigbe Orelade Royal Family secretary Kayode Osunkelu said, “The matter is between us and some land grabbers and some opponents. Our opponents are the Ladera family and the Odusanya family. About four to five of my family members were shot and are at the hospital and this happened between yesterday (Wednesday) and this (Thursday) morning.” He identified the shooting victims as Lekan Abudu, Fatai Rodoso, Fatai Oshobanwo and Daniel Adebori.  “We advise that the family or any other person with evidence of soldiers’ involvement in the incident to come forward with it so that we can take appropriate action.” 