 During his inauguration on February 11, this year, the  Vice Chancellor of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), Prof. Abayomi Sunday Fasina, promised to reposition the institution and take it to enviable heights. Thus, he didn’t rest on his oars. He matched his words with action. The VC, who recently clocked 100 days in office, hit the ground running, despite challenges of the early days in the saddle. Early last month, the  National Universities Commission (NUC)  described  FUOYE as the fastest growing young university in Nigeria. The NUC team, led by Prof. Saint Gbilekaa, said this while on an accreditation visit to the institution. Gbilekaa noted that there had been an impressive improvement in infrastructure development in the university. The NUC accreditation team were at FUOYE to assess three of the programmes being offered its students – Theatre and Media Arts, Sociology and Demography and Social Statistics.  Infrastructural devt on campus The management of  FUOYE has taken a bold step by establishing a printing press and bakery, to boost its Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) as well as provide an avenue for students to engage in work/study scheme. Fasina he was committed to generating revenue for the university and ensuring students got practical training from the bakery and printing press. He added that the new development was borne out of his passion to rebrand the university to meet international standards. “All we are trying to do is to make our university one of the best in the world. We’ve embarked on the establishment of a university bakery and printing press, purposely to generate revenue for this university. I have  told all FUOYE contractors to engage our students in all these ventures, especially indigent students who find it difficult to pay their tuition fees. Also, the two industries will serve as viable training grounds for students to acquire practical knowledge and know-how,” he said. In an  interview with CAMPUSLIFE, the contractor who handled  the printing press and bakery, Dr. Mike Abiodun, hailed the management for bringing up such initiative at a time like this. Describing the projects as capital-intensive, Abiodun noted that the ventures would yield excellently if properly managed. He  described the VC as a calculated risk taker and staunch goal-getter, who always believed in getting results rather than chasing shadows. “The printing press and bakery are capital-intensive projects. The university management has done so well by investing greatly into these ventures. As for the printing press, all the machines have been procured and installed. More importantly, I believe this whole effort will in turn, become a lasting revenue base for the university if effectively tapped and managed,” he said. Foundation laid for SU building To commemorate his 100 days in office, the foundation for the Students’ Union Building was laid. With this, students said he had left an indelible mark that time would never erase from the memory of the university community.  Early days at the helm tough, says VC Despite his achievements within a very short time, Prof. Fasina noted that the road had been rough. To commemorate his 100 days at the helm, last Friday, he delivered a speech during a programme on campus. It was entitled: “God will continue to win: My stewardship 100 days after.” He said regardless of the the tough beginning, his vision to restore peace and stability to the university, through aggressive reconciliation processes, rapid transformation of infrastructural foundations of the university, promotion of staff and students’ welfare, expansion of the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) base, and administrative reforms, among others, remain valid and unaltered. “I must confess that the process of take-off has been herculean. A handover note that would have provided a useful roadmap for a smooth and effective take-off was not provided by the departing administration. Useful pieces of information that would have assisted us were withheld from us, the officers in charge. It is so bad that there were important information regarding the finances of the university that just got to my notice recently. It took the intervention of external regulatory actors at the highest level of governance to unravel them. “However, in the midst of these shenanigans, we thank God Almighty for raising up for us, men and women of clear vision and integrity, with deep passion, conviction and trust in our leadership. “In my inaugural speech, “Building the FUOYE of our dream,” I made solemn declaration to govern FUOYE with the fear of God and a commitment to take the university to the next level. My commitment and zeal to actualise these remain as strong as ever,” Fasina assured. He  noted that all what his administration had achieved were driven by his mission and vision of advancement, which revolves around ensuring peace and stability of the university, improved staff and students welfare, establishment of new programmes, directorates and units, establishment of ventures for improved IGR, accreditation exercises, proper university governance and administration, ICT development, improved university security, among others. FUOYESU hails administration,wants more devt The  Federal University Oye-Ekiti Students’ Union (FUOYESU) President, Comrade Alabi Johnson Sunday, lauded the VC for his continuous support to the union, adding that his quick response to students’ complaints was encouraging. He said: “I am glad to say that just a little over three months in office, with the support of our loving VC, the university WiFi has been resuscitated. It is worthy to  mention the efforts made towards the provision of streetlights on campus, swift process and upload of students’ results, purchase of new union vehicle to aid mobility, provision of road signs and speed breakers to curb road accidents, approval of a tentative secretariat for the union, and procurement of mechanised machines to aid Agriculture students’ practical activities.” Speaking further, the union president reminded the VC of the union’s expectations from his administration, even before the expiration of the FUOYESU executives’ tenure. “Mr. Vice Chancellor sir, it’s our desire that you see to the completion of our Students’ Union building, help employ our students at the university ventures, expand the university entrepreneurship skills programme base, implement 20 per cent reduction in hostel fee, timely transcript process, and ensure autonomy of our students’ associations”, he noted. “We are committed to students’ welfare,  making FUOYE better.” The VC had promised to work with Students’ Union executives towards the realisation of his vision and agenda of a better FUOYE. “I’ve made up my mind that during my tenure as the Vice Chancellor, I want to make sure you have a befitting Students’ Union Building. I  will  contribute something tangible to the development and completion of the building. My prayer is that in the next few months,  we should be able to complete this project,” he  noted. He added that the university was partnering some cooperative ventures interested in running transportation systems as a business with the university, to put an end to the the problems of transportation in the institution. He added:” We have  started working earnestly on the provision of sound system. Every class should have a good sound system and even projector to enable online lectures. I will also support and donate for the VC’s Cup. I’ve told all contractors in our institution to engage most especially indigent students to create an avenue for work and study scheme. We’re also rebranding our entrepreneurship scheme as a unit, ensuring quick result and transcript processing, give money to faculties and departments to reduce their reliance on students’ association dues. “I have no interest in making life difficult for students. That’s why I have never thought of increasing any fee. We’re not here to loot any money. Rather, we will find more opportunities to get money for the running of the university. That is why we’re introducing some top-up, part-time, affiliate, and sandwich programmes.”  Students laud VC Students have praised Fasina for the rapid development within a short time in office. A 400-Level student of the Department of Mass Communication, Adejumo Olalekan Samson, said the VC’s short time in office had successfully reflected on the motto of the institution “Innovation and Character for National Transformation”. “Our VC has not done anything outside the ambit of his jurisdiction. Rather, he has added colour to the existing legacies and brought mouth-watering innovations to better the lot of staff and students. For his brilliant ideas, I hail our ever-dynamic Vice Chancellor,”  he noted. On his part, Victor Amole of the Department of Demography and Social Statistics, 300- Level, described the VC as a loving and listening father, adding that he’s a perfect example and a good definition of leadership. He noted that Fasina’s achievements were outstanding and remarkable. Irewolede Ibunkun of the Department of Economics, 400-Level, said: “Our VC is doing very well. My expectations remain very high.” Similarly, Adedugba Miracle, a 400-Level student, said: “The VC is working very hard. We  have witnessed rapid changes since he assumed office. His efforts towards making the school a better place in terms of infrastructure, social amenities, stability and maintenance are worthy of note.”