 Group Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mele Kyari has said the ongoing transformation of Africa’s largest thermal plant, Egbin Power Plc is indicative of the quality of expertise and huge investment injected into the plant since its take-over by Sahara Group. “It’s an immense privilege to be here and see the progress at Africa’s biggest thermal plant. Not surprised by the obvious quality of operational activities and the value addition since take-over by the Sahara group,” Kyari said during a courtesy visit to Egbin Power. “NNPC will continue to be the major stakeholder for this venture and assures Egbin Power of Sustained and eventually elevated gas supply to the facility. We will support this venture maximally,” he added. Sahara Group is Africa’s largest private power business with operations in the generation and distribution value chain of the sector. Temitope Shonubi Executive Director, Sahara Group, who received the NNPC GMD and his entourage, said Sahara treasures the privilege to serve and bring energy to life through the power sector. “Running the iconic Egbin Power and achieving the milestones we have recorded since 2013 has emboldened Sahara to spearhead innovative solutions that would further make power generation and distribution seamless, efficient and sustainable. We commend the NNPC for its unwavering support and we are particularly delighted with the transformation the GMD has brought to the corporation,” he said.  He said plans to increase the 1320MW installed capacity at Egbin Power were ongoing, a process that would involve renewable solutions in line with Sahara’s commitment to the sustainability of the environment and its resources for the benefit of future generations. Shonubi, who is also Chairman of Egbin Power, joined Kyari to plant a tree and led him on a ride in an electric buggy round the plant. Tree planting as well as the use of electric buggies and bicycles have become ingrained in Egbin in keeping with efforts geared towards reducing carbon emission and promoting healthy living. Sahara Group’s power division is coordinated by the Sahara Power Group and the entities include Egbin Power Plc, Ikeja Electric (one of the largest private distribution companies in sub-Saharan Africa) and First Independent Power Limited (FIPL). Sahara Power Group is working towards increasing its generation capacity to over 2,000MW in Nigeria, while also seeking opportunities to invest across Africa to achieve its vision of “lighting up Africa”. 