The Beijing conference of 1988 brought to the fore serious agitation for more involvement of women in governance and business activities. After the conference, there arose the agitation of what is today regarded as affirmative action which required that 35 per cent of appointments in government be reserved for women. Perhaps, the outcome of the conference led to the creation of a Ministry for Women Affairs in states across the country. But, over the years, especially since the return to civilian rule in 1999, the number of women in elective offices have continued to dwindle. While no woman has been elected president, vice president or governors, a handful of them has however emerged as deputy governors across the country. In the North, for example, only two women have emerged as deputy governors. These are in Plateau and Kaduna. While only Patricia Etteh has had the privilege of emerging Speaker of the House of Representatives, only a handful of women have had the opportunity of emerging as speakers of state Houses of Assembly. They include Mrs Margaret Itche (Benue), Jumoke Akindele (Ondo), and Elizabeth Ative (Edo). Lagos has, however, had two female deputy speakers who served in the sixth Assembly (from 2011 to 2015). Ironically, the current National Assembly has only 18 women representing a mere 3.3 per cent of the 469 members. At the inauguration of the 9th Assembly, only seven women made the list out of 109 senators. But one of them, Senator Rose Okoh died and has been replaced by a male senator. In the same vein, 11 women made it to the House of Representatives, before Mariam Onuoha was added as a result of a tribunal judgment, bringing the number to a meagre 12 out of 360 members. Women and advocates of women’s right are not finding it funny that the number of women in elective positions in the country has continued to be on the decline, especially at a time when the world is preaching equal right for women. To this end, they are seeking an amendment to the 1999 Constitution to create special seats for women in the Senate, the House of Representatives and state Houses of Assembly. Interestingly, the Justice Mohammed Uwais Committee on Electoral Reform had highlighted the near exclusion of women in some critical sectors of the population such as governance, as one of the major problems of the nation’s electoral system. It stressed the urgent need to evolve an electoral system that ensures that while elections are free, fair and acceptable, all major stakeholders in the electoral process, especially the political parties that perform creditably, women and other interest groups are not sidelined. It recommended that political parties should ensure that women have equal access to leadership opportunities within the party organisation. Over the years, women have complained of marginalization in the scheme of things in the nation’s polity, especially in elective positions and the House of Representatives recognized the fact that a constitutional amendment as a way of improving women representation in the political space. The Speaker of the House Rep. Femi Gbajabiamila wants the constitutional amendment to reflect the issue of gender in the Federal Character principles in other to give women their pride of place in the country. He said unless women are given the opportunity to achieve their full potentials, Nigeria may not attain the much-desired successes. He said the nation should take another look at laws of the land and abolish any provision that might prevent women from achieving their full potential. He also believed that sections of the law that talks about discrimination based on sex should also be expunged from the law books. The Speaker is not unaware of the fact that there will be those who will argue that creating a special seat for women will amount to discrimination against the male folks. He said: “Many have argued that while there is a provision that there shall be no discrimination based on sex, to now gives a certain percentage to women is discriminatory against men. Some called it inverted discrimination. So, we must add that proviso that speaks to specifics. We have to make sure that girls across the country have access to education and healthcare. We have to create opportunities for women to thrive in politics and commerce, and we must make sure that the laws of our land do not take away the rights of Nigerian women to participate fully in every sector of our national life. “It is for this latter reason that we have gathered here today to explore the options available to make sure that through the current amendment of the Electoral Act, and our nation’s constitution, we can first identify and excise any discriminatory provisions that might exist, and then take active measures to include provisions that guarantee a more equal society for all. I have noted in the past a possible constitutional amendment that will have the definition of Federal Character to include gender. I have also muted the idea that will add a proviso that those sections of the constitution that still claim that there should be no discrimination based on sex. There is no better time than now to achieve our objectives in this regard.” Minister of Women Affairs, Dame Pauline Tallen said having a gender-sensitive constitution is a prerequisite for national development and asked the house to make history by supporting the constitutional review process so that Nigeria can step into her rightful place in the comity of nations. The minister said even though Nigeria is called the giant of Africa, but the figures and statistics of women participation are heartbreaking. She said: “How do we call ourselves giant of Africa and yet Nigeria is the least represented in the entire political process. In the parliament presently, we have only 3.8 per  cent women representation at the federal and state levels, while constituting only 16.2 per cent in appointive positions at the Federal Executive Council of Nigeria, despite constituting nearly half of the population. This is unacceptable and I call on the House of Representatives to address these issues quickly to remove Nigeria from this shameful position.” Deputy Representative of the United Nations Women in Nigeria, Mr Lasana Wonneh said the figures on women representation in government is a thing of concern, adding that women in Nigeria were not in minority and should be given the opportunity to fulfil their potential and participate fully in political activities. He said: “It goes without saying that the ongoing constitutional review process represents a unique and valuable opportunity for reforms to promote women’s right and gender equality in this great nation. The level of women representation in politics in Nigeria remains a course for concern. Indeed, the number of women elected into national and state assemblies has seen a continuous downwards trend. “As of today, despite the efforts, women in Nigeria only occupy 3.8 per cent of elective positions at both federal and state level, while constituting 16.2 per cent of positions in the Federal Executive cabinet in Nigeria. Women are not minorities in Nigeria and therefore deserve equal reward at all levels of governance. Women need political participation, to make a political decision and create opportunity for more progressive participation towards economic development. It is therefore important that international and regional instrument ratified by Nigeria are domiciled within Nigeria’s legislative framework. It is important to note that some other countries, including South Africa, Uganda, and Botswana among others are making significant progress.” Some female parliamentarians from the House are seeking a constitutional amendment to create special seats for the women in both the national and state Houses of Assembly. The women, led by the Deputy Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, Nkiruka Onyejeocha and supported by the Speaker and some other men in the House have laid a constitutional amendment bill before the House. The bill seeks to create one special senatorial seat for women in each state of the federation, two seats in the House of Representatives each state and two special seats in each senatorial district also for women in the state assemblies. At a time when Nigerians are agitating for a unicameral system of government to reduce the number of lawmakers at the federal level, the new bill, if passed will increase the number of lawmakers in the National Assembly to 579 from the current 469. At the time when the bill was passed for Second Reading, 85 lawmakers have signed up for it, even though the Speaker did not subject it to intense debate by those present. Onyejeocha said the new law will mandate the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to divide the state into two federal constituencies to be occupied by women, while the entire state will form the senatorial zone to be occupied by women. The objective of the bill, she said is to remedy the low representation of women in legislative houses, by providing for the creation of additional separate seats to be contested and filled by only women in the National Assembly and state Houses of Assembly as a temporary measure to promote women’s representation. She said: “Currently, women have only 4.4 per cent representation in the 9th National Assembly. Nigeria has been identified as the worst performer in women representation in parliaments in the West African region and one of the lowest in the whole of Africa.” The Deputy Chief Whip said: “Eritrea is the only African country ranked lower than Nigeria and this is because there have not been national elections since its independence in 1993. The situation is worse at the state level, where a good number of states do not have a single woman in their assemblies. In some of these states, men chair the Women Affairs Committee because there is no woman available to take the role.” Onyejeocha added: “In Algeria, the proportion of female members of parliament (MPs) tripled, from eight to 32 per cent in line with a quota introduced in 2012. In Afghanistan, women now makeup about 27 per cent of the upper and lower houses of parliament and were active in drafting the country’s new constitution. This was facilitated by a male president who signed and supported declarations of women’s rights and in 2005 appointed the first female governor. Our West African neighbour, Senegal, adopted a parity law in their constitution in 2012. This was facilitated by then-president, Abdoulaye Wade and resulted in an almost 50-50 balance between men and women in the Senegalese parliament. Nigerian women are not even asking for 50-50 but 35 per cent, which is what is indicated in our National Gender Policy and several international treaties that we are signatory to. The number is identified as the “critical mass/number” of women required to achieve impactful results.” The bill which has been referred to the constitutional review committee headed by Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Idris Wase is recommending an amendment to Sections 48, 49,71,77,91 and 117. It is also making it mandatory for women to be allowed to contest other offices alongside the men folks. For example, the new Section 48, Subsection Two states that “notwithstanding the provision of Subsection One of this section, nothing shall prevent a woman from contesting for any of the senatorial seats referred to in Subsection 1A.” 