About 2,000 teachers in the Ogun State government’s employ have benefited from a day-long training on Python Programming and Artificial Intelligence. The event, which was co-organised by the Bureau of Information Technology, in  collaboration with Data Science Nigeria (DSN), Lead Resources, Computer Teachers Association of Nigeria (CTAN) and Nigeria Computer Society (NCS), at Hubert Ogunde Hall, Kuto, Abeokuta. Addressing reporters at the venue, the Director of Information Technology in the Bureau, Mrs. Olatundun Adekunte, said the training was part of the conscious efforts by the government to transform the secondary school teachers into digitally-smart workers. Adekunte, in a statement signed by the Bureau’s Information Officer, Mrs. Tokunbo Jaiyeola, said: “Since it is generally accepted that no educational system can rise above the standard of its teachers, the state is totally committed to addressing the digital inadequacies of public school teachers, who are critical to the realisation of the present administration’s ‘Building Our Future Together’ agenda.” She noted that it was imperative to train and retrain the teachers, especially in the area of Information Technology, adding that the present administration was passionate about equipping pupils with ICT skills to prepare them for global competition. “Indeed, we are in 21st century, where people are dealing with ICT, there will be no need for our teeming youths to be searching for jobs anymore, once they have trained digitally. That is why we need to prepare them for the future, because of its demand in the global economy”, Adekunte said.  One of the instructors and the Business Manager, DSN, Mr. Amzat Olawasheun said it was a foundation for the primary and secondary school teachers in the state, to make them compete favourably in the area of Python programme and Artificial Intelligence. Oluwasheun pointed out that teachers need to be adequately equipped and educated on Information Technology, to prepare the upcoming generations for the future challenges, noting that those programmings would be introduced into the primary and secondary school curriculum. “This is basic foundation for our teachers in the state to develop their intelligence and broaden their knowledge in the area of programmings,  to inculcate what they are taught here to their pupils and the world as well”, she said. In his contribution, the Third Executive President, CTAN, Mr. Emosu Temitopeoluwa, said that it is important to “catch them young” and implant such critical programmes into their minds, so as to become employers of labour in the nearest future. “Indeed, Python Programmings is very essential, as at now, we cannot do anything  special on IT without having  knowledge of it. It is a new innovation we all need to vast at, so, our students need to be taught now, as they are still young to  assimilate “, Temitopeoluwa said Some of the participants, Mr. Elemide Florence of Idiko Gateway Senior Secondary School, Idi-roko, Ipokia  Local Government and Mrs. Sofowote Rasheedat of Wesley Primary School, Iperu, Remo, said the programme was for beginners/starters, to develop their skills in the area of programmings on ICT, commending the state government for facilitating  such  training workshop for both primary and secondary school teachers. 