Exceptionalism. That unsettling word – again! Like yours truly is wont to say, these are strange times indeed. If we started off on the note of that galling concept which insists on exclusive privileges for migrant herders, and the fulsome attempts to rationalise the correlates, warts and all, we have finally arrived at a junction where no less than the nation’s number one law officer has, after combing for the specious legalism to oxygenate it, has finally delivered that official imprimatur! The setting of course is what is now described as the Asaba Declaration. Fifteen southern governors had, after a four-hour meeting in the Delta State capital rolled out a 12-point communiqué on those issues currently tearing the country apart: open grazing, devolution of powers, state police etc. – broad, if you like, general governance issues that have in recent time, tended to drive the nation apart. As it turned out, the most contentious of the lot is the ban on open grazing, the source of most of the conflicts between host communities and migrant herders. “It is about constitutionality within the context of the freedoms expressed in our constitution. Can you deny the rights of a Nigerian? “For example: it is as good as saying, perhaps, maybe, the northern governors coming together to say they prohibit spare parts trading in the north. “Does it hold water? Does it hold water for a northern governor to come and state expressly that he now prohibits spare parts trading in the north?” That was Abubakar Malami, the federal government’s attorney-general and minister of justice. As it appears, that doctrine – that the Fulani herders deserves especial consideration in all matters pertaining to governance, and public policy – is now official. From Bauchi’s Bala Mohammed and his odious exceptionalism to Zamfara’s Bello Muhammad Matawalle’s opportunistic posturing, the nation seems to have turned full circle. If you think that those views could as well have come from the lawyers to the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN); consider the fact that such views, no matter how distasteful, are increasingly being mainstreamed. I recall Prof. Usman Yusuf, former Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), once described what he mischievously labelled as “blanket ban” on open grazing by 15 elected governors as “irresponsible.” His grouse: the southern governors did not consult Fulani leaders before making their regulation! The National Secretary of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore, Alhassan Saleh, simply described the ban as “empty policy: “The governors are confused and mischievous; are herders the problem of this country? Are they IPOB killing people up and down, burning police stations?”, he was quoted to have said in his reaction to the communique of the southern governors. So also is the National President of Kulen Allah Cattle Rearers Association of Nigeria (KACRAN), Khalil Mohammed Bello, who said the ban negates the 1999 constitution. According to him, the constitution allows every citizen to freely move peacefully. What is ‘new’ is that the number one federal government lawyer would not only lend his voice to the perverse logic behind these effusions, but would, in framing the issue, call to question, both his understanding of the law and his duty and oath of office. If you add to these his equally intriguing equivalence of comparing the settled spare parts sellers in the north with the itinerant pastoralists with their wanton destruction of lives and farmlands (note the barely concealed ethnic baiting), ethnocentrism – that terrible predilection of evaluating other cultures by the standards and customs of one’s own culture –couldn’t have come across in a more brazen variant! Talk of more appropriate comparison: why not bring up those countless cases of licenced liquor dealers whose cargoes sometimes valued in hundreds of millions are routinely destroyed by the Hisbah, the religious police under the untested doctrine of prohibition even when those cargoes are merely transported through territories considered ‘off-limits’? Are those supposedly, exceptions to Malami’s roll of freedoms? Now, if it seems utterly disingenuous that a senior lawyer couldn’t make the distinction between a ban on transhumance – which the entire body of governors had earlier recommended and which the southern governors only affirmed, and an outright ban on cattle rearing/business – which was never on the cards – but which the likes of Malami maintain that it is; Nigerians could then begin to appreciate not just the depth of the crisis, but the clever manoeuvres of those whose agenda could best be described as opportunistic and devious. For even if we concede to the rights of the nomads to freely move and settle in any part of the Nigerian federation, certainly not the most expansive interpretation of the ‘freedom’ could conceivably be extended to their cattle save under Malami’s warped notion of constitutionalism. Surely, the learned Silk couldn’t be referring to the Nigerian constitution, which by the way, leaves little ambiguities about those entitled to the ‘freedom’ of movement as indeed the curbs designed to delimit them. And while it suits the so-called chief law officer of the federal government to talk glibly of ‘freedoms’ while pretending to be oblivious of the rights of other Nigerians in the event of wilful trespass on their property or even injury to their lives, does that also abrogate the powers of the sub-national entities to make such laws as to engender communal peace in the face of the massive destructions being wreaked by the lawless herders? In all of this, the tragedy really is that many actually believe and actually subscribe to such jaded notions of the law as espoused by Malami. Too bad that southern governors are not exactly models where matters of good governance are on the table; but then, the truth is that the Northern governors with their 10 million-odd out-of-school kids should ordinarily have more to worry about in a ‘freedom’ that seeks to consign a generation to the forests as either bandits and terrorists – some 15,000 years after mankind domesticated the first set of animals – and in an age where other 10-year-olds are already solving complex tasks on their computer tablets! Talk of a country where meanings attached to everyday symbols are as diverse as those making them, part of our tragedy is our inability to agree on the definition of the problem on the basis on which we might begin to proceed on an enduring solution. Whether the talk is federalism, devolution of powers, state police, name it; everything has been reduced to “we” versus “them” – or more appropriately, north versus south, even as the country, our so-called beloved federation, continues in the slow descent into anarchy and chaos. Who says our country is not jinxed?