It is a cry out of the depth of culture and faith, but it only depicts a people out of touch with modern times. Moving pathos accompany the pleas of Abdulkadir Muhammad and his wife, Amina, after she gave birth to triplets. They say they do not have the wherewithal to take care of the new entrants into the world. They want the society to help them, or else their children will die of hunger. Muhammad, 39, and Amina, 33, feel the burden of a fertility they never asked for. They already have two children, so this is not the case of a barren couple stunned with three miracles. Even paying for the hospital bill was a struggle. The babies were born at North South Power Hospital at Shiroro, Niger State. “Immediately my wife was delivered of the babies, she was referred to General Hospital, Minna, because NSP hospital didn’t have incubators. At the NSP, we were charged N10,000, while at General Hospital, Minna, we were billed N74,000. We were able to pay N5,000 at NSP and N32,000 at the General Hospital, Minna. We are yet to pay the balance of N5,000 at NSP hospital.” However, the balance of N42,000 at General Hospital, Minna was waived by the hospital management. “When I was told the bill at NSP, I screamed and started crying. Where was I supposed to get N10,000 from? My mother joined in crying with me. In fact, if not for members of Shiroro community, we wouldn’t have been able to pay the N5,000 deposit at NSP. In spite of that, the couple still need N146,300 for medical tests, drugs and milk, aside from incidentals. Muhammad is a teacher at a private school on an income of N13,500 while the wife sells bottles of a local brew called zobo and sachet water commonly referred to as ‘pure water’. It is obvious that given the fees they paid, they benefited from a generous community in Shiroro that rallied behind them. Even that falls short of what they might need. For the children’s daily feeding, Amina faces a challenge. “My breast milk is not enough for the babies,” she cries. Their story taps into a cultural fatalism that sees children not just as biological entities but the work of heaven. They see them as inevitable. “We know these children are blessings from God,” intones Amina, and that in itself makes them feel God should work in humans to help raise the blessings. “It’s better for us to beg than to watch them die of hunger.” The origins of the culture that sees the birth of many children dates centuries back to our agrarian past when families saw many children as investments and workforce. But with increasing modernisation, children are more than investments. They are costs. Other societies, especially in the west, have come to terms with family planning and other forms of restraint to keep the family small and within the reach of their incomes. The Muhammads already had two children that tested their incomes, and so a third was superfluous. It is possible they did not want a third and, as some Nigerians say, “they just happened.” This happens even to the enlightened. As a teacher, Muhammad must be aware of the restraints in biology. But the force of faith and culture sometimes overrides modern consciousness. That might have happened to Muhammad. It is time we followed the path of China that restricted the number of births to, at least, the financial capacity of the families. There are many Muhammads with children above their pay grade. We are only hearing the Muhammads’ plea because they caught the public eye.