The House of Representatives has stopped investigations into the purchase, use and control of arms, ammunition and related hardware by military, paramilitary and other law enforcement agencies. Also, the committee handling the probe has been discharged of the assignment. The ad hoc committee had, at its last public sitting given the Chief of Army Staff time to go back and prepare a comprehensive position for presentation . It also asked the Inspector General of Police to do same and report back. Even though it could not be ascertained as at the time of this report whether the Army Chief reported back to the committee, The Nation noted that Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru  told the committee that since he was not in office when arms were purchased, they should invite those who were in office to offer the needed explanations. However, the committee was part of the 12  whose assignment was discharged by the House at yesterday’s plenary in accordance with Order Eighteen, Rule 3 (1) (g) of the Standing Order of the House  and having failed to submit its report within the stipulated time. However, a member of the committee, Bede Eke ,rose to protest the decision to discharge the committee of its assignment, saying he was aware that majority of the members have signed an interim report, which was to be presented to the House. But, the House is to investigate prevailing circumstances and conditions of all military operations against insurgency and other criminal act across the country. The investigation is aimed at identifying any constraints deterring them from carrying out their mandate of protecting the lives and property of Nigerians. Eke said discharging the committee of the assignment would amount to denying them the opportunity to present the report and appealed to the House to give them till today to submit the preliminary report. Responding to the appeal, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila said discharging the committee of the assignment should not stop them from submitting their report, adding, however, that they have till today to submit their report as requested. The Speaker had asked all ad hoc committees to submit their reports on or before April 30 or risk being discharged of the assignment. The investigation is aimed at identifying any constraints deterring them from carrying out their mandate of protecting the lives and property of Nigerians. The House also resolved at yesterday’s plenary to investigate allegation that the police was not willing to support the Benue State Government in the enforcement of the anti-open grazing law with a view to identifying the constitutional implication and position in this regard. Adopting a motion sponsored by Rep Mark Gbillah, the House also asked the Federal Government to immediately intervene in the plight of IDP’S across Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba states with a view to returning them to their homes or resettling them through the reconstruction of damaged communities and provision of educational, health and others.