Popular Nollywood actress Iyabo Ojo has vowed she would not back down until justice is served on her colleague, Olanrewaju Omiyinka, aka Baba Ijesha, who was accused of molesting a minor. She slammed Nigerians who have been accusing her of crying more than the bereaved on the child molestation case. The Nation reports another colleague, Yomi Fabiyi, had called on the police to release Baba Ijesha. Fabiyi demanded the release of Baba Ijesha from detention before Wednesday, May 12th, 2021 following which he threatened to mobilise Nigerians for a protest. The Nation reports embattled actor will face a five-count charge following an alleged rape and sexual assault on a minor. The allegation, which has been a subject of public debate, has also pitched actors and actresses in different tents. The actress, in a 7 minutes, 42-second video, shared on her Instagram page as obtained by The Nation, spoke on Nigerians being one another’s problem, giving analysis of the four types of mothers she has come to believe, exist. Ojo vowed to make sure the embattled actor faces the wrath of the law. According to the movie star, who also is a rape victim, the government isn’t the problem but Nigerians are. “I used to think that every woman who has a child, who is a mother, will understand the pain of other children but I thought wrong. But I have come to understand that there are four types of mothers. “The first type of mother is the mother that is only able to love her own children – to love, protect, provide just for her own children. She doesn’t have the grace to love other children.” “The second type of mother is the woman who craves so bad to have her own children but she can’t due to one reason or the other. “But she’s got so much love and compassion for children and so she decides to adopt other people’s children or child and raise them and love them with all of her heart and soul and she doesn’t see no difference in whether the child is her biological child or not. “Third type of mother is the mother that doesn’t even know how to love her own child. She’s got no love for children, even though she is a mother, she doesn’t know how to love that child because some times in some cases, she doesn’t love herself and when you do not love yourself, it’s very hard to love other people. “And sometimes it might just be that she doesn’t just love children. And then we have this kind of mother who loves her children but also has the grace to love other children, She is passionate about children. It doesn’t have to be just her children alone, as long as you’re a child, she just has that special kind of love for you,” she said. Speaking further, Iyabo Ojo said she used to think the government is the problem of Nigerian but she has come to realise that Nigerians are one another’s problem with the way they think and act selfishly. She added when people eventually get in power, they would not attend to some things simply because it doesn’t concern them but would rather want to take care of their people. “The day we begin to take up issues that don’t concern us and treat them like our own problems, Nigeria will begin to get better,” she stressed. The actress stated that she is the fourth mother who loves her children and other children and will stand for the victim of Baba Ijesha’s alleged molestation till the very end. “So my brothers, my sisters, my mummies and daddies, my uncles, my aunties, my cousins my nephew, I am that woman, that mother who will stand for that girl till the end. I am not backing down until justice is served. Thank you,” she added.