Olufunke Oshonaike is the first African women athlete heading for a seventh Olympic Games in Tokyo and the 46-year-old  is pleading for the games to hold despite the call for its cancellation amid   COVID-19 fears, OLALEKAN OKUSAN writes.  On the cusp  of attending a record seventh Olympic Games, Nigerian table tennis legend  Olufunke Oshonaike  is praying fervently  that  the eagerly awaited Tokyo 2020 Olympics is not cancelled at the last minute. Amid blowback on the coronavirus pandemic, there are fears that the quadrennial  multi-sports games  might be called off even with less than 60 days to the start of the event in July. Formerly scheduled to take place from 24 July to 9 August 2020, the event was postponed in March 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and will not allow international spectators when it opens from 23 July to 8 August 2021 in Tokyo, Japan. “I don’t think it is necessary  to cancel the  Tokyo 202 Olympics Games,” Oshonaike  who will be the second African and the first woman  to attend a seventh Olympic Games after her compatriot Segun Toriola, told The NationSports. “I am not being selfish as I am thinking about other athletes as well as  the organisers that have invested heavily on the Games. “ The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has already published a book on how they are going to go about it; and they are confident that our health would be secure as well as the health of the people living in Tokyo. “So why can’t we go ahead with the Olympic Games? Those that want the games to be cancelled should realise that some people’s means of livelihood is going to be taken from them and they are not going to be happy about this. “ We should be very careful when talking about it because sports is a means of livelihood for a lot of people. But then it is very important if World Health Organisation (WHO) says it is not going to be good for our health. “But  instead of cancelling it, they should just postpone it again,” she added in an emotion-laden voice. Oshonaike is unarguably  Nigeria’s most successful table tennis player with several  continental medals and has already earned the “The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has already published a book on how they are going to go about it; and they are confident that our health would be secure as well as the health of the people living in Tokyo. “So why can’t we go ahead with the Olympic Games? Those that want the games to be cancelled should realise that some people’s means of livelihood is going to be taken from them and they are not going to be happy about this. “ We should be very careful when talking about it because sports is a means of livelihood for a lot of people. But then it is very important if World Health Organisation (WHO) says it is not going to be good for our health. “But  instead of cancelling it, they should just postpone it again,” she added in an emotion-laden voice. Oshonaike is unarguably  Nigeria’s most successful table tennis player with several  continental medals and has already earned the stripe as  the first African woman  ever to qualify for seven Olympic Games following her appearance  in the last previous games between 1996 and 2016. “My first Olympic experience is something I can’t even describe as I was overwhelmed with joy being the youngest member of the team,”  she recalled.“ It was my dream and seeing my dream come true was a delight and Atlanta 1996 remains my best Olympics so far. “ It was wonderful because it was in America and it was my second time going to America.  I was opportune to see a lot of people and for me, Atlanta 1996 is just very unique. “The Olympics Games is different because at all other tournaments only table tennis is featured. At Commonwealth Games, only countries under the Commonwealth compete while African Games is meant for African countries alone. “But when it comes to the Olympic Games, it involves the whole world. It is only the best out of the best in the world that will compete. It is a gathering of superstars and so we cannot compare Olympic Games with any other multi-sports tournaments.” Besides competing with the world’s best, Oshonaike believes Olympic Games is another learning curve for athletes. “It is at the Olympic Games that you get to know that you are so very special and that you are a superstar as well as one of the best in the world. You also get to meet a lot of wonderful athletes. There are a lot of things to learn at the Olympic Games but I can actually just say a few for now. She said: “The Games Village is like being in heaven because the only thing you see around is like-minded people. The common thing is love and friendship. You don’t see colours but you see people that are like you and who also think like you. “You don’t see white or black as there is just love everywhere and we all have one thing in common. We are all superstars who just want to go out there and compete to win medals for our countries. “It is something that is very special and I wish all the world can be like the Olympic Games Village as we are all one and we think alike. “The Olympic Games is very important for all athletes because it is not every athlete that has the opportunity to go for the Olympics. It is just for the superstars because you have to qualify and the qualifiers are always very tough too. “So if you don’t qualify you cannot get to the Olympic Games. For you to qualify it shows that you are a superstar in your continent and not only in your country. So to me, the Olympic Games is very important. “That is where you get the opportunity to see all other superstars from other sports. You are going to have the opportunity to see every superstar in every other sports and I think that is why it is every four years because I think it is just one of a kind.” The memory of Atlanta 1996 would remain with Oshonaike for the rest of her life for obvious  reasons: “I have a lot of memorable moments at the Olympic Games but the one that comes to my head is my first Olympic Games in America because I had the opportunity to meet a lot of superstars that I have always dreamt about it. “I met Hakeem Olajuwon; music superstars as well as Hollywood superstars, I remember I had the opportunity of meeting NBA superstars.  The most memorable and the best Olympic Games for me will always be Atlanta 1996. “The others, if I could remember, were when terrorism started globally as there was so much security everywhere and I did not really enjoy them like the first one in the USA.” Yet Oshonaike is excited  that she’ll be heading for her seventh Olympic Games in July, adding being in the exclusive list of athletes to have  qualified for the most  numbers of Olympics is a pleasurable feeling. She volunteered:  “To compete as the first African woman in the Olympics for the seventh time for me means a lot and  I just hope my dream would come to reality. “This is why the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games is very important to me. Seven years ago when I was at the Rio Olympics in Brazil, I saw that only men were honoured for being seventh time Olympians. “I remember asking myself ’why won’t a woman be in the club?’; so it is a great opportunity and privilege to have qualified. “ I am very happy and excited to be the first woman from Africa to join the seventh club. So it really means a lot to me and very important to me but like I said;  I just hope nothing is going to stop the Tokyo Olympics because a lot is happening today and we should remember health is wealth. “Despite the postponement, I think it is still going to be something wonderful. Tokyo 2020 Olympics might be like what they said the light after the dark tunnel. “ I am not the only one looking forward to it. Most first-timers would be eager to go for the Olympics this year irrespective of what is happening  around the world as per COVID-19. So it is still going to be very important to see sports coming back again. I think it is a feeling a lot of athletes would not be able to describe. “I know a lot of people are excited because while watching table tennis in Asia or South America during their Olympics qualification. “ I could see the way all of them were excited when they qualified to go to the Olympics. So for me, this Olympics this year is going to be something none of the athletics will forget when it becomes a reality.” On the possibility of making an eighth Olympic Games appearance should Tokyo 2020 Games go ahead,  Oshonaike was forthcoming. “No, I would love to go as an official but not as an athlete,” she affirmed.“ You know to compete at the age of 50 is not going to be easy. I think enough is enough. “I am not looking forward to competing at an eighth Olympics,” she noted.