Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and five Governors are expected in Adamawa State between May 18-29 when Governor Ahmadu Fintiri commissions some completed projects. Of the five Governors and the FCT Minister invited to commission separate projects, four are of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the main opposition party in the state. Fintiri, who disclosed the commissioning schedule during a chat with officials of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) and other media executives in Yola, said he wished the opposition APC to see how the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) runs the government in Adamawa State. The Governor spoke against criticism against him by the APC leadership in the state to the effect that unlike his predecessor, Jibrilla Bindow, of the APC, Fintiri was not doing or commissioning projects. “They say I am not commissioning projects but they will shortly see a surplus of projects,” Fintiri said. He said: “I do not believe in commissioning projects. I am satisfied to just carry out projects and move on but the opposition say they want to see commissioned projects and they will see them when we begin commissioning the projects later in the month. “The commissioning of projects across the state begins on May 18 and we have deliberately invited the opposition to be part of the commissioning ceremonies. We want to show them how we run the government, how government ought to be run.” Among the completed projects scheduled for commissioning are: Toungo Electrification project as well as roads in Numan, Michika, Hong and Yola South. The invited guests will also be commissioning the Total Junction Flyover in Jimeta (Yola North), a pride of the administration as well as the Bachure Road, equally a landmark project of the Fintiri administration. Governors Bala Mohammed of Bauchi, Muhammad Badaru of Jigawa, Oluseyin Makinde of Oyo, Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe and Aminu Tambuwa of Sokoto, FCT Minister Musa Bello and Senator Bello Tukur are those to perform the commissioning of the different road, electricity and flyover projects.