The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi has said the Maritime Security Project will be launched in Lagos in June by President Muhammadu Buhari. The Minister disclosed this when the Belgium Ambassador to Nigeria, Daniel Bertrand paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja on Monday. The Minister while describing the maritime insecurity as ‘complex’ said the federal government has come up with a solution to tackle it, adding that it would involve the Nigerian Navy, Nigeria Police Force, Nigerian Army and the Department of State Services (DSS). In a statement signed for the Director of Press and Public Relations by Anastasia Ogbonna, Amaechi also said about 75% or 65% of crime comes from the water. The statement reads: “The Crisis in the Maritime Sector is the maritime insecurity and its more complex than the world knows but the Federal Government has come up with a solution and it is ready to take off. The Navy, Police, Army and State Security Service is involved. “If it is successful, in the near future, there will be an improvement in maritime security and other countries in the Gulf of Guinea can adopt it. “75% or 65% of crime comes from our water and if we are able to eliminate it, then we will be making a lot of progress. “If you are in the air, you will see what is happening in the water, if you are inside the water, you will be able to respond because the helicopter has the capacity to drop in the Naval men when they see anything suspicious.” He also said he was open to partner and share information with anyone who wants information for the purpose of securing the Gulf of Guinea. Earlier, Bertrand officially presented a letter to the Minister seeking the support of the Nigerian government for Belgium candidate seeking a position at the International Maritime Organization. Bertrand also mentioned that they have observed with keen interest what is happening in the Gulf of Guinea and would like to be of assistance and give support to the implementation of maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea.