The Organised Labour in Ekiti has rejected decision of the government to discontinue consequential adjustment of the minimum wage for senior workers in the state. The workers also expressed displeasure at the proposal to reduce subventions to higher institutions, which they said will further worsen the state of the institution as well as the welfare of the workers. The Government and stakeholders in the state had agreed to suspend the payment of consequential adjustment and subvention to institutions as part of measures of bailing the state out of the current economic challenges. But Organised Labour, comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress, Trade Union Congress and Joint Negotiating Council, in a statement on Monday rejected the decision, describing it as unacceptable and inhumane. The statement was jointly signed by NLC Chairman, Kolapo Olatunde; his secretary Mrs Akinyemi Taiwo; TUC chairman, Com. Sola Adigun; his Secretary, Com. Kuloogun Lawrence and JNC Chairman Kayode Fatomiluyi and his secretary, Com. Gbenga Olowoyo. The statement reads: ” The Organised Labour comprising NLC TUC and JNC expressed the position of the entire workforce to Mr Governor that Workers of Ekiti State rejected any withdrawal of minimum wage and consequential adjustment payment of the State which is a product of a process that has been signed into law. “In the same vein, the Organized Labour rejected any stoppage of subventions to all the subvented institutions in Ekiti State. “Also, the State Organized Labour, viewed any attempt under any guise to further impoverish the living standard of workers and all vulnerable groups in Ekiti State as inhuman and unacceptable. “To this end, the State Organised Labour further advocated for the inclusion of GL 13- GL 17 in the implementation of the consequential adjustment payment among other arrears of workers welfare.” The labour unions assured the workforce, “that there is no way we will comprise on the welfare of workers in the state, hence, workers should rest assured of our commitment at all time to their yearnings and aspirations,” it added.