 SIR: The Muslims’ holy month of self- purification and self- denial otherwise known as Ramadan has just ended. While it lasted, it offered all Muslims the opportunity to reflect on their relationship with Allah. It also enabled those with means to share food with the poor, the needy and the less privileged. Altogether, it was a period of deep reflection on the inter-relationship between man and his neighbour, on the one hand, as well as man and his God, on the other. Even though the month-long fasting has come and gone, its lessons must endure. To devotees, it was a period of self-emptying without which no spiritual being can have a truly rewarding relationship with his or her maker. That explains why the exercise was marked in Nigeria (as elsewhere in the world) by private and group prayers, and abstinence from all forms of worldly comforts and pleasures. The aim was to enhance spiritual growth and foster charity and brotherly love. By paying attention to the plight of the poor, as was amply demonstrated in the course of Ramadan, we invariably place the welfare of our neighbour as important as ours. By allowing others to partake of our wealth or material possessions, we honour the One who gave us the wealth in the first place. This happens to be at the heart of all religions but a virtue hardly imbibed by many in Nigeria today. That must change. Since the Ramadan fast, like the other four pillars of Islam, was aimed at promoting both the spiritual and material wellbeing of man, it stands to reason that man is invariably better off doing the will of God than merely pleasing himself. When he is able to rein in the impulse for self- gratification and greedy accumulation of wealth, man is more liable to make his society a better place to live in, not only for himself but also for his neighbour. That was one of the most enduring lessons of Ramadan which we hope many would have imbibed. It is noteworthy that fasting as a spiritual exercise is advocated by all religions ostensibly with the notion that the man who can make sacrifices in the bid to tame his desires would be a better person both for himself and the larger society. As one expert puts it, besides abstention from food and drink, fasting helps the faithful “from looking at the provocative, from hearing the mischievous, and from uttering the obscene….to avoid slander and from thinking about inflicting injury to others”. Regardless of skin colour or social stature, fasting unites us all. It reminds us how we should conduct ourselves and our behaviour towards those around us, while also teaching us the importance of respect. Not only do we learn to abstain from food and drink, but we also abstain from making any statements and actions that may cause harm to people or violate their rights. It gives us an opportunity to rectify ourselves through performing numerous good deeds such as providing food or aid to the needy, improving social interaction, giving charity and so on. But what happens to all these lessons after Ramadan? Unfortunately, we seldom retain any of the lessons we learn on this holiest of months beyond Eid-Eil-Fitr itself. But the purpose runs deeper than mere celebration. The lessons we receive are the lodestar for the rest of the 11 months in any given year. The training we receive is meant to improve us as human beings for the rest of our lives. After all, it is only through unity, modesty, and temperance that we can make the world a better place for all of us. 