ANNONYMOUS: Good day, Omobola. Please I need enlightenment to enable me take a decision between Programme Withdrawal and Annuity. How many years will my PFA pay me my pension? At what time to expiration of your paying me can I transit to annuity to continue to enjoy pension for life? Is there a time lag to when I can do the transition? PenCom: As regards the number of years pension will be paid to the complainant, it will be for 20 years. Adigun: My name is Adigun and my PFA is First Guarantee.The issue I want to discuss affects  contributory pensioners who were Osun State Government employees that retired in 2016 to date. None of these sets have received either gratuity or pension since they retired. The real problem we are having is not known as we were being fed with lies by various concerned PFAs. Kindly deal into this and advise us on the way out of this predicament. PenCom: The relevant department would require the PIN of the complainant to assist them further. Inyang: I submitted an “Appeal for Correction Of Monthly Pension Payment” to PenCom on April 5, 2019. I have not heard from them since then, despite that it was my third submission on the matter. I am a 69-year-old retiree that needs urgent increase on my  pay, which was based on shortened period of my public service. PenCom was given the documents to justify increasing my monthly pay. My PIN number is anonymous. PenCom: Information from our database reveals that your complaint has been treated and your monthly pension has been enhanced. Please liaise with your pension fund administrator for further details. Emmanuel: Good Day, ma. My name is Emmanuel, the son of late Supol James. We have an issue with the pension of our late dad who passed away on March 13, 2015. We have paid the money they asked us to and we have also submitted the necessary documents. But we have not received any message on his pension. Please help us. PenCom: Please we need further details such as his PIN Number and Pension Fund Administrator (PFA) to enable us investigate the issue. We called the above number provided but was wrong number. Abubakar: My name is Abubakar. I was worked with a private international organisation where I served for five years and contributed to Premium Pension. I later joined a government institution with Leadway Pension as my PFA for 12 years. How can I get back my contribution with Premium Pension? Oluwafunke: My name is Sheriff. I am the next-of-kin to Mrs Oluwafunke. She worked at Ministry of Health, Lagos State Local Government Service Commission. My sister Yetunde is also her next-of-kin. She died on June 20, 2012. Her PFA is Trust Fund. We were told to bring a statement of account which we didn’t have. Her level four to five promotion letter is  also missing from her file and we can’t find. Kindly help us on how to get her pension benefit. What do we do? The Nation:  Dear Abubakar and Oluwafunke, the newspaper will intervene by sending your complaint to PenCom. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the commission and subsequently every week for pension news. Dokun: My name is Dokun, next -of-kin to the late Farinmade, whose PFA is Premium Pension. He worked at Nigerian Postal Service (NIPOST) from September 18, 1992 to June11, 2010 before his death. He was on Salary Grade: GL 08/8. I wrote to the PFA and they said work in progress on payment. But up till now, I am yet to get any payment from them. Note that the last letter dated May 31, 2006 to the deceased from PenCom, following letter written by NIPOST disclosed that  N36,485,60 was paid into his pension account for the period of July 2004 to February 2006. All documentations had been done in Abuja office of PenCom office since the death of the deceased, and nothing has been heard since. Kindly help me get my late brother’s entitlements. PenCom: A search on the Commission’s database indicates that this is a non-existing entry. This means that no report has been made on the deceased to the Commission. However, you are advised to return to the PFA and re-submit relevant documents for onward submission to the Commission. Anonymous: I want to remain anonymous. My PFA is Premium Pension Limited. My complaint is:  as follows. On September 16, 2020, I received a text message which says: “Please be informed that people have received approval from PENCOM regarding your pension benefit payment. Contact 09-4615700 for further information.” The next day September 17, 2020 another text came as follows: “Dear member, kindly disregard the SMS received on approval from PenCom. This was sent in error. We apologise for any inconvenience caused as a result of this. Please, sir, help me to understand who is fooling who, because the benefits are overdue to be paid.” PenCom: Kindly ignore messages on pension payments, claiming they are from the Commission. PenCom does not contact individuals, only Pension Fund Administrators are allowed to contact retirees to notify them on such related issues. However, kindly furnish the Commission with your PIN for further investigations to be conducted.