As a result of the fact that website can make or mar companies, depending on its message and aesthetic look, companies are now evolving every day to communicate their ideals through their websites. In view of this and in its bid to strengthening the ability of its potential customers, addressing basic banking operations, FirstBank recently launched its corporate website. The bank launched the new corporate website with very exciting features to promote ease of navigation, engagement, whilst bolstering visitors and customer experience across multiple and versatile functionalities. For the management of First Bank Nigeria Limited, the new website represents the trending posture of the brand. In line with today’s business environment, the bank has continued to evolve and reposition to strengthening its operational skills. Though ageing, the FirstBank brand is ever young at heart, as it has remained nimble in reinventing itself to stay ahead in today’s technological driven business climate. Specifically, the website appears to have demystified online banking. Among other unique features, it allows self-registration of online banking; it makes provision for loan facility and encourages multiple transfers at once. The website offers visitors useful information, tools and resources to make better decisions with their money. The bank’s messaging is simple and consistent, and organised in a scannable format for users to digest and take action. Additionally, like all great sites, the site focuses content around visitor’s needs, offering solutions and varied content types. The CEO, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Dr. Adesola Adeduntan, while speaking on the launch of the new corporate website, said that “as one of the key contact points to existing and potential customers, the bank’s website remains a gateway to our business, supporting our unique value propositions and financial services solutions. As such, we are committed to continuously improve the overall user experience through intriguing content quality, exciting features and ease of navigation.” 