 The clamour for restructuring Nigeria will not go away even if the fight becomes a dangerous venture like the fight against corruption. And to make matters worse, the anti-reformists, who hold top government offices are desperately fighting back and are determined to use their good offices to press their anti-reformist agenda. As the attorney-general of the federation, Abubakar Malami, SAN, showed last week, logic and common sense are irrelevant in the battle. In an interview with Channels Television, the AGF desperately compared the banning of open graving by governors of southern Nigeria with the postulation that northern governors may be persuaded to ban the selling of spare parts in the northern region. The open dig against the Igbo spare part traders, who like the Fulani herdsmen, are ubiquitous across the country, showed how desperate the situation has become. Of course, it is convenient for the AGF not to remember that the spare part dealers have not become a source of armed conflict and national crisis as the herdsmen. Again, the AGF choose to ignore the fact that spare parts dealers hire shops to engage in their trade, unlike the open grazing herdsmen who traverse and trespass on private and public properties, consuming or destroying private and public farm products and forest reserves in the conduct of their private business. Furthermore, in his desperation to justify his anti-reformist agenda, the AGF choose to ignore the fundamental right to own private property, and the exclusivity arising from such ownership as provided by the 1999 constitution as amended. Those who have taken the AGF to the cleaners, including the governor of Ondo State, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, and Professor Chidi Odinkalu have wondered loudly how a learned silk, could proffer such jejune argument in furtherance of a jaundiced proposition. When arguments are professed that what Nigerians are against is open grazing of cattle, and not ownership of cattle and breeding them in private ranches, the desperados would remind Nigerians that those breeding cattle are adding to the nation’s GDP. When they are reminded that other businesses also contribute significant portions of the GDP, without endangering the business of other persons, they seek cover under the constitutional provision for freedom of movement. The AGF, using his stature as the chief law officer pontificated that the ECOWAS protocol and the Nigerians constitution guarantees the freedom of movement for cattle. Those who are also learned in law, like the AGF, have argued that the fundamental right to movement guaranteed by ECOWAS protocol and the constitution, deals with only human beings, and not cattle, as portrayed by the chief aw officer. But when a man is desperate, common sense and reasoning abandon him, which is what has happened to the AGF, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria and a member of a profession referred to as the learned. The possible reason for such argument is that his interpretation of law has been fused in his cultural identity. As has been argued by Fulani protagonists, while the Fulani may forgive the mistaken killing of a human, they do not forgive the killing of a cow. So, perhaps in the cultural milieu of the AGF, the life of a cow is equal to, if not superior to the human being. In essence, if the constitution confers freedom of movement to humans, it also inheres automatically in the cattle. Could it therefore be that between those clamouring for reform and those opposed to it, there is a cultural clash? While those led by the AGF believe there is already more than enough progress, the reformists want accelerated progress for the country? If the AGF with the enormous power entrusted to him by the constitution, could push such an agenda openly, is he beholden to forces which he considers superior to his oath of allegiance to the constitution? Recall that the federal government, since the advent of the Buhari presidency chastise those opposed to some policies of the government, as corruption fighting back. That label was used to tar the enemies of the regime, as well as political opponents of the government. Even in some instances, it was the answer to some failings of the government, or to those opposed to some policies of the regime. Even when some officials of the regime are accused of corrupt practices, they push it as corruption fighting back. Now that the din for restructuring is reaching a crescendo, and those opposed to it, especially those within the corridors of power are fighting back, would the fight for restructuring, like the fight against corruption, become dangerous? Perhaps it is the danger in the fight that has shooed some public officials to quickly stand with the anti-reformist group, even when it is the promise of reformation that propelled them to the office they occupy. A lot of analysts have pooh-poohed the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) for promising the nation restructuring in the party’s constitution and during the political campaigns in 2015, only to renege now that the people are calling for it. But in fairness to the APC, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), while they were in power for 16 years could not push through any fundamental restructuring of the country. So, perhaps the forces against restructuring are so entrenched and powerful, regardless of the party in power. In her book, Fighting Corruption is Dangerous, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, tells the chilling story of how her mother was kidnapped, to force her to resign from office, as Minister for Finance. She went on to recall that when her mother somehow regained her freedom, the next plot was to maim and incapacitate her. Her sin was that she refused to pay billions of dollars of false claims, to dubious petroleum products marketers, who were draining the country of her meagre foreign exchange resources. One of the remarkable story that stood out was how the former governor of Cross River, Donald Duke, visited her in Washington, before she accepted to serve under President Jonathan, and told her not to accept the job of Finance Minister, as some powerful forces believe her involvement would give the regime credibility. When she enquired as to those Duke represented, he refused to disclose, but advised her to heed the advice. Of course, she rejected the advice and joined the government. But she paid a huge price, including the kidnapping of her mother and payment of ransom. As detailed in her book, what intrigues this writer is the existence of some powerful shadowy forces that are determined to ensure that the nation does not make any meaningful progress. These forces are only interested in lining their pockets with the nation’s resources, even if the country goes up in flames in the course of their nefarious activities.