Nollywood actor, Yomi Fabiyi has claimed that the confession of his embattled colleague, Baba Ijesha, alleged of molesting a minor was obtained under duress. Amid Fabiyi’s latest protest, Iyabo Ojo, an actress, had filed a lawsuit against the film star alleging defamation. The Nation reports the duo had been at loggerheads with contradictory views on the case of Baba Ijesha. On Wednesday, the feud between them took a new dimension as Iyabo filed an N100 million lawsuit against him for alleged defamation. In a video from the protest, and shared on Fabiyi’s Instagram page on Thursday, the movie star stated that the continued detention of Baba Ijesha beyond 48 hours without recourse to the courts for a “fair hearing is illegal.” Fabiyi also claimed that the confession by the suspect was obtained under duress, with the video where he admitted to committing the assault showing that the embattled actor was “tortured into speaking”. “Citizens must respect when the police are discharging their lawful duties. Also, the people have rights. But what we observe is that, when our colleague Baba Ijesha was brought here, so many evidences were thrown online,” Fabiyi can be heard saying. “We maintained that we would patiently allow the rule of law take its course; allow the police do their job. The CP came out and said it’s a bailable offence. But it’s getting to two weeks now and he’s not been released. “A minor was used as a bait. Police have not touched on that. There is evidence of torture (on Baba Ijesha). There is evidence of obtaining confession under duress. They even threatened to kill the suspect. The police have not acted on these. “DPP advice is a legal advice. It’s not a court. This man is still adjudged innocent until proven guilty. “The law is the law. Nobody or organisation can rule or extend continued detention of any suspect on bailable offence(s) in police custody beyond 48 hours except a seating judge from a competent court. “And now that the court is on strike. Releasing Baba Ijesha on administrative bail to a reliable surety is the best approach. Even as we speak, the rights of the gentle man is already been trampled upon,” Fabiyi added