The Director General of the Progressive Governors’ Forum (PGF) and chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Salihu Moh’d Lukman has advised Governors of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to reform their party before asking for the restructuring of the country. He also said the opposition party lacked the moral right to demand President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately present executive bill for the country’s restructuring, when for 16 years of PDP Presidency, the opposition failed to initiate the move. Reacting to the communique issued by the PDP Governors after their Monday summit in Ibadan, the PGF boss in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday chided the opposition party for mismanaging the opportunities to initiate all the recommendations proposed by the PDP Governors between 1999 and 2015. According to him, “how can anybody in PDP claim any moral standing to demand for any executive bill? If the issue is as simple as getting the President to transmit executive bill, what stops all the PDP Presidents from initiating it for sixteen years. “While welcoming the decisions of the PDP Governors to support the need to devolve powers to states, it is important that they go beyond the cheap politics of reducing it to a campaign against the APC. If PDP Governors are to be taken seriously in terms of their commitment, it must be based on a stronger commitment to reform the PDP!” The APC Chieftain who dismissed the resolutions of the PDP governors stressed there was nothing new in the communique but a re-enforcement of national consensus on the need for devolution of powers in the country. He noted that governors of the governing APC in line with recommendations of the party’s Committee on True Federalism have taken a position on this matter and have since communicated it to the leadership of the National Assembly. The PGF boss then advised the opposition Governors to follow the footsteps of Progressive Governors by engaging the leadership of the National Assembly to speed up processes of Constitutional amendment. “In line with recommendations of the APC Committee on True Federalism, many APC representatives in the two Chambers of the National Assembly have sponsored bills for relevant amendments to our laws. “PDP Governors, in the spirit of the resolutions adopted in their Ibadan meeting should call on their representatives to support the passage of the bills.”