  There was an attempt yesterday by a mob to burn down a police station in Ile-Epo  near Iyana Ipaja, Lagos. The police station situated inside a market became a target for the rampaging crowd after a yet-to-be-identified cop allegedly shot a motorcyclist. It was gathered that the policeman arrested the motorcyclist for allegedly flouting the state’s traffic law but went further to demand N30,000 in order to release the victim. Sources alleged that the motorcyclist told the policeman he did not have such amount of money and an argument ensued between them. It was unclear if the policeman opened fire on the victim or the shooting was as a result of accidental discharge. As soon as the gunshot was heard, people were said to have scampered for safety while the shot motorcyclist’s colleagues soon gathered to avenge him. They were said to have moved towards the police station but were prevented by security operatives deployed as reinforcement. Still enraged, the mob, it was gathered, proceeded to set fire at a dumpsite nearby, causing thick billowing smoke that fuelled rumours that the police station had been torched.  However, another account indicated the clash was between the police and market boys, while some other sources said it was between the police and scavengers. According to a source, crisis broke out between the police and hoodlums in the market leading to one of the boys attempting to snatch a policeman’s rifle. It was alleged that in the process, a bullet discharged, hitting the suspected hoodlum who was immediately rushed to hospital. Police said has been restored but kept mute on the cause of the crisis and the state of the shot victim. Spokesman for the command, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, who issued the statement debunked reports that the police station was set ablaze. He said, “Normalcy has been restored to Ile-Epo area of the state. “Commissioner of Police, Lagos State Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered for thorough investigation into the incident. The command wishes to debunk the rumour that Ile Epo Police Station was set ablaze by hoodlums. “This news is false and should be disregarded. The command intends to give details of the incident as soon as possible,” he said. Hoodlums also attempted to burn Elemoro Police Division in Ajah following a fatal accident but were prevented. According to Adejobi, they succeeded in torching three exhibit vehicles and vandalised two patrol vans. He said 12 suspects have been arrested. 