 Pupils of Lagos State Model Senior College, Meiran and Jakande Estate Comprehensive Senior College, Abesan, Lagos State were impressive at the STEAMUP Lagos convention  2021 held last Thursday at Radisson Blu Hotel on Victoria Island, Lagos. Timileyin Adegoke, David Ayodele, and Miracle Odejide, all SS1 pupils of Lagos State Model Senior College, Meiran, developed a waste-detecting robot which  not only checks for waste, but picks it  and disposes in the incinerator. “This is a robot which helps to check for waste or refuse. Apart from being able to check and detect waste,it can also properly dispose it in the necessary place. It has been programmed to look out for waste and dispose it. This will aid waste disposal in the state,” said Adegoke, leader of the team. Kehinde Ajasa, an SS 3 pupil at Jakande Estate Comprehensive Senior College, Abesan, developed an automated trash bin. He noted that improper waste disposal in the state inspired the invention. “I  developed this self-opening trash bin as a result of improper waste disposal in the state. When you move towards the bin,it opens without you touching, then when you throw refuse inside, it closes automatically,” he said. Another pupil at Jakande Estate Comprehensive Senior College,   Oluwadamilola Davies, who is in SS 2 invented what she termed ‘Smart Walker’. According to her, the device is to assist blind people in properly navigating their way. “The Smart Walker is an aid for blind people.  When there is an obstacle on the way, it alerts the person holding it. Therefore, it helps a blind person move away from obstacles.  It gives such a person confidence to walk unaided,” she said. The Science, Technology, Engineering, Art & Mathematics (STEAM) UP Lagos project is tandem with the Education and  Technology component of the “T.H.E.M.E.S” agenda of Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide  Sanwo-Olu. It is an education intervention targeting public primary and secondary schools  in Lagos State. The project is aimed at encouraging young Lagosians/Nigerians to become inventors and problem solvers. It is anchored on four important pillars, namely curriculum design and integration,teacher training in modern STEAM pedagogy, set up of STEAM laboratories and engaging students in learning and boosting extracurricular STEAM activities. beamed live on the resuscitated Total Education Show on television. The Senior Special Adviser to Lagos State Governor on Education, Ms. Adetola  Salau underscored the need to boost the capacity of young people to solve problems in various  sectors of the state. She added there will be incentives for pupils who are creative and innovative. “We will have annual Lagos STEAMUP competition where we will give prizes to students who are innovative,” she said. The pupils also performed a playlet to spice up the event. 