BLESSING Overflow, Full of Smiles and Swimming in Joy are among the fifteen paintings Suraj Adekola is currently exhibiting at Alexis Galleries in Lagos. Themed: Infinite Growth, a solo exhibition of acrylic and spray paint media on canvas. In this first solo outing, Adekola presented the reflections of his “belief in better days ahead of humanity” as the Covid pandemic has made everybody face the harsh reality and a new normal that came with it. “Lately, the world was struck by the pandemic, but among the most essentials to escape the social unrest and achieve better living are unity and hope. Interestingly, unity and hope have been the basis of my art practice for thirteen years since I graduated,” said the artist who studied Art and Design at the Auchi Polytechnic, Edo State. Three paintings titled: Shower of Blessings, Full of Life and Full of Joy, which Adekola created this year, are examples of this; the reflections of his belief. The invented caricature characters, which have bulging eyes and wide smile, force one to smile back at them. When you move closer to the paintings you would notice that they were formed with houses. People and Pandemic, an impasto painting; inspired by the Covid pandemic, is dominated by warm and subtle brown, grey, blue and white background colours. The way Adekola depicted the female subject wearing a blue face mask and big round earrings is interesting to see. The subject has a thin neck, while her small nose is almost unnoticeable. Her big round white eyeballs are compacting with her face because they are not realistic. “As you can see, I love exploring textures mostly, with some built-up areas of paint created with painting knives which is my best painting tool. This practice has stayed with me for over a decade because I am excited to have a feel of rough and uneven textures in my paintings, and I hope you will share similar feelings too.” As an artist, he is interested in the multiple factors that give art its relevance. “I believe that art derives its relevance from more than its aesthetic qualities, but also from the derivative values it sources from such as social, cultural, historical and psychological factors which are becoming prominent in my recent works.” Some of the works have few details available, and some are subjective. His work and style have progressively expanded the boundaries of basic representation as he has sought to express his thoughts more abstractly. “While brainstorming on the theme of the exhibition, the curator, Patty Chidiac-Mastrogiannis, told me that: Suraj – this exhibition will be called Infinite Growth. For me, this reflects her unflinching and unlimited belief in my artistic growth. This exhibition also aims to showcase my recent works, which reflect how my works have evolved since I started to practice. These paintings on display are the indication of my innate desire to positively impact the world through my art because that is why we are here. That is why we matter – impacting the world positively,” explained the full-time studio artist. “Suraj has established himself as one of the leading African artists of international repute. He is a fine artist who uses his works as a necessary tool to engage and deliver his message of hope and positivity around the world despite the consistent ills that surface in society,” said the curator, Chidiac-Mastrogiannis. To her, Adekola “believes in the multiple factors that give art its relevance. He is a prolific painter who consistently develops in style and value. Hence, we are pleased to show his new works.” She revealed that ten per cent of the proceeds will be donated to the Little Sisters of the Poor, located in Enugu, Nigeria. A home that cares for more than 65 elderly people, who have no one to turn to. The exhibition remains open till June 5. The virtual tour is open via the social media handles of the gallery. Pepsi, Tiger, Indomie, Mikano, UPS, Haier Thermocool, Cobranet, Delta Airlines, Aina Blankson, Lost in Lagos, Arzeh Integrated Ltd and AMG Logistics; are the sponsors of the exhibition. Adekola (b. 1983) is one of the leading African-Nigerian artists of international reputation. In 2015, his works began to hit the international auctions from Bonhams African Art Auction, London, where five of his paintings were sold among his six paintings auctioned. In 2017, he was listed among the top fifty Nigerian artists by Turnover at African Art Auctions. Also, in 2017 and 2018, his paintings were auctioned and sold at Piasa African Contemporary Art Auction in Paris. Furthermore, between 2018 and 2019, his paintings were featured and sold at Genève Encheres Auction, Switzerland, and other art auctions in Portugal and Nigeria. Education: 2005 – 2007 Higher National Diploma (HND) Painting 2002 – 2004 Ordinary National Diploma (OND) Painting and General Arts School of Art and Design, Auchi Polytechnic, Auchi, Edo State, Nigeria.