Businessman, Adewale Adeleke, popularly known as Chairman HKN has hailed his younger brother, Davido for transforming an insult into something extremely beautiful and precious with the launch of a multi-million naira pendant. Sometime in 2017, Grammy award-winning singer, Wizkid had dissed Davido saying, “having an American passport and citizenship does not cure frog voice.” Wizkid tweet reads: “My people make una remember say Yankee passport no be baba blue, e no dey cure frog voice.” Ever since then, Davido’s voice has been referred to that by fans of Wizkid whenever they feel the need to criticise any of his songs or successes. However, in a recent post by the “Omo Baba Olowo” crooner on his Instagram and Twitter pages, he shared a video of his newly acquired exotic pendant, a big smoking frog with the 30BG image. Sharing the video on Twitter, OBO wrote, Disrespectful”. While on Instagram, he captioned the post: “JESUS !!!!! @icebox” with several emojis accompanying the caption. The singer’s elder brother hailed him on Twitter for making something incredibly beautiful out of a bad situation. In two separate posts, he shared same video of the DMW boss’ new pendant in one. While the other was a tweet that held the words; “Turned insult into chain lol gotta love OBO!” Social media users have also reacted to Davido’s new fascinating pendant. Most people hailed his ingenuity while others commended him for inspiring them with every act of his. @Tife_fabunmi tweeted: “Who dey bretttttt??? Best in Music. Best in entertainment. Best in influencing. Best in Ice Game. King Davido.” @nechechulo said: “Pesin way dem call frog voice don go do chain for him self. I too like dia guy.” @iyam_haryur stated: “The most expensive frog you are ever gonna see, only the baddest can run it.” @partyjollof_ tweeted: “You just have to love this man. If you don’t love him, you may find it hard to breathe.” @DonOskar5 wrote: “How wonderful turning taunt into glamour. What money cannot do does not exist.” @nkem_emilia said: “You always turn your lemon to lemonade.” @Icy_Writes stated: “He converted risky into a hit Now he’s converted froggy to a diamond stud. A king I stan.” ahmedamoduu wrote: “Bruhhh you know its lit when your pendant is wearing its own pendant.” tor.na_xo wrote: “Is that a frog??? This is what they call turning lemon into lemonade. I don’t stan nonsense.” prince_haywhy1 tweeted: “OBO changed the narrative #doing.” famousbobson wrote: “DAD NOBODY DEY RUN EM LIKE YOU E CHOKE.” the.gizi.effect said: “Your neck piece has a neck piece, there are levels to this thing.”