The Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has reechoed the determination of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government to ensure Nigerians only pay for electricity consumed by bringing an end to estimated billing by distribution companies (DISCOs). Omo-Agege spoke at the ground breaking ceremony of the establishment of a power substation at his hometown in Orogun community, Ughelli North council area of Delta State, by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC), Saturday. He assured of the President’s commitment to ensure electricity availability for all Nigerian homes. Noting that the establishment of the power substation will bring the “near-end of the energy crisis and energy poverty” witnessed in the area, the Senator Omo-Agege x-rayed the importance of energy to quality living and economic development. DSP Omo-Agege further reminded the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) of “their obligation to their customers and the government, regarding the mass metering initiative (not bulk metering), by the Federal Government aimed at ending the estimated billing syndrome”. He added that Orogun community is not the only place where power substations are being built. “We are pushing to have as many as possible to be built across the country. The president is determined to provide electricity to as many people, and as many communities as possible. “Concessions have been made by the federal government to assist the generating and distributing companies to ensure that most homes are privately and individually metered. They are already assisting in providing some of the meters for these communities. People should be able to pay for only the electricity used and it is nothing new. That is how it is all over the world, especially in advanced countries. The only obligation that government has is to make the enabling environment for it to be made available. “But people should not be penalized by being forced to pay for electricity used by other people,” he emphasized. The managing director of NDPHC, Mr. Chiedu Ugbo, stated that the project is aimed at improving the standard of living of the people of Orogun community, adding that it will create jobs for the people. According to the General Manager of NDPHC, Engr. Gazama Mela, the company will be constructing a “7.5KVA, 33 sub 11KV injection sub-station.” 