On May 13, it was time to officially celebrate the 60th birthday of an NBA icon. You either love him or you hate him, but there is no denying that Dennis Rodman was ahead of his time. Rodman is a five-time NBA champion who played with a type of swagger and personality that we haven’t seen since. With nicknames like “Dennis the Menace” or “The Worm,” Rodman will be remembered on the court for his wild hair colors, tattoos, and piercings; his “bad boy” personality and sensational rebounding skills; and his ability to guard all five players on the opposing team.  Speaking of bad boys, Dennis Rodman was a part of the intimidating Detroit Piston “Bad Boys” in the late 1980s. As a part of the team, he played alongside Bill Laimbeer, Isaiah Thomas, and Kevin McHale, just to name a few. Rodman was a key part of the team’s physical and defensive-oriented style of play, which eventually led to their infamous nickname. Meanwhile, Rodman went on to have even more success with the San Antonio Spurs and the Chicago Bulls. Most probably remember him from winning three straight championships with Michael Jordan and Scottie Pippen as members of the Bulls from 1996 to 1998. But when it is all said and done, Dennis Rodman is a Hall of Famer who was ahead of his time. Standing at 6’7″, not only was he a great passer and screener, he was pulling down 20 rebounds a game and he could also guard both point guards and centers. If he had a more developed jump shot, Rodman would have been exactly the kind of position-less athlete that teams look for in the modern-day NBA. For as memorable as he was on the court, Dennis Rodman’s “bad boy” antics have followed him off the court as well. It is no secret that he went through three separate divorces in a 15-year span. Rodman was also known to have owed nearly $1 million in child support at one point. Legal troubles also got the best of the lockdown defender. In his post-NBA life, Rodman has struggled with alcohol abuse along with gambling issues as well. Most recently, however, Rodman has been doing his best to keep his name alive. He is famously very close friends with the dictator of the communist country of North Korea. Word around the block is that Kim Jong-Un is a big fan of professional basketball. At this point, it seems like Dennis Rodman doesn’t really care about what people think of him. He will likely always be viewed as the “bad boy” of the NBA and it seems like he is just fine with that. Rodman is an enigma in every sense of the word. Obviously, The Worm is well established as one of sport’s all-time great mavericks, but Netflix’s fantastic series, The Last Dance, shone a spotlight on Rodman earlier this year. The Last Dance documentary gives a deep dive into Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls for the first time While he has a list of controversies longer than his go-go gadget arms, it’s worth noting he was one of the greatest basketball players of his generation and one of the finest defensive players in the history of the game. As a five-time NBA champion and two-time Defensive Player of the Year, his influence was obvious. He was one of the best on-ball defenders you’ll ever see; nimble and aggressive in a 6ft 7in frame with an engine that wouldn’t quit. But, of course, there was more to Rodman than basketball. He really found his voice as a part of the ‘Bad Boy’ Detroit Pistons in the late 1980s and early 90s to the point where, in 1987, he suggested the great Larry Bird was overrated and only won the MVP award three times because he was white. in the second round in 1986 and after barely featuring initially, he quickly complimented the tough, physical established stars the Pistons had. That led to back-to-back titles in ’89 and ’90. After that, Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls took over and Rodman’s personal life became more prevalent. Going AWOL and a deal with Madonna In 1992, Pistons coach Chuck Daly, who Rodman considered a surrogate father, resigned in May. As a result, the player skipped the pre-season camp and was fined $68,000. Despite his obvious talent, not many in the NBA wanted to touch Rodman. The San Antonio Spurs took a chance on him in 1993, but that didn’t even last two seasons before Rodman, a star clearly acting out and getting ejected regularly, needed a new home again. Dennis Rodman, Scottie Pippen and Michael Jordan led one of the greatest teams ever when they played for the Chicago Bulls Before he headed to Chicago to play with Jordan and Scottie Pippen, Rodman had an intense six-month relationship with Madonna who he claims offered him $20m if he could impregnate her in one phone call. “She said, ‘Dennis, you know that I’m ovulating,’” he told American radio show The Breakfast Club in 2019. “I said, ‘What is that?’ I was trying to f*** with her, you know?”, he explained. “I said, ‘I’ll be there in five hours.” Rodman said he was ‘rolling the dice’ in Las Vegas at the time of the call and flew to New York in a private jet the singer sent him to be with her. During his time with Electra, he took a 48-hour vacation from playing for the Bulls and took her and an entourage to Las Vegas. He partied so hard that Michael Jordan – one of the biggest superstars on the planet at the time – actually flew to Vegas to get him out of bed and take him to practice. It’s hard to even make a modern-day comparison of that. During his time with the Bulls, they appreciated Rodman for what he could bring to their team. He is, arguably, the greatest rebounder the game has seen – he notched 34 in a game in 1992 and grabbed more than 30 on four other occasions – and his defensive presence took Chicago to another level. For all of MJ’s greatness, Rodman was a key component to their second three-peat of the 90s in 1996, ’97 and ’98. In exchange for his defensive prowess, the Bulls had to give Rodman just enough room to express himself off the court. But there were plenty of examples of that spilling over to game time, too. A prime instance saw him kick a court-side photographer in the groin. Rodman wasn’t provoked, he was just frustrated with how the game was going. He was suspended for 11 games and fined $25,000 for that, the league’s harshest punishment in 20 years at the time. The year before that he had head-butted an official as frustration struck him once again. He refused to leave the game and he went on a rampage before exiting the arena. It would have been outrageous for anyone else not named Dennis Rodman, but the visual of his coach Phil Jackson finding the whole episode funny said it all. He was suspended for six games and fined $20,000.