 A bill to compel the president-elect to name his cabinet within one month of inauguration was read at the House of Representatives, last week. The bill tagged: “Transition and Assumption of Office Bill, 2020”, is sponsored by Representative Kpam Jimin Sokpo, of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Benue State. A section of the bill seeks to compel the president to constitute and appoint all boards of government agencies and parastatals that are due for constitution within two months of inauguration. Another part seeks to establish a fund for the transition of administration in a presidential election year. The bill provides for funding and expenditure from such funds to aid an orderly transition process. Where the president fails to comply with the provisions of the bill on naming his cabinet and board members, he shall be guilty of misconduct as provided in section 143(2)(b) of the 1999 constitution (as amended). That section provides for the removal of the president or vice president from office, otherwise referred to as impeaching the president or vice president. While we agree with the representatives for a law to compel the president or even a governor-elect to appoint his cabinet and board members within a reasonable time, we counsel that such infraction should not be punished with impeachment, as it could precipitate a turmoil. So, instead of making such infraction a ground for impeachment, we suggest that the bill should provide for some other sanctions, like denying the president-elect or governor-elect the right to spend from the revenue fund. Furthermore, the president or governor can be prohibited from paying his personal staff from the federal or state revenue, as the case may be. Such restriction should include prohibition of payment from any official source, by whatever name called. If the punishment for failure to appoint a cabinet is made a gross misconduct punishable by impeachment, there is the likelihood that such clause may never be triggered, considering that impeachment proceedings are usually stymied in politics. And where the president or governor’s party controls the parliament, the legislators may refuse to trigger the impeachment proceedings against their own. Another clause that the promoters of the bill should reconsider is the time within which the president or governor must act. Instead of 30 days, the time can be extended to 45 or even 60 days, considering the need to consult political interest groups before such appointments are concluded. By our suggestion, we do not detract the importance of the bill, which seeks to ensure compliance with the provision of our constitution on diversity in government institutions. It is that diversity that the lawmaker had in mind, when he provided in sections 147(3) and 192(2), that appointments to the office of the minister or commissioner, shall be in conformity with section 14(3) or 14(4) of the 1999 constitution (as amended), respectively. The two sub-sections provide that the composition of the government of the federation or the state shall reflect the federal character of Nigeria or the diversity of the people within the state, respectively. So, members of the cabinet and boards of parastatals are not cosmetics of governance. Rather, they are to ensure the necessary diversity to earn the trust of every citizen of the country or state. Perhaps, the presidents or governors who dilly-dally to appoint their cabinet or board members think that as the person who won at the ballot, they are entitled to act like constitutional monarchs. For example, at the federal and state levels, under President Muhammadu Buhari, and presently under Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, we have had such undue delays; so there is the need for a law to prohibit it.