The Italian Trade Agency (ITA) is working with the Federal Government to  boost farmers’ livelihoods and create opportunities for youths in farming and agribusinesses. Speaking at a virtual meeting, ITA Director for West Africa, Dr Alessandro Gerbino said the organisation is providing a one-stop shop for export-oriented firms to learn about regional and international trade opportunities. The agency, he added, offers targeted business advisory services and training to businesses; help them to better understand the international demand for certain products and the technical requirements for market access; and facilitate regional and export market linkages. According to him, the agency is laying a foundation for exporters to meet the demands of the global marketplace, adding that ITA is determined to help small and medium enterprises (SMEs) to take advantage of opportunities to export to the European Union (E.U.). In 2019, Italy confirmed its first position in E.U. with 31.9 billion euros of agricultural value added. However, the Italian agro-food chain has demonstrated resilience to guarantee the supply of food to consumers. Thanks to the rapid technological development that has taken place in recent years, agriculture is experiencing a revolution. The advent of new machines and tools for agriculture, such as satellites, drones, proximal sensors, software and robotics are bringing in agronomic and economic benefits. Italy has also strengthening its lead in fruit and vegetable exports, following years of implementation of international sanitary and phytosanitary standards to improve their health status and ability to access markets. Gerbino said the organisation wants to empower more Nigerians to go into exports by improving their food safety know-how throughout the horticulture supply chain. According to him, there are benchmarks for quality assurance on meeting the requirements of the E.U. market. He said the European market is very fond of Italian agricultural products as they are of the highest quality and food safety requirements in the world. He noted that the Nigerian agricultural products might find it difficult to enter the E.U. market except they comply with food safety standards and quality control. He added that fresh exports must have a Global Good Agricultural Practices (Global Gap) certificate. He said ITA launched the E-Lab Innova training programme to, among other things, help improve the technical and managerial skills of agribusiness firms to support their access to E. U. markets. He said the programme, launched, in collaboration with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPA), aims at fostering business partnerships with Italian firms and improving the Nigerian value chain and local industry development and employment. Other objectives include promoting technology transfer and innovation on the model of Italian agribusiness districts and foster opportunities for technical industrial partnerships with Italian firms. Moreover, ITA is supporting Nigerians agribusiness exporters’ participation to MacFrut, a major international event to connect suppliers and buyers of the industry that will take place in September. Presidente, Camera di Commercio Italo-Argentina, Enrico Turoni said the Italian private sector is ready to help fruit and vegetable producers and exporters to comply with international food quality and safety requirements, enabling them to sell their products to Europe so they can do more business and earn higher incomes. Turoni, also, the President, Italian-Argentinian Chamber of Commerce, said there is a market for exporters of ginger. The demand, according to him, is expected to grow in the coming years and that prices are slowly rising. The top three markets in Europe are the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Germany. The Deputy Head of Mission, Embassy of Italy in Abuja, Tarek Chazli, noted that the agribusiness sector has acquired a greater strategic relevance. According to him, Italian food businesses performed well on foreign markets. He said the Nigerian and Italian partnership would benefit agribusiness growth in manufacturing of machinery and component parts, fertiliser and industrial chemicals. He noted the two countries have, for years, enjoyed close bilateral relations in trade, investments, development and humanitarian assistance. 