 The Federation of Agricultural Commodities Association of Nigeria (FACAN) is seeking partnership with the Lagos  State government  on operation of  ranches  as part of  a road map with investment plans that seeks to improve animal productivity and production, as well as increase the value addition of key livestock value chains. Its President, Dr Victor Iyama told The Nation that the association is examining various aspects of  agricultural development such as investment, demand, consumption, gender and social inclusion  and is  ready to partner Lagos in driving  out livestock-sector investment interventions, to  help the state a meet its targets by improving productivity and total production in the key livestock value chains of  sheep and cow According to him, the absence of a roadmap to develop the livestock sector had hindered the successful implementation of previous investment plans for the sector. He said the creation of the master plan  would guide livestock-sector investment interventions in improving feed and water resources, health services, industry and factory and promote private sector investment and business environment. Urging the Lagos government to pursue the establishment of ranches for hire, Iyama reiterated that investors were convinced  the  efforts would foster public-private partnerships for livestock development. According to him, private  operators will be ready to rent ranches for meat cattle, indicating that the state remains one of the safest place for increasing industries for meat production and  milk processing. Recently, the  Lagos State Butchers Association has requested the provision of about 50 hectares of land from the Lagos State Government for ranching and rearing herds of cattle in the state. Meantime, the Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Ms Absiola Olusanya, said well over 1.8 million herds of cattle and over 1.4 million herds of sheep and goats, were being consumed in Lagos yearly. Olusanya called on the private sector to partner with it to establish feedlots in the state for cattle rearing and fattening in furtherance of its reforms and sanitization of the red meat value chain, stressing that partnership becomes necessary as it would ensure better production and supply of cattle for consumption in the state. According to her, the feedlots when operational would help revive and resuscitate cows that might have travelled from far cities such as Sokoto, Jalingo, Bauchi and Jigawa among others where they may have come to Lagos before slaughtering them. Olusanya added that the feedlot system would also help in fattening the cows before taking them to the slaughter slabs which would improve the quality of beef as well as help butchers and meat sellers to make more profit. “We have been having discussions around the transformation agenda centred on abattoirs, transportation and markets but there is a revised plan to have a more holistic approach to the red meat value chain. “We are not just focusing on abattoirs alone which are a processing angle, we are starting right from the animal identification and traceability systems, meaning right from the source or point of origination of the cattle. “That is why we want to establish feedlots in the state so that we can have cattle fattening centres. Having feedlot centres means that the cattle can rest, they can be fatten.” 