 Hyundai’s N division is thought to be mulling over a high-performance version of the electric Ioniq 5. The new car, which would likely be called the Ioniq 5 N, would represent a significant shift for the brand’s ‘N’ line-up as the first electric model to get the sporty nameplate. The ‘N’ badged Ioniq 5 would follow the brand’s current trio of performance models, which consists of the i30 N hatch and fastback models, the i20 N and the new Kona N SUV. The image previews what the Ioniq 5 N could look like. It would likely borrow styling cues from its N stablemates, with a sportier design including a two-tone paint finish, larger alloy wheels, a functional rear spoiler and red contrasting detailing dotted around the bodywork. If the Ioniq 5 N makes it to production, it will face rivals including the Volkswagen ID.4 GTX, Kia EV6 GT, Mustang Mach-E GT and forthcoming Skoda Enyaq iV vRS. The potential expansion of Hyundai’s performance models to include pure-electric models was talked about by Hyundai’s vice-president for product and strategy, Thomas Schemera, who said: “We never stop thinking about expanding our product portfolio. Strategically, we are moving full speed ahead with eco-friendly offerings. We have a crystal clear plan. One thing is for sure: eco-friendly vehicles are on our priority list, at the top.” When pushed on whether the firm’s N division would be undertaking development of the Ioniq range, which uses Hyundai’s e-GMP modular electric platform, Schemera stated: “Everybody knows that Hyundai’s electric architecture has a lot of potential and shows a lot of flexibility. So this is an interesting question. I guess if you have a look at our strategy of the future, to offer more eco-friendly vehicles and moving ahead with our battery-electric concept and our fuel cell-electric concept, it seems to be realistic.” Hyundai’s board member for technical development, Albert Biermann, hinted at the firm’s intentions to produce an electric performance model, asking: “Could you imagine we’re not working on it already?” Biermann also hinted that the North American-only Elantra could be brought to the European market as an N Division model if there were enough demand from buyers. “We are developing an Elantra N. It participated already in the launch event of the Elantra in the United States. At this point it’s not planned for Europe. But if you can create enough demand I would not rule out that it could be reconsidered. It could be an interesting next N vehicle for Europe and other markets,” Biermann said.