 Director-General of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) Dr. Gambo Aliyu has debunked reports claiming that the agency was queried over grants from Global Fund. Aliyu stated that “there is no fraud or misappropriation whatsoever in NACA as is being insinuated”. He made the clarification yesterday after some newspapers and online publications claimed that the agency was queried in 2016 for allegedly not releasing documents about grants it received from Global Fund in the fight against HIV/AIDS in Nigeria. Aliyu, who expressed shock over the “misleading” report, attributed the controversy over non-release of audit report documents to miscommunication. The NACA boss, who reiterated that it is inconceivable for anybody to assume that donor funds can be mismanaged without repercussions, said the procedures for accessing and disbursing foreign grants are so stringent and rigorous that it is impossible to embezzle such funds. He stated that the amount of money that NACA received and the agency’s audit report documents are public information that can be accessed from NACA and several independent bodies, including Global Fund and its appointed auditors.  “Let me state categorically that there is no misappropriation or fraud whatsoever that has been recorded in the period under question. Again, I insist that there is no fraud or misappropriation in the 2016 and 2017 money that came from Global Fund that I have seen or that has been reported by Global Fund or auditors of Global Fund. Global Fund has an auditing firm called Deloitte Akintola Williams and Co, which does an annual audit of Global Fund money that is given to any agent – whether it is in the government or private sector. “Before any Global Fund money is spent, there is what is called fiduciary agent that reviews all payments even before they are made. And this agent has to sign before that money is paid. Apart from the annual auditors and apart from implementing partner’s auditors (NACA auditors), the work is done together with them (Global Fund). There is also post-payment audit called local fund agent (LFA), which reviews all payments to identify or detect whether there is misappropriation or fraud. If there is a fraud, they raise alarm and that alarm is raised to the Global Fund country agent – not to NACA. Finally, here in Nigeria, there is a country coordinating mechanism that oversees how disbursed money from Global Fund is spent by various agents.” The DG said he was surprised that NACA is accused of hiding information, stressing that somebody was probably up to a mischief. He insisted that the amount of money that has come to NACA or the amount of money that has been spent by NACA is public information. 