 As part of efforts to see that Nigerians find relief amid the economic hardship caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Victims Support Fund (VSF), has supplied food and non-food materials to communities across the country. The relief materials, which came from the VSF chaired by Gen. Theophilus Y. Danjuma (rtd), through its special vehicle, the Victims Support Fund Task Force on COVID-19, is the organisation’s contribution to strengthening weakened/threatened livelihood systems following the outbreak of the pandemic. “I thank God for today. It is the first time for me to get something like that. This suffering in COVID-19, I thank God we got food today. The people who thought to remember us, God will bless them,” she prayed. ‘’As they help us, their own will not spoil’’, a recipient of the intervention, Theresa Danladi, said on the day a civil society group, Ayewosai Global Foundation, visited her community. The relief items were mainly food and non-food materials distributed in Shiroro and Munya Local Government areas of Niger State. Like in most parts of the world, Nigerians with salaried work have seen pay cuts and layoffs while those in the informal sector and entrepreneurs saw a downturn in their businesses. The imposition of the lockdown from March to June 2020 worsened the economic situation for millions of Nigerians who depend on artisanal work and live on daily wages. They belong in that vulnerable bracket of society where a disruption to daily income can throw an entire household into dire straits. Most times, this class of people have no savings at all. Stop-gap interventions by both the government and private sector were designed and implemented to ameliorate the impact of the lockdown and it is within such a framework that the VSF implemented its intervention using a slightly different model from other organisations. In the taskforce’s model, fifty percent of the materials go through civil society organisations (CSOs) while the other fifty per cent is distributed directly through state governments. The third phase of the VSF COVID-19 intervention started from November 2020 and reached Kano, Katsina, Zamfara, Niger, Plateau, Benue, Kaduna. This third phase was necessitated due to the pervasiveness of the coronavirus and hardship across the country. The third phase of distribution commenced on November 21st in Benue State and proceeded to three other North Central states (Plateau, Niger and Kaduna) and three Northwestern states (Katsina, Kano, and Zamfara). Ayewosai was one of dozens of civil society organisations that helped to distribute relief from VSF in communities on December 5. It worked in Shiroro and Munya, where it encountered Theresa Danladi. e-CAPH is another of such CSOs. Its team targeted Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State to sensitise women groups on the need for adherence to COVID-19 safety measures. Carelink Resource Foundation took in palliatives from VSF but had to conduct a painstaking exercise using “strict criteria” to identify the most vulnerable in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. It also doled out hand sanitisers and facemask with the support of VSF, United Nations Population Fund and other donor agencies. In Kano state, Al-Ihsan Social Intervention Foundation distributed palliatives to vulnerable people in Fagge and Kano Municipal local government areas while in another location, Kano’s Commissioner for Women Affairs, Dr Zahra Muhammad, alongside the state’s Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, supervised the distribution of palliatives to 700 vulnerable women. In Zamfara, it was the Future Hope Foundation that implemented the distribution of food and in Benue State, GERI Initiative implemented the provision of support to households in Gwer-East Local Government Area on December 2. Its target was 329 households across five communities. Palliatives distribution across the country sparked interest in the wake of the ENDSARS protest which turned violent with warehouses and private stores broken into and looted. This led to widespread interest about the administration of palliatives under different groups. “The VSF Task Force on COVID-19 remains committed to working with indigenous  CSOs as well as state governments to provide food and Personal Protective Equipment  (PPE’s) in underprivileged and disadvantaged communities,” VSF spokesperson, Alkasim Abdulkadir, said.