Nollywood actor and producer, Yomi Fabiyi has stated that he would hit the streets to lead a protest for prosecution of comedienne, Princess and other adults involved in the CCTV that exposed Baba Ijesha. Baba Ijesha was arrested for allegedly defiling a minor as many celebrities have continued to take to social media to slam him. Comedienne Princess came out to state her foster child was the girl Baba Ijesha sexually assaulted. Taking to Instagram, the entertainer revealed after the crash of her marriage, some parents allowed their children, six in number, to come and live with her so she wouldn’t be lonely. She said while she was harbouring the six children, she was also rendering help to Baba Ijesha. Princess alleged it was during one of his visits that he molested one of three girls living with her. She said the defilement had an adverse effect on the child as she began to decline academically and otherwise. A video was recently released which showed the actor allegedly assaulting the minor on CCTV. Yomi Fabiyi blasted Princess and the biological parents of the alleged rape victim for ‘putting her through another round of molestation just to get evidence’, has revealed he will lead a peaceful protest for Princess, and every adult who knew about the CCTV camera installation to be arrested, charged to court and punished. He wrote: “If this is not clear to you again, I am sorry I cannot help farther. I will fight for the young lady (minor), even if I fight alone. I am never in support of Baba Ijesha’s action, rape or child molestation etc at any time, please understand and stop misleading people. “CAN YOU ALLOW YOUR CHILD GO THROUGH ANOTHER ABUSE FROM SAME TORMENTOR FOR ANY REASON? The girl needs urgent help. Take the child away from the guardian NOW! “All the ADULTS including Baba Ijesha plus any other the investigation traverses must be arrested as soon as possible. “For heaven sake, the Police saw this cctv beforehand and never touch on everyone in the footage, that is ridiculous! WHY SHOULD LAGOS POLICE DO THIS TO A CHILD? “No reliable justice system will overlook that side of the investigation. If that child can decide for herself, she will never want to be abused again no matter the alibi, BUT SHE WAS ALLOWED TO BE ABUSED. Nigerians learn to trust the police and stop putting the laws into your hands. Emotions if too much can be detrimental. “If after Seven(7) Working Days the CP refuses to do the right thing, Nigeria either GO FORWARD or BACKWARD. To move forward, we all must TAKE TO THE STREET and fight for every child. Lagos Governor and the Police must do the right thing NOW! “There are decisions we are making, we are saving our own lives. Trust me, It is worth risking everything for. All Human Rights Lawyers, adults, I challenge you all to the court of conscience.”