 Last Thursday, Prof. Ben. Ayade, the Governor of Cross River State, elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), after meeting with some governors of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Government House in Calabar, the state capital, announced to the world that he has dumped the PDP for the APC. The meeting, held in the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office, lasted over one hour. The governors in attendance were Dr. Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State; Mohammed Badaru of Jigawa State; Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State; Abubakar Bagudu of Kebbi State; Hope Uzodimma of Imo State; and Simon Lalong of Plateau State. Beside the governors, the Minister of State for Petroleum, Timipre Silva, was also on hand to witness the historic change of platform. Ayade’s public announcement of his defection to the ruling party ended months of speculations over his continued stay in the PDP, which has been troubled in his home state, with the governor largely on the receiving end. His incessant complaints of being badly treated by the national leadership of the PDP as well as some political developments in recent months have left no one in doubt of his dissatisfaction with his former party. “I need all governors to similarly join me and understand my decision to join the APC. It is my responsibility to bring back Cross River to the centre in order to enhance her fortunes. We need to work ahead with the President for the future and unity of Nigeria. We all need to sit on the same dining table with Mr. President to save Nigeria. We need to join hands with President Buhari in his determination to enhance the fortunes of the country,” Ayade said while joining the APC. While many pundits have described Ayade’s entry into the ruling party as a deft political move, quite a number of political observers insist it is equally a very controversial one. Cross River State is very strategic to the South-south geo-political zone. And the zone has been a stronghold of the PDP ever since the return of party politics in 1999. Save for Edo State’s stint with the APC very recently, the PDP had largely held the region in its kitty. Consequently, the defection of Ayade, amidst rumours that at least one other governor of the zone is contemplating dumping the PDP for the APC, sent out strong indications that the future of the opposition PDP in the zone may be up for serious discussion. Some leaders of the PDP in the zone, while speaking to The Nation during the week, confirmed that all is not well with the opposition party in the zone and Ayade’s defection may just be the last straw. “It is not only Ayade that is uncomfortable with the developments within the PDP. Many of the governors in the zone are displeased with the emerging signs as 2023 draws closer and you may soon see more of them leave the party. Unless the PDP swiftly shows some commitments towards respecting the zoning principle come 2023, the future of our party in the South-south is threatened,” Hon. Abel Odey, former state secretary of the defunct All Peoples Party (APP) and a chieftain of the PDP, said. Reacting to the development, a former Special Adviser to former President Olusegun Obasanjo on National Assembly Matters, Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, said the decision of Ayade was a “right move in the right direction. Where the leader of the state goes, I go with him.” Ita-Giwa, who returned to the PDP in 2018 from the APC, is reported to be one of those who encouraged the governor to quit the opposition party and join the PDP. A federal lawmaker from the state, who preferred anonymity, told The Nation that the governor’s decision is a popular one, not just in Cross River but in the South-south geo-political zone. “I can confirm to you that I am still in the PDP. Though I have no objection to our governor’s decision to jump ship; I have not decamped along with him. I want to remain a bona fide PDP federal legislator until I feel otherwise. But the governor’s decision is a popular one. “Across the South-south geo-political zone, there is a serious discontent with the way our party is approaching the 2023 presidential election. As long as the zoning principle is not respected, many more Ayade’s will emerge from the PDP in the South-south. Most of our leaders, including governors, are just biding their time. We will not remain in a party that has no regard for our feelings. We will not support any attempt to ditch the zoning arrangement that the founding fathers of the party enshrined,” he explained. More to come Meanwhile, indications continue to emerge across the state that more prominent members of the PDP will join the APC in the days to come. Deputy Speaker of Cross River House of Assembly, Joseph Bassey, who officially defected to APC during the week, claimed majority of the elected and appointed political office holders in the state will willingly follow the governor to his new party because “the defection was to help Cross River residents by aligning with the centre.” “The governor is going into the APC with all members of the State House of Assembly, all Commissioners, all elected local council chairmen, all councilors, and over 6,000 political appointees in the state, he said. Confirming rumours that more PDP chieftains may be on their way to the APC, the Cross River State chapter of the PDP alleged that the governor was using cash and vehicles as gift to induce political appointees to defect with him to the APC. State chairman of the PDP Caretaker Committee, Effiok Cobham, said “upon decamping to APC, Governor Ayade declared pompously that in Cross River once the governor moves, everyone follows. “To Governor Ayade’s consternation and embarrassment, nobody followed. Governor Ayade has now adopted unconstitutional methods to compel his cabinet and appointees, and other public office holders to follow him to the APC against their choice of remaining in PDP. Members of the House of Assembly have been offered 30 million naira each and an SUV each if they agree to decamp. Commissioners in Ayade’s cabinet are being offered 3 million naira and a car each to defect to the APC. Local government chairmen and councilors are under threat of removal from office unless they defect. “All appointees of the governor have been instructed to produce their APC membership cards before they can receive salaries. The defection of Governor Ayade to APC is to cost Cross Riverians N2 Billion naira. This is what Ayade needs to buy defectors from even his cabinet to follow him to the APC. Even this filthy lucre put forward by Governor Ayade is not enough,” the PDP alleged. But Ayade’s spokesperson, Christian Ita, said the governor does not need to lure anybody into his new party as the people of the state are ready to go with him. “There is no doubt that it will take the PDP, in Cross River State ages, to overcome the shock and trauma suffered following the exit of His Excellency, Governor Ben Ayade from the party. While still reeling from Ayade’s masterstroke, the almost emptied PDP has been busy shopping for lies to confuse its sagging coterie of followers and at the same time flattering to deceive. “It is against this backcloth that PDP’s claim that the governor paid N2bn to people to defect is as ludicrous as the claim that nobody has moved with the governor to APC. PDP, for all they care, can go on consoling itself that nobody has moved, but it’s clear that more than 90 percent of the members of the State House Assembly, including the Speaker, are already in the APC. Clearly, the PDP in Cross River is on a free fall and on an uncontrollable hemorrhage,” he said. No cause for alarm – PDP Meanwhile, PDP stakeholders in Cross River State after an emergency meeting said they remained firmly with the party despite the defection of Ayade to APC. Stakeholders who attended the meeting were: Jaribe Agom Jaribe, Gershon Bassey, Sunday Onor, Daniel Asuquo, Bassey Ekpo, Jetty Agbi, Liel Imoke and Anna Enegbeni. Others included: Daye Arikpo, Asuquo Eke, Chris Ngora and Etta Mbora. They insisted the party is not affected by the governor’s exit. “An overwhelming majority of Cross River State people are PDP members. Our key stakeholders, members of the National and State Assemblies and strategic grassroots mobilisers are still members of our great party. We, as a party, therefore, remain virile and strong. Our shell remains un-cracked. The leadership of Cross River State under the aegis of PDP since 1999 has led the state to a pedigree of progression and seen to the attainment of all the lofty achievements the state has been known for,” the PDP chieftains claimed. Similarly, a former governor of the state, Liyel Imoke, has said the state chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party remains intact despite Ayade’s exit. “APC is a party that is collapsing. It is not a place to go for Cross River. We will revive the glory of Cross River. I took risks to see the emergence of this government. They even accused me of collecting money. It is an insult. I have been a governor and I served my people diligently. Now, we have seen a different approach to governance,” he claimed while speaking to party faithful in Calabar. Speaking further, Imoke urged members of the PDP across the state to be prepared to bring back the glory of the party in the state. “Ours is a democratic party. Our politics is sweet. We don’t play politics of harassment and intimidation. We want youths that can deliver. Time has come for a generational shift. The next governor will be a man of character. The next national and state Assembly members will be men of character,” he promised.