  Senate President Ahmad Lawan has indicated that the National Assembly has no predetermined position on any issue of interest to Nigerians during the ongoing process to amend the 1999 Constitution. He said the Senate will not sit in plenary throughout next week owing to zonal public hearing on the Review of the 1999 Constitution. “We shall be devoting the entire week to the constitution review exercise,” Lawan said. The Senate President said the zonal hearing would avail Nigerians the opportunity to make submissions on any issue of interest, adding that the National Assembly on its part, would prioritise such issues to enhance the welfare and security of citizens. He said: “This is a very important exercise for our country, and I’ll take this opportunity to appeal to all Nigerians, who have one issue or the other that they think the Constitution review of the Senate should know and take note and address.  “It’s an opportunity to go to the centre nearest to you. We are open, we are plain, we don’t have any preconceived or predetermined position on anything. “The numerous issues that Nigerians feel should be addressed to make Nigeria better, to make citizens secured, and enhance the welfare of our people are topmost in our consideration. “Because of this so important assignment, by this very important Committee of the Senate, the Senate will suspend plenary throughout next week. “This is to enable not only the committee members, but the rest of us who are not even members of the Constitution Review Committee to participate in the exercise.” According to him, the zonal public hearing on proposals to alter the provisions of the 1999 Constitution, would hold in two state capitals in each of the six Geo-political zones, from Wednesday May 26th to Thursday 27th. The South-West zone has the Lagos Centre to cover Lagos, Oyo and Ogun states; and the Akure Centre will cater for Ondo, Osun and Ekiti states. Both centres are to be chaired by Senators Olufemi Tinubu and Ajayi Boroffice.