 Last week, the Central Bank of Nigeria, CBN, formally adopted the Investor and Exporter (I&E) forex window rate of N410.25/$, thus effectively devaluing the naira by 7.6 per cent. CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, had at the bank’s 55th Annual Bankers’ Dinner, let out on why the measure, designed to signpost a unified exchange rate regime, had become inevitable. He mentioned the decline in crude oil earnings as well as the retreat by foreign portfolio investors, both of which he said, significantly impacted the supply of foreign exchange to the country. According to Emefiele, the unprecedented nature of the shocks is such that left the apex bank with no other choice but to settle for “a gradual liberalisation of the foreign exchange market in order to smoothen exchange rate volatility and mitigate the impact which, rapid changes in the exchange rate could have on key macro-economic variables”. He also spoke of the measure as being in line with international best practices in countries where managed float arrangements are in operation. Coincidentally, the apex bank had in the two weeks prior to the measure, removed the then official exchange rate of N379/$ from its website, a move  some analysts had correctly interpreted as a push for the unification of the exchange rate regime. To start with, if the position of the apex bank on the matter is taken as pragmatic and compelling, no less so is the obverse side of the equation. For the apex bank, it is not hard to fathom where it is coming from. Faced with the slow forex accretion rate and the unabating forex demand even at a time the global economy is on the slump, things have become somewhat desperate. But then, on the other side is the appropriateness of its timing which represents, for all practical purposes, a further strain on an economy that has only managed to crawl out of recession. Related to this is the question of whether the economy can even afford the shocks that the measure will inevitably precipitate, and, how the market will play out in the long term in an environment where forex supply is not only finite but one in which the so-called parallel market insists on setting the markers. And to imagine all of these coming together in an economy whose dependence on imports – from industrial parts to basic raw materials and fuel – is legendary. Little wonder the cry by experts that the measure would further add to the inflationary pressure and increase the poverty level in the country. Clearly, if the point bears any stating, the current situation is merely the by-product of the gross mismanagement by successive governments. For, only criminal mismanagement can explain the fact that a major oil-producing nation continues to spend some 40 per cent of its entire foreign earnings on fuel imports. It is also at the heart of why cries about real impactful diversification by successive administrations have barely taken off the ground; why agriculture has remained at subsistence level, and agro-processing at infancy and real backward integration a mere pipe-dream. It explains the fits-and-starts industrial sector and the accompanying wave of de-industrialisation; why the country’s machine tools industry on which the nation had spent millions of dollars of forex is moribund. It is at the heart of why the economy unduly favours speculation as against wealth creation. Above all, it is at the heart of why the economy is hung on forex. Which raises the million-dollar question – how will devaluation help a country that has nothing to offer by way of qualitative, standardised and competitive exports? What of its multi-billion-dollar forex denominated debts? Will it not further strain its capacity to pay them? And talking of exports so critical to the nation’s ability to earn forex, apart from the legendary factors of inadequate power, poor logistics and transportation infrastructure, everything else from the shambolic ports infrastructure to atrocious quality and standards have remained pointers to how far the nation still has to go. In other words, save our crude oil which by the way is already forex denominated, Nigeria has few else to offer by way of exports at this time, which explains why devaluation, aside further inflicting pain on the poor, is of little practical benefits to the country.