Original equipment manufacturer (OEM), Tecno Mobile, has said the outbreak of COVID-19 has had a defining impact on global economy. Its General Manager, Stephen Ha, who spoke during the unveiling of Tecno Camon 17 Pro said the technology company will continue to innovate to ensure the satisfaction of its customers. “We always seek for break-throughs of product and technology to touch human spirit and inspire positive energy,” Ha said. The social phenomenon of selfies has been gaining serious momentum in recent years and has become central to how people express themselves. The world has shifted permanently due to the impacts of COVID-19 and the selfie function has become even more important as people use it to keep in touch with loved ones safely. The Camon 17 Pro is the first product to put this behavior into focus as users nowadays in post-epidemic era associate selfie with their identity,” he said. He said Tecno is always upholding the brand motto ‘young at heart’ and never stop pursuing excellence in deeply plying the global emerging markets. Tecno upgrade product design and qualities, which is increasingly elegant, energetic, durable and constantly pioneering and touches human spirit. Camon 17 is such a brand-new product in post-epidemic era. Entering the scene with an exciting launch, fans and viewers were treated to a first of its kind fashion-focused launch show, bringing to life the beauty of the Camon 17 series as the smartphone for the stylish, trendy and modern consumer. The launch also highlighted thought-provoking subjects surrounding the rise of the selfie and the selfie generation’s needs. The launch, entitled: “Rise of the Selfie” dived into the selfie’s history and why it has become such an essential feature of the current generation. It aligned with a cause TECNO has been championing: a smartphone is not about the brand, but about the individuality of each consumer. For the fashion show, Kunle Afolayan, Kelechi Amadi-Obi, Bibyonce, Yolanda Okereke and Unlimited LA, all share their valuable insights. They introduced the audience to the camera power of the Camon 17. This gave the audience an understanding of why the Camon 17 is so well-suited for its users. They all flaunted the phone’s sleek details and camera skills, claiming that selfie phones like the  Camon 17 Pro allows users to control their own images by taking photos that showcase the best of themselves. Fitted with the most updated functions, the Camon 17 will also use the next generation TAIVOS 2.0 to optimise the camera settings based on the user’s scenery changes. The Camon 17’s entrance to the smartphone market came at the perfect time. Users want more from their selfies and would appreciate a smartphone with a high-quality camera and grants them the freedom to explore their creativity. The Camon series does just that. It simplifies the photo taking process for the user’s ease of use and made it so much more enjoyable even for someone not well-versed with technology. The 64+8+5+2MP super powerful camera modules bring users unprecedented clear photography experiences. Each camera lens has its own mission and outstanding feature, truly living up to the users’ expectation that each picture could be a masterpiece. The 48MP super clear selfie lens, and 8MP ultra wide-angle selfie lens, is such a marvellous combination that definitely set off a hot trend in the industry. The innovative launch event exploring the story of selfie reflects the rising brand horizon to exert more effort on industrial, social, and humanistic care rather than the product portfolio only. This is an indication that Tecno is on the way to becoming one of the leading brands around the world. The Camon 17 Series have the Camon 17 Pro, Camon 17P, Camon 17, will sell at a recommended retail price N125,000, N97,000 and N75,000 respectively and is already available in all authorised phone dealers and retail stores nationwide.