 Nigeria is a heterogeneous society made up of different nationalities with different languages, culture, traditions and ways of life. It became a British protectorate in 1901. But, it came into existence as a political unit in 1914 with the amalgamation of the Northern and the Southern Protectorates.  At the moment, there is a myriad of problems facing ordinary Nigerians. In such comparable difficult periods in the past, there were agitations for constitutional restructuring of the country. Many Nigerians consider the 1999 Constitution a fraud. This is because the military-imposed document does not reflect the aspirations of Nigerians for a federal system of government.  To well-meaning Nigerians, the 1999 Constitution was introduced to legitimise the division of the defunct Northern Region into 20 political units and the carving of the defunct Western and Eastern Regions into 17 states during the 29 years of military rule dominated by officers from the North. Since independence, in 1960, only the defunct Midwest State was created constitutionally; the present 36-state structure and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) were created by military fiat. Unfortunately, under the current dispensation, most states do not generate enough revenue for their sustenance and to add to the national purse. Rather, they rely solely on monthly allocations from the Federation Account, by going to Abuja to collect handouts mainly for payment of salaries and allowances of political office holders, without investing in their economies. It is against this background that the current brand of federalism in Nigeria has been aptly described as “feeding bottle” federalism. The current attempt by the National Assembly to review the 1999 Constitution is coming against the background of the general disenchantment of Nigerians over the document. They see the governance structure and the high cost it entails as the major problem facing the country. Elders who witnessed the pre and post-independence era allude to the glorious days of the First Republic when there was healthy rivalry and competition among the regions. Unlike now, each of the regions was productive. They had relative advantages that revolved around rich agricultural resources and animal husbandry. There have been several unsuccessful attempts in the past to review the constitution. Other than the first, second and third alterations enacted during the Sixth Assembly (2007 to 2011), no significant amendment has been made. The Seventh Assembly (2011- 2015) also undertook a constitution review process, but it ran into a logjam, despite the huge amount of state resources deployed into the process. The efforts represented the first genuine participatory process in constitution-making since the country’s return to civil rule in 1999, with public hearings held across the six geo-political zones at both constituency and zonal levels. The Eighth Assembly led by Senator Bukola Saraki and Yakubu Dogara, also attempted to no avail to review the constitution. Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye summarised the problems facing the country very succinctly in a memo he sent to the Senate Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution last September, following the call for inputs from the public. In the memo, he said the current effort represents an opportunity “to correct a major stumbling block to Nigeria’s greatness as a country”. He added: “Let us seize this opportunity to jettison the 1999 Constitution crafted by the military in the borrowed gown of ‘We the People’ and revive a truly federal constitution which our political founding fathers painstakingly agreed to after a series of constitutional conferences in Nigeria and Britain between 1956 and 1960.” Durojaiye who made the memo available to reporters during a press briefing said the constitution of a country is the supreme law of the land and that, as a creation of the 1999 Constitution, the National Assembly is not in a position to alter the document in any meaningful way. He urged the Federal Government to convene another constitutional conference or revisit the report of the last one held in 2014 and through the assistance of relevant stakeholders and legal experts “draft the new constitution clause by clause”. He cited the constitution of the United States of America, which became operative on June 21, 1788, but still stands today with comparatively few amendments over 233 years.  The elder statesman said one common feature of all great empires recorded in history, from the Greek Empire, the Roman Empire, the French Empire under Napoleon Bonaparte to the South African Empire under Chaka the Zulu, is that their powers dwindled and their authorities ebbed into oblivion after some time. The underlying factor he said: “Is that you cannot rule or hold together unwilling people for an endless period of time. It is unwise to ride an ‘unwilling horse’.” He said last year’s “EndSARS” protests are a signal to the authorities that the youths are pessimistic about the future of the country. This, he added, explains the increasing clamour for disintegration by such youths. Nevertheless, Durojaiye said disintegration is not the solution to the problem currently facing the country. Rather, he said Nigeria’s size and the population is an advantage that should be harnessed to build a great nation that would possibly be the nucleus of a future United States of West Africa (ECOWAS). The 1999 Constitution was hurriedly put together by the military junta led by General Abdulsalami Abubakar, who wanted to return the country to civilian rule as soon as possible. No constitutional conference was held to produce it. General Abubakar simply instructed a committee handpicked by him to write the constitution. At the time, he was under pressure to end military rule and hand it over to an elected government. Since the mid-1990s, Nigerians have been advocating for a conference of the various ethnic nationalities, to fashion a new constitution that would inspire change in the body polity. The clamour has become a recurring decimal. Over the years, it has pitched the South against the North. The North is indifferent to the idea because the number of states and local governments that the military created by fiat in their region today represents a conduit for federal economic and political patronage. Constitutionalism was introduced into the country by the British colonial masters with the Clifford Constitution of 1922. The constitution was significant in the sense that it introduced the elective principle into the country; though this was limited to Lagos and Calabar only. After World War II, in 1946, the Richards Constitution was promulgated. The constitution introduced the idea of regionalism, by dividing the country into three regions. Next came the Richards Constitution, which was rejected because the colonial masters did not consult the nationalists before it was promulgated. The Macpherson Constitution of 1951 was the outcome of a series of conferences. The most important reform introduced by the constitution was the general application of the elective principle throughout the country and the introduction of the ministerial system of government, which brought about the evolution of political parties, at least in the regions. Subsequently, many constitutional conferences were held both in Lagos and London. These gave birth to the Lyttleton Constitution of 1954, which further strengthened the power of the regional governments. Before independence in 1960, another series of constitutional conferences in London deliberated on the future of Nigeria. At the resumed conferences in London (in 1957), the fears of the minority groups were a major issue. The minority feared that they would become victims to the tyranny of the majority groups as soon as independence was attained. As a result, a four-man Commission of Inquiry under the chairmanship of Sir Henry Willink was sent to Nigeria. In its report, the Willink Commission recommended that constitutional safeguards be written into the Independence Constitution. After the independence Constitution, the 1963 Constitution, which was based on the Westminster system, continued to be in operation until the military coup in January 1966 overthrew the democratic institutions. At the return to civil rule in 1979 (Second Republic), Nigeria abandoned the Westminster system in favour of the American style presidential system. To this day, the Independence Constitution of 1960 is considered the best attempt that has been made to transform the country into a federation.