Commercial activities were grounded on Friday in Onitsha, Anambra state following protests by truck drivers over alleged killing of over nine persons including one of their members in a fatal motor accident in the area. The incident which occurred at about 12pm on Thursday around popular Upper Iweka area of the commercial city was reportedly caused by the officers of the Anambra State Transport Management Agency (ATMA) following an altercation with a truck driver. The development led to protest by truck drivers who blocked the Onitsha-Asaba expressway, resulting to a heavy traffic gridlock along the highway. Both motorists and commuters coming in from Awka axis and exiting the town from Asaba axis were trapped in the traffic for hours, while some had to alight to trek long distances to find their way home. The Nation gathered that the truck which rammed into two stationary buses was being driven by the ATMA official who took over the key from the owner when the incident happened.   “I didn’t know what the truck driver did but I saw the ATMA officer dragging the key with him until he succeeded and zoomed off. “The way he drove shows he is not familiar with the truck until he lost control and veered off the road and crashed into two commercial buses. “Some persons including the driver and those standing by the road died instantly while others sustained varying degrees of injury. I saw about nine bodies lying on the floor,” an eye witness who preferred anonymity said. The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Utten Boyi, had in a statement said only two persons lost their lives while one was injured in the incident. He said the body of the deceased had been deposited at the morgue, warning motorist to desist from excess speed especially in build-up areas, and should use recommended speed limit of 50klm/hr. He said: “A multiple fatal road traffic crash happened by down flyover upper Iweka this afternoon 13th May, 2021, at about 1201hrs. “The crash was between unidentified driver of a Mercedes trailer with registration number SMK 728 DA, unidentified driver of a Toyota Hiace bus with registration number HTE 791 XA and unidentified driver of a Mitsubishi L300 bus with registration number NNE 138 ZF. “Eight persons were involved in the crash comprising 5 male adults, 1 female adult and 2 male children. “One male adult sustained serious injury and was rushed to Toronto hospital by FRSC rescue team from Upper Iweka Command, while two other male adults were confirmed dead by the doctor on duty at the same hospital and they have been deposited at the morgue.”