 Burglary is common all over the world. Burglars are, in most cases, common thieves who could easily be dismissed and waived on to sin no more. But, under the Nigerian Criminal Code, it is seriously frowned at and receives far more than a slap on the wrist as conviction attracts life imprisonment. An attempt to burgle would land the burglar 14 years in jail. The situation is more serious when it concerns highly secured premises. This was why the report that an attempt was made to break into the residence of the Chief of Staff to the President, Professor Ibrahim Gambari, on May 10 generated ripples. It has grave implications for national security, the safety of the lives of the President, his family and aides who live in the Presidential Villa. The first information that seeped out was that the said residence is within the Aso Villa, considered the most secure premises in Nigeria. However, Bashir Ahmad, a presidential aide was quick to dismiss it as a wicked rumour. But, hours after, Garba Shehu, a spokesman for the President, pushed out another statement that it was indeed true, but still dismissed it as “foolish burglary”. We are left to guess what made it foolish. He also pointed out that the attack did not take place within the villa, but a street away. This is sheer cold comfort. It is expected that, by technology, the area around the Three Arms District of Abuja hosting the headquarters of the three arms of government should be adequately monitored and secured by men and technology. That the building in question houses the Chief of Staff to the President makes it even the more important. He occupies a very sensitive office and many documents pass through his desk. This raises the poser as to the motive – was it to murder him because of certain decisions he had taken or was about to take; was it to blackmail or browbeat him to take a decision he was reluctant to, who were those behind the attempted burglary; was it an attempt to steal documents? These posers have made it imperative for the presidency to brief the public on how far investigations have gone. At a time like this when the country is boiling, in the word of the defence minister, “bleeding”, there is an urgent need to assure the public that the government is in a position to defend the seat of power, a symbol of our sovereignty, and its officials, because, should gold rust, what would be expected of iron? Almost two weeks after the attempted burglary, no word has been heard concerning it. What have the security agents attached to the Chief of Staff done about it? What are they doing about beefing up security around the Aso Villa and its precincts? True, it could be argued that high profile burglary or attempted break-ins is not limited to Nigeria, others have always taken steps to ensure that such mishaps are prevented thereafter. Besides, the perpetrators have been arrested and the cases thoroughly investigated. One of the most sensational was the breach of security at the Buckingham Palace in 1982. The burglar, Michael Fagan, 32, succeeded in gaining access to the Queen’s bedroom and even had the audacity to ask for a stick of cigarette. He was apprehended. The last time an attempt was made to compromise the security of the American White House was in 2014. The man, Omar Gonzalez, was caught before any harm could come to the residence and office of the United States President and he was subjected to thorough interrogation.  Similarly, when a man scaled the fence for unlawful access to the 10, Downing Street residence of the British Prime minister, he was apprehended. In Bayelsa State, Nigeria, Ebizi Brown, who was Deputy Chief of Staff to Governor Seriake Dickson reported a break into her office in 2019. She said millions of Naira was successfully carted out on that occasion. That was the last the public heard about the case and the public money said to have been stolen. We demand full disclosure in the case of Professor Gambari. We should have learnt lessons from the various cases in other countries and beefed up our security. The fact that the attempt took place at about 3.00 a.m. makes it more curious that the burglars were not caught in the act. We hope others would not be encouraged by this shoddy handling of the matter to attempt a break-in into the official residence or office of the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces. Every symbol of national sovereignty must be adequately protected.