Sport lovers’ can look forward to action from the 2020-21 La Liga and Serie A seasons this weekend. The pick of the matches for the legendary La Liga, for this round sees Barcelona host Atletico Madrid at Camp Nou this  afternoon at  3:15pm on SuperSport La Liga (DStv channel 204) and SuperSport GOtv La Liga (GOtv channel 32) in a clash which could have major ramifications in the title race. Both Barca and Atletico are looking to dethrone reigning champions Real Madrid and this top-three six-pointer is set to be a key game in determining the strength of those ambitions – with the Rojiblancos hopeful of a repeat of the 1-0 win they claimed when the teams last met back in November 2020. Real Madrid, meanwhile, will hope to capitalise on at least one of their rivals dropping points, but they have a tricky clash at home to Sevilla tomorrow at 8pm on SuperSport La Liga and SuperSport GOtv La Liga. Former Los Blancos manager Julen Lopetegui has turned Los Nervionenses into a tough-to-beat outfit and he would love to put a spanner in the works with this visit to the capital.  The headline fixture from Serie A this weekend sees Juventus host Milan at the Allianz Stadium in Turin at 7:45pm tomorrow on SuperSport Football (DStv channel 205) and SuperSport GOtv Select 1 (GOtv channel 33), a key clash as both teams look to finish as high up the table as possible with the end of the campaign now very much in sight. The other Italian heavyweights in action include Internazionale, who will chase yet another three points in their triumphant campaign when they host Sampdoria at San Siro at 5pm today, while Atalanta, Lazio and Napoli have trips to Parma, Fiorentina and Spezia respectively. All on on SuperSport Football and SuperSport GOtv Select 1. Another key clash sees Hellas Veron host Torino at Stadio Marc’Antonio Bentegodi at 2pm tomorrow with Il Toro looking to keep up their struggle against the threat of relegation from Serie A. Manager Davide Nicola has called on his team to continue to show the kind of mental strength that has earned them key wins in recent weeks. “There was every reason to suggest we could struggle in this situation, but the team remained solid, held its mentality,” said Nicola. “We have always been fully concentrated on our path and what can take us to safety. That’s the only thing we can control.”