Abductors of a Deeper Life Pastor, Otamayomi Ogedengbe, are yet to make contact with the family to demand any ransom payment. Pastor Ogedengbe was abducted at about 8:30 pm on Monday evening inside the church after conducting a Bible study. His wife, Yinka, who spoke to newsmen called on Nigerians to help secure the release of her husband as he is the only son of his parents. Yinka who narrated how the kidnappers struck said they took time to search out her husband before forcefully taking him away. She said attempts to chase after the kidnappers were unfruitful as the kidnappers shot at them during the pursuit. According to her, “On Monday was our Bible study. Immediately after the Bible study, we were rounding up from the church, one of our brothers collected the car key to park it properly. He is the person that drive the car when it is already night. He met some boys outside. “He said the boys pushed him down from the car and he thought they wanted to collect the car. They slapped him and when they looked at him properly and discovered he was not the person they were looking for. “They brought him inside the church and started searching for who they were looking for. They saw my husband and said he was the person. When we got outside, they started shooting and pushed my husband into their car. “We drove after them towards Irese road but they were shooting at us. It was dark so we stopped. “God helped me to bring my husband back. He is the only son of his parents. Nigerians should help secure release of my husband.” Meanwhile two farmers have been abducted at Ikaram in Akoko Northwest local government. Akala of Ikaram and Chairman Akoko Northwest Traditional Council, Oba Andrew Momodu, said residents of the town are now living in fear of being abducted or killed by hoodlums. The monarch said one Ade Gbodi who was coming from his farm in Eda Ekiti was kidnapped along Okeagbe-Ikaram road. He said his abductors have demanded a ransom of N1m. Oba Momodu said the second abduction took place around the area where three construction workers were kidnapped last month. The Ikaram monarch said the kidnappers shot one person and abducted the second person. No ransom has been demanded from the second victim. Oba Momodu said the case has been reported at the Okeagbe Divisional Police headquarters. He called for massive recruitment of police personnel as well as purchase of modern weapons. Ondo Police spokesman, ASP Tee-Leo Ikoro, confirmed the abduction. He said hunters and security personnel have been deployed inside the bush.