At a well-attended security summit in Lagos, stakeholders proffered solutions to myriads of security challenges confronting Nigeria’s economic capital and pledged to support sweeping reforms in the state’s transport sector, reports Associate Editor ADEKUNLE YUSUF  Last Monday, Alausa, the ever-busy seat of government and power in Lagos, wore a different look as human and vehicular movements became unusually frenetic, spewing traffic snarls that almost paralysed activities in the entire Ikeja central business district. As early as 8am, the popular Adeyemi Bero Auditorium in Alausa Secretariat had been filled to the brim, as stakeholders converged to discuss causes of insecurity crises in the state and best ways to tackle them proactively before things degenerate. In attendance were top state government functionaries, senior officers in the high echelons of all security formations in the state, Chief Judge of Lagos, members of the Lagos House of Assembly, traditional rulers, local council chairmen, transport unions’ members, leaders of civil society organisations, leaders of various labour unions, religious leaders, community development council (CDC) leaders, youth groups and students’ union leaders – all united in their search for proactive measures that can engender sustainable peace and security in the state.  An appraisal of Lagos security situation  In his comprehensive appraisal of security situation in Lagos, Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, raised alarm over rising security breaches resulting from the menace of okada operations in the state. He backed his assertions with accident and crime statistics in the state, painting a picture of how lawless and dangerous many commercial motorcyclists have become in Lagos. The police boss observed that separatist groups and intolerant religious leaders were taking the advantage of tense security situations across the country to compound criminality in Lagos. While stating that his men have continued to keep the onslaught on the criminals by taking the battle to their dens, Odumosu admitted that criminals are fast evolving different methods to perpetrate their acts. According to him, intelligence report has shown that that miscreants now use abandoned buildings as hideouts and in most cases, initiation camps – with most of the abandoned buildings traced to family disputes; use uncompleted buildings, dwelling house and hotels to hibernate before and after commission of crime; use abandoned vehicles to store their operational arms and their loots; build shanties on abandoned open spaces and convert them to their sanctuaries to commit crimes; use vehicles with covered number plates to perpetrate crimes; illegal fabrication and possession of arms and use of tinted vehicles to commit crimes. Between January and early this month, Odumosu disclosed that 320 commercial motorcycles were arrested in 218 cases of criminal incidents in which 78 suspects detained and 480 ammunitions recovered. In the same period, the Lagos police boss said Okada accounted for 83 per cent of 385 cases of avoidable fatal vehicular accidents in Lagos. Available record reveals that 218 serious crimes were perpetrated with the use of Okada from January 2021 till date. Out of this figure, 92 were robberies in traffic, 26 were foiled armed robbery, 38 were cult activities; while 18 were murder incidents. In the same vein, 78 suspects were arrested, 58 arms were recovered, 480 ammunition were recovered while 320 Okadas were impounded in connection with various criminal and traffic offences committed with the use of Okada. General onslaught on their activities have had over 5000 impound by the state command through its Taskforce on Environmental Offences and other Police formations in the state. ”The emergence of Okada business has undoubtedly and inadvertently increased the rate of road accidents in the State. This has led to the loss of lives and in many cases, permanent disabilities to victims as enumerated above. The high rate of Okada accidents is attributable to the lack of requisite training, impatience, flagrant disregard for traffic rules and regulations by operators among other reasons. “Indeed, the number of deaths recorded in road accidents and crime committed with the use of Okada across the state has assumed a worrisome dimension as the statistics continue to be on the increase. The menace of Okada operators does not end with avoidable accidents. Crime reports from the field have shown that a greater percentage of crimes, ranging from armed robbery, cultism, kidnapping, murder, burglary and stealing, traffic robbery to carjacking and cash snatching from bank customers, are attributable to armed hoodlums who operate on Okada. “The nuisance constituted by the Okada operators on Lagos roads has become a danger to law-abiding citizens. Sections of Lagos populace have come to regard commercial motorcycles as a necessary evil, it has become imperative for government to take more drastic measures against their notoriety. The state police command strongly advises the state government is to immediately review the current guidelines guiding the operation of Okada as a means of commercial transportation in the state and take decisive legal and administrative steps and policies that will curb their traffic, criminal and other nefarious activities in the State,” Odumosu said.  Last-mile mini buses to replace motorcycles  In keynote address, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who disclosed that the meeting was convened in response to the growing threat posed by the lawless activities to the safety and security of lives in the state, said the string of lawlessness daily witnessed from the confrontations between commercial motorcyclists and law enforcement agencies required urgent actions to address the rising threat. He stressed his administration would be announcing new reforms in transportation, which will further make changes to the parameters of motorcycle and tricycle operations in Lagos. While promising to rise up to security challenges in the state, Sanwo-Olu promised that his administration would unveil 500 units of ‘first and last Mile mini buses’ this week. He added that his plan is to increase the mini buses to 5,000 in order to have enough that can spread around the nooks and crannies of Lagos in order to alleviate the pains, which the scrapping of commercial motorcyclists might impose on residents. This, he said, are safer alternative means of transportation as opposed to the dangerous activities of okada riders. In more encompassing measure, Governor Sanwo-Olu also made it known that his administration is ready to start full implementation of the Lagos urban and regional planning and development law of 2019 (as amended), which will enable the state government to take over and demolish abandoned buildings and construction sites that had been turned into safe havens for hoodlums and miscreants. The state would strengthen its clean-up exercise of shanties and spots unapproved for settlement, specifically those that had been converted into hideouts for criminals. On the security front, Sanwo-Olu promised that his administration would soon recruit more personnel into the Lagos State Neighbourhood Corps (LSNC) to boost intelligence gathering at the community level, adding that full implementation of the community policing Initiative is in which more than a thousand constabularies would be recruited in partnership with the police. The Governor said the consultative meeting with the stakeholders was necessary to make the state security strategy effective and sustainable, noting that all hands must be on deck to work with the state government in collecting, sharing and evaluating credible intelligence that would strengthen security of lives and property in Lagos. “Lagos must continue to enjoy an atmosphere of peace, safety and all-encompassing security. We are determined to arrest the current security challenges being faced in the state, and we will take every step necessary to deliver on our promises on a safe, secure and livable state. We are determined to arrest the current security challenges being faced in the state, and we will take every step necessary to deliver on our promises on a safe, secure and livable state. “We will also continue to communicate regularly with you, our key stakeholders, and all the people of Lagos State, updating you on the progress we are making. We, in turn, ask for your support, and for you to play your own part in ensuring a safe and secure State. If you see something alarming or unusual, please report it to the authorities. We cannot build the robust security architecture we want without strong grassroots intelligence. We urge you all to remain vigilant and strive to be security-conscious at all times.” While noting that though the state had responded in real time to the challenges and had deployed tactics ranging from force-for-force, carrot-and-stick to diplomacy in addressing the security concerns, he said the town hall event was initiated to meet with various stakeholders for deliberation and the way forward. “We have noted with dismay the fact that Okada riders are disregarding and flouting the restrictions we imposed on their activities in certain areas of the metropolis. We have also observed with dismay, the ongoing violent confrontation by commercial motorcyclists against our law enforcement agencies. “Based on all that we have seen and experienced in the past couple of weeks, as well as the increasing threat posed by the activities of commercial motorcycle operators to the safety and security of lives, we will be announcing further changes to the parameters of motorcycle and tricycle operations in the State in the coming days. No society can make progress amid such haughty display of lawlessness and criminality.” The security summit also featured a panel session where representatives of traditional rulers, labour unions, religious bodies, youth groups and others aired their views on how they perceive the state of affairs in Lagos and how to salvage the situation through collective efforts. The session was moderated by Television Continental’s Babajide Kolade-Otitoju, who said he is always proud of the proactiveness on the part of the state government on issues that matter. At the end of the summit, Lagosians openly asked Governor Sanwo-Olu to take decisive actions on the security in Lagos against the worrying trend of kidnappings, armed robbery, cult clashes and violent assaults. Also, widespread complaints by citizens about the menace of commercial motorcycles, otherwise known as Okada, in Lagos equally dominated discussions throughout the summit, with participants pleading that the state government should take the bull by the horns. While reading the 12-point communique, which was reached and agreed upon by the participants at the end of the summit, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Gbenga Omotoso, described the stakeholders’ engagement as proactive and the recommendations far-reaching. He enthused that the days of citizens remaining perpetually at the mercy of pick-pockets and other criminals are over. The state does not want to wait till it becomes another epicenter of evil and criminality or till crises spiral out of control, he said. “Attacks on law enforcement officers and agencies should not be handled with kid gloves. Culprits must be arrested and the full weight of the law brought to bear on such persons. Government must take stringent measures to ban the use of Okada as means of transportation in the state; alternatives must be provided by the state government in agriculture, wealth creation, women affairs empowerment programmes and others. “Government should take over abandoned and uncompleted buildings used as hideouts of criminals in the State immediately. The state must take control of abandoned vehicles in its nooks and crannies and seal off houses, hotels and event centres where hoodlums are found to hibernate or where arms are stored,” Omotoso said. 