Honourable Ayo Omidiran, chairperson of the Nigeria Football Federation Women Football development committee has explained the motive behind the launch of the Aisha Buhari Cup. In September, six nations will feature in the maiden invitational women’s football tournament, including South Africa, Cameroon, Mali, Morocco, Ghana and host country Nigeria in Lagos. The showpiece which has been endorsed by the First Lady Aisha Buhari, wife of President Muhammadu Buhari as one of her programmes aimed at uplifting the girl-child on the continent. The announcement has attracted many questions as some considered the staging of the competition by the Nigeria Football Federation struggling with financial problems as waste of public funds. However, Alhaja Ayo Omidiran explained that the likely two-week long event has been launched in celebration of its 30 years of involvement in women’s football globally and also will be used to honour those who have supported the growth of the women’s game in the country. “Though women football begun in Nigeria long before 30 years, we decided to use our qualification for the first women’s world cup in 1991 to celebrate the game in Nigeria,” said Omidiran. “It is going to be a very big event to honour all those who helped in lifting the game to enviable height. “Part of the things we planned to use to mark the occasion include a football competition named Aisha Buhari Cup, awards night to appreciate all those who have brought honour to the country and those that have supported the growth of the game in Nigeria.” The two-time member of the House of Representatives and former NFF board member further revealed that her committee will propose some lofty ideas to improve the fortune of the women’s game. “We have various plans to make all grades of our national teams develop to higher levels as well as help develop our coaches,” said the six-years long serving member on FIFA and CAF committees. “We shall make our recommendation to the NFF and hopefully, our plans will be implemented,” concluded the proprietor of Omidiran Babes.