As the curtain falls on Europe’s major leagues this weekend, some new champions have emerged while others have retained their titles. In Spain, a new rejuvenated Atletico Madrid are on the verge of their first title since 2014 while just a point separates Lille and PSG in the France’s Ligue1. There is a new champion in Italy for the first time in nine years while status quo  remains in the German Bundesliga. With Bayern Munich, reports OLUWAMAYOMIKUN OREKOYA.*  La Liga: To be or not for Atletico Madrid Atletico Madrid are seeking to be crowned La Liga champions when they visit Real Valladolid tonight. Diego Simeone’s men go into the final matchday leading Spain’s top division and can secure a first league title since 2014 by defeating their relegation-threatened opponents. Despite going into this weekend’s fixture second from bottom, there’s a chance Valladolid can escape the relegation zone on La Liga’s final day. It will be easier said than done, though. Not only do they need to beat an impressive Atletico side but other results have to go their way. Momentum is not on their side, too, as Sergio González’s team are currently on a three-match losing streak. Valladolid’s last success came in early March and since that 2-1 win over Getafe they’ve picked up six points from 33 available. The championship leaders were given a fright last time out against Osasuna when they had trailed with 10 minutes of the game remaining. Renan Lodi’s 82nd-minute equaliser set the stage for Luis Suarez’s dramatic late winner, meaning another three points collected on final day secures a second La Liga title for Los Rojiblancos under Simeone’s leadership. However they go into the final matchday having won just one of their previous six matches on the road and two of those games at Sevilla (1-0) and Athletic Bilbao (2-1) ended in defeat. Behind Atletico, Real Madrid will look to win a record-extending 35th La Liga title when they host Villarreal. Zinedine Zidane’s defending champions require current leaders and city rivals Atletico Madrid to slip up while picking up all three points themselves against the Europa League finalists. At one stage during the last game week, it seemed Real Madrid were going to do the unthinkable. As they were leading Athletic Bilbao, their rivals for this season’s championship Atletico trailed at home, meaning they would be tied going into the final matchday. But as it turns out, the 34-time champions are still two points behind and require victory over Villarreal and Diego Simeone’s men slipping up on the road if they are to successfully defend their crown. Zidane’s side are currently on a nine-game unbeaten run at home, registering 15 goals while conceding just five times (six of those contests ending in success). It would be understandable if Unai Emery has one eye on the forthcoming Europa League final against Manchester United, meaning there could be substantial changes from his regular starting lineup. They’ll be looking to build on a two-match winning streak which includes a comprehensive 4-0 success over Sevilla last time out. On the road, El Submarino Amarillo have won four of their previous five away games but history is against them as Villarreal have lost 70% of their games at Real Madrid, which is their highest away loss ratio against a single side they have visited at least twice in the Spanish top flight. Meanwhile, Barcelona will be looking to finish their La Liga campaign on a high note as Eibar comes visiting. Ronald Koeman’s side have gone from title contenders to battling for third in a short time but will fancy their chances against their relegation-threatened opponents. Incredibly we could see a great escape on La Liga final day. Eibar come into matchday 38 sitting rock bottom but can stave off relegation if results go their way. José Luis Mendilibar’s side will firstly need to beat their illustrious visitors and hope the sides immediately above them (Huesca, Elche and Valladolid) end the weekend empty handed. Winning hasn’t been a habit of late as Eibar come into this game with just two victories across their previous 20 league outings. A run that includes 13 losses including most recently when they left Valencia with a humbling 4-1 defeat. This could potentially be Koeman’s final game in charge of Barcelona following a disappointing end to his debut season. It wasn’t long ago that Barça were in the championship picture but to say they’ve fallen off is an understatement. Heading into the final weekend the Catalan giants are on a three-match winless streak. In their two most recent outings Koeman’s men were heading towards victory before shocking defending earned Levante a point and Celta Vigo all three. Consequently finishing third isn’t a guarantee as they are two points ahead of fourth place Sevilla.  Serie A: Battle for top four down to the wire All eyes are on the top-four race going into the final day of Serie A. It has come down to a battle between AC Milan, Napoli and Juventus for the remaining two Champions League spots. If all three sides win on the final day, Juventus will miss out. A draw would also leave Juve short, even if Milan and Napoli lose their matches. It means Andrea Pirlo’s side must go all out for victory knowing dropped points elsewhere would see them jump into the top four. Inter Milan would be playing their 3,000th Serie A match and they would be eager to end the Scudetto-winning season on a high against stuttering Udinese. The Nerazzurri are still seething after their controversial 3-2 defeat to Juventus, while the Friulani limp towards the end of another mediocre campaign. With only one round to be played in Serie A, Juventus must beat Bologna on Sunday, and hope that either Napoli or Milan drop points against Hellas Verona and Atalanta respectively.  The Bundesliga returns to the fold with another set of matches this weekend as Borussia Monchengladbach take on Werder Bremen at the Weserstadion today. Both teams have had their problems this season and will need to step up in this match. Borussia Monchengladbach are in eighth place in the Bundesliga standings at the moment and have suffered a slump in recent weeks. Die Fohlen slumped to a 2-1 defeat against VfB Stuttgart in their previous game and will need to be at their best in this match.  Werder Bremen, on the other hand, have struggled this season and find themselves in 16th place in the league table. The away side faces a relegation battle this weekend and cannot afford to drop points in this fixture. Borussia Monchengladbach have excellent players in their ranks and are yet to meet expectations in the Bundesliga this season. The likes of Lars Stindl and Alassane Plea can be lethal on their day and will have to step up this weekend. Werder Bremen have occasionally punched above their weight this season and will need to be at their best on Saturday. Borussia Monchengladbach are the better team on paper and are the favourites to win this match. Leipzig will aim to finish their Bundesliga campaign on a winning note when they travel to the Stadion An der Alten Försterei to take on Union Berlin. The hosts, meanwhile, will be desperate to end their winless run and secure a finish that guarantees them European football next season. Leipzig failed to return to winning ways last Sunday as they were held 2-2 at home by Wolfsburg. They have now failed to win in their last three outings across all competitions, including a 4-1 mauling at the hands of Dortmund in the DFB-Pokal final. However, Die Roten Bullen have already confirmed a second-placed finish in the Bundesliga and will be playing for pride when they head into this game. Meanwhile, Union Berlin came from behind to grab a 1-1 draw when they faced Bayer Leverkusen last time out. They are in seventh place and front runners for the Europa Conference League qualification. However, they are just one point above Borussia Monchengladbach and Stuttgart, who are tied on 46 points. VFL Wolfsburg will host FSV Mainz at the Volkswagen Arena Stadium on the final matchday of the Bundesliga. Wolfsburg will return to the UEFA Champions League next season for the first time since the 2015-16 campaign. They confirmed their spot in the tier-1 European competition despite a 2-2 draw against RB Leipzig in their last league game, Eintracht Frankfurt’s 4-3 loss to Schalke guaranteeing them fourth position in the standings. Meanwhile, Mainz will end their season in the bottom half of the table. They are currently in 13th position, having tallied just 36 points from 33 games.  Ligue 1: Final day flourish Lille? France’s Ligue 1 is also going down the wire on the final day of the season. Lille has a slender one-point lead over defending champion Paris Saint-Germain, which narrowed the gap last weekend to keep the pressure on. Third-place Monaco is an outside contender as it trails Lille by three points. It needs both its rivals to lose and win by a large enough margin to overtake Lille on goal difference. Lille could have made things easier but drew last weekend to give PSG a glimmer of hope. But as Lille’s players trudged down the tunnel after a 0-0 home draw with Saint-Etienne last weekend, veteran Turkey striker Burak Yilmaz issued a strong rallying cry to his teammates. “We will be champions, you are dogs of the fight,” he shouted in English. “We will be champions next week, you will see!” They were aptly chosen words from Yilmaz, considering Lille’s nickname is “Les Dogues” (The Mastiffs). Lille and PSG are both away from home, and PSG may just have the tougher match. Lille can guarantee a sixth French title and first in 10 years with a win at 12th-place Angers, which is safe from relegation and has nothing to play for. PSG is at 16th-place Brest — which is fighting to stay up — and must better Lille’s result to avoid losing the title for the first time since Monaco won it in 2017. Brest is only one point ahead of Nantes in 18th and the promotion-relegation playoff spot. Nantes, which is led by former PSG coach Antoine Kombouare, has made a superb late push to stay up against the odds. Nantes is aiming for a fifth straight win when it hosts a Montpellier side which has nothing to play for, aside from giving coach Michel Der Zakarian a good sendoff in his last game in charge. So Brest can ill afford to drop points against PSG, which is chasing a record-equalling 10th French crown to join Saint-Etienne and Marseille. Monaco still has a shot at a ninth title, but only just as it has to make up three points and an inferior goal difference of six compared to Lille. If Monaco loses then Lyon could overtake the principality side and sneak into third for the Champions League qualifying slot. Lyon is at home to Nice in what could be star forward Memphis Depay’s last game ahead of a touted move to Spanish giant Barcelona next season. * With agency reports