 CHANGE’ is said to be the only thing that counts when an individual wants to get a better result on any life issue. Therefore, the only thing that should not alter in a marriage relationship – most especially as regarding the sex bed – is ‘change’. Married people must continually be creative and give room for change in order to enjoy an outstanding sex life. Do not wave this aside and think it one of those things. No! Any creative thing a couple imagine can be achieved; all you need to do is take the first step. Move towards your dream sex life. As my habit is, I always like to start with my fellow women. Wives, change what you say on bed while lovemaking is going on. To many husbands the only authentic thing they would appreciate from their wives to comment on is the action at hand. There is always a time for everything and everything should be on time. This is not the moment to remind him of the clothes on the clothes line or of junior’s outstanding school fees, or the soon-coming burial of your great grandma. Such utterances most times can be misinterpreted. It may connote that those things are more important than his needs and his sexual desires and this bruises his self-esteem. Instead, whisper lovingly to his ears and say ‘I cannot wait to feel how your hands will do wonders and justice to my erotic zone this time around.’ When a wife says “is it in yet?” what the husband hears is ‘my penis size is so small she cannot even feel it.’ Am I not man enough to satisfy her?  Instead, use your hands and put his penis deep inside and whisper this to his ears ‘honey, work with what you have just be smart about it.’ ‘I am all yours’. When a wife says ‘is that how far you can go’, what her husband hears is ‘you are not good enough’. Instead, say ‘job well done, now to the main meal’. While every sexual intercourse might not be an Olympic contest, your husband should at least earn an approving look and encouragement from you. Change what you wear to sleep; what the eyes feed on are what the mind translates. If your husband’s eyes constantly feed on old, craggy house wear, his mind will translate it as ‘old grandma in the village.’ Change your look – men are attracted to sexy looks. Even at sixty you can still look sexy. Change the position you always offer him. Yam can be eaten as boiled yam, pounded yam, fried yam, yam pottage, roasted yam, pepper soup yam. It can also be eaten as a mixed meal with beans. Change your approach, gone are the days when the light must be put out, or sex must only happen in the middle of the night. Create a sex-friendly environment – do a catwalk in front of your husband, gentle seduce him as a stripper would. After all, you are stripping for your husband and not anyone else. As for husbands, change the way you make love to you wife. Many times a typical wife love to satisfy her man with all sexual indulgence, delight, and treats available but her mind may be preoccupied with lots of things. The following is how to prepare your wife’s mind for incredible sex. If you do this even halfway right, her mind will prepare her body for an unforgettable night. What do I mean? Change your words and actions positively to affect her mood. Her mood will affect her body. Once you get her going in the right direction, it gets easier as the night goes on. So where do you start? Start with romance; it is more than gifts and paying bills – romance is an attitude. The secret to being romantic is to bathe a woman’s mind with thoughtfulness, fun, tenderness and security, without smothering her or acting needy. All women have different personalities and expectations so it is up to you to find out what your wife desires and what combination of romance works best with her. One woman may find it romantic for her husband to just stay home with her and listen to all her deepest fears, while another may find a get-away trip from the house to somewhere – just her and her husband – to be the most romantic event. Then put her in ‘the mood’ before you have sex. This involves setting up the right kind of environment that will enhance her pleasure. To put her in the mood, you should focus on creating an atmosphere that emphasizes acceptance of her person, preference and sensitivity. In addition, please do not skip foreplay. It is one of the most important things to learn. Foreplay is all about how to make love to a woman. Well-designed foreplay is the best way to transition from a conversation to having sex. Typically, foreplay involves kissing, heavy petting and sensual massages. The rule of the game is to really focus on her pleasure and start building up its intensity. Once you have brought her to the pinnacle of pleasure from foreplay, you should start to have sex. Now most husbands will just start having sex without any thought. This is a mistake! Instead of going straight to sex, you should start to tease your wife. What you should do is go slowly and start to have sex, then stop. Keep doing this until she goes crazy and practically pulls you inside her. Now once you have started the thrusting in and out, it is important to change pace (and position). Many wives moan from pain and not pleasure because they are kept on one position for too long. Again, your focus as the husband is to concentrate on her pleasure and make sure she is really enjoying herself. What really works is to build up speed then pull back to a slow and sensual pace. Keep doing this until both of you cannot take it anymore. Moreover, if erectile dysfunction or weak erection or premature ejaculation is going to be an impediment for you, just grab 36-hour-of-freedom, the great Cialis, it works. Knowing how to make love to a woman is an important skill to have. If you can follow the process and change the methods, you will instantly become the best lover to your wife. Creativity makes you enjoy an outstanding love life. QUESTION ONE Sometimes when I am having sex my vagina makes a noise as if I am passing gas. It is so embarrassing, the noise woke my baby up the last time we had sex. What causes it and how can I prevent it? This noisy emission is air escaping from your vagina. When you’re aroused, your vagina expands to allow room for the penis. Your husband’s thrusting during intercourse pushes air into you, which fills the space in the inner part of your vagina that has expanded. A shift in body position or a deep thrust can force that air out, resulting in the fart-like sound. It is also possible to let out air post-orgasm, when air is expelled as the vagina returns to its pre-aroused state While making a gassy sound can be embarrassing, it is actually common. However, if it is getting in the way of your pleasure, try these preventive tricks:  First, lie on your back and gently press down on your abdomen with the palm of your hand prior to intercourse this will expel air already present in your vagina. During sex, encourage your husband to make shallow strokes and avoid pelvis-elevated positions like doggie-style, which can increase noisy emission. In addition, a good Kegel exercise normally rectifies this. Do not let a little noise restrict your sex life, just laugh it off. QUESTION TWO When going from missionary to woman-on-top, how do we maneuver the switch while keeping my husband’s penis inside me? Whenever we try this, his organ just pops out. I am sure most couples marvel at the expertise of most sex actors and wonder when such can be a reality in their homes. However, the truth is sex is not always as flawless and faultless as presented. People knock heads, are twisted up in the sheets and for a moment get disengaged. It can be awkward to change positions from one smooth moment. Most couples stop and reconnect. However, to give for flawless sex, start with missionary position close to the edge of the left side of the bed. Keeping your right leg straight, wrap your left leg around your husband’s waist and hook your left arm under his shoulder. Pushing off with your right arm, keep a firm grip on your husband as you roll him onto his back toward the right side of the bed in one sweeping motion. If he slips out, stick him back in and resume your captivating session. QUESTION THREE I cannot believe I am complaining about this, but my wife treats my penis like a toy. She is obsessed with my penis and it seems she is more interested in it than the ‘real me’. For instance, she will never look at me during sex and will not let go of my penis even when I am fully erect and want to enter her. Do you think this is normal? Is this what other women do? I really need to understand. Contrary to your opinion, I think your wife really loves you and wants to sexually please you but she may be shy about it and finds it easier to focus on your penis than meet your eye under such intimate circumstances. If she has not been sexually active before, this may be a way out for her. But if not, this may be her own way of showing you she cares and may just need a bit more time to build her confidence in the bedroom. Besides, nowadays when it comes to expression of sexuality many women are no longer taking the back seat, rather they are unleashing the tigress in them. Maybe, she is just sexually hyperactive. If this is the case, I think you should take it as a challenge and beat her to the game and reach for her own organ too! QUESTION FOUR My husband recently asked me to pay more attention to his scrotal balls when we make love. I do play with them, but I think he wants me to suck them too because of the way he normally pushes my head towards that place. I have never heard of this before. Must it be until I put his balls into my mouth that he will feel sexually satisfied?  Do you have any advice as I want to please him? Your husband’s request is far from unusual. Sucking on his testicles can make for an incredibly sensual experience – and you will double his pleasure if you simultaneously fondle his shaft. Next time you are giving him the action, take a sexy detour and move your mouth from his mouth: or wherever your mouth has been before to his testicles. Swirl the tip of your tongue around his scrotum i.e. the loose sac of skin that surrounds the testicles. Then, lick his balls with long, sweeping strokes as if you were savouring a delicious pepper-soup bowl. Mix it up and intermittently purse your lips and suck softly on the skin or take each testicle all the way into your mouth. Some husbands like it a little rough, but this can be a supersensitive area. So find out how hard he wants to be touched before applying more muscle. One strategic trick that is sure to send him reeling: use your finger to gently rub his perineum (the nerve-packed patch of skin that is between his scrotum and his anus), and you are likely to launch him into orgasmic orbit.