There is anxiety in Katsina State over the pending council election following the Supreme Court’s ruling on Friday, May 7, nullifying dissolution of elected local governments by governors. Civil society organisations and others welcomed the verdict, urging states to conduct council elections. Yushau Mani of Katsina-based Network for Justice told The Nation that the conduct of council poll in the state is long overdue He said ‘’the judgment passed by the Supreme Court on local governments…is not unexpected but it has taken a long time and the delay has affected the democratic procedure of ensuring the survival of local governments at the grass root levels.’’ ‘’The aim of establishing local governments is to bring the government closer to the people and a lot of things have happened that local governments, especially in the Northwest zone, with serious security concerns could have helped tackle on time’’. ‘’Remember the state government told us that after the Supreme Court judgment that there will be local government election. We will wait and see. It is a very good moment if they could do that’’. Governor Aminu Masari had dissolved elected council chairmen and 361 councilors in 34 local governments after assuming office in May 29, 2015. Six years on, the state is yet to conduct councils polls It was learnt that the state held council election last in 2014 during the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) administration of Ibrahim Shehu Shema. Masari, while sacking the councils over alleged violation of state’s laws, inaugurated Interim Caretaker committees for the 34 councils, which were later dissolved by the Assembly after end of their tenures. The  state chapter of PDP took Masari to court over gross violation of Section 7 (1) of the Nigerian Constitution and relevant laws in the state. But Masari told reporters that until the matter was settled in court, the state cannot conduct the polls He said ‘’unless there is pronouncement from the Supreme Court on our own case, we cannot conduct council election.’’ ‘’This administration is ready to conduct local government election if there is a clear pronouncement on their case now before the Supreme Court’’. Former Chairman of the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Husseini Dambo, said for local government administration to succeed in the state, the state should conduct election for the third tier and allowed it to exist as provided for by the constitution.