Edo Governor Godwin Obaseki on Monday has urged Justice Joe Acha, the acting Chief Judge of the state, to be committed to his oath of office and dispense justice without fear, favour. Acha was sworn-in , following the retirement of Justice Esther Edigin, who would clock 65 years on May 17, the constitutionally prescribed age for retirement in the bench. Speaking during the ceremony, Obaseki, urged Justice Acha to ensure that he carries out his duties with justice, honesty and transparency. ”The peaceful, orderly and predictable transfer of power within the leadership of all arms of government, is the single most important hallmark of a civilized working democracy. “I therefore congratulate your lordship on this swearing-in as the acting Chief Judge of Edo, as the most senior judge pursuant to Section 271 subsection (4) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended. “I urge your lordship to always take to heart the solemn oath which you swore here today. As your lordship becomes the custodian of an institution, represents the last version of hope in our common existence. “It is my desire and prayer that the justice sector under your lordship stewardship will continue to wax stronger as an institution and deliver not just judgment but justice to all who come to you or before you. “The government has in the past clearly declared support for the rapid development of the Judiciary as an institution, not just in terms of building infrastructure, we are very keen on changing and transforming all our institutions in Edo. “That is the legacy this government owes the people for voting massively for us in the last governorship election. Our goal is to help you transform the judiciary system to a very stronger institution,’’ he said. Obaseki reiterated his commitment to build the capacity of other judges and staff in the judiciary system. Responding, Justice Acha, said that he would continue to interface with other arms of government in their avowed duty of justice delivery to the citizenry for peace and progress of Edo. He said that within the next few weeks, he would embark on training of all the registrars and secretaries to enhance their productivity. (NAN)