Police authorities have directed its operatives not to accompany their principals to Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo and Rivers States until the security situation in the region improves. The order was sequel to the unceasing attacks on security operatives and formations in the South-East and part of South-South zones by suspected members of the Indigenous People of Biafra(IPOB). The directive was contained in a wireless message with reference CB: 0900/DTS/DOPS/VOL.47/812X, titled ‘Attack on policemen, snatching of rifles by IPOB,’ by the Commissioner of Police, Asaba, Delta State. Findings revealed the police copied the Chief Security Officer, Government House, Chief Superintendent of Police, Department of Operations, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission, Delta State House of Assembly, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation annex, among others. The wireless message reads: “Sequel to the incessant attacks on policemen and snatching of arms and ammunition by the proscribed IPOB/ESN (Eastern Security Network) elements in the Eastern states of Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, Imo States and Rivers State, COMPOL DOPS directs you warn personnel that escort of their principals to the six eastern states is suspended forthwith until security situation improves. Ensure strict compliance, please.” Since last year, many operatives have been killed during attacks on security formations in the South-East and South-South regions. The situation has sparked panic among security personnel. Confirming the development, the Force Public Relation Officer, CP Frank Mba told The Nation in Abuja the step was taken to save the officers and their principals from gunmen. Mba said the signal originated from Delta State Command and it was issued on the authorities of the Commissioner of Police, in Delta State. He said the signal is clear, adding that: “That signal did not come from Force headquarters, so is not a nationwide directive. “And any reasonable person will understand that this is a very good directive. The Commissioner of Police acted within his powers and he gave the directives to cure certain mischief”.