Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State has backed efforts by state legislatures to have financial autonomy. Bello made his stance known in a remark on Friday, in Lokoja, the state capital, when he received the speakers of the 36 state assemblies who paid him a courtesy visit. He said financial autonomy to the legislature would give them the needed impetus to perform their functions better and contribute more productively to the nation’s democracy. He stressed that without the legislative arm of government, democracy would be in danger, adding that his administration has from inception, backed state assembly autonomy. He applauded the Kogi State house of assembly for the cordial way with which it works with the other arms of government and called on the legislative arms in other states to take a cue from Kogi, on how to work harmoniously with the executive and the judiciary for societal progress. “For a democracy to thrive and serve its purpose, there must be understanding among the various arms of government, particularly between the executive and the legislature. If you remove the legislature, there would be no democracy,” he added. Bello expressed appreciation to his visitors for identifying with Prince Matthew Kolawole, speaker of the state House of assembly and for the courtesy visit, saying the fact that they are holding their extraordinary meeting for the first time in Kogi State since its creation shows that they appreciate the work he has been doing to move the state forward. The speakers commended Bello for what they described as his pragmatic leadership. Kolawole noted that holding their regular extraordinary meeting for the first time in Lokoja since the creation of Kogi State in 1991 as a big honour him as one of them, and because of his daughter’s wedding during the weekend. The Kogi Speaker said that the relationship between the legislature and the executive in the state has been smooth because of the pragmatic and exemplary leadership style of Governor Yahaya Bello, and has been to the benefit of the state. Kolawole added that it was because of the vision that he saw in the government of Bello that informed his decision to lead his colleagues to canvass support for the governor to become the President of Nigeria in 2023. He described Bello as his political godfather from who he has learnt many positive political attributes to move Kogi forward. The Chairman, Conference of Speakers Hon. Abubakar Suleiman who is also the Speaker of Bauchi State stressed that they were in Kogi to hold their meeting and celebrate with their colleague, Prince Mathew Kolawole. He said that the clamour for financial autonomy will take the front burner during their conference on Sunday, ‘because of the importance that it has in the continued discharge of their responsibilities as major components of democracy. “It is not disputing the fact that if there is no close working relationship between the two arms of government, there cannot be development, and democracy would suffer,” he stressed.