 Hoodlums yesterday rampaged at Oshodi, Lagos central bus terminal, smashing vehicles and forcing traders to flee after an Air Force man was killed in the area. The military man, who was in plainclothes, was killed on Monday in unclear circumstances, his body left on a pedestrian bridge. One account said he had intervened in a fracas between bus operators and passengers, and was killed, his body evacuated to a morgue. The Nation gathered that military men were at the park to meet the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) chairman following the murder of the non-commissioned officer (NCO). According to a source, the airman’s colleagues who were worried about his sudden disappearance made enquiries and discovered that he was last seen at Oshodi. “The soldiers then went round nearby morgues and eventually saw him. He was moved to NAF mortuary. So, the authorities asked Ops MESA to go to the park and find out from the chairman what happened that day. They were also directed to find out those responsible for the murder of the airman. “But as soon as the area boys saw Ops MESA van approaching the park, they became riotous and were shouting that soldiers have come to arrest their chairman. That was what happened,” said a source who pleaded anonymity. The Nation gathered that the chaos led to many vehicles being vandalised while some persons were said to have sustained injuries. Police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said calm has been restored, adding that investigation into the cause of the violence was ongoing. He said: “The Lagos State Police Command is aware of the conflict that occurred at Cappa Park/Mosafejo Oshodi, Lagos, on Thursday May 20, at 7am. “Normalcy has been restored to the area, as the matter is under investigation.” NAF denied that the unrest was connected to the murdered airman, saying unconfirmed reports available to them indicated it was about a wife to a military officer whose phone was snatched. According to NAF’s Director of Public Relations and Information (DOPRI), Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, the Airman was strangled to death on Monday by suspected hoodlums and his murder was unconnected to Thursday morning’s unrest. 