As the preparations for the 2021 edition of the prestigious Access Bank UNICEF charity shield polo tournament gets underway, the organizers have confirmed that only 18 teams in four broad categories would jostle for top honours in a fortnight. It was  reliably gathered that the biggest charity polo tournament in Africa is billed to gallop off with fanfare from May 26 and thrills to a colourful climax on June 5 at the foremost Fifth Chukker & Country Club in Kaduna. The  invitation letters sent to patrons stated in part that participating teams  for this year’s Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield Polo Tournament are expected to contribute between N200, 000 to N500, 000 as part of their support for the humanitarian effort even as the organizers insisted  that payment is required for entry confirmation which is strictly on a first come, first serve basis. The international polo fiesta which has been the biggest charity sporting attraction in Nigeria for almost two decades now, offers four major prizes with the winner-take-all Charity Shield being the biggest and the most wanted. Others are the glittering Access Bank Cup, the UNICEF Cup and the exciting Usman Dantata Cup, among other subsidiaries and individual awards. Further checks revealed  that as teams scramble for the restricted slots, the planning committee maintains that only six low-goal teams would battle for the glittering UNICEF Cup to be decided on the 0-3 handicap category that traditionally attracts over twelve ambitious teams. We also confirmed that while all COVID-19 protocols will be strictly followed throughout the tournament only four teams each would compete for the Access Bank Cup, Usman Dantata Cup and Charity Shield respectively. With pre-tournament  speculations and tensions  reaching the sky, the duo of Jos Malcomines and Lagos STL loaded with foreign ‘hired assassin’ from Argentina and Europe are bracing for war as they dare five times champions, Fifth Chukker-Access Bank team in a winner-takes all charity shield clash  that  would be too close to call.  “We are excited to welcome your prestigious teams to this fantastic tournament again and  we have put everything in place for an exhilarating two weeks ends  of exciting and rewarding time in Kangimi Resort, while we raise funds to support the vulnerable children across the country,” one of the managers enthused. Two years ago, the prestigious UNICEF charity shield polo tourney climaxed in a cliff-hanging triumph for Abuja based Rubicon 1&2, Haske & Williams and Fifth Chukker teams as they emerged champions, winning the Charity Shield, Access Bank Cup, Usman Dantata Cup and UNICEF Cup respectively. The tournament that featured teams with players coming from as far as Argentina and South Africa and top Nigerian players saw three great finals in the low, medium and high-goal categories. All the fiercely contested finals which ended with narrow victories were described by polo buffs as some of the most exciting finals of the UNICEF Charity Shield polo series. Sponsored exclusively by Access Bank Plc and traditionally hosted by Fifth Chukker Polo & Country Club, the annual event has benefited rural communities and the suburbs with renovation of schools and provision of facilities like bore holds and empowerment of women. Income generated from gate takings and donations is channeled to UNICEF in support to meeting the needs of orphans and vulnerable children in their care, including providing healthcare and education supplies. The tournament which is hosted in two phases gallops-off in Kaduna state, Nigeria and climaxes with pomp and pageantry in Europe with the Access Bank Charity Shield Polo Day at the prestigious Guards Polo Club in London.