Mrs Adetutu: Dear Omobola, I am writing on behalf of my mum, Mrs Adetutu, on the issue of her arrears which we complained about. We read in The Nation  of December 16,  last year, that she should send  copies of her pensioner’s verification acknowledgement slip. Please note that we sent it through the DHL to PTAD on March 16, last year. They replied that she should send her statement of account from 2006 to 2019. We sent these through DHL also on March 16, last year. It was  received by one Luka. On March 23, last year, we received a mail from PTAD imploring us to be patient, adding that it might take some time to be concluded. PTAD: Please advise pensioner to scan her verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. Abuchi: My name is Abuchi. I worked with the Federal Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. I was disengaged from service on July 13, 2006. Our gratuity was paid on June 19, 2007. I started receiving my pension from August of the following year. My complaint is that I have not been paid my outstanding pension arrears from the day of retirement – July 31, 2006 to July 31, 2008, after several complaint letters and bank statements. Since 2008, up to the last verification in December 2017 and  now, nothing has come out of it. PTAD: Advise the pensioner to provide his original stamped and signed bank statements from retirement till date Sadibo: Hello Omobola, thank you for your efforts to help us. My name is Sadibo. I want to know if there is any positive response from PTAD. My date of first appointment is September 18, 1974; Date of last promotion January 1, 1995; Date of Retirement, June 10, 2003; Grade level 14 step 11. My complaints are on the non-payment of my gratuity, non-regularisation of monthly pension over the years, non-payment of arrears of pension, non-payment of January pension because they overpaid me in November. PTAD: Please advise the pensioner to state the period of arrears in question and bank statement for six months before his complaint till date. Ampitan: Mr name is Ampitan. I retired on January 31, 2005. I am not on pension payroll, even though I have been verified by PTAD. I did my verification in September 18, 2017 at Rowepark, Lagos. Please save me. My gratuity, pension arrears and monthly pension are yet to be paid, while others have been receiving theirs. I started work on December 18, 1972 and retired on January 31, 2005. My claim is CSPD (Fed. Share). I have submitted my documents several times, yet nothing has been done by PTAD on my case. Out of my mother’s nine children, I am the only son. I lost my sisters. I am facing a life-threatening challenge of my life. All my efforts are not yielding result.  Kindly help me. Thank you and God bless. PTAD: The pensioner should scan and send a copy of his pensioner verification acknowledgement slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us review and update him on the status of his complaint. Akinfenwa: My name is Akinfenwa. I am a pensioner with the Federal Ministry of Aviation. I have been getting my pension through UBA since 1985. I am grateful. But no additional payment since 1985. I went for pensioner’s verification with reference OYO/PF/Annonymous. I submitted the documents to PTAD for the non-harmonisation/short payment but with no effect. Please help me to ask PTAD what is going on. PTAD: The matter is being addressed by the appropriate department. Ajuwon: My name is Ajuwon. I am a pensioner with the Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation (NBC). I got transferred to BCNN Kaduna and Kaduna Polytechnic where I retired in September 1976. My name has never been on the Federal payroll. One Ms Hariet assisted with my verification at the Pensioners House at Onireke, Ibadan around July or September 2019. l was promised enrolment and payment, but I am yet to receive any alert. Thank you. PTAD: The pensioner should forward his verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng for consideration. Alabi:  Dear Omobola, my name is Alabi. I have written several times and I will not stop writing until my prayers are answered. I participated in the 2017 verification by the PTAD in Lagos State for pensioners. I wish to say that I have started receiving my monthly pension (i.e from March 2018 to date). Also, in June 2018, I received an amount of N578736.39 as pension arrears. I wish to say that since I retired in August 2004 as a Permanent Secretary, my monthly pension should start from August 2004. In this regard, the payment of my monthly pension should start from August 2004. Also, my pension arrears should commence from August 2004. Let me quickly add that I have not received my gratuity from the Federal Government. Kindly assist me to compute my gratuity and recompute my pension arrears. I am over 70. My labour should not be in vain. PTAD: The pensioner should forward his bank statements from the time he retired from the service to complaints@ptad.gov.ng  