OLADELE Olagbemi is another big surprise to the world of visual art.  An impressionable young artist, Olagbemi is a sculptor, or rather a metal artist, who is akin to an iron bender.  He loves iron, mostly the discarded ones, with which he breathes life into art.  He looks so young, so fragile to have the strength, the audacity, to command an iron into obedience.  But that is what he does, and does with an unspeakable agility and dexterity.  He is a son of an auto mechanic.  Yes, from that privileged background, Olagbemi acquired his love for iron, this time in a way to also mould them into life, into art that have been giving vent to a variety of objects. Last weekend, Olagbemi opened a solo show at the Signature-beyond Art Gallery, Lagos, where his works loom larger than his age and size.  The works are huge, some in forms that make them somewhat alluring, inviting in a way that only initiates can thoroughly comprehend and appreciate. Olagbemi said “yes, my dad gave me the privilege to have access to his studio, his workshop.  So, I started picking some of the scrap metals in the workshop that were no longer in use.  That alone became an eye-opener for me; a way to get acquainted with a variety of fabrics of irons.  Then I was further inspired by what I saw on the internet; how some old discarded iron materials could be used to form art, to give life to the lifeless.  It was also fun, quite intriguing”. He went on, “Actually, I was made to love the use of scrap metals more because I learnt under someone who loves to do so also.  He is Fidelis Odogwu Eze noted for his profound love for discarded metals.  For years, before I went to study art formally at Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, I was with him.  That love to go for discarded iron materials was intensified there.  This line of art scares a lot of people.  Yet I told myself, I must follow it and I must give myself totally to it.  That was how I followed it up till this stage”. Olagbemi is stoic in his resolve to embrace iron to define reptiles, amphibians, birds and other animals that catch his fancy.  This is away from the familiar terrain of his master, Odogwu, who goes mainly for masquerades, images and figures that bespoke mainly of people and their belief systems.  He said further.  “At this point I went back to my father’s workshop to gather more materials and then chose to deviate from my master’s form of art.  I worked and trained under Odogwu for several years before I went to any school at all.  Those years were quite rewarding.  They prepared me for what you are seeing here today”. As an artist, Olagbemi has developed an identity uniquely his.  “Even as a student, one of my lecturers, Olu Amoda went to a client’s house and saw one of my works.  He was astounded.  Even as one of his students in the sculpture class, I had done such a marvelous work before becoming a student”. But he remains grateful to Signature for the rare opportunity to exhibit.  This is his first solo outing and for him it is a great joy that the CEO of Signature, Rahman Akar, considers him worthy enough to adorn his gallery.  He said ‘Given the high standard of the Signature, I am glad Mr. Rahman sees my works as good enough for this show.  I am privileged to use his platform.  So it is a bit hard to get works that can fit into this.  But for him to have accepted me, I am highly honoured.  This is not a child’s play.  He relates to you concerning art with confidence; that love is deep, unbeatable”. In ‘got talent; mimicking’, one of his works on display, Olagbemi depicts a giant parrot with confidence but with the readiness to reel out some secrets. Yet in ‘regal creature’, a repository of horses, he shows a bit of hope.  The horse looks gentle, mien, but galvanizes into life once it is gingered on. In the ‘caught up series’, he showcases reptiles – sea animals that he says face extinction.  Does not life itself, even in human form, face extinction?  The correlation is too yawning to ignore; what with civil and military crises here and there.  In ‘timekeeper’, he reminds humanity of the sincerity of the cock.  It crows as and at when due.  Then in the ‘crocodile’ as invincible as it is, the sculptor reenacts nature.  He says “incredible footages have revealed how the crocodile can become invisible under still, running, thick, slimy waters.  Then in one quick bound emerges almost out of nowhere with its incredible strength to hold its prey”. To cap it all, he turned his car into a big caricature of an amazing art.  It is a sight to behold, as it welcomes you into Signature.  The exhibition ends on June 12th.