The Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development Hajiya Sadiya Umar-Farouq has pledged to support victims of human trafficking and violence to enhance their livelihood. Umar-Farouq made the pledge when she visited a shelter belonging to the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) in Abuja while marking the Children’s day celebration with rescued children. “Today is a very special day for children and even parents. I want to wish you all a happy Children’s Day and assure you of government’s commitment and support to your education and protection against all sorts of abuse in this country. “We will support this centre for rescued trafficked persons and see how we can rehabilitate this shelter to make it more homely for the children and other victims. “Government will support you in any way possible to ensure that your stay here is purposeful,” Farouq reiterated. Speaking, the Director-General of NATIP, Ms Imaan Sulaiman-Ibrahim thanked the minister for her thoughtfulness and celebrating the Children’s day with the victims. Sulaiman-Ibrahim described Nigerian children as smart, intelligent and creative. “It is my prayer that the children continue to survive, thrive and identify a positive aspect of live that they will use as a pedestal to greatness, for their benefit and that of our beloved country Nigeria. “I want to use this opportunity to thank the Federal Government for all the support that they have continued to give us and their commitment toward ensuring that the country is safe and secure for the Nigerian child. “I also want to use this opportunity to thank all our partners and friends in the fight against Human Trafficking and Violence Against Persons. “Together, we have been able to engineer the processes and mechanisms that provide support and care for the vulnerable, especially children,” Sulaiman-Ibrahim said. The NAPTIP boss said the agency would continue to collaborate toward ensuring that it provided a safe haven for the children to thrive and for the benefit of posterity. (NAN)