Taraba Governor Darius Ishaku has received a high-powered delegation of the Adamawa Government over the death of Sen. Aisha Jummai Alhassan, fondly known as Mama Taraba. Alhasaan, a former Minister of Women Affairs and senator who represented Taraba North in the 7th Senate died at the weekend in a hospital in Cairo, Egypt at 61. Alhasaan, a lawyer, was the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2015 governorship election in Taraba state.
She lost at the ballot box but the election tribunal gave her the verdict before the Court of Appeal upturned the ruling in favour of Governor Darius Dickson Ishaku. Following her death described by many as rudely shocking, Taraba state has been in mourning mood as it continues to receive condolences from friends and associates of the deceased and the state. The Adamawa delegation was led by Commissioner for Works, Alhaji Adamu Atiku Abubakar. A statement by Taraba State Special on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan Abu, said Abubakar also presented a letter of condolences by Adamawa Governor Ahmadu Fintiri to Ishaku. Speaking during the condolence visit, Adamu described the death of Sen Alhasaan as “the loss of an icon.” He said: “Taraba has lost an icon, a mother in a million, one who was very kind and generous.” The Adamawa sympathisers prayed God to give Governor Ishaku and the people of Taraba State the fortitude to bear the loss. Governor Ishaku thanked his Adamawa State counterpart, Ahmadu Fintiri, for the visit of the delegation. He promised that he would work with him to promote and nurture the healthy relationship existing between the two states which had come out of the defunct Gongola state. Ishaku described the late Alhasaan as a wonderful woman. “She was an honest person. If she said she was supporting you, she will do so wholeheartedly”, Ishaku said. Ishaku disclosed that after the election 2019 election, Sen Alhassan came and told him that she was ready to work with him in the interest of the people of Taraba State. “And she remained committed to that promise until her death.”