 LAST Wednesday, Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, dissolved his cabinet, relieving 20 of his 28 commissioners of their duties. He said the dissolution became necessary to re-jig and reenergize the system for maximum productivity. But inside sources told Sentry that the move was part of the governor’s efforts towards ensuring peace and strengthening the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. It was gathered that following widespread consultations within and outside the state, the governor was of the opinion that he needs a new cabinet so as to allow for more input from other stakeholders within and outside the ruling party. This informed the retention of some of commissioners. “The governor has a great team. He appreciates all of them and will still be happy to give them opportunities. But there is a great need to open our arms and welcome diverse opinions in the administration of our dear state,” an aide to the governor told Sentry on Thursday. The ministries whose commissioners were retained are Finance, Science and Technology, Health, Works, Information, Youths and Sports, Women Affairs and Tourism. We hear that majority of those dropped may not make their way back into the cabinet as the governor is very willing to allow the party, APC chieftains and other interests make suggestions on how the cabinet should be re-jigged.   DURING the week, the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) practically declared war on Governor Godwin Obaseki when it reported him to the party’s National Working Committee (NWC). It pointedly called for the resignation of Deputy Governor Philip Shaibu as part of a power-sharing agreement. The PDP in Edo also called out some of the governor’s men, accusing them of trying to hijack the party through the back door. “Chief Osaro Idah, Chief Charles Idahosa, Chief Henry Tenebe, Senator Ehigie Uzamere and Mr Theo Okoh are the key culprits here. Edo State PDP will not be cowed into any illegalities by the state government,” the party stated. What the party didn’t say is that the said power sharing arrangement was reached before the last governorship election in the state. Sentry gathered that Obaseki’s camp may have agreed to an arrangement that will see Shuaibu quitting the deputy governorship seat shortly after the election for a nominee of PDP leaders to replace him. Party sources claim the whole face-off between the two camps is largely about the refusal of Obaseki and his men to abide by the said agreement. But some of the governor’s men are insisting that although there were talks in such direction during the electioneering process, there was no concrete agreement on the matter. “Obaseki will never agree to sacrifice his deputy. We didn’t have such agreement,” the source said. Many, within and outside the state, are watching the unfolding drama with bated breath.