The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Reconciliation Committee and Strategic Committee led by former Senate President Bukola Saraki has reconciled warring chieftains of the party in Lagos State. The party leader, Chief Bode George and chairman of the chapter, Deji Doherty, embraced the truce and promised to work jointly for victory in future elections. Saraki called for cohesion, saying there is strength in unity and concord. The reconciliation train rolled into the Southern Sun Hotel, Ikoyi at noon where Saraki and other members of the panel held a four-hour meeting with Lagos PDP stakeholders. With Saraki were former Governors Liyel Imoke (Cross River); Ibrahim Dankwambo(Gombe); Ibrahim Shema(Kaduna) as well as Mulikat Adeola-Akande and Linus Okorie. Lagos PDP chieftains at the peace parley included the secretary, Muiz Dosunmu, former acting national secretary, Remi Akitoye, Senator Kofo Akerele-Bucknor, Lai Ogunbambi, Uthman Shodipe, and Otunba Okanlawon. Since 1999, PDP has not won any governorship election in Lagos. The chapter is always enveloped in protracted conflicts. A source said the chieftains and committee members had a frantic discussion about the protracted crisis and the need for mutual forgiveness and peace. It was agreed that George should be accorded the respect of the party leader, who is should also be conciliatory. Saraki, who spoke with reporters after the meeting, urged the warring chieftains to sheathe their swords, jettison bitterness and adorn a forgiving spirit in the interest of the party. He said: “We’ve seen committed of PDP members in Lagos to bury their differences and understand that the call of majority of Lagosians to have PDP in government is more important than their own individual differences. “We have reconciled the party leaders today and they are ready to dissipate their energies to push the agenda of the PDP for Lagos State. We are happy to see that.” He added: “We must present ourselves as a serious party. The differences for many months have been buried and that shows people are committed now to make the party attractive to new people who wants to join the party.”