SIR: I’m writing to question the injustice and biases that have been entrenched in Dawakin Kudu Local Government Area, Kano State over the years in terms of provision of democracy dividends. I’m writing in protest about your mode of representation and to remind you that your mandate as House of Representative member covers Dawakin Kudu and Warawa Local government areas respectively, not single component part of it.  And I’m raising my voice on behalf of the poor, dejected, traumatized and voiceless people of Tsakuwa town and many other villages and hamlets whose mandate elevated you to where you are today. I wish to remind you that Dawakin Kudu Local Government Area didn’t start and end in Dawaki Town only. I see no reason why your attention should have focused solely on the development of Dawaki Town alone to the detriment of all other component parts of it. How can the people that endured so much and spent precious times to cast their votes in the hope of changing the current ugly status be short-changed and thrown into perpetual state of despair and penury? I’m wont to believe that Mustapha Bala Dawaki was very much aware that votes that returned him to the House of Representatives’ in 2019 were secured from all the towns and villages, and that makes everybody equal stakeholder in the scheme of things. But as thing stand today, it seems all efforts and investment by the people of Tsakuwa and other big towns have been in vain. Someone might try to point a finger at your effort to construct some feeder roads within Tsakuwa town which form part of your constituency projects. But for the sake of the public and whoever harbours such thinking, the construction of the feeder roads network had since stopped, and contractors have long demobilized from site. The same ugly scenario can be seen in the shoddy construction of Yargaya to Kantsi road.  What we saw on that road was completely unthinkable as only two kilometres was constructed from both end of the road at Yar-Gaya town, and from the other end at Kantsi town. The stretch of the road in-between which is more than 40km remains as it were, massive sand! The people are not gullible. They are very much aware of what affects them directly or indirectly….and an honest attempt to rectify this lacuna is possible within the time frame allotted to you before 2023 when it is too late. Finally, and in line with the promise made by President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 to verify all constituency projects in Nigeria, it is pertinent for Mr. President to fulfil that promise by constituting presidential verification committee on constituency projects in Dawakin Kudu Local Government in particular and all over Nigeria in general. The committee should physically visit all the project sites and audit how money assigned to all projects were utilized. The committee should also try to find out why Bala Dawaki constructed a road in Tarauni Local Government Area of Kano State, from Zaria Road to Darmanawa which fall outside his mandate; at a time when his primary constituents are crying for democratic succor?