Hit by serious cash flow challenges caused by twin shocks of COVID-19 pandemic and dwindling revenues, heightened insecurity, and of course, failure to walk the fiscal diversification talk, the various tiers of government, particularly the state governments, are in dire financial straits. Already, many Nigerians are in the panic mode, fearing a possible default in meeting statutory obligations, including payment of salaries and capital projects execution. However, to salvage an economy in financial distress, experts have renewed the call to diversify the country’s export earnings, particularly exploring opportunities in mining and agriculture, among other policy options. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports.  It’s never been this challenging for the nation’s economic managers. Lately, they have been battling, albeit unsuccessfully, to allay the fears of Nigerians over the economy’s precarious fiscal position. This is in the wake of developments in Nigeria’s fiscal system, where the double shock of the COVID-19 pandemic and significant drop in oil prices foisted a serious cash flow crisis on Africa’s largest economy. The shutdown of several economic activities to contain the virus and low oil prices have since forced a reduction in revenue inflows, raising fears over the capacity of government at all levels, especially the states, to meet their statutory obligations. Such fears are not without justification. Oil revenue is said to account for over 90 per cent of Nigeria’s exports and well over 70 per cent of consolidated government revenues. Most of the 36 states across the federation are over 80 per cent dependent on statutory allocations, which make the impact of declining oil price very profound. But the price of oil has been dropping in the international market in recent times, reaching to as low as $18.38/barrel in April last year, for instance. However, the price of Brent crude has been rising in the last twelve months. From $64.81 per barrel in April 2021, it hit $68.78 per barrel in May 2021. However, the gradual rebound in oil price, prompted by the easing of the lockdown globally, has been greeted with measured excitement and optimism. This is so because even before oil price started rebounding, Nigeria’s expenditure profile, according to keen observers of the economy, had gone far higher than whatever revenue increase the rise in crude oil price may have added to the Federation Account. Also, while the increase in oil price resonates with the collective aspiration of not a few Nigerians to leverage the surge to boost the country’s revenue needed for the implementation of the 2021 budget, improve crude oil receipts, and consequently, bolster foreign exchange inflows, there are also fears that the oil price increase will trigger an increase in the price of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), otherwise called petrol. For instance, the former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Obadiah Mailafia, put the situation in perspective when he said unless Nigeria begins to refine the crude oil it produces at home, there are certainly going to be anxieties over any soaring crude oil prices. He told reporters recently that since Nigeria is not refining its crude oil locally, the components that constitute the landing cost of PMS will erode whatever gain the nation would have raked in from oil price increase. The expert said this is so because the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has been screaming blue murder over rising cost of operations due to payment of subsidy on PMS. The Country Director, Small Business Academy Africa, Dr. Alaba Olusemore, added that at a time Nigeria was getting out of the woods with the pandemic, heightened insecurity across the country was frustrating efforts to leverage the non-oil sector to bolster the nation’s foreign exchange inflows. Olusemore, also a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN) and a Specialist in Bank Lending and Enterprise Risk Management, said the cash flow challenge facing Nigeria was expected, given that “We lost about two third of the man hour and production period in 2020 to COVID 19 lockdown.” He also told The Nation that two third of the 36 states are under siege because of heightened insecurity, making it impossible for states to generate increased revenue to augment their monthly allocation from the Federal Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC). “Unless domestic production increases, inflation will continue to rise. And local production cannot increase unless we stop insecurity,” the expert said. Most of the states are already in serious financial troubles, unable to pay workers’ salaries or execute major capital projects as a result of revenue shortfall.Their failure to bring in or formalise and serve the vibrant informal sector in their respective domains, coupled with diminishing industrial capacity as a result of obvious infrastructural challenges, particularly inadequate power and now, pervasive insecurity, has contributed to low Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). As a result, not a few states have now resorted to borrowing or depleting their reserves to pay salaries and carry out developmental projects. As if to make matters worse for the states, the Federal Government, through CBN, is said to have commenced plans to recover the N614 billion Budget Support Facility (BSF) it advanced to states, to mitigate the impact of dwindling revenues and continued payment of subsidies on fuel and electricity. The Nation learnt that the Federal Government had earlier planned to recover the funds in 2019, but it was unable to do so before COVID-19 struck. Now, pressed for cash, the federal Government now plans to commence deductions from states for repayment of the budget support facility, a development that will surely plunge many states, which are unable to increase their IGR, into more financial crisis. Economic managers under pressure Some of these worries and fears over the nation’s fiscal woes may have put its economic managers under serious pressure. For instance, it was CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele, who was saddled with the onerous task of refuting the weighty allegation recently made by the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, that the Federal Government printed N60 billion to support allocation for states for the month of March. Describing the allegation as “unfortunate and totally inappropriate,” Emefiele clarified that what Obaseki was referring to was simply lending money to states. “If you understand the concept of printing of money, it is about lending money. There is no need for all the controversy around money printing as if we are going into the factory to print naira and then distribute on the streets,” the CBN boss charged. He clarified that the Federal Government distributed loans to states to manage the economic complications that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, who is also a key economic manager, had also refuted the claim by Obaseki. Yet, the dust raised by the money-printing controversy was yet to clear before the Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Mr. Ahmed Idris, also came under pressure, saddled with dousing the tension over the country’s precarious fiscal position. Recall that a letter purportedly addressed to the AGF by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) intimating him that its projected monthly remittance to the FAAC for May will be zero.The NNPC had, in the said letter by its Group Managing Director (GMD), Mele Kyari, warned that the burden of subsidy payment had become too heavy to bear. But Idris has denied ever receiving such letter, noting that even if there was any such letter, it does not portend any elevated fiscal risk for the country, because Nigeria was no longer a monolithic economy, relying solely on oil minerals revenue. “I have not seen anything like that. Therefore, I believe it (the letter) is what it is – a rumour. However, whether it’s a rumour or not, let me clarify this misleading notion that Nigeria continues to remain a mono-economy, depending solely on oil revenue. “That has since changed and I can tell you with all confidence as the AGF that there’s no need to panic, even if there’s such a letter, because non-oil revenue now constitutes the greatest percentage contribution to the Federation Account and no longer oil as previously obtained,” the AGF said. Experts point the way forward  However, Olusemore doubts if the non-oil sector is in any position to contribute significantly to the Federation Account, considering the widespread insecurity across the country, which has affected manufacturing, agriculture and general commerce. “Businesses generally outside of the city centres are under threats. Land transportation is affected. People are afraid to travel to transact business,” he said. The expert, however, said over the years, states have failed to harness the nature-endowed resources in their respective jurisdictions. He also accused states of neglecting intra-regional economic cooperation that would have helped them achieve scale and competitiveness, while also augmenting the shortfall in allocation from the federation Account. Olusemore, however, said to get out of the current financial woods, the various tiers of government should prioritise the creation of more industrial parks and industrial incubation centres. “Deliberate efforts should be made to develop Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) through finance and non-financial incentives,” he added. He also said all levels of government should walk the talk on the development of agriculture and harnessing of the nation’s solid minerals.“What happens to our tourism industry?” he asked, noting that there is the need also develop the agro-allied industry and ensure inter-sectoral linkages between agriculture and manufacturing. For Director-General, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, the situation where states always go cap in hand for FAAC monthly allocations is a serious development that deserves urgent attention. “It also calls for re-examination of several issues such as revenue allocation formula, reduction in cost of governance at federal and state levels as well as strategic options that will enable states significantly improve on their IGR,” he told The Nation. The NACCIMA chief insisted that action must be taken to enable states to be less dependent on monthly allocations from the FAAC and more dependent on harnessing resources in their territories. “And this requires fundamental reforms of our current financial and economic architecture, not cosmetic reforms,” he stated. Amb. Olukanni also said the notice by the NNPC of the likelihood of its inability to remit expected funds to the Federation Account, if it is true, should be of serious concern to everybody, noting: “The hint may not be unconnected with the issue of petroleum subsidy which has become a conundrum for us and which we must find a way of resolving definitively.”  Other experts, who spoke with The Nation, noted that to get round the fiscal crisis and also put the economy on a sustainable recovery path, there is the urgent need to reverse the current trend where the nation’s annual budget is predicated on proceeds from oil in neglect of the real sector particularly, agro-allied businesses and the agricultural sector. Indeed, in its glorious days, agriculture contributed about 40 per cent to the country’s foreign exchange earnings through exports; creating millions of job opportunities in the process. Nigeria had palm kernel, cocoa, and the groundnut pyramids in the northern part of the country, for instance.  Sadly, however, these have taken the back seat since Nigeria discovered that oil can give more than what it was getting from those agro-allied products. Now, experts are pushing for government at all levels to put in place deliberate plans that target the development and transformation of the agro-allied sector, which, according to them, is a major income earner.  