The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) on Friday said it had uncovered plot by security agencies to eliminate prominent men and women, politicians and stakeholders in Southeast and blame it on the group and the Eastern Security Network (ESN). The Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, in a statement alleged security agencies had instructed their officers attached to the politicians to commence gradual elimination of members, vowing to resist the wicked plot. The group alleged over 68 innocent citizens were arrested and detained at the State CID Awka, Anambra State. The statement reads in part: “The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) ably led by our prophet and liberator Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has uncovered plot by Nigeria security agencies to eliminate prominent men and women, politicians and stakeholders in the whole of Biafraland and blame it on IPOB and the Eastern Security Network, ESN. “Every politician in Biafraland must be wary of those officers assigned to them as police or army guarding them. ESN, IPOB has no plan to kill our own in Biafraland because we’re going to get Biafra together. It profits us nothing to kill our own despite the treachery by some of them. “Our people must be careful because Fulani terrorists in Nigeria army and police uniforms are working tirelessly to ensure that Biafra businessmen, women and politicians are killed in order to pitch Biafrans against themselves and ultimately take undue advantage of the confusion to keep us in bondage. “But we are smarter than all of them put together. IPOB is raising this alarm for the wise to apply wisdom and avoid being victims of this evil plot. “Nigerian security agencies have instructed their officers attached to the politicians to start gradual elimination of Biafrans who they were assigned to protect. But we will resist this wicked plot. “They are arresting and abducting innocent Biafrans suspected to be members of IPOB or operatives of ESN security outfit. They have arrested more than 68 innocent citizens and detained them at the State CID Awka, Anambra State. Unknown gunmen are doing their own attacks but Nigeria DSS has rather decided to blame ESN operatives and IPOB members instead of investigating to unravel the perpetrators. “The incessant arrest and secret abductions of suspected IPOB members at Izombe, Agwa and other parts of Oguta and Ohaji Egbema cannot stop us from pursuing this freedom. “Just yesterday, they secretly abducted Obinna Nwuzi, the son of the man whose wife Olivia Nwuzi was abducted and detained in anti-kidnapping station at Owerri Imo State. The boy just returned from Ebonyi State university to see his family but wicked Nigeria security personnel arrested him. His mother has also been detained for over three weeks now. “We are warning them never to harm these innocent persons because if they do, they will regret their actions very soon.”