A pro-President Muhammadu Buhari group, Baba for All (BfA), has assured Nigerians the masses stand to gain more from the ongoing fight against corruption by the All Progressives Congress (APC) – led administration. The national coordinator of the group, Hon. Aminu Jaji, gave the assurance on Sunday at the FCT APC Secretariat Abuja where his group distributed 5,200 bags of rice to party members and supporters of President Buhari. Jaji, who is the immediate past Federal House of Representatives Committee Chairman on Internal Security, said the administration is also committed to improving the condition and standard of living of ordinary Nigerians. “The President is doing everything possible to improve the standard of living of ordinary Nigerians. We all know that Baba Buhari is for the masses, he is fighting corruption and he wants to make sure that the livelihoods of Nigerians are better than the way he met it in 2015. “This is the administration that cares for the humanitarian services to the citizens. There are a lot of programs ongoing. The other political party (PDP) did not do such programmes where ordinary citizens could benefit because that political party is for the capitalists only,” he said. Jaji said the group embarked on the distribution of rice to appreciate those who believe in the current administration. “From 2003 to 2009, ordinary people stood behind President Muhammadu Buhari for him to become the President of this country. “The masses of this nation from 2003 till 2019 stood for Buhari until they gave him this mandate unconditionally because they believed in his reputation. That is why we are sending messages not only to Nigerians but the whole world that Baba Buhari is for all. “As a coalition of businesspeople, politicians, farmers among others, we have come together to form this association known as ‘Baba for All’ in appreciation of the support of Nigerians, especially the masses to Baba Buhari since 2003 to 2019 by given him the mandate that has earned him the opportunity to pilot the affairs of Nigeria.”