Infrastructural development at Usmanu Danfodio University, Sokoto (UDUS) has underscored the school authorities, commitment towards  improving the institution in all aspects, and ensuring  it ranks  among the best  across the country. Nevertheless, staff and students have lauded the leadership of the university, urging it to do more, reports ABDULLATEEF  OTUYIGA (UDUS).  The Vice Chancellor of UDUS,  Prof. Lawal Suleiman Bilbis, has continued to build on the legacy of his predecessor, Prof. Abdullahi Zuru, who built many projects which uplifted the school during his administration. It has witnessed an upgrade in many areas. The school which hitherto had no fencing has been fenced to enhance security. The fencing clearly marked out UDUS territory from neighbouring communities’ and is electrified. Not only that, the road  — from the second gate to Kwankwasiya Stadium — has been adorned by street lights powered by a solar system. Some roads have been tarred with speed breakers to reduce the accidents on campus. Chief among the upgrades is the expanded Information Communication Technology (ICT) centre. An examination hall was converted to an ICT centre to ease access for students for their various computer-based tests. The students were particularly joyous about the ICT centre as they bid goodbye to erratic network. Drainages were also constructed to ease the flow of flood waters in the school. The walk-ways were not left. The  projects completely transformed the environment such that students and members of staff could not contain their excitement. An inspection of the school by our correspondent showed the new ambience of the school as students took turns to express their joy with the new look of their school. They all agreed that the projects would enhance security make learning more interesting.  Students, staff on the importance of fencing The school’s Director of Works, S. A. Lawal, said the fencing and the street lights would further secure the environment. “It is a welcome development, it really makes the academic environment more secure. It also shows the geographical territory of UDUS from those of neighbouring communities,” he said. The Dean Students’ Affairs, Prof. Aminu Mode, said the fence would bring an end to  insecurity in the institution while the ICT centre would ensure seamless Computer-Based Tests. Also, Soliu Mariam, a 200-Level student of Linguistics, expressed delight  on the infrastructural upgrade in the school. She said: “I am very happy with the  new development in the school. Erection of the fence is a very good project because it will make the campus more secure for the students. Safety of students will be guaranteed.” Another student,  Amidu Dabban, a 400-Level student of  Chemistry Education said: ”The university territory would be clearly marked and trespassers can be rightly sanctioned. Students like myself would feel a little more sense of safety regardless of the pronounced insecurity in the entire northern states. So I believe it’s a good step in the right direction.” Similarly, Fatimah Abdulrahman, a student of History said: “The erection of  fence is a big relief to me and other female students. Being that we female students are closer to the gate, with the fence, it will enable us  know that we are a little bit safe from outsiders who invade the hostel areas. And it will enhance the security system whereby they will be able to know who is going and coming out.”  Road bumps would curb accidents Plastic bumps, with  flashing light  indicators at night, have been fixed. This is from the entrance of the school’s first gate to other adjoining roads around the school. According to Bello Usman, a  young Hausa bike-man, over the years, the absence of the bumps had caused lots of accidents which claimed lives and rendered many disabled. “At least when you’re coming from a far place, if you see the bumps, you’ll slow down. The school has tried,” he said. Restoration of solar street  light The restoration of solar street light from the entrance of second gate to the main campus, among others, makes the academic environment well illuminated. Students  feel safe walking on the streets, as they know danger that lurks around could easily be seen in a nearby corner. Soliu Omowunmi Mariam, a 200-Level student said: “This is a good thing, if those Yaro boys don’t remove it again. And to be sincere, when there is no street light, we were scared to walk freely at night, but since this has been restored, one can walk freely and if anything would happen to you, people around could see that, even if you cannot shout, at least it is okay.” For Abba Musa, a 300-Level Biochemistry student, the solar lighting project is the most important because it reduces the risk of robbery and kidnapping. “This is the most important part of all the projects because the lighting of the environment reduces the risk of robbery and stealing within the campus,” he said. Another student, Mohammed Lawal, said: “The lighting will greatly assist security men who use battery–powered torch. It would also save them the stress of aggressively pointing the device to identify drivers and pedestrians at night.” He continued: “The installation of the solar street lights is a very laudable project  undertaken by the university management after the stealing  of the lithium batteries of the previous street lights. This has reduced the rate of walkway robberies, rapes and assault against both genders. It has also given a sense of security to students like myself that frequent night classes. More of this should be installed in remote areas on campus.” Exam hall turns ICT centre The new ICT centre, a project of TETFUND, adds to the existing ICT centres on campus for more access to computer systems, Computer Based Test,among others. A student who refused to be named said:” The idea of turning the former exam hall to ICT centre is a good one, if it will be accompanied with the building of more spacious lecture halls for students. Students should also be allowed to use the new ICT hall when needed. We believe it would encourage the Computer Based Test the university is working hard to normalise.” For Zainab Sule, a 200-Level student, the  new ICT centre  would accommodate more  students and reduce the stress of long queues when there was inadequate ICT centres for online examinations. She said: “The stress experienced during Computer-Based Test is too much for us. ‘’We were always grouped to avoid excessive crowd, but still there was overpopulation.  Eventually some students wouldn’t see their results. With the new addition, that would be a thing of the past.” Also, the Dean, Students Affairs, UDUS, Prof Mode explained that the new ICT  centre was furnished and well-equipped with many computers, adding that the devices would help students to write CBT effectively and learn  other digital skills. However, he disclosed that there would be additional computers mainly for computer science students, education computer students and others. Lawal further said: “The project is left for students to judge. All these are developmental projects like the fence, the solar street light, the drainage, the tarred road, and the walk-way which will make the academic environment more likeable and secure.”