It took quite some time and several displays of vacillating leadership for Nigerians to come round to the fact that they were hasty in voting the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration to get rid of what they believed to be the Goodluck Jonathan laissez-faire presidency. The ripple effect of that unspoken meeting of minds among Nigerians is that the presidency has become defensive and now claims that there is a plot to upstage the administration in a treasonable and undemocratic manner, to wit any other manner than by elections. This fixation has, in turn, left the populace in the remarkable position of being unable to communicate its discontent with the state of the nation to the presidency without constituting, in the presidency’s opinion, a party to the treasonable plot. What the presidency seems unable to appreciate is that there is a fine distinction between citizens who are discontented with the presidency on the one hand and anarchical malcontents at whom the presidency’s suspicion should ideally be directed on the other hand. Primarily, a congress of factors, including controversial policies, economic imprudence, social tension and friction, insecurity, stultification of the judiciary, and disregard for human lives, have made Nigerians to be dissatisfied with the administration. This discontent is what generally grieves the presidency, whose spokesmen have tried futilely to portray it as the best thing since independence, more so against the backdrop of the secessionist ambitions of agitators for tribal republics. For the citizenry, their primary woe is the activities of malcontents, lawless anarchists who mock the government at every step of the way, and who have no other design than the actualisation of some fundamentalist ideology based on either religion or ethnicity. Nigerians feel that although the government is aware of the activities of these malcontents and the dangers that they pose to the populace, it does not think them a big enough threat, hence the national dysphoria. It is difficult to blame them: the distressing news that have emanated from Kaduna for instance, where Governor Nasir el-Rufai sentinels an obstinate policy not to negotiate with bandits and kidnappers despite initially holding contrary views on the matter, are enough to have caused a fatal stir in other less accommodating countries. To jog the memory, on March 11, 39 students were ferreted without their consent from their hostels within the premises of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, to an unknown location. Being thus kidnapped, their abductors released a sickening video in which the helpless students were being indiscriminately flogged and harangued with whips and guns. This was to expedite the payment of the N500m ransom demanded for their release. On April 18, however, things took an uglier turn when some kidnappers, under the stewardship of one Sani Idris Jalingo, kidnapped about 22 students from Greenfield University, Kaduna. The criminal outfit asked for a ransom of N800m, and when things were not moving at a satisfactory pace, they killed first three then two students. It was only three days ago that the students from the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation were released, after 56 days in captivity. It took the facilitation of former president Olusegun Obasanjo and Sheikh Ahmad Gumi to get them out. Distressed, the parents of the students from Greenfield University established a forum, the like of which should not happen in a sane country, but which has been the trend since perhaps the Chibok girls kidnap. One of the parents, a widow, appeared on Roots TV and reported that they had in fact gone to prominent Islamic cleric, Sheikh Gumi, to see what he could do about the matter. The thing about Sheikh Gumi is that everyone wonders how he has portrayed himself as a bandit medium and always seems to be in the picture whenever issues with killer herdsmen, bandits or insurgents arise. He is an expert on the matter, it would seem, and he has been known to advocate for them severally. That he advocates for the bandits, suspicious as that is, is not the problem – every Nigerian is entitled to their political opinions, regardless of how subnormal they are, and the venting of such offensive opinions. Sheikh Gumi’s actions are also guileful. He walks in and out of bandits’ dens and is not questioned by anyone, he speaks fatherly of them, claiming to know who they are, and claiming to understand their griefs. It is unclear how anyone can identify with murderers; but he does it anyway, and the government does not raise eyebrows. The parents’ entreaties have not moved the abductors, neither will the president’s detached appeal through his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, on May 5 that the bandits should release the abducted Greenfield University students. Although, the other parents have come out to publicly disavow the statement of that distressed widow and apologise to Sheikh Gumi, no one is falling for the smoke and mirrors game. The presidency’s stoic refusal to investigate the Sheikh who clearly has access to some of the bandits is unnerving and has further fuelled suspicion that the administration is simply apathetic. A government that wants to adopt a no-negotiation stance on terrorists must have a plan for rescuing students. Many Nigerians are appalled to see the presidency and the el-Rufai government remain adamant about not negotiating, yet not having a cogent plan to save the kidnapped students. More than apathy, however, is the worry that the administration is simply mischievous. Reacting to opposition from the People’s Democratic Party that the president should bring kidnappers and bandits to justice, the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, stated that it was not the job of the federal government to prosecute kidnappers. His words: “The PDP alleged that kidnappers and bandits are not being brought to justice. This is apparently aimed at the Federal Government. It is shocking that a party that ruled this nation for all of 16 years does not know that kidnapping and banditry are not federal offences. The PDP should therefore call out the states, including those being controlled by it, to ensure a rigorous prosecution of arrested kidnappers and bandits.” This legal manoeuvre explains why there has been general lethargy on the issue of kidnapping in Nigeria. Section 364 of the Criminal Code makes kidnapping a crime and offence against liberty under federal law and stipulates that it is punishable with 10 years imprisonment. Section 365 of the Criminal Code allots a punishment of two years’ imprisonment to anyone guilty of depriving another person of liberty in Nigeria. Many states, however, have domesticated the Criminal Code as laws within their jurisdictions. Accordingly, several states have instituted the death penalty for kidnapping. So when the crime of kidnapping occurs within the boundaries of states, it is the attorney general of that state that commences actions in that regard. This does not, however, exculpate the federal government as the minister would like to believe. The governors of states may be the chief security officers of their states, but security apparatus are controlled by the federal government. There are no state police forces, neither are there state armies. The presidency’s belief that it is making headway in the fight against terrorism is also not satisfactory. Prosecuting terrorists and reintroducing them into the society only for them to continue a life of unhinged crime does not sound like success in the fight against terrorism contrary to the minister’s opinion. Indeed, by pushing the responsibility of bringing kidnappers to justice to the state governments but retaining control of security forces, the presidency cannot recognise that the biggest threats to its administration are the malcontents they are trying to avoid and its own self which is stripped of every vestige of nobility by warring power factions, not dissatisfied Nigerians who seek better governance. Without the foregoing context, the following agitated statement by the president’s Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, released on May 4 would have dropped Nigerians’ jaws: “Championed by some disgruntled religious and past political leaders, the intention is to eventually throw the country into a tailspin, which would compel a forceful and undemocratic change of leadership. Further unimpeachable evidence shows that these disruptive elements are now recruiting the leadership of some ethnic groups and politicians round the country, with the intention of convening some sort of conference, where a vote of no confidence would be passed on the president, thus throwing the land into further turmoil. The agent provocateurs hope to achieve through artifice and sleight of hands, what they failed to do through the ballot box in the 2019 elections. Nigerians have opted for democratic rule, and the only accepted way to change a democratically elected government is through elections, which hold at prescribed times in the country. Any other way is patently illegal, and even treasonable. Of course, such would attract the necessary consequences.” Disturbingly, this amounts to an exhibition of the presidency’s difficulty with appreciating public law, as well as the overarching paranoia that is the result of its ignorance. Section 143 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) dictates the procedure for removing the president or vice-president from office. Mr Adesina’s claim that any other way but presidential elections and tenure expiration for entering and removing people from the office of the president is patently illegal is faux pas. Some Nigerians state that the presidency’s statement does not only reek of ignorance, but is also a reflection of the administration’s disregard of and contempt for the oversight functions of the legislature. Whichever it is, ignorance or disdain for legislative powers, the presidency’s paranoia comes across as the whining of a minor. The presidency should know that the frustrated citizenry, who send their children to universities in the country with the mind-set of a herd of gazelle crossing crocodile infested waters, who endure woeful living standards in an ailing giant economy, are discontented with the administration and simply want better. They are neither interested in a violent overthrow of government, neither are they anarchists, for they know the failure of the state is equally injurious to their wellbeing. The government should not fix a myopic gaze on them while the malcontents, who compromise the lives and territorial integrity of Nigerians and Nigeria, appear to operate unchecked. Foresight and depth will bring home to those in authority that Nigerians want them to complete their tenures peacefully, but not with the same weakness manifested over six years, which has brought the country to a sorry pass.