Governors of the 17 southern states will take far-reaching decisions to halt growing insecurity. Top on the plate, it was learnt, is the persistent attacks on police assets and killing of policemen in the Southeast and Southsouth. No state in the two zones has been spared the gunmen attacks. The country home of Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma was attacked. But for the prompt response of security men, the house in Omuna would have been razed. Herdsmen have also been killing people – especially farmers – across the states in the southern region. This is in addition to the kidnapping for ransom which has assumed a dangerous dimension. Southwest governors created Amotekun while their Southeast counterparts are in the process of setting up Ebube Agu – security outfits to assist the police which are overwhelmed by the situation. Sixteen governors are expected at the meeting to be hosted by Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa today in Asaba. They are Dr Kayode: Fayemi (Ekiti), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Uzodimma (Imo), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Seyi Makinde (Oyo) and Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos). Others are Douye Diri (Bayelsa), Emmanuel Udom (Akwa Ibom), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), David Umahi Ebonyi, Ben Ayade (Cross River) and Willy Obiano (Anambra). Osun State Governor Adegboyaga Oyetola is in Saudi Arabia for lesser Hajj. He will not be attending. Delta State Information Commissioner Charles Aniagwu said: “By the Grace of God, 16 southern governors, including my boss Governor Okowa, will attend this one day meeting”. To prepare for today’s meeting, a virtual parley was held by Governors Akeredolu, Umahi and Okowa – chairmen of Southwest, Southeast and Southsouth governors’ forum respectively, to agree on the focus of the meeting and the agenda. “A source said the meeting will take a decision that will douse the tension that has enveloped the region. “They will also explore areas of cooperation to adopt a concerted method to fight this menace.” Inspector General of Police Alkali Baba Usman yesterday promised to collaborate with the military in the battle against criminality. He spoke in Jos, the Plateau State capital. He spoke at the graduation ceremony of Tactical Leadership and Command Course (TLCC) 16/2021 of Police Staff College, Jos. Represented by Mr Danmallam Mohammed, the DIG in-charge of Training and Development, Force Headquarters, the IG said: “We are working hard to make sure that peace and tranquility are restored to crisis areas in Nigeria. “Security is everybody’s business; we cannot do it alone. So, we are doing our best to reach out and ensure inter-agency cooperation with other security agencies, especially the military. “By the special power of God Almighty, and support of Nigerians, we are going to defeat insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and all other forms of insecurity in this country, “he said.