The Abdul Samad Rabiu Africa Initiative, with the Akwa Ibom State Government, has held the ground breaking of the Akwa Ibom State University Teaching Hospital. The project is being supported by a N5 billion  ASR Africa Health Infrastructure Grant for which N2.5billion was disbursed to commence construction. The ASR Africa Initiative was established by African industrialist, philanthropist and founder of Nigeria’s BUA Group, Abdul Samad Rabiu  supporting sustainable development initiatives in health, education and social development within Nigeria and the rest of Africa through its yearly $100 million ‘Africa Fund for Social Development and Renewal’. The state Governor, Udom Emmanuel, said: “We are happy to receive the first tranche of N2.5billion from the ASR Africa Initiative and today’s ground breaking ceremony coming just two weeks after the N5 billion grant was announced signposts the seriousness we attach to delivering a teaching hospital that would be a model for others and one Nigeria would be proud of”, the Governor said. Speaking at the groundbreaking ceremony, Ubon Udoh, Managing Director of ASR Africa stated that the purpose of the gesture was to align with the government’s developmental plans for the people of the state.  “We earlier in the month announced a N5 billion grant to the state for healthcare and social development as part of our annual $100 million dollars Annual Africa Fund forSocial Development and Renewal. Today, we have also handed over a first tranche of N2.5billion Naira to commence construction of the Teaching hospital which will be of international standards. This project in collaboration with the Akwa Ibom State Government, will be implemented and monitored fully in line with the ASR Africa Mutual Accountability Framework.”, Udoh said. Representing the founder of ASR Africa, Dr. Aliyu Idi Hong said, “We have been across the length of the state and we have seen the different developmental projects done by the state government in Primary and Secondary healthcare especially in the areas of infrastructure, are referral system, health, education and human capacity development. What the ASR Africa initiative is simply doing is filling in the gaps and joining the government in delivering comprehensive healthcare to the people. We believe that this hospital will go a long way in boosting the healthcare system of the state, whilst encouraging research and training a new generation of healthcare practitioners”.