It’s unbelievable that the Senate is considering making a law to jail ransom payers in kidnap cases.  The idea reflects the gravity of the country’s security crisis, and the desperate search for a solution.  But the move is not a solution. It is a complication. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, is sponsored by Senator Ezenwa Francis Onyewuchi of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), representing Imo East senatorial district. According to the proposed law, “Anyone who transfers funds, makes payment or colludes with an abductor, kidnapper or terrorist to receive any ransom for the release of any person who has been wrongfully confined, imprisoned or kidnapped is guilty of a felony and is liable on conviction to a term of imprisonment of not less than 15 years.” So what should the families of kidnap victims do when kidnappers demand ransom? The Senate needs to answer this question. It isn’t enough to prohibit payment of ransom. The proposed law denies the right of families to try to save the lives of their members when they are unfortunately kidnapped for ransom by paying the kidnappers. It is unjustifiable. If kidnapping for ransom is thriving because the authorities responsible for security and development are underperforming, who is to blame?  Ransom payers are not to blame for the evil business, but the structures of power that seem powerless against kidnappers and unable to bring about development. When bandits-cum-kidnappers struck at Greenfield University, Kaduna State, on April 20, it was yet another terrible evidence of the rising cases of kidnapping for ransom across the country. Significantly, it also showed how much money kidnappers dream of making from their evil activity. In this particular case, they initially demanded N800 million. The invaders kidnapped more than 20 students. Tragically, on April 23, the bodies of three of the abductees, a male and two females were found at a location close to the university. On April 26, two more abductees were found dead. ”We are still in shock,” a parent of one of the abducted students was quoted as saying after three bodies were found. “We did not expect the bandits would resort to killing our children because they had contacted us and demanded ransom.” The concerned parents were negotiating with the kidnappers when the students were killed. One of the kidnapped students has been released.  The student was said to have been freed after his mother, who is the wife of a retired Army officer from Plateau State, paid ransom to the kidnappers. The mother of the student, Lauritta Attahiru, confirmed the release of her son but refused to give details of how he was released and whether a ransom was paid or not. The release of the student followed a threat by the kidnappers to kill the remaining kidnapees if the concerned parents failed to meet their fresh demands by May 4.  The kidnappers had asked the parents to pay N100 million ransom, in addition to more than N50 million they had already paid. They also asked for 10 new motorcycles. The deadline has passed. The concerned parents say they are unable to meet the fresh demands, and have appealed to the state government to come to their aid in order to save the lives of the abductees. Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai says his administration will not negotiate with kidnappers. “Even if my son is kidnapped, I will rather pray for him to make heaven instead, because I won’t pay any ransom,” he was quoted as saying. What will happen to the 16 caged students? This case shows why the idea of jailing ransom payers is unacceptable. If the concerned parents had met the demands of the abductors, it is likely the remaining abductees would have been set free. The case of the released student, whose parents are said to have paid a ransom, suggests such a probability. True, not all kidnap cases end in the release of the victims after payment of ransom. Some kidnap victims lose their lives in captivity, despite the payment of ransom. But cases in which the victims are freed after payment of ransom show that it can achieve the desired result. ”Hasn’t the Federal Government paid millions of dollars to rescue some of those abducted in Borno State? The government paid heavy ransom to rescue some of the Dapchi girls that were kidnapped,” activist lawyer Femi Falana (SAN) observed in his criticism of the proposed law. He added:  ”Members of the National Assembly have paid ransom when their loved ones were kidnapped and even today, if any of the relations or a member of the National Assembly is kidnapped, members will contribute to rescue him or her.” A study indicated that more than $18 million was paid as ransom to kidnappers in the country from 2011 to 2020, and the greater part of the payment was from 2016 to 2020 when about $11 million was paid. In the local currency, these are huge figures indeed. It shows that kidnapping for ransom is a thriving business, albeit an evil one. Sadly, it is even regarded as a “growth industry.” Some analysts forecast that kidnap-for-ransom cases will increase in the country as a result of increased unemployment.  This is a disturbing scenario, considering that Nigeria already has one of the world’s highest rates of kidnap-for-ransom cases. The Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF), Kayode Fayemi, recently attributed the country’s security challenges partly to its 33 percent unemployment rate. The country’s difficult socio-economic conditions do not justify kidnapping operations, but show why the authorities should urgently pursue improved socio-economic conditions to discourage kidnapping for ransom. It is noteworthy that Senator Onyewuchi accepts that “government should provide adequate security and strengthen the economy as a matter of urgency, accelerate its poverty alleviation programmes, provide employment opportunities targeting youths who are mostly involved in abductions and kidnappings, strengthen our law enforcement agencies, and provide the necessary support to end the menace of kidnapping.” The Senate should focus on these rather than pursuing the passing of a senseless bill against ransom payers. A final question: What if a senator is kidnapped?