 It would appear that commercial motorcycle operators popularly known as Okada riders in Lagos have, proverbially speaking, stolen too much for the owners to notice. This is what can be deduced from the outcome of the stakeholders’ meeting on security held at Alausa, Ikeja, on May 10, as adumbrated by the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The governor said his administration had concluded plans to review the 2012 Lagos Traffic Law as it pertained to the Okada and tricycle (popularly known as Keke Marwa) operators in the state. As Governor Sanwo-Olu noted, Okada riders in the state have largely constituted themselves into lawless elements. “We have noted with dismay the fact that Okada riders are disregarding and flouting the restrictions we imposed on their activities in certain areas of the metropolis. In this same vein, we have also observed with dismay the ongoing war between commercial motorcyclists and our law enforcement agencies.” The governor is right. Many Okada riders operating in the state do not see themselves as part of those for whom traffic laws were made. They ride against traffic, compete with Bus Rapid Transit buses on BRT dedicated lanes, refuse to obey traffic lights and are generally aggressive on the road. Indeed, they seem to see their kind of operation as one that entitles them to break the law with impunity and are quick to descend on other road users, particularly motorists, whenever there is a quarrel with one of them and the motorists. It is immaterial whether it is one of their own that is wrong. As Governor Sanwo-Olu noted, “This propensity for lawlessness is not who we are as Lagosians.” The governor added: “As part of the restrictions put in place, we banned the activities of Okada and tricycle operators on key roads, highways, and local government areas. Sadly, many Okada and tricycle operators have continued to flagrantly disobey the law and, in some cases, resist enforcement by engaging in organised attacks on law enforcement agencies.” To worsen matters, commercial motorcycles have now become quick get-away vehicles for criminals. Indeed, the state commissioner of police, Hakeem Odumosu, had earlier hinted of this development shortly before Governor Sanwo-Olu came public with the state government’s decision to take far-reaching measures to deal with the menace of commercial motorcyclists and their tricycle operators’ counterparts. No government worth its salt would fold its arms and allow such lawlessness to persist. The new deal which the state government has come up with as alternative to the Okada and tricycles is what it calls the Last Mile buses. The government projects about 5,000 such buses but will be starting with about 500. These would operate mainly in the inner routes presently dominated by Okada and tricycle operators. We welcome this initiative. Apart from the notoriety value that commercial motorcyclists have largely assumed, Okada is not a means of transportation in any modern society. It has led to the untimely deaths of many people, even as it has contributed to the loss of limbs of not a few of their passengers and other road users. However, we feel there should be some exit strategy for these operators. Is there a way they can be brought into the new scheme so that they won’t be completely jobless and become security risks to law-abiding members of the public? Moreover, what security measures are in place to safeguard the Last Mile buses from the Okada and tricycle operators? The state government should expect that by their largely aggressive and violent nature, they won’t want to go down without some resistance. The most intriguing thing about them is that Okada has been banned in the states where many of them came from. They never lifted a finger. All they did was head to Lagos where they are only restricted from some highways, as against complete banning of their operations, to continue their business. Yet, many of them find it difficult to ride within permissible limits. We cannot continue to operate with such Hobbesian mindset. This is why we implore the government to ensure that it gets the law enforcement aspect of whatever measures it comes up with right. Moreover, its road maintenance unit must be strengthened to cope with the huge demands of fixing the inner roads and maintaining them to ensure the Last Mile buses last. We also implore all governments to work on factors militating against job creation (that made some of the Okada operators emergency riders), so that those of them willing to return to their former trade can do so. Perhaps we also need to emphasise the importance of trekking which the regular use of Okada has robbed many people of. This new-found sedentary lifestyle induced by Okada riding is not good for our health. Once again, we welcome the new initiative, but the state government must work assiduously to make it work. Compliance is key. As we speak, commercial motorcycle operation has been banned in several places for security reason. So, Lagos, as the country’s industrial hub should be proactive in dealing with envisaged security challenges. And, as the governor noted, the billions of naira investments that are ongoing in the state will ultimately lead to job creation, but this can only be possible in a safe and secure atmosphere.