 Indigenous market leaders in shipping and logistics services, Fortune Global Shipping and logistics (FGSL) today announced the appointment of a new Managing Director, Kingsley Uwagbale. Uwagbale brings to bear a wealth of professional experience crisscrossing multiple sectors including aviation, maritime, logistics, emergency management and business consultancy in a successful career that spans over 30 years. “Kingsley is a seasoned professional with vast experience and a trackrecord of delivering world-class services. He is known for combining effective commercial credentials, data-driven decision making and inspirational leadership to steer businesses and people in the desired direction. On this note, the management remains resolute in its convictions that under his stewardship, Fortune Global will positively make inroads into other major markets across the continent,” said Eric Opah, President/CEO, FGSL. Uwagbale’s appointment comes at a time when businesses globally are gradually exiting the downturn brought about by the pandemic. MrUwagbale is charged with not only driving business stability but also charting the roadmap for growth in the near and long term. “Leveraging the opportunities that the current business climate has presented us to improve our operational efficiency is paramount to the long-term objectives of the company. The market may still be reeling from the devastating effects of the pandemic, however, with the deployment of technology and a growth-oriented approach, we shall fulfil the Board’s mandate and further enhance customer satisfaction. Innovation and the ability to seamlessly pivot into other businesses will be paramount in our activities moving forward and with the calibre of forward-thinking colleagues working tirelessly with me, we can hit the shared objectives in good time,” remarked Kingsley Uwagbale. Uwagbale holds an MBA in Marketing from the University Port-Harcourt, a Bachelor of Science degree in Industrial Chemistry from the University of Benin. Over the years, he has also attended Executive Education programs at the prestigious Harvard Business School and Cambridge University, England. He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Chemists of Nigeria and a Member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport. Under his stewardship, the firm is expected to make significant improvements on the successes it has made in recent times. This year, the firm has acquired a multi-million Bonded and General Warehouse to bolster its operations. It also added its ever-growing fleet, new trucks to improve service delivery. Finally, the organisation signed has entered multi-year partnerships with numerous International Oil Companies to render its unique services and ultimately contribute to the national economic recovery.