I vividly remember my singular meeting with Pastor Dee, as everyone called Pastor Dare Adeboye, in Uyo one Sunday evening in 2020, and as soon as we were introduced, he called on the retreating figures of his wife and daughter to come greet me, and I recall his daughter immediately falling to her knees, as is the custom of the Yorubas. That custom is gradually fading away with the times, indeed such greeting is uncommon among “aje- butter” children; but clearly Pastor Dee had brought up his household to cherish the old values of respect for seniors. I was with the wife of a big uncle of mine that day, and as we sat in the lounge, she sighted a family quite close to the tarmac exit door, and she said to me:- over there is Pastor Dee, Pastor Adeboye’s son. But, knowing Papa Adeboye refers to all his pastors as “sons”or”daughters” (even as he is universally called Daddy G.O), I quickly whispered the question – his real son, you mean- to which she replied in the affirmative. Just then the Pastor himself saw her and came over to greet us. It was instantly noticeable that his father’s quality of disarming humility was evident in Pastor Dee, who also bore a striking resemblance to his father. Like the saying goes, the apple did not fall far from the tree. Then, shortly after introducing us to his departing family and exchanging pleasantries, as well as interacting with  the few other persons that were in the lounge that evening, Pastor Dee took his leave for Eket, his base, where he served as  Assistant Regional Pastor. It was then my uncle’s wife opened up and told me that Pastor Dee had facilitated her express, one- on- one visit with Daddy G.O, Papa Adeboye at the height of her 3 year- long strange ailment, which had seen her travel abroad for operations seven whole times, with minimal impact. When the strange medical condition lingered, she had met with Papa Adeboye for a prayer session. Pastor Dee arranged it for her. Today, I wonder how many, maybe countless others he had silently assisted, through the years. I would say : a combination of prayers, and expert medical attention finally worked, and today my uncle’s wife is fully recovered. Thus, the passing on of that vibrant, warm and friendly man was quite a shock to me. Moreover, from the testimonies of him that have continued to be highlighted, it is clear that his life and ministry had great impact on the youths and young adults of Eket region. It is no wonder they embarked on the road trip in their numbers from all over Akwa  Ibom to Ogun, to attend  his funeral. The Comforter, the Holy Spirit will surely comfort the family of the Adeboyes; PastorDee’s wife and children, his mother, Pastor Folu (Mummy G.O.) his father, siblings, his congregants and his friends. Pastor Dare’s helpfulness, his humility and his warm personality as well as his respectfulness are qualities I will always ascribe to him. The entire Redeemed Christian Church of God, RCCG worldwide, must remain consoled in the fact that Pastor Dee’s final place is heaven. For Akwa Ibom , it must not be overlooked that it was a blessing for the son of the renowned General  Overseer to have been sent to serve in that land. Finally , for Pastor Dare Adeboye, it is certain; his God and Maker will say to him, Well done, though good and faithful servant, and Pastor Dare will enter into the joy of his Maker. Mathew 25:21.  That is my ultimate target, too.