President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday led other eminent personalities in extending sympathies to the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, over the death of his son, Pastor Oluwadamilare Temitayo Adeboye. Former President Goodluck Jonathan, Senate President Ahmad Lawan, Speaker of the House of Representatives Femi Gbajabiamila, Chief Whip of the Senate Orji Kalu and Deputy Chief Whip of House of Representatives Nkeiruka Onyejeocha also mourned the late cleric. The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) yesterday announced the death of Oluwadamilare, the third child of Pastor Adeboye. He was born on June 9, 1978 and died on May 4. The RCCG Public Relations Officer, Pastor Segun Adebiyi, in a statement, said: “It is with a deep and heartfelt sense of loss, we announce the departure of our beloved son, brother, husband and father, Oluwadamilare Temitayo Adeboye, who went to be with the Lord on May 4, 2021.” He said the late pastor’s life was well lived as he served the Lord without reserve, giving effortlessly and leading fearlessly. He was crowned by the Lord with blessings of three seeds and a beautiful wife. “Though shaken, our anchor remains Jesus Christ in whom we have the assurance that we will one day meet in a place where there is no pain. “It is the wish of the family to be granted privacy at this moment and that prayers be offered on their behalf.” But, in a condolence message by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, the President also commiserated with members of the RCCG, admonishing them to take solace in God’s promises. “President Muhammadu Buhari extends deepest sympathies to the family of the General Overseer of the RCCG on the passing of his son, Pastor Dare Adeboye. “Also commiserating with members of the RCCG on the demise of the Assistant Pastor in charge of Region (Youth) 35, President Buhari urges them to find comfort in the teachings of the Holy Scriptures that those who have chosen to serve God faithfully will see Him as He is in eternity.” The President prayed to God Almighty to grant the departed rest in His everlasting kingdom and comfort grieving family, friends and associates. Jonathan, in a condolence message in Abuja yesterday, expressed sadness over the passing of the pastor, describing him as a much-loved clergyman. Jonathan noted that the late man of God lived a life that was a pattern of good works and prayed to God to grant his soul eternal rest. “My family and I condole with Pastor Enoch Adeboye and the entire membership of the RCCG, on the death of Pastor Dare Adeboye and a much-loved clergyman. “Though I never knew Pastor Dare personally, I have had cause to meet his father, Pastor Adeboye, and it would seem that the apple did not fall far from the tree,” he said. According to him, from every account, Pastor Dare lived a life that was a pattern of good works and a credit to the Body of Christ. “He was known to emulate the godliness and moral leadership that his father is well known for. “We share in the grief that naturally comes when such a devout man passes on to eternal glory,” he said Jonathan prayed to God to grant the family of the deceased and the RCCG ministry the fortitude to bear the loss. Also yesterday, Lawan commiserated with the General Overseer of the RCCG on the death of his son. He also condoled with the Adeboye family and members of the RCCG worldwide. In a statement by his Special Adviser (Media) Ola Awoniyi in Abuja, Lawan said: “I share their deep grief over the loss of a beloved son, husband, father and committed labourer in the Lord’s Vineyard. “May God Almighty comfort the highly respected pastor, his family and the entire members of his flock over this great loss and repose the soul of the deceased in eternal bliss.” Gbajabiamila,in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Lanre Lasisi, in Abuja, said it was painful for a father to lose his child at any point in time, saying the younger Adeboye lived a life full of worship to the Lord and service to humanity. The Speaker recalled how the deceased took after his father in the work of God and rose to become one of the leading youth pastors in RCCG. Gbajabiamila expressed sadness over the loss of such a “promising young man”. “I am saddened by the news of the demise of Pastor Dare Adeboye. His demise is painful, especially now that we need youth like him to serve as role models to their peers. “My thoughts and prayers are with the Adeboye family and the entire RCCG family at this difficult moment. “I pray that the good Lord will find a peaceful resting place for Pastor Dare Adeboye,” he said. Kalu, in his condolence message, lamented the passing on of the 42-year old pastor. He stressed that Dare died in his prime, adding that the deceased was committed to the work of God like his father. The former Abia State governor urged the Adeboye family to take solace in the fact that the late cleric lived a purposeful life dedicated to the service of God and mankind. He described the demise of Dare as shocking and devastating and conveyed his heartfelt condolences to the RCCG family. “I received with shock and pain the news of the demise of Assistant Pastor (RCCG) in charge of Region (Youth) 35. “The late cleric was known to be spiritually gifted like his father. “He was strongly committed and dedicated to spreading the gospel beyond his immediate environment. “The late pastor upheld and sustained the teachings of the holy Bible in his lifetime, which he exemplified in his way of life. “He will be remembered for his good deeds,’’ Kalu said. Onyejeocha also said: “My deepest condolences to the family of Pastor Adeboye over the death of his son… “I am certain that as you rest on the comfort of our heavenly Father, He will grant you the needed strengths to draw peace and comfort from the well of salvation.”