If there is one thing about Akinlolu Jekins that endeared him to many, it will definitely be his doggedness and focus on achieving and breaking new grounds. Akinlolu “Jekins” Jikiemi is a passionate event consultant & manager, dedicated talent manager and a businessman extraordinaire. The UK-based events manager has the success of over hundred highly-successful and widely-acclaimed UK tours and shows to his credit. Fondly called Jekins by friends, acquaintances and fans, he has consistently proved that passion, hard work and resilience are some of the most important characteristics of any thriving businessman. Born in the early 80s, Akinlolu is the first son in a family of 5. His passion and interest in entertainment have been with him from his tender years. Akinlolu obtained his BSc in Medical Microbiology from one of the first private universities in Nigeria, West Africa (Babcock University) before relocating to the United Kingdom. Akinlolu’s passion for entertainment, specifically the management aspect, spurred him to set into the entertainment industry. There is no denying that he has established himself as a strong force to reckon with in the UK-Africa entertainment industry. He has promoted tons of impressive club events across the United Kingdom. He has had the cause to work with some of the biggest promoters in London; the likes of Omoba Champs, BadGuyToba, Adevogue, BillyQUEB, KayoEnt, MikeL, Alaba Badabing, Dean Smooth , Deji Smooth, DJ Excel , Blacknights , Amour A Star, Omowhyte , 1st ChoiceKC, DJ Ladi and DJ OsaJatt. Akinlolu has been the brain behind the successful planning, promoting and management of Julius Agwu’s Crack Ya Ribs (UK) for over 9 years and counting. He has also worked in the UK with the likes of SeyiLaw, Senator comedian, Chris Mapane ( South Africa ), Lafin Gas, AliBaba , Helen Paul, Okey Bakassi, Dan D Humorous, Funnybone, Osama, Princess comedian, Maleke Comedian, Sammy Okposo, Tim Godfrey, Onos Ariyo, IgoDye, IGosave, MrPatrick, Comedian Acapella,McLively, Akpororo, McAbbey, Gordons D’Belusconi, Pencil comedian, Sinach , Tope Alabi, Korede Bello, Reminisce and Humblesmith. He is held in high esteem by fellow promoters, colleagues and clients for his dedication and his dogged approach to work.