The local government primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) will be held today across the 377 wards in 57 council areas in Lagos State. About 338 chairmanship and over 1, 200 councillorship aspirants had appeared before the Screening Committee, while the Appeal Committee chaired by a former Deputy Governor Olufemi Pedro had also concluded its sittings. The Secretary of the Lagos State chapter of the APC, Lanre Balogun, said the party was ready for the primaries. Meanwhile, a former Deputy Governor and APC chieftain, Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire has urged contestants in the primary elections to shun every form of violence in order to have the peaceful atmosphere needed for the conduct of the election. In a statement issued on Friday, Orelope Adefulire, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals, (SSAP-SDGs), appealed for calm ahead during the primary elections of the APC for the Lagos council election scheduled for Saturday, July 29. She specially appealed to contestants for the chairmanship and councillorship positions in the Alimosho area and across other LGAs of the State to commit to peace; see themselves as brothers and sisters and ensure that the contest does not degenerate into violence and bloodbath. “The primary election should not be a do or die affair for anyone, especially if the intention is genuinely to serve the people. We must do everything possible to avoid bloodshed. “We must continue to ensure that peace continues to reign in Lagos so that we can continue to enjoy and take advantage of the numerous achievements of our amiable Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu,” said Orelope-Adefulire. The presidential aide also urged all contestants to realize that there can only be one winner at the end of the electoral process and that there will always be opportunities to put themselves forward for service at other times in the future, even if they are not the choice of the people now. She noted that the country is already facing much security challenges at many fronts and anything that can compound the situation and further, put the already stressed security operatives under strains should be avoided. She also appealed to all those saddled with the responsibility of presiding over the primaries to ensure that the process is free, fair and transparent so that the results will be acceptable to all at the end of the day. “Lagos remains one of the most peaceful states in the country and we should not do anything to change this enviable status of the state. I wish all contestants and members of our party across the state a successful and peaceful election,” she concluded. 