Popular Nollywood Actor Yomi Fabiyi has reacted to the bail granted his colleague, Baba Ijesha, over alleged sexual molestation of a minor. Baba Ijesha was arrested in April for the alleged infraction. He was however granted bail on Monday on health grounds according to his lawyer. The bail conditions are being perfected ahead of his release. Fabiyi, who has been agitating for his release, said the latest development was most welcomed. He posted on Instagram: “Human Rights is Key. There can NEVER be true JUSTICE if human rights of suspects, complainant violated. Rights which include Fair Hearing and strict adherence to the RULE of LAW. “Do more on Human Rights, then Nigeria will develop and be peaceful.” Social media users have also taken to the actor’s comment section to hail his unwavering stance to follow through his beliefs. wasiuhammed1 wrote: “As you stand solidly behind this man so shall the world do the same if need be bro. I wanna add to your name tonight bro. YOMI DE ROCK.” queenkhadijah_official1 stated: “The Yomi I know is a blessing to this generation #ifyouknowyouknow… More blessings Hajji Lukmon.” oladejo_sodiq_ tweeted: “You are a friend we all need in our life kudos to you brother.” iam_alvinkay said: “Only God knows how many people have gone with a bailable offense, Many have died, remand, and live imprisonment. I pray God bring back Nigeria to normal.” rochysco__olanrewaju stated: “What can I say than to thank God and Uncle Yomi for his humanitarian service to uphold the rule of law….. Thanks for proving that we still have those who respect human right regardless of what those power drunk ppl thinks.” olayinkasekinatiyanda wrote: “You be man guy. You really tried. May the Lord forgive Baba ija and have compassion on him. All is well.” rotimi_oluwaseun_folahan tweeted: “Egbon, why don’t you announce the released of baba Ijesha and Hashtag it OKO IYABOOJO. I so much appreciate your efforts on his case. God will protect you for us all. You are one in a billion. Thanks so much egbon.” fanxissage wrote: “You have really proven yourself as the No.1Man in the industry, after you na others. Na man you be bro, twale…..” eleniyan__eleniyan said: “Thanks, God bless you for your support on behalf of baba Ijesha.” _precious012 stated: “The funniest thing is that no one stood by him most especially all the eye service colleagues, they all denounced him he stood alone and fought it all. May God keep giving you wisdom.”