  OYO State chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) has called on the State government to postpone the Local Government Elections in the State scheduled for May 13, 2021. This is even as the Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Oyo State Chapter, yesterday dedicated its victory at the Supreme Court to the late former governor, Abiola Ajimobi. The ALGON Chairman, Prince Ayodeji Abass-Aleshinloye, in a press conference in Ibadan, said Ajimobi was instrumental to the victory through his support for ALGON. He said the late Ajimobi taught ALGON to thread the legal path to justice even in the face of intimidation and harassment. He said sweet as the court victory is, “we regret that our leader, in the person of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi, is not around to witness this day.” He added: “We have, however, decided to dedicate this victory to the loving memory of Sen. Abiola Ajimobi because he taught us to follow rule of law even in the face of intimidation and harassment.” He expressed appreciation to all those who contributed to the victory, saying their efforts laid a strong foundation for democracy to thrive at the grassroots. “What we are fighting for is not about the office. It is about laying a good precedence for others who will occupy those offices later. “It is about the rule of law. It is about democracy to thrive at the grassroots.” Chief Akin Oke, the state APC Caretaker Chairman, called on Governor Seyi Makinde to postpone local government elections in the state scheduled for May 22, to allow APC to participate. The APC chairman said there was no way the party could be part of the preparation for the election at the initial stage due to the litigation. He noted that the party had challenged the illegal sack of democratically-elected chairmen and councillors in the state, adding that it had been vindicated.  “If you watch the way we fought this struggle; we fought it with a focus, we fought it strategically, we fought it with common sense, we fought it with academic depth. “We are not afraid of local government elections. “In fact, to show they are really popular, they can postpone the elections to accommodate the APC,” he said. The Supreme Court in a unanimous judgment on Friday declared illegal and unconstitutional the 2019 sacking of  the chairmen and councilors of the 33 LGs and 35 Local Council Development Areas in Oyo State by Governor Seyi Makinde. The apex court said the action of the governor was in breach of Section 7(1) of the 1999 Constitution and held that no state governor has power to dissolve elected local governments. The five man panel of the court also delivered a similar ruling in respect of the 2015 dissolution of the 34 LGs in Katsina State by Governor Aminu Masari.