 Many stakeholders have flagged the impending danger if the siege of insecurity presently bedevilling Nigeria persists too long. There is fear that the challenge could hinder the conduct of both off-cycle elections before 2023 and the 2023 general election, thereby plunging the country into a constitutional quagmire. Some lawyers were lately reported in the media warning of the danger of extant statutory provisions being invoked in the event that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) isn’t able to conduct elections it has scheduled owing to insecurity. For instance, the commission has scheduled the Anambra State governorship poll to hold November 6, this year, while the 2023 general election is billed to commence February 18. But there are raging incidents of banditry, kidnappings and criminal insurgency gripping many sections of the country presently and holding citizens in a chokehold. Fears are that unless these challenges are swiftly brought under check, they may hamper the electoral body from conducting the polls credibly, if at all, or they may obstruct voters from coming out to exercise their franchise. Sections 135(3) and 180(3) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) provide for the possibility of tenure extensions if it becomes impracticable to hold elections. Section 135(3), for instance, states: “If the Federation is at war in which the territory of Nigeria is physically involved and the President considers that it is not practicable to hold elections, the National Assembly may by resolution extend the period of four years mentioned in subsection (2) of this section from time to time; but no such extension shall exceed a period of six months at any one time.” There is also Section 26 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) that empowers INEC to postpone elections in an emergency. Sub-section (2) of that section stipulates: “Where a date has been appointed for the holding of an election, and there is reason to believe that a serious breach of the peace is likely to occur if the election is proceeded with on that date or it is impossible to conduct the elections as a result of natural disasters or other emergencies, the commission may postpone the election and shall in respect of the area, or areas concerned, appoint another date for the holding of the postponed election, provided that such reason for the postponement is cogent and verifiable.” An incident tracking platform, NigeriaMourns.com, early last week  issued a report in which it claimed that different forms of criminality like Boko Haram attacks, banditry, communal clashes, herdsmen/farmers clashes, extra-judicial killings by security forces, cult clashes and isolated cases of attacks across Nigeria claimed no fewer than 1,603 lives between January and March 2021, besides 1,774 persons abducted. Those figures could be deemed debatable, but they fairly indicate the magnitude of the problem the country faces. Other than deadly criminalities against citizens in their communities, another dimension to the insecurity challenge is the rash of arsonist attacks on facilities of the electoral body in which movable and immovable assets acquired for conducting polls have been destroyed. Early last week, the Enugu State head office of INEC was torched by hoodlums, barely four days after its office in Obollo-Afor, Udenu council area of same state was set on fire. And in the early hours of last Wednesday, its area offices in Ezza North and Izzi council areas of Ebonyi State were also lit into. No fewer than 23 offices of the commission have been torched this year, with INEC having openly signified that the trend portended danger to the electoral process. Long-term shifts in elections is a blighted route from which countries hardly return with nationhood integrity intact: ask Ethiopia. That country recently deferred again its parliamentary poll that had been slated for June 5, citing logistical problems that couldn’t be addressed. An initial postponement in August 2020 had led to heightened insurrection in the northern Tigray region, which held a unilateral poll that pitched its ruling party in armed confrontation with the central government of Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed. Now it’s up in the air if, and when a widely acceptable election will ever be achieved. The present insecurity siege in Nigeria militates against smooth conduct of elections because violence diminishes the legitimacy of poll outcomes. It is thus imperative for government to urgently rein it in lest the nation be disenfranchised. Elections amidst violence produce elections without legitimacy, elections without legitimacy produce a nation without legitimacy, and a nation without legitimacy is ‘dead on arrival.’ That is a dreadful prospect never to be countenanced, and everything necessary must be done to avert even its remote possibility. 