In a bid to further re-inforce the core message of instilling background checks as a culture, Nigeria’s pioneer in the industry, Background Check International (BCI) organised a webinar titled ‘The impact of background check on businesses, now and in the future” aimed at promoting the overall importance of background checks to corporate existence. The webinar had in attendance global expert, Barry Nixon, the Founder and COO of Pre-employment Directory, USA, Yemi Faseun, Head, Human Resources, Globacom, Mary Ikoku, Editor-in-Chief, Working Moms Africa Magazine and Kunbi Adeoti, Divisional Director, Leadway Assurance Company Ltd, among others. The speakers urged corporate organisations to conduct due diligence before employing any staff to forestall avoidable mistakes which could cost the organisation both in the short, medium to long term. According to them, data has been a major challenge in conducting due diligence as this impedes the due diligence process. Specifically, Adeoti stated that due diligence impacts the organisation and it should form a crucial part of the employment process to identify bad behaviour and fraudulent acts. “If due diligence is not done, certain behavioral pattern may impede organisational growth.” Echoing similar sentiments, Faseun believes there should be tracking of employees before they engage in fraudulent acts. On his part, Barry White, Founder, pre-employment Directory.Com stated that every organisation should start a culture of verification. While commenting on the issue, the Chief Executive Officer of Background Check International, Mr. Kola Olugbodi bemoaned the situation where organisations inadvertently forgo background checks when making hiring decisions. Further justifying the relevance of background check, Olugbodi said it has to be determined in line with what organisations stand in line with what organisations stand to gain or lose. He further said about 70 percent of organisational loss is always due to employees sharp practices even as he urged organisations to stop recruiting based on brilliance and focus on due diligence and background checks. In reinforcing the issue of culture, Ikoku stated that hiring staff need the same indices applied during traditional marriage to prevent fraudulent claims. “Hiring new employees needs the same traditional pattern of background check due to corruption the system.”   