Lagos Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said his administration has completed over 1,097 projects in 970 primary and secondary schools in the past two years. The government also built and rehabilitated 322 dilapidated schools – including five new schools – and supplied 87,000 dual composite units of furniture to primary and secondary schools. He spoke on Thursday at inauguration of a new block of 10 classrooms at the Akintan Junior Grammar School, Surulere – one of four school projects he inaugurated. Sanwo-Olu, who had earlier visited the other three schools (Fazil Omar Senior High School, weeIwaya; Onike Girls’Junior High School, Yaba and Igbobi Junior High School, Simply), also said that 100 Lagos schools would soon get fibre optics installed for internet connection. He said the investment in education was his administration’s effort to build the right quality of human capital needed to service Lagos as a mega city. He said: “We are flagging off these school infrastructural projects to deliver 300 classrooms and seven new hostel blocks in some of our schools. “The projects being commissioned today include a block of 18 classrooms with administrative offices, library, laboratory block, toilets, and borehole. “A block of 10 classrooms is also being presented to Akintan Junior Grammar School. I am delighted to inform you that this will be a continuous exercise until all the promised infrastructural projects have been delivered to the beneficiary schools. “These projects will improve the learning and teaching environment in our public schools. “Education is still the most potent tool of empowerment, and one of the most tested ways to close the gap between poverty and wealth; it provides individuals with the necessary knowledge and skillset to actualise their potential and maximize opportunities in life. “The vital role of education in the growth and development of a megacity like ours has made it imperative for us to ensure that our children have access to quality education and an enabling environment for excellent learning. “This administration is convinced that teaching and learning can only take place effectively in a conducive environment; this explains our commitment to the provision of new structures and the rehabilitation of existing ones. “I am glad to note that our investments in education has been yielding positive results. Our students’ performance has improved in examinations, national and international competitions. They also have improved morals, etiquette, and confidence in public speaking.” Regarding the internet connection project, Sanwo-Olu said the 100 schools would be activated by month end, while assuring that the faculty would get to all schools. “We have done what we call our metropolitan fibre optics. We are currently in about 65 schools. Before the end of this month we will be in 100 schools. And we will go round to commission internet fibre connectivity in 100 schools in Lagos State. What that will do for you is to give you access to the world,” he said. Education Commissioner Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo said Sanwo-Olu had delivered on his campaign promises to deliberately focus on education as a major pillar of his THEMES agenda. Chairman Special Committee for the Rehabilitation of Public Schools (SCRPS), Mr. Hakeem Smith, counseled students to take care of the new facilities. Chairman, House Committee on Education, Okanlawon Sanni praised the government for its efforts but called for the establishment of more secondary schools given the disparity between the number of primary schools – 1016 – compared to about 365 junior secondary schools. Chairman of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LASUBEB) Wahab Alawiye-King described the projects as part of efforts to enhance education in the state.