 When the state begins to spread fear, it means only one thing and that is, all is not well in the land. At such a time, fear becomes a weapon for whipping people into line and spreading terror. Nigerians saw this happen last week. The state and its agents went to town, making claims purportedly based on intelligence reports about plans by some religious and past political leaders to forcefully change the government. The state has all the instruments to gather information about developments in the country before, during and after they happen. In most cases, this power is used wrongly. It is not used for the betterment of the country, but for the disruption of its peace and harmony. This is a deliberate ploy to paint some people black in order to get them out of the way. To do this, they bend and break the law. The unwise may not discern what is going on until it is too late. It was terrible. The state spared nothing in making its claims about plans to unseat it. Though the reports it relied on are not available to the public, the government made a show of its claim on some chosen days to drive home its message. The message was targeted at critics that find nothing good in the government. It was a clear sign that the government was not confortable with these people’s positions. How should the government take criticisms? Should it accuse critics of planning a putsch for not seeing eye to eye with it? In a democracy, the state is expected to be tolerant of others’ views and not to breath down their necks for opposing it. This is Nigeria in 2021 and not the fictitious Oceania, which George Orwell wrote about in his 1948 novel titled:1984. In the book, Big Brother, the leader of the Party, which ran the state,  abhorred criticisms. From all indications, it seems we are in the Big Brother era. Big Brother is watching all over the country, monitoring both friends and foes. The thing is in a situation like this, there are no friends, everybody is a foe, except those who can come out and support the shenanigans going on right now. Our security agencies, as in 1984, can today together be classified as Thought Police. Under this umbrella are the armed forces, paramilitary outfits, intelligence agencies and the police. Their job is to arrest people for thought crimes. With the warning from the Thought Police last week, the prison may soon be brimming with thought criminals invited for questioning over their plans to topple the government. Is there really a plan to overawe the government, to use the word made popular under the Babangida and Abacha regimes? If there is, who are those behind the plan? Is calling for a national conference an invitation to anarchy or euphemism for a coup? What is offensive in making such calls? Before I am accused of treason, let me state that I do not doubt the veracity of the claims of the agents of state as they are ‘honourable’ bodies, to borrow the word of Mark Antony in the popular Shakespeare play: Julius Caesar, that can never write bogus reports targeted at getting the critics of government. The problem with security reports is that they cannot pass muster if put to test. This submission may be sacrilege under a government which now perceives everybody as opposition for disagreeing with it. For Nigerians to believe the government’s claim of the plot to overthrow it, its security agents must produce proof of the plotters’ meeting. In this age and time, it is not enough to say that people are planning to bring down the government, there must be evidence to back up such claims. Until that is done, all claims of a plot to topple the government will remain just that. As a country, we have gone past the stage where the government will just wake up one day and accuse undisclosed politicians and clergymen of fanning embers of a coup without giving details of the plot. A security agent is not more patriotic than other Nigerians because he is a military or paramilitary personnel. Uniforms do not patriotism make. Our loyalty to the nation is the mark of our patriotism. We do not need a uniform to do that.  This is not to say that our fellow Nigerians in uniforms are not doing a great job. Many of them are, but that do not make them more patriotic than their civilian counterparts.    They came in the dark of night. They were not even afraid. They breached Aso Villa’s security to rob the quarters of the President’s Chief of Staff (CoS), Prof Ibrahim Gambari, and the State House administrative officer, Abubakar Maikano. They went away with valuables. The attacks show that we are indeed, in unusual times. If hoodlums could invade the Villa twice, where then is safe in the country? What happened was a failure of security and it is shameful. By the way, is security not supposed to be at the top of this administration’s programmes? This is what the government should be working on and not fighting some phantom coup plotters. 