The Secretary, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the Ndokwa Neku Union (NNU), Chief Henry Okechukwu, has hailed a group, the Oluku Ndokwa Envoy aka Organised Ndokwa Efforts, on its outcry over the plight of Ndokwa nation, which he described as the second largest  homogenous entity in Delta State. This was sequel to the efforts Chief Okechukwu said the group has been making to change the ugly narratives of Ndokwa people in the state and country,  the latest being a published advertorial (open letter to the President) on page 7 of the Vanguard newspaper of May 23, 2021, headlined: “Urgent Need to Act on Ndokwa’s Case.” Okechukwu, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who made this known in a statement in Asaba, the Delta State capital, said the Oluku Ndokwa envoy spoke the mind of Ndokwa nation in the advertorial, stating the fate of the people of Ndokwa land in the Nigerian federation. He said the time has come for the government at the state and federal levels to give the Ndokwa people their dues and stop the deliberate marginalisation against the peace loving and hardworking people. Okechukwu said on several occasions, NNU lamented Ndokwa’s fate in Delta State and Nigeria and cried out to the authorities. He said: “Forces outside our control have continued to conspire to diminish our call for equity and justice in Nigeria.” Okechukwu, a communications expert, stressed: “We hail the sons and daughters of Oluku Ndokwa Envoys-Initiative, who have decided to once more echo our cries on the grave injustices our people have endured. We are happy about the comprehensive and qualitative nature of the advert, which was evidence-based. “What equally gladdens our hearts is the language used by our sons. They neither insulted the government, President Muhammadu Buhari, nor other leaders. They did not also quarrel with or display animosity against our neighbours – the Urhobo, Isoko, Itsekiri and Ijaw – who have been the beneficiaries of good patronage that are common to all of us. nother. “We prevail on them, once again, to give peace a chance, in line with the age long stance of Ndokwa people.”