Asisat Oshoala’s Barcelona have completed a treble having defeated Levante 4-2 in Sunday’s Copa de la Reina final. The Blaugranes had won the Uefa Women’s Champions and Primera Division diadem for a record sixth time earlier this season. Against the Granores, Lluis Cortes’ women put up a sublime display to tear apart their opponent at the Estadio Municipal de Butarque. Patricia Guijarro gave Barcelona a fifth-minute lead after heading a well-taken corner kick from Netherlands midfielder Lieke Martens past goalkeeper Maria Lopez. Cortes’ side doubled their lead in the 20th minute as Alexia Putellas flicked the ball past onrushing Lopez. Again, it was Martens who supplied the assist. In the goal-laden first half, the reigning European champions increased their lead nine minutes later through another header – Martens completed her treble of assists when she set up Marta Torrejon. In the second half, Levante stepped up their game to pull one goal back a minute to the hour mark as Alba Redondo rolled the ball inside the net after capitalising on a mix-up between goalkeeper Catalina Lluch and one of her defenders. Fuelled by that strike, the Granores continued their push for more goals and that paid off in the 67th minute when Argentine midfielder Estefania Banini drilled home a sumptuous strike following a poor clearance in Barca’s goal area. Six minutes later, Putellas completed her brace to put the game beyond Levante’s reach. After dispossessing Claudia Sanchez, the midfielder wasted no chance in putting the ball beyond the opposing goalkeeper. Even at the introduction of Nigeria international Francisca Ordega in the 85th minute, that could not help Maria Pry’s team to launch a late comeback. For reigning African Women’s Player of the Year Oshoala, she was an unused substitute in the encounter that produced six goals. Following her side’s 4-0 defeat of Chelsea at the Gamla Ullevi, Gothenburg, the 26-year-old became the first Nigerian as well as the first African to win the Uefa Women’s Champions League. In a recent interview, she hoped her European triumph would inspire other young girls in Africa to chase their dreams. “It was very important not to make the mistakes of the past [the 4-1 loss to Lyon] but to learn from it,” Oshoala told BBC Sport Africa. “I can only thank God who has made everything possible through sheer hard work, by playing alongside this incredibly talented group that creates a lovely family atmosphere. “It is a great feeling and I can’t really put my emotions into words because it has been a tough journey to get here. “I hope this will continue to inspire other young girls in Africa and motivate everyone around the world that you can achieve whatever you put your mind to and work hard for it.” Goal