A mother of four children, Mrs. Uchechi Kalu, a native of Ohafi in Ohafi Local Government Area of Abia State has cried out for help to save her son now in hospital and waiting to undergo medical surgery after a banditry attack in Abuja. Uchechi Kalu, a widow, said her son, Gideon Kalu (21) is now struggling between life and death at Alliance Hospital at Area Eleven Garki, Abuja after their house at Lugbe was attacked by armed hoodlums numbering over 10. “We were sleeping at about 1 am when these hoodlums scaled the fence of our building to attack us.” Narrating her experience to The Nation, Mrs. Kalu said on getting into their flat the bandits asked all of them to surrender handsets. Unfortunately when the son demanded his SIM card one of the armed bandits pulled out his knife and cut the stomach of my son open. Describing the incident which happened on April 28 as a horror film, she said the son was covered in a pool of his blood. According to her the hoodlums were going from house to house in the estate also robbing people violently. “So they scaled the fence to enter our building which is just close to the road. They have this equipment which they used to open our iron door. “When they entered they demanded our handsets first. When they collected my son’s handset, he pleaded to them to allow him to collect his sim card because of the NIN registration. It was at this point that one of them raised his knife high and cut the stomach of the boy open. “They raided several houses in the estate and collected all our valuables, nobody came to our rescue until the bandits operated for several hours and left,” she said, adding that they go through that every day in the area. Mrs. Kalu, who said she came to the East to solicit for help, however, appealed for assistance from spirited Nigerians to offset the hospital bill which she estimated at N600,000. “The hospital bill is N6000,000. The doctors said that the knife might have been poisoned and as such requires urgent surgery. I am a widow, but I have managed to pay N200,000 and I need assistance from spirited Nigerians, to offset the remaining amount,” she added.