 The list of finalists for the 2021 ten outstanding Young Persons (TOYP) Award of the Junior Chamber International (JCI) Nigeria has been released by the local planning committee. Speaking on the list of the finalists, chairperson, 2021 JCI Nigeria TOYP Award Planning Committee, Oluwakemi Irinoye, said the finalists were selected by the award panel of Judges out of the shortlisted 50 from the initial total of 1027 entries received for the 2021 edition of the global award. “The process of determining the final honourees is rigorous because of the commitment of JCI Nigeria to sustain the integrity of the TOYP Award. “Some of the successful nominees also stood a chance of emerging as honorees at the global JCI TOYP event in Johannesburg, South Africa in November 2021,” she said. Irinoye noted the finalists would now go into the voting phase by the general public for honours in the 10 categories of the award. According to the list, Olumide Adeleye and Mariam Akpaokagi were shortlisted in the Cultural Achievement category; the trio of Samirah Isa Modibbo, Zuriel Oduwole and Gideon Olanrewaju were shortlisted for the Contribution to Children, World Peace and Human Right category while Alexander Ezenagu was the only nominee for the Academic Accomplishment category. For the Business, Economic or Entrepreneurial Accomplishment, Uche Eze will contend with Abiodun Adereni and Sijibomi Ogundele. Omotola Fawunmi, Arinze Madueke and Amina Yahaya will vie for honour in the Humanitarian and Voluntary Leadership while Adereti Francis, Olivia Onyemaobi and Osahon Micheal will contest in the Medical Innovation category. In the moral and environmental leadership category, Olalekan Sipasi, Kelo Uchendu and Olufunto Boroffice will compete. Nigeria’s female football superstar, Asisat Oshoala is up against her fellow teammate Desire Oparanozie and Eyitayo Ogunmola in the Personal Achievement category while Hamzat Bala Lawal, Joana Nnazua Kolo and Ayotunde Adenuga are the finalists in the Political, Legal and Government. In the scientific and/ or technical development, Amanda Obidike, Shola Akinlade and Oreoluwa Shomolu Lesi will battle for honour.