There was uproar on Sunday over the killing of the Adamawa State politician and former President Goodluck Jonathan’s Political Adviser, Ahmed Gulak. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain was shot by gunmen in Owerri, the capital of Imo State. In Oyo State, a businessman, Madubuchi Onwuamanam, was also shot dead by gunmen. According to an eyewitness, Gulak was shot dead about 06:30am at Amaekwemgba Junction,  Umueze Ezemba Community, a stone throw from the airport. The eyewitness said:  “I heard that a man was shot dead about 06:30am by gunmen at Amaekwemgba Junction,  Umueze Ezemba Community, a few poles to the airport.” The deceased was reportedly accosted while driving from Enyiogugu Mbaise area towards the airport before his assailants blocked him and shot him twice in the head. He died on the spot. A source said the assailant, who asked Gulak to handover his Sienna car key to them, shot him because he refused. The source said the gunmen, who were in military camouflage, abandoned the victim and his car and fled when the gunshots alarmed the people. The police spokesman, Bala Elkana, who confirmed the incident, said armed bandits intercepted and attacked a Toyota Camry cab carrying Gulak and two others, on their way to Sam Mbakwe Airport to catch a flight about 07:20hours He said : “On May 30, 2021, about 07:20hrs, bandits intercepted and attacked a Toyota Camry cab carrying Ahmed Gulak and two others who were on their way to Sam Mbakwe Airport to catch a flight. “Ahmed Gulak left his room at Protea Hotel without informing the Police or sister agencies, in view of the fragile security situation in the Southeast and Imo in particular. He left without any security escorts and while the cab driver took irregular route to the airport, six armed bandits who rode in a Toyota Sienna intercepted, identified and shot at Ahmed Gulak at around Umueze Obiangwu in Ngor-Okpala Local Government Area, close to the Airport. The Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, who has ordered investigation into the matter deployed Tactical and Special team to cordone the area and arrest the perpetrators.” Last night, Yaro said operatives killed the suspected killers of Gulak. A statement by the command’s spokesperson, Bala Elkana, said three AK-47 Rifles, one pistol, five AK-47 magazines and 92 rounds of live ammunition, vehicles and charms were recovered from the slain suspects. He said operatives overpowered the gunmen during a duel. Elkana said the “vivid” description of the assailants by Gulak’s driver led to their identification. “Having established the identity of the assailants and the description of the vehicles used in carrying out the attack, the teams further got details of the direction the hoodlums have taken. “With further leads, the team was able to establish the location of suspects. The suspects were rounded up at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area. “The hoodlums were met distributing onions to locals from a trailer they confiscated. The trailer was loaded with Onions from the Northern region of Nigeria. “On sighting the Police, the hoodlums providing security coverage to those sharing the onions opened fire on the Police teams. The gallant and battle-ready police officers swiftly returned the fire. “The six hoodlums who carried out the killings and four other members of their gang were fatally injured. Three out of the four vehicles used in attacking Gulak were recovered.” Yesterday, Imo State Governor Hope Uzodimma’s Media Adviser Oguwike Nwachukwu clarified that Gulak was not a guest of the governor. He said: “I am not aware his visit was in the manifest. That he stops to greet the governor does not make him a guest of the governor.” President Muhammadu Buhari, Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, his Ebonyi counterpart, Dave Umahi, Southeast Caucus of the National Assembly, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Northern and Southern youths expressed outrage over the killings in the country. The President, who sympathised with the family, associates and the government and people of Adamawa State, vowed to use all available resources to track down those behind the killings and destruction in the Southeast region. Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, expressed disgust over what he called “the heinous murder of Adamawa politician yet to be identified gunmen.” The President added: “I’m repulsed by such premeditated and gruesome murder of Gulak by evil people who are determined to undermine the peace, unity and territorial integrity of our country. “Let me warn however, that nobody or group of people who engages in such despicable acts should expect to go free. We will deploy all resources at our disposal to ensure that such callous and criminal elements are brought to justice.” Akeredolu described Gulak’s murder as very shocking, disturbing and unacceptable. The governor, in a statement, said the murder was senseless and wicked, adding that the perpetrators were enemies of Nigeria out  to mislead, confuse and destroy. He said: “It bears the unmistakable, despicable imprints of fifth columnists bent on setting the country on the path of conflagration. These criminals must not be allowed to succeed. “We want to use this medium to express our solidarity with our brother Governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodimma. We admonish him and other governors in the South Eastern States to brace up, and confront the current security challenge to put an end to the bloodbath in the land.The enemies of the people always employ the weapon of fear to create disaffection in the polity.” Akeredolu added: “This cowardly act is calculated to instigate Nigerians against each other, particularly Northerners against the Igbo living outside the Southeast. We must confront the enemies of the people with a view to neutralising them. This is definitely not the time for political correctness. Banditry should not be allowed to subvert the legitimacy of the current government at all levels. “We call on all security agencies to collaborate, with a view to unveiling the criminal elements sponsoring and undertaking terrorist acts. They must be punished, severely.” The Chairman, South East Governors’ Forum and Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi,  condemned the killing of  the former Speaker of Adamawa State House of Assembly, describing it as a national catastrophe. He said in a statement by his media aide, Nwaze Francis, that security agencies should unravel the perpetrators and prosecute them . Umahi said: “It is with rude shock that we received the news of the unfortunate death of Alhaji Ahmed Gulak in the hands of the senseless unknown gunmen. “We, on-behalf of the people of South East Condemn the act highly and we charge Security Agencies to immediately deploy their officers and men to arrest the perpetrators and make them to face justice, we, however, pray to God to grant the deceased rest in eternity” The Coalition of South East Youth Leaders (COSEYL), led by Goodluck Ibem, condemned the assassination, saying it was callous, wicked and barbaric. Ibem said in a statement: “This is wicked and barbaric in all sense of the word. The assassination of Gulak must be the handiwork of anti-democratic forces. Gulak was a renowned gentleman who believed in the tenets of democracy and the Nigerian project. It is very disheartening to hear of his passing at a time his wealth of knowledge and experience is needed to move the country forward. “We call for a full scale thorough investigation and we demand that no stone should be left unturned until those who assassinated Gulak and their sponsors are arrested and brought to justice. “We call on all security agencies to reactivate their intelligence units to be alive and a rejigging of the country’s security architecture to be active and proactive. Security remains paramount, if we must move forward as a nation”. The Northern Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN)  urged Uzodimma to bring the killers to justice. The youths threatened to declare the governor persona non grata in the North, unless the perpetrators are apprehended.  NYCN National President Isah Abubakar said: “It’s so pathetic and saddened the continuous killing and lawlessness going on in the South Eastern part of Nigeria. The government of Imo State must give an account of those who killed Gulak. The continuous killing of Northern and destruction of security facilities in Imo State will no longer be tolerated”. The Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) denied any involvement in the killing. The group, in a statement by its Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, described as untenable and diversionary the allegation by security agencies. IPOB said that the assassination of politicians was not part of its agenda, insisting that “we are only after the restoration of Biafra.” While condoling with the deceased’s family, the group urged intelligence agencies to leave IPOB out of their ‘messy incompetence’. It also urged the presidency to set up a panel of inquiry to investigate the incident and expose those behind the killing. Powerful said: “The attention of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), ably led by Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has been drawn to the untenable allegation by the security agencies that IPOB was responsible for the assassination of former aide to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, Ahmed Gulak, on his way to Sam Mbakwe Airport, Owerri Imo State. “We therefore, state without equivocation that IPOB knows nothing about the said assassination. In the first place, what threat did the late Gulak constitute to our cause to warrant his elimination? We had nothing in common with him and could not have in any way killed him. “Pointing accusing fingers at IPOB for this barbaric act is only meant to divert attention away from the real masterminds. This is the same way terrorists in security uniform commit various atrocities in Southeast and turn around to blame IPOB for their crimes to tarnish our global reputation.” Members of the Southeast Caucus in the National Assembly expressed concern over the spate of killings and attacks in the region. They also condemned the attacks on police formations, assets of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), courts and correctional service centres. The lawmakers, in a statement in Abuja, called on the Inspector General of Police, Alkali Baba Usman, to unravel the perpetrators and their sponsors. They also called on security agencies to exercise restraint as they carry out their operations aimed at restoring normalcy. Lawmakers who signed the statement included Senators Ike Ekweremadu (Enugu State), Enyinnaya Abaribe (Abia State), Sam Egwu (Ebonyi State), Frank Ibezim (Imo State) and Stella Odua (Anambra State). Others are Toby Okechukwu (Enugu State), Nkiruka Onyejiocha (Abia State), Lynda Chuba Ikpeazu (Anambra State), Jerry Alagboso (Imo State) and Sylvester Ogbaga (Ebonyi State). The caucus said: “We are worried over recent developments in the Southeast, which have thrown the zone into violence and confusion. “Igbos are not known to kill or waste lives. Igbos are not known for this unfortunate violent disposition, no matter the provocation. “We note the increasing agitation for restructuring of Nigeria and increasing separatist agitations across the country due to perceived and real issues of marginalisation. “We urge the Inspector General of Police to unravel the actual identities of these unknown gunmen determined to create a state of anarchy in the Southeast.” The PDP bemoaned the spate of killings, abductions and violent attacks on innocent Nigerians by criminal elements in different parts of the country. In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the opposition party blamed the ruling APC for the escalated tension, indignation, violence, mass killing, kidnapping, terrorism and banditry ravaging various parts of the country. Suspected armed herdsmen yesterday attacked some Ebonyi communities, killing 30 persons. The gunmen attacked Odoke, Ndiobasi and Obakotara in Ebonyi local government area. Sources said the gunmen stormed the three communities around 3am. The communities share boundary with Ado local government area of Benue State. A resident, Uchenna Okpokwu, said the herdsmen invaded the area with guns and machetes. He said: “They came into Ndiobasi  village and started slaughtering the people. After slaughtering them, they entered Odoke. From that Odoke, they went to Obapta. “Currently, people slaughtered in Ndiobasi were up to 30, according to the video clips on the incident but Odoke and Obapta are very far and nobody was able to enter those two villages to capture those that were killed”. “When I received a call from one of the villagers over the attack, he told me that the herdsmen were at Ojaba forest and that place is their hideout because there is no other way for them to escape. “I was told our local government chairman went with some security men, but couldn’t get to the affected villages. If there is a way security agents will be sent to the affected villages, it will be good”. Another resident, Onyibe Jeremiah, lamented that no action was taken to protect the communities, despite earlier warnings about an impending attacks. Hé said: “One young man from Enugu State that saw the herdsmen when they were coming into the Ebonyi villages made the voice call that went viral to alert the state, but it appears that it was ignored, which was why these attacks were recorded, despite the alert. “Nobody took that voice serious and the herdsmen came and killed not less than 30 people now. They are currently attacking more villages” The Ananda Marga Universal Relief Team (AMURT) confirmed that two children were killed on their way to the hospital for treatment. “Terrible scenes at Ohagelode Health Center this morning. An attack on an Izzi village inside Benue State, allegedly by herdsmen, resulted in many casualties. “Many were carried all the way to Ohagelode Health Center. The Uloanwu Ambulance was called and eleven 11 person’s,  six adults and five children, were transported to Aefutha in Abakaliki. In a ststement AMURT said: “Sadly, two children already died after reaching Aefutha.  An AMURT team of doctors, lead by Dr. Omogo, the MD of AMURT, has rushed to Ohagelode.  We are trying to support the wounded carried to AEFUTHA, the statement by AMURT West Africa”. The chairman of Ebonyi local government, Chinyere Nwaogbaga confirmed the incident. She said she participated in the efforts to evacuate many residents from the area to hospital. “The communities are Izzi (a clan in Ebonyi) speaking communities. But, they are geographically located in Benue. Since they are indigenes of Ebonyi, though located in Benue, the governor directed we go and bring them to hospital and treat them and also give them relive materials”. Nwaogbaga said more buses have been sent to the area by the local government, the Speaker of Ebonyi House of Assembly and the state government to evacuate more victims. Police spokesperson Loveth Odah confirmed the incident. She however, said the affected communities were located in neighbouring Benue State. The Chairman of Ado Local Government council, James Oche, who confirmed the attack on five communities in Ekile Council ward, said 12 persons were killed during the attack. He explained that the killers were on reprisal attack after suspected IPOB members crossed from Ebonyi to Benue and killed an elderly Fulani man identified as Muhammad Isah, who lived with his 23 children in one of the communities that was under attack. He said: “I suspect that the herders came on reprisal attack because of one elderly Fulani man known as Isah Muhammad who lived in one of the affected communities that shared boundary with Ohakwu local government area of Ebonyi State and was recently killed by IPOB members who crossed over to the community in Ado. The IPOB members killed the Fulani man in anger that their people were being killed in the north. Also, armed herdsmen killed a pregnant woman in Abebe village, Agaza District of Keana Local Government Area of Nasarawa state. Abebe, where the leader of the Tiv people of Nasarawa State and President Tiv Development Association (TIDA), Comrade Peter Ahemba, hails from, was attacked at the weekend, leading to the displacement of inhabitants. The gunmen, who were said to be armed with sophisticated weapons, opened fire on the villagers and caused pandemonium, with the people scampering for safety. Ahemba alleged that the attacks and killing of Tiv people of Nasarawa State in the last two months were designed to chase them out of the state. He appealed to the governor, Abdullahi Sule, not to allow the planned annihilation of the Tiv people succeed under his watch. He condemned the killings, urging the ethnic nationalities habouring grievances against the Tiv people to ventilate their them through civilized means. The Tiv leader alleged that the Abebe village has been under threat of attack by some farmers of Alago extraction from Obi town in Obi Local Government Area. He alleged that efforts were being made  to forcefully take over hectares of farmland belonging to the Tiv farmers. He added: “There was another threat a few days ago by these same Alago farmers, that the people of Abebe village will be taught a bitter lesson for resisting to surrunder the said hectres of farmland to them, and few days after the threat, the latest attack has been carried out.”