Residents of Magingi community in Dong quarters of Jos North LGA Plateau State where eight persons were hacked to death last Sunday by suspected herdsmen have cried out they feel so unsafe. They appealed to Governor Simon Lalong and security forces to save them from further attacks. Mr. Charles Okoro, who spoke on behalf of the Magingi community that stormed the Plateau State NUJ Secretariat on Wednesday, told reporters residents were being forced to relocate to unknown places due to increase in banditry. According to him: “Our community is under confrontation between herders and farmers. They started shooting sporadically and we started running helter shelter for our dear lives. “So now we have to come out en-masse to call on Government to come to our rescue as our lives are no longer safe from the hands of herdsmen that have been consistently terrorising us without the presence of security agents. “Since the attacks started, we have been calling on the security agents to come to our rescue but the only time they came was with some Hilux vans but within five minutes they zoomed off, leaving us to our fate.” He added: “There is no permanent security there that can protect the lives and properties of the people. Presently between yesterday and day before yesterday houses were bubble and properties were looted. “So, as it is now we’re been asked to live our community, to live our houses and not to come back immediately for the fear of being attacked either by the herdsmen or farmers. “They asked us to live our homes and that is why we are calling on the government to please come to our aids. “They however appealed to the State Government to send security agents to come over and mediate between the farmers and herdsmen who have been at each other’s throat for long at in the area. “Now, we are the victim of the circumstances. We are neither farmers nor herders. We are just traders and civil servants residing in that community. “Most of us are Igbos and Yorubas and most of us are from other states and if our lives are as stake which we cannot be protected and secure in this very state (Plateau state), we are pleading on Government to please give us security who can escort us to go and park our properties and go to our various states since our lives are not secured here.”