 The 60 Plus Advocacy Initiative (60PAI), a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that prides itself as the voice of the elderly people in Nigeria, has advised  senior citizens to consider enrolling in health insurance scheme, especially the one floated by the Lagos State. If the elderly have health insurance in place, it will ease the burden of accessing healthcare for them during advanced stages of life when age-induced health challenges often become inevitable. This was the message the NGO passed to the elderly during an outreach, at the Isolo General Hospital, Lagos, on Tuesday. The evnet was organised, in conjunction with the Lagos State Health Management Agency (LASHMA). Bothered by the plight of senior citizens, which the NGO said are often neglected in Nigeria, 60PAI was formed recently by a group of prominent elderly Nigerians to serve as a non-profit, non-religious and non-partisan NGO with the aim of being the voice for the elderly. According to Dr Biola Muhammed, one of the leaders of the NGO, those behind 60PAI are men and women whose accomplishments in their chosen professions reverberate across different sectors of the economy. To achieve its objectives, the NGO embarks on advocacy campaigns about benefits of good nutrition for people above 60 years and holds lectures on challenges of old age and how the elderly can receive care and navigate the trouble moments that usually accompany old age – all with a view to helping senior citizens are expected to enjoy a new lease of life. Besides advocating for social justice and quality living for the elderly, Muhammed said 60PAI promotes the collective interest of senior citizens rights in Nigeria by creating public awareness on issues that can improve the quality of living for senior citizens. It also gives support to the senior citizens to make their voices heard especially when and where they can’t speak up for themselves. Also, it teaches the people to recognise and respect the rights of the older persons, campaign against discriminations and abuse of the senior citizens on grounds of age. Addressing participants, the General Manager of LASHMA, Dr. Emmanuella Zamba, who was represented by the agency’s Sales Manager, Uchechukwu Igweonyia, said the overall goal of the state health insurance scheme is to ensure all residents of Lagos have unhindered access to quality healthcare services in an efficient, sustainable, and equitable manner. The LASHMA boss, who enjoined senior citizens not to see old age as a death sentence, reiterated that the idea behind the state’s health insurance is to leave no one behind as Lagos strives to achieve universal health coverage. Educating the elderly about benefits accruable from having access to quality health through health insurance, she explained that the state government has demonstrated its commitment towards achieving universal health by subsidising the packages and make them affordable for all. A family of six with children below 18 will pay N40,000; while an individual will pay N8,500 yearly, she explained, adding that enrollees have the option to choose from an array of health facilities, including public and private hospitals. “Keying into health insurance is not because you are sick; it is because you want to have a quality life with your family. We are offering the most affordable benefit package there is in Lagos because we want all the masses to key into it. Health insurance should not be just for the wealthy; it should be for everybody, including those at the grassroots.”