Twenty-year-old Grace Nwokocha has established herself as Nigeria’s current queen of the track after she dusted established athletes to claim the 100m and 200m at the 20th National Sports Festival Edo 2020 to secure her spots at Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. The sprinter shares her rise to stardom with OLALEKAN OKUSAN.  Born into a sporting family, it was not difficult for Grace Nwokocha to embrace sports early in life and today she is Nigeria’s best sprinter in 100m and 200m but the journey to the top is better told by the 20-year-old star. “I have always loved sports right from my childhood,” she said.“ It is a family thing; my dad was a  footballer. “But I just loved running from my early life and this was what fired my interest in athletics.  “My interest actually started from nursery school and continued through secondary school and I can say it has become something everyone in my family is appreciating today.” She continued: “My parents supported me morally and financially because they actually loved sports and also practiced it when they were young and they saw the benefits of one getting involved in sporting activities.” The Tokyo Olympics-bound athlete admitted that funding remained a major hurdle for athletes like her. “My greatest challenge as an athlete is finance and secondly, participating in competitions. Every athlete needs money to train and take good care of their health. “ We also need to participate in as many competition as possible. We need to go out there and put in what we have been practicing into use to see whether it will get one good results.” Following in the footstep of her role model, Jamaican Eliam Thompson, Nwokocha believes she still has a lot to achieve in athletics. “My dream and aspiration as an athlete is for me to do better and better as the years go by,” she further explained.“ I will love to go for the African record. “Dominating the sprint event in Nigeria was not something I expected but with time I saw it coming because at first I was not at that stage of my performance but all the training put together helped me to be where I am today. I thank God for that and I still hope and wish I will keep dominating and keep doing better for Nigeria. “My target for the Tokyo Olympic Games, is to do better than what I have been doing by improving my time in the 100m and 200m. I hope to be at the final of each event and by God’s grace I want to return home with a medal especially in the 4x100m. That is my wish in Tokyo. “I want to put in my best in Tokyo by making my country proud in both events, 100m and 200m. I believe that when I make it to the final, it will please God that I will win a medal for Nigeria,” she enthused. The 2019 African junior bronze medalist described the 20th  National Sports Festival as a defining  moment in her career. “My experience at Edo 2020 was not that bad as everything went well though I had a lot of challenges with my entries ;it was an exciting moment that would continue to inspire me to work harder,” she explained.