  Fears are rife in the Southeast and parts of the South-south region that the sit-at-home order issued by the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IOPB), Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, to celebrate the annual Biafra Remembrance Day may be marred by violence and bloody clashes. The remembrance holds on May 30 every year, but this year’s celebration, which falls on a Sunday, has been rescheduled to Monday, May 31, apparently to show that the directive of the fugitive IPOB leader is obeyed. But IPOB said the change in date was meant to avoid any conflict with Christian worshippers. Nnamdi Kanu, in a video that went viral on social media, had warned that May 31 should be observed as sit-at-home across all Igbo speaking areas He further warned that anybody who tried to tempt IPOB by going out on the said date would have himself or herself to blame. The directive is causing palpable tension across the Southeast and parts of the South-south like Rivers, Delta and Akwa Ibom where IPOB has violently been announcing its presence. IPOB is suspected to be responsible for violent attacks on security operatives, security posts, INEC offices and several other government establishments across the region and parts of the South-south. A chieftain of a faction of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, expressed concern about the plan to shift the celebration to Monday, warning that the move could worsen the fragile economic situation in the region. In Anambra State, residents say they are ready for the sit-at-home order. As a result, traders, schools, transporters and artisans have engaged in panic buying of food items in the state. Newspaper vendors, artisans and market women, told The Nation that they would heed the directive because nobody would want to lose his or her life A trader at Eke -Awka Market, Mrs Ebele Okafor, told The Nation that life has no duplicate, while Ijeoma Okuani, who has a cosmetics shop at the popular Aroma, said she had stocked her house with food items despite the hard economic conditions in the country. Also, a tricycle operator in the state, Uzoma Osuoha, who hails from Imo State, said he would not like to risk his life, adding that he had already given his wife money to buy things. When our reporter visited Oye Market in Nibo, Awka South Local Government Area of the state, the crowd was unprecedented. The banks in the state were not left out. One of the workers of a new generation bank, who pleaded anonymity, said a circular had come from their headquarters for them not to work. According to the employee, “these IPOB people are not helping Ndigbo. Instead of protecting the lives of their people, they are killing them. Is that how they will rule? The state’s police command says there’s no cause for alarm, as its duty is to protect the lives and property of the citizenry. Speaking with The Nation in Awka, the command’s Public Relations’ Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, said they don’t deal with speculation, adding that the days being mentioned were like any other day to the police He said the command had prepared itself ahead of time to make sure that residents of the state were well secured, including their property. “We don’t have any specific date in mind for securing the lives and property of citizens. The command is equal to any task,” Tochukwu said. Past attacks haunt Imo residents Imo State has been the hot spot of the crisis allegedly caused by IPOB in recent times. The state governor, Senator Hope Uzodinma’s residence was recently attacked in one of the violence linked to the proscribed group. Three operatives, including an officer of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and a policeman attached to the building, were killed during the attack. Before then, the police headquarters in Owerri, two court buildings, an army checkpoint, two council secretariats and a correctional centre from which gunmen reportedly freed 1,884 inmates, had been attacked and razed. A recent raid on the headquarters of the Eastern Security Network (ESN) in the state, which led to the killing of the Deputy Commander of the group, identified as Ikonso, and six other members has heightened fears in the minds of the people, especially as aggrieved leadership of the ESN has vowed to pay the state governor back in its own coins for allegedly masterminding the murder of Ikonso. “Hope Uzodinma and all those who had a hand in this wickedness will pay dearly. For murdering Ikonso, the ESN unit Commander, in cold blood, Uzodima has stirred the hornet’s nest! He should get ready for a sting,” the group threatened in a statement after the murder of Ikonso.  Many people in the state are fear-stricken that IPOB may be waiting for the Biafra Remembrance Day celebration to carry out its threat. A trader at Ekeukwu Market, Owerri, Dorathy Chinkwe, said: “I will not come to the market to open our shop on that day, because I don’t want to be killed by stray bullets. If I want to die, let me die at home peacefully.” A petrol station attendant along Aba-Owerri Road, who gave her name simply as Joy, told our correspondent in Owerri that she had cancelled all engagements. “Though I don’t have money to buy foodstuff, I have cancelled going out because of the situation in the state and the country in general. “They said we should not come out tomorrow (Sunday). “There are killings here and there and you expect us to come out when those that are killing people are asking us to stay at home? “If you don’t obey and come out and something happens, people will blame you. So, for me, I don’t think I’m going anywhere.” A sales representative with a mobile telecommunication company in Owerri, Maureen Duru, said: “We are just being security conscious. We will not call it panic buying. We are buying to keep food at home because of security problems. That day, if people are not going out, we will sit at home. We have to obey. But once people are going out, we will also go out.” Uche Udenmadu, a businessman, said he is not into panic buying because there is nothing to panic about. “As far as I am concerned, I don’t think there is a need for panic buying. Moreover, the government has assured us that we should go about our normal businesses as they are there to protect us. That’s the assurance that is very important to all indigenes in the state.” Anxiety mounts in Enugu Palpable apprehension pervades the atmosphere in Enugu State over the May 31 sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and the Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) to mark Biafra Day. The two groups and some other pro-Biafran groups had earlier scheduled the sit-at-home protest for Sunday, May 30 in commemoration of Biafra Day, It also said that while there would be a partial observation of the Biafra Day on Sunday, there would be a total lockdown on Monday throughout the entire Biafra land.  Our correspondent observed what seems like a reaction to that with increased presence of security personnel at strategic places within the metropolis, especially at the three-arms zone housing the Government House; 82 Division of the Nigerian Army headquarters and state police headquarters and even the 103 Battalion of Nigerian Army, Enugu. Our correspondent, who monitored the mood of the people within the metropolis, discovered that many parents may have decided not to allow their wards to go to school on that day. It was gathered that while some churches in Enugu had announced to the management of all their schools to shut the schools on Monday so as to avoid any sad news, private schools authorities have announced to their pupils that Monday would be a free day and urged them to remain in their homes. The Nation also learned that because of the outcome of the sit-at-home, a couple who had scheduled to have their traditional wedding on Sunday had shifted the ceremony to a later date. Speaking with The Nation on Thursday, most residents of Enugu metropolis said the would-be clash between security operatives and pro-Biafra groups would be enough to force them to comply with the sit-at-home order. A resident who gave his name as Chinedu Ezeilo said: “I learned some of the groups would rally on that day. That is enough for me to remain indoors. Because if there’s any issue, the police will begin to arrest innocent citizens and you know what that means.” When our correspondent visited some of the markets within the metropolis, such as Ogbete, New Market, Kenyata and Mayor, some people were making panic purchases of their household requirements, while traders were optimistic that others would make their last ditch purchases on Friday. It is not clear if the various markets would lock up in obedience to the IPOB sit-at-home order. But a market leader in one of the markets in Enugu, who did not want his name in print, said: “We are going to open our markets and traders should open their shops for business. There is no way the IPOB will force us to close our businesses because they are celebrating their anniversary.” A trader, Uche Omeogo, and a tricycle operator, Ede Nwachukwu, said they would not come out that day for fear of the unknown. According to Uche who relocated to Enugu from Anambra State, past experience had taught him bitter lessons where some hoodlums seized the opportunity to loot and attack people who opened their shops for business. Nwachukwu however said: “I’m going to obey the sit-at-home order; I’m not going to bring my Keke out on that day because I am a Biafran. We need the world to know that we are serious in our Biafran agitation.” Abia residents buy into directive Residents of Aba, the commercial nerve centre of Abia State, and Umuahia, the state capital, have expressed readiness to participate in the Monday, May 30 sit-at-home call by both the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), Movement for the Actualization of Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB) and other pro-Biafra groups. Our correspondent who spoke with some residents of Umuahia and Aba reports that residents of the two major cities were in high spirits as they unanimously agreed that there won’t be a better way to honour Biafran heroes and to also send strong signal to the federal government over the continued marginalization of the people of the region they claimed have been sidelined in the scheme of things. While trading and other economic activities were going on smoothly in various markets in Aba and Umuahia, traders in several markets visited said that though they were yet to be officially communicated if the markets would open for business, they were committed to ensuring that even if closing their shops was the only thing that they would do to ensure that the sit-at-home was successful, they were ready to close their shops and sit-at-home on Monday.  Some of the staffers of various financial institutions in the state said that they were yet to get a memo from their head offices in Lagos to determine whether they are going to work on Monday or not. “While we await directives from our office in Lagos, in the past years, what we do is to attend to some of our big customers unoffi cially. “Monday is usually a hectic day for us because of the weekend business activities. If the sit-at-home works on Monday, it means that we are going to have a work load on Tuesday.” Meanwhile, information from the security circles has it that efforts were ongoing to ensure that the safety of citizens and visitors to the state were secured. The state government is yet to release an official statement ahead of the protest, but a source within the government said that the government will ensure that markets and other government and private institutions open for business. Mixed feelings in Rivers Rivers is obviously the hottest state in the parts of the South-south where the activities of IPOB are palpable. IPOB members were allegedly responsible for the murder of security operatives and burning of security posts in parts of the state. The state governor, Nyesom Wike, subsequently banned IPOB activities in the state. A man said to be a leader of IPOB the state was declared wanted by the governor. Wike, in a state-wide broadcast, identified the wanted man as Stanley Mgbere, whom he accused of “leading members of the banned IPOB to cause the recent violence and destruction of lives and property in Oyigbo Local Government Area.” Igbo people in the state have expressed mixed reactions following the sit-at-home order declared by IPOB. While most of them said they were not interested in obeying such a directive, others expressed willingness to comply with the order. Some persons were too afraid to make their positions known on the matter following the ongoing crackdown on members of the organisation in the state. Obiora Joseph, who sells building materials in Port Harcourt, said he would not observe the order because there was no unity among the Igbo to actualise the Independence of Biafra. Joseph said he expected Igbo leaders, especially governors, to be on the driver’s seat for Biafran agitation, but they were not showing any interest in the project. He said: “Concerning the sit-at-home order by the IPOB, I don’t think I will observe it because I have not seen the unity in this fight for the actualization of Biafra. “If truly we want to get Biafra, the leaders, especially our Eastern governors, the people that are supposed to be at the forefront to push the struggle, they are not doing anything. “So, I don’t see any effect sitting at home will have on us in actualizing the dream of having a Biafra.” But some persons in Oyigbo said they were disposed to obeying the directive declaring the scheduled day for the exercise. One of them, who identified himself simply as Emeka, described it as a yearly ritual saying true Igbo sons and daughters were expected to close their shops and offices in obedience to the directive. “I personally believe in the struggle and we have many people in Oyigbo, who also identify with it. I am a spare parts dealer, but on that day, in obedience to the IPOB directive, I won’t open my shop. I will sit at home throughout that day. Persons who go against this order are saboteurs,” he said.  Asaba residents wary of IPOB sympathisers The recent May 31 stay-at-home order issued by IPOB has received mixed reactions from residents, especially traders in Asaba, Delta State. Past IPOB stay-at-home orders, The Nation gathered, have been obeyed largely in the breach by traders. Although many traders, especially those with businesses in Asaba metropolis, have ignored the order, safe in the belief that the police will repel any retributory attacks on their shops, some in volatile areas are apprehensive. Traders in the suburban Asaba which includes Okwe, Bonsaac and Omeligboma areas, are wary because of the activities of IPOB sympathisers. Omeligboma is a slum area on the outskirts of Asaba and a hotbed of the Movement for the Actualisation of Biafra (MASSOB) and IPOB activities in Delta State. Some traders whose shops are located in that axis have said they would adopt a cautious approach regarding whether to obey the order or not. Other traders at popular Chiedu Oko Plaza, an expansive shopping complex situated along the Asaba-Onitsha expressway but abutting these volatile areas, have voiced concerns about their safety. A plastic water tank seller at the plaza, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said he feared there could be violent clashes and hence would not open. He said: “During the recent #EndSARS protests, many attacks came from that axis with many angry IPOB members destroying public property worth millions of naira. So it is not wise to open business.” Another, a plumbing materials trader, Mazi Obinna Chekwube, said the order was not enforceable in Asaba metropolis due to the presence of law enforcement agents. He said many traders along the popular Nnebisi road, a major artery in Asaba metropolis, would open for business. Asked if there was an urgent need to stockpile food items as a result of the order, Mazi Chekwube said he does not plan to stockpile food items for his family as Ogbogonogbo Market would be open to the public. Also, some commercial bus operators plying the Asaba-Onitsha route said they would watch the situation and decide whether or not to ply the route. The Delta State Police Command said it had mapped out strategies to combat any security challenge arising from the stay-at-home order.  Its spokesperson, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed that the police command had issued a series of directives to divisional police officers to be alert to possible threats. He said Delta State is not IPOB territory and urged the public to go about their legitimate business without fear, stressing that the police were battle ready. He said the police would intensify mobile patrols at flashpoints within and around Asaba metropolis and outlying areas. Count us out of Biafra agitation – Igbo leaders in Akwa Ibom Leader of the Igbo community in Akwa Ibom State,  Eze CYC Umeakuka, told The Nation on the telephone that the Igbo in Akwa Ibom had distanced themselves from IPOB and the group’s secession agenda. Eze Umeakuka described the sit-at-home order by IPOB as illegal, saying that the Igbo in the state had scheduled a meeting for Friday, May 28, 2021 to discuss the reasons why they would not be part of IPOB’s cause. Umeakuka said: ”Igbo in Akwa Ibom are law abiding people, so we would not participate in any illegal  action or behaviour. “Akwa Ibom is a peaceful state and we like the peaceful ambience of the state and its people. We have decided to support Governor Udom Emmanuel in his avowed mission to industrialise the state and make it habitable for everyone. ”In fact, I will convene a meeting of the Igbo in the state for us to rub minds on how to handle this IPOB issue. But one thing I must say is that there are IPOB members I know of in this state.” The three major ethnic groups in the state, namely Ibibio, Annang and Oro, and other minority tribes also said they were not sympathetic to the Biafra agenda and would not be pushed to secede to form a Biafra Republic. Though there have been recent attacks by suspected IPOB and ESN members in communities in the state close to Abia, the people of the communities have maintained that they are not going to be part of Biafra. State Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, said the Police was not aware of any presence of IPOB members in the state. Asked about the sit-at-home order, the CP retorted: ”What do you expect me to tell you? Am I the one that gave the order? Are you not seeing people going about their normal activities? There is nothing like IPOB here. If there is, please let the police know.” State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Comrade Iniobong Ememobong, said Akwa Ibom is not part of Biafra land, hence does not have any space for IPOB. ”IPOB does not have any footing in Akwa Ibom. As a government, we will do anything lawful to stop anything unlawful and anything that threatens the peace and unity of the state and country,” he said. Directive could spell economic doom for our region – Ohanaeze chieftain A chieftain of a faction of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Mazi Okechukwu Isiguzoro, has warned that the sit at home directive could have dire consequences for the economy of the region if the celebration is shifted. He said: “Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide had persuaded Biafra agitators not to add more salt and pepper on injury, not to escalate the traumas and agonies of Ndigbo by paralysing the economic activities on 31st May 2021.  “We are reminding the agitators of the need to abrogate the decision to paralyse economic activities on 31st May 2021, especially now that most Igbo parents are striving for the payment of their children’s school fees. Survival rate is low with the current hardships and with the security situation in the Southeast. “We believe that they will retrace their steps of Monday31st celebration and quietly celebrate Biafra Day on Sunday 30th May 2021 in solitude and worship God with prayers to end the insecurity challenges in the Southeast. “Anyone luring Ndigbo to shut down markets and workplace and encourage them to go on processions and rallies are exposing Ndigbo to untold adversities and sorrow. We can’t continue to sacrifice the blood of innocent people in the name of Biafra.” Isiguzoro further said: “On this note, Ndigbo should go out for their endeavours on 31st May 2021, as there is no way we will continue to hurt ourselves in the name of secession. “In the past, Igbo had lost market administration outside Igboland based on Biafra Day. Destruction of Igbo shops had become the penalties for Igbo traders after Biafra Day. “With the current ban on open grazing, Igbo traders could be exposed to reprisal attacks through harsh government policies against them if they observe Biafra Day.” We’ve never obeyed directive – Ebonyi residents The directive may not hold water in Ebonyi State as the people have claimed ignorance of it. A public affairs commentator, Odoh Ifeanyi, noted that the people of the state were not taking the matter seriously as the state had never complied with the sit-at-home order in the past. “Markets have always been open in the past years when the sit-at-home was declared. So people may not be taking it seriously because it has never worked here,” he said. He also noted that the initial announcement was for Sunday, and since it was usually a work free day people did not take it seriously. The shift in date was only announced this afternoon so many people were yet to be aware of it. A staff of one of the new generation banks, who pleaded anonymity, said there was nothing new in the increased number of customers, pointing out that such is usually the case towards the weekend. “I don’t think this has anything to do with panic buying or anything like that. We usually experience such towards the weekend. “People withdraw money to buy things they will need for the weekend and to carry our other transactions since we will not be opening during the weekend. “In fact the number gets higher on Friday, which is the last day of business,” the source said. A food stuff trader at the International Market Abakaliki, Mrs Chidinma Ogah, complained of poor sales. “Market is not moving at all. I am not aware of what they said and I don’t think people are really aware. Sales have been going on as usual,” they said. At some of the banks visited in the state, there were lots of customers, which was attributed to the approaching weekend. Ignore IPOB’s order, says Imo govt as police assure of safety The Imo State Government urged the people of the state to ignore IPOB’s directive asking people to stay at home. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Hon. Declan Emelumba, who said this in a press briefing, said that Imo people and residents should disregard the messages as they have no consequences whatsoever. Emelumba said: “Let me use this opportunity to make it clear that Imo people should ignore the messages making the rounds in the social media, asking people to stay at home on Saturday, May 29, Sunday May 30 and Monday May 31 respectively. Imo people and residents should disregard these messages as they have no consequences whatsoever. They should go about their normal businesses without any fear of molestation. Let our people be rest assured that the government has put all necessary security measures in place to ensure the safety and freedom of movement of all Imo people on the said dates and after.” The leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, had maintained that this year’s annual Biafra Remembrance Day and candle light procession would take place unfailingly on Sunday, 30th of May, while sit at home and total lockdown would take place on Monday, 31st May, 2021. The adjustment, he said in a statement by IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary Emma Powerful, “is to enable churches to hold their normal services on Sunday, May 30th without any obstructions.  But there will be no human or vehicular movement throughout Biafra land on Monday 31st May. Reacting, the State Police Command told The Nation in an interview that they had massively deployed their personnel to dominate the public space. Police spokesman, SP Bala Elkanah, said: “We have adequate and massive deployment in town and we have taken over all public space. I am not sure anybody can go into the state to harass law abiding citizens. “So, the safety of the people of Imo State is fully guaranteed. We are on top of our game. Our space patrols have been deployed while surveillance is ongoing in collaboration with other forces.”