The police in Lagos have arrested a suspected cultist, an alleged serial burglar and two suspects accused of being traffic robbers. The suspects were arrested separately by operatives attached to Area D Command in Mushin and their counterparts at Ojo Division on Monday. According to police spokesman, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the suspected cultist, Nwugo Oforuike, 30, was arrested at Mushin with a locally made pistol, a live cartridge, car key, one mobile phone, a neck chain and an iron rod. He said policemen at Ojo division on the same Monday arrested an alleged serial burglar, Marcus Ikechukwu, 34, and recovered suspected stolen items from him including a larger cutter and three big generators. Adejobi said the suspect, a resident of Karabosowa, Ojo, Alaba, terrorised people at Ikotun, Igando, Surulere and other places within the state whose homes he broke into. According to him, policemen on patrol at Alaba International around 6am on Monday intercepted a green T4 bus which was searched and the suspected stolen items recovered. “The suspect has confessed to the crime that he has broken into many houses in Surulere, Igando and Ikotun areas of Lagos State. “Similarly, the same police operatives attached to Ojo Division on May 17, at about 10:30pm, arrested two suspected traffic robbers/house breakers at TIV Yam Market, off Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Alaba Rago, Ojo Lagos. “The suspects are Abdulkareem Hamzat, 24, and Nura Adamu, 20. They were caught with two dagger knives, giant cutter, one cutlass, catapult and some weeds suspected to be Indian hemp. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, has directed that the suspects be handed over to the command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for proper investigation and possible prosecution. “He further appealed to the public to beware and keep watch on strange faces in their various communities and relate closely with their Divisional Police Officers and local vigilantes as a measure to curb crimes and criminality in the state. “CP Hakeem Odumosu has reaffirmed that the command will not rest on its oars in ensuring that adequate security is maintained in Lagos State,” he said.