Lower fare regime by start-up carriers in aviation has triggered fierce competition. Latching on less fuel consuming propeller airplanes and a discount on fares a new operator, Green African Airways is creating unease among indigenous operators as the carrier unveiled lower fares offering as low as N16,500 on a one way trip. Investigation by The Nation revealed that the lower fare regime by the new carrier which unveiled itself as a low cost operator is forcing other carriers to review their fares before the carrier begins flights next month. Other operators charge double fare structure offered by the new carrier on same routes. According to information gleaned from the airline’s website booking for flights is now open to the public for ticket purchase activities following the pre-sales approval of the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA). Cities to be served are Lagos (LOS) connecting Akure (AKR), Ilorin (ILR), Abuja (ABV), Owerri (QOW), Port Harcourt (PHC) and Enugu (ENU). The information reads:” Flights as low as N16,500 are available on the website with flight dates starting from June 24th, 2021. Three products are available- gSaver, gClassicTM and gFlexTM giving customers the flexibility of purchasing the product that suits their travel plans. gFlyers who register on the booking website – greenafrica.com get a unique code that gives 10 percent off their first booking to celebrate this milestone.” Speaking in an interview, Green Africa Airways Chief Executive Officer/ Founder, Babawande Afolabi said: “Today is a great day for every member of the gTeam and we are thrilled that our customers can now book their trips with us. We are building a value carrier that will connect customers to their opportunities and be a catalyst for positive change across the region. “The ongoing “gFlyer Special Offer ‘’ which takes 10 percent off ticket prices will last till 11:59pm WAT on June 23rd, 2021. Corporate package known as “gBusiness” is planned to roll out within the coming weeks to cater to SMEs and corporate travelers. “ Besides Green Africa Airways another operator – Cardinal Airlines, which intends to revolutionize air travel promised to offer lower fares. The airline sources hinted that it is concluding plans to bring in ATR regional aircraft to boost its operations. 