The 2020/21 campaign is set to come to an end tomorrow  for Tottenham and Harry Kane is aware that this summer could be the most pivotal so far in his career. Following Tottenham’s failure to win a title for yet another season, reports have emerged stating that Kane could seek to leave his boyhood club this summer. Convincing Spurs’ chairman Daniel Levy, who tends to be a ruthless negotiator when it comes to offloading players, to give the green light for Kane’s move is not going to be an easy task for neither the striker’s representatives nor potential suitors. “He’s been great with me, he’s always rewarded me with contracts,” Kane told Sky Sports. “I signed a four-or-five-year deal when I was 21, but I did well and he added to that. So, he’s been fair with me, we’ve always had a good relationship. “But you don’t know what the chairman’s thinking. He might want to sell me. He might be thinking, ‘if I can get 100m pounds for you then why not?’ I’m not going to be worth that for the next two or three years.” The England international is adamant that this is the perfect moment for a change of scene, one which could coincide with the most important international tournament so far in his career. With the Wembley being set to host all Three Lions’ group games, as well as the 2020 European Championship semi-finals and final, England have been considered by many as the front-runners to win this summer’s competition. Featuring several talented players up front, including Kane himself, Phil Foden, Marcus Rashford and Mason Mount, England could offer the current Spurs striker the opportunity to win his first ever silverware. In the event that Kane leads England to their first ever European Championship title on home soil in front of thousands fans and convinces Levy to let him depart Spurs, he will undoubtedly be the talk of the town this summer.  Meanwhile’ Dimitar Berbatov has warned Harry Kane he is facing “tense” meetings with Tottenham chiefs after informing the club he would like to leave. But the Bulgarian encouraged the Englishman to “follow his path”, just as he did by handing in a transfer request to force a move from Spurs to Manchester United in 2008. “If Kane has told the club he wants to leave then they should find a reasonable way to agree what the fee should be and how to part ways,” Berbatov told Betfair .”I was in his shoes and I did what I did, he is now in the same situation that I was and I understand everything he is going though. “I don’t regret the decision I made, I followed my own path in football and coming from a small country I always dreamed of reaching the highest I could, I did that with United and I won things and was the league’s top goalscorer.” Berbatov also reassured Kane that he is a “legend” in the eyes of Spurs fans as he laid out the case for him to remain at the Tottenham Hotspur Stadium. “Footballers are different and they all have different views, but I believe there are still some big reasons for Kane to stay at Spurs,” said Berbatov.”He knows he is going to be starting every game, and he has proven that this doesn’t make him complacent, he is always pushing in every game and scoring goals, it doesn’t go to his head and he can continue doing that if he stays. Kane has highlighted Kevin De Bruyne as the player who would help him score more goals — and has hinted Tottenham missed their chance for major honours. When asked by Gary Neville on The Overlap who could help him score more, Kane said: “De Bruyne for sure. “When I watch De Bruyne play he’s a special, special player and some of the balls I see him put in for City are just a striker’s dream if I’m honest. “He’s outstanding, you’ve seen him out, he’s an outstanding player with the ball, off the ball, pressing, but his delivery is as good as I’ve ever seen to be honest.”