The Adamawa State Chapter of All Progressives Congress (APC) and officials of the state government are up in verbal arms over a N100 billion bond approved for Governor Ahmadu Fintiri by the state House of Assembly. The Assembly had a little over a week ago approved that Fintiri could start accessing the bond, the first tranch of which is N25 billion, to be followed by three subsequent tranches of N25 billion each over a four-year period, for spending mostly to develop the agricultural sector. The opposition APC in the state however sees the entire facility as being too big and unlikely to be utilised accountably, as evident in a statement signed by the party’s state Publicity Secretary, Mohammed Abdullahi. The APC said in the statement that the loan facility is an ambush on the future of Adamawa people: “The people of Adamawa State should understand that the present and future of the state have been ambushed by this reckless act of His Excellency, the Executive Governor of Adamawa State and members of the House of Assembly.” The party added that it had feared the N100 billion bond would not be accounted for the same way other loans that the Fintiri administration has taken “have not been accounted for.” The party alleged that the administration of Ahmadu Fintiri, under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), is shopping for the fund to vie for a second term come 2023, asserting, “All the loans collected by this administration, including the N100 billion, is not meant for the development of the state but rather a way of siphoning money for Project 2023.” The party praised one of its members in the state House of Assembly, Hon Abdullahi Yapak, who had publicly disagreed with his colleagues when the House approved the N100 billion bond at its plenary penultimate Monday, May 10. In a reaction to the charges, however, the state Commissioner of Works and Energy Development, Adamu Atiku, said the opposition party was merely seeking to discredit the Fintiri government for political reasons. “Politics is picking up now and you can expect to hear allegations such as coming from people in opposing camps,” Adamu, a son of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, said. He said the bond would be used to awaken the agricultural sector as a prominent empowerment tool for Adamawa people and a leading revenue earner for the state. According to him, all segments of the agricultural spectrum would be revived, including the livestock subsector, with a chunk of proceeds of the bond going to upgrade all cattle markets and produce outlets around the state to world-class standard as a deliberate plan to boost economic activities and in return make billions of naira yearly as internally generated revenue.