 SIR: If there is a trophy for a country whose citizens indulge the most in criticism, Nigeria would have clinched it, for Nigerians appear to love criticizing. We delight in it and it seems like a tonic for most Nigerians as we criticize just about anything even before we have thought them out. Nigerian critics cut across board. We have armchair critics and professional critics. Recently a Lagos-based television station, Channels TV interviewed an official of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in one of its flagship programmes. Majority of Nigerians cried foul and took it to the cleaners for ‘overstepping the bounds’ by giving a voice to the secessionist organization on national television. Then the Nigeria Broadcasting Commission (NBC), the regulatory organ for broadcast organizations in Nigeria wielded the stick by slamming a fine on the medium and banning the particular programme reportedly. Then the same Nigerians raised their hairs, accusing the government of muzzling the press and attempting to abridge press freedom. That is vintage double speak. The particular television station has since apologized and apparently paid the requisite fine. One is hard put to imagine that they did not consider the pros and cons before deciding to air that controversial interview. Here is another typical example of our double speak. Nigerians generally, vehemently opposed any form of negotiation or ransom payment to kidnappers, whether they be terrorists, bandits or unknown gunmen, insisting that such actions fuels their evil deeds. However, when two students were killed in cold blood by their abductors (condolences), it then dawned on us that no amount of money can be equated to life and that it is worth throwing in everything material to save even a single life. We pestered the government and others to do whatever they can even if it means dining with the devil (with a long or short spoon) to get the remaining students out of the lion’s den. We feared that a military rescue option is fraught with possible fatalities and so not agreeable. Do we still insist that we should never speak to kidnappers even when they are holding school children and others in their camps under harsh conditions? Many Nigerians criticized the fact that government reportedly released a “notorious” bandit in exchange for release of some kidnapped persons. Would we rather these kidnapped people die there while we hold on to this one ‘dangerous’ person? Life is precious and everything should be done to preserve it. Those that are criticising talks with abductors, exchange of captured bandits with people still in their custody (including women and children) and ransom payment to free their victims should have a rethink, especially when there are no other viable options as our hands are tied so to speak. It is a tough situation sadly, but life has no duplicate. We should choose between life and money or the lesser of two evils in this matter. I conclude with a third example of how we speak from both sides of our mouths. “With gratitude to God for a life well spent, we regret to announce the transition to glory of …which sad event (death) occurred on …” That is how a typical obituary announcing the death of someone is framed. Generally, we are gleefully told that the person lived a good life while on earth and so has gone to heaven. If we are sure that the departed has “transited to glory”, nay heaven, then why the regret in the obituary announcement? Surely, that the person has gone to heaven, a place which streets we are told is paved with gold and where there is everlasting life, calls for rejoicing, at least we should be happy for the departed? Why then are we regretting his/her departure to ‘heaven’ and crying our eyes out over it? It is either that the relatives themselves are doubting what they wrote in the obituary or have no conviction at all.