The House of Representatives on Tuesday rescinded its earlier decision to disband the ad-hoc committee set up to investigate the purchase of arms and ammunition for the nation’s armed forces and other para-military agencies in the country. The House however gave the committee two weeks to conclude its assignment and report back to House in accordance with the standing rules of the House. At its sitting on May 5, 2021, the House had discharged 12 of its ad-hoc committees of their assignment for failing to deliver on the mandate given to them, while the ad-hoc committee investigating the purchase of arms pleaded for time to conclude its assignment. Presenting a motion before the House to rescind the earlier decision, Chairman of the House Committee on Rules and Business, Rep. Abubakar Hassan Fulata said the need to rescind the decision became imperative in view of the importance of the assignment given to the committee. Fulata said “the House notes that on Wednesday, 5 May 2021 twelve (12) Ad–hoc Committees were discharged of the referral made to them, one of which was the Ad–hoc Committee on the need to review the purchase, use and control of arms, ammunition, and related hardware by the military, paramilitary and other law enforcement agencies in Nigeria. “Informed that on the same date the Ad–hoc Committee met and adopted its Report which was consequently presented as an interim report on Thursday, 6 May 2021. “Also notes that the subject matter being investigated is of serious concern as it affects the readiness of Nigeria’s Security Agencies to combat terrorism and banditry.” Also, the House at Plenary asked the Federal Ministry of Education to introduce a policy that will ensure inclusive education for the visually impaired students in Government Schools across the country. This followed the adoption of a motion on the need to make learning facilities available for virtually impaired students in Government schools sponsored by Rep. Sam Chinedu Onwuaso. The lawmaker had told the House that there is discrimination against the visually impaired students in government schools all over Nigeria as they lack proper instructional materials, facilities and support that will enhance their education. He said advances in technology have made available tools for visually impaired students to participate in classroom activities, achieve grade-related goals and gain independence as students. According to him, tools like Large Print Calendar, Scientific Calculator, Sceneeye 500, Braille compass, Vide Magnifier, Ovation, Ray Phone, Braille Note, Apex Note Taker, Embosser, among others; could be made available for them by the Federal Ministry of Education. He however expressed concern that the visually impaired find it difficult to read and achieve their goals in classes as most of the tools are moribund and upgrading them will aid in their better understanding in classrooms as well as enable them to effectively compete with their peers in academics, irrespective of their health conditions, thus, in the long run, giving them a sense of belonging.