The Nigerian Air Force will take delivery of seven Super Tucano attack aircraft in July, The Nation learnt. The Deputy Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Air force, Hon. Adigun Abass (aka Agboworin), revealed this in an interview with reporters at his empowerment programme in Ibadan on Thursday. Abass, who is representing Ibadan North East/ South East Federal Constituency, empowered over 1,000 constituents with working capital for traders, 30 motorcycles, 65 grinding machines, 35 hairdryers, 35 sewing machines and two fully equipped ambulances estimated at N90 million. Speaking on the efforts of the Air Force to tackle insurgence in the country, the lawmaker revealed that seven of the 12 Super Tucano aircraft ordered by the Air Force from the United States (US) would be delivered in July. As the final step, Adigun revealed that a Nigerian delegation to be led by the Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Isiaka Amao will visit the US next week to certify the quality of the attack aircraft in preparation for their delivery in July. He said the remaining four would be delivered at a later date. The Air Force technology website describes the EMB-314 Super Tucano, also known as A-29, as an enhanced version of the EMB-312 Tucano trainer aircraft, which features faster speed and higher altitude capabilities. It is a small attack aircraft used for counter-insurgency and pilot training. According to Air Force Technology, “The prototype of the Super Tucano first flew in 1992. Both Tucano and Super Tucano have been developed and built by Embraer of Brazil. “In addition to basic and advanced pilot training, the main missions of the aircraft are border patrol and counter-insurgency operations. “The flight envelope of the aircraft is 7g and -3.5g. Its small size, small visual and radar signatures, together with high speed and agility, give the aircraft high survivability. Additional survivability features include armour protection and critical systems redundancy.” Adigun said the procurement of the fighter aircraft will enhance the ability of the Nigerian Air Force in defeating insurgents and other criminals wreaking havoc across the country.