 I do not think I have watched more than one hour of television a day, yet I have to pay for an entire month’s plan of the cable package I am on. I wish there was a way I could only pay for the time I watch television,” Chidera Daniel, a young professional living in Abuja, mused. Understandably, Daniel speaks for millions of other Nigerians who have complained about the rigid payment plan as well as the high cost of paying for the cable television in Nigeria. It has become a fantasy of sorts for Nigerians to have access to this kind of flexible satellite television payment plan, especially against the background that many subscribers barely have time to watch its programmes. It will be gratifying for them to realise that the Bill that seeks to achieve pay-as-you-go services for digital satellite television has scaled second reading. Entitled “A Bill for an Act to Amend the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) Act, Cap N11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004 to Strengthen the Commission and Make it More Effective to Regulate Broadcasting in Nigeria, to Provide for Payment of all Monies Received by the Commission into the Federation Account in Accordance with Section 162 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended) and encourage Liberal Openness and Favourable Competition in the Industry; and for Related Matters (HB.332).” It is co-sponsored by Odebunmi Olusegun, Dachung Musa Bagos and Unyime Idem. Co-sponsor of the Bill, Idem Unyime, who represents Ukanafun/Oruk Anam Federal Constituency of Akwa Ibom State said when passed into law, it will also give the NBC the power to fix prices for digital television. Idem, who reasoned that the Bill was necessary said the path was adopted when an attempt to check the activities of cable television operators, in terms of pricing and payment model, ran into a brick wall as they realised the broadcasting industry operator, the National Broadcasting Corporation, was not empowered by law to do so. He expressed confidence that the Bill would be passed into law as quickly as possible to assuage the inconvenience Nigerians have so far endured as far as cable television is concerned. The Bill, he said, would also break the monopoly in the broadcasting sub-sector and create more employment with more investors participating. He said following the cries of Nigerians about the current payment arrangement they had taken up the assignment and directed the NBC to implement the pay-as-you-go service.  He said in the course of the assignment, they discovered that the law did not empower them to do so. Unyime said following this bottleneck, they had to resort to amend the Act that regulates the NBC, so that it can have full powers to call the satellite television service providers to order when it comes to pricing policy in Nigeria.  “Now that the Bill has been referred to the Committee for thorough work on it, it will go for the Third Reading, after which it will be passed into law and be sent to the Senate for concurrence. After then, we expect presidential assent. “Nigerians should be patient and hope that in a short time, these issues are going to be addressed. “Apart from the tariff, another thing the Bill is seeking to address is the issue of monopoly. The broadcasting industry in Nigeria is supposed to be one of the sub-sectors that have a lot of potential in terms of employment and creativity. Currently, its potential are not being realised.   So, when the Bill is passed into law, it would also give the NBC the powers to open up the sub-sector so that more players can be brought on board,” he said. Although scaling through the Second Reading is far from becoming a law, optimists feel that it is a major step towards achieving this long-sought-for dream among subscribers. But is there light at the end of the tunnel? Some industry experts feel it may not just be yet Uhuru. The Chief Executive Officer of MultiChoice, unarguably the largest cable TV operators in Nigeria, Mr John Ugbe, had said the pay-as-you-go billing model advocated by Nigerians is not technically and commercially feasible. Ugbe, who spoke when he appeared before the House of Representatives Ad Hoc Committee investigating the non-implementation of pay-as-you-go subscription model by satellite television operators, late last year, said the company does not have the technology to offer pay-as-you-go at the moment. He had explained that pay-per-view (PPV) is often confused with pay-as-you-go, saying the later model used in the telecommunication sector is not appropriate for pay television. He said pay-as-you-go in telecommunications is a metered service that ensures consumers are billed only for the service they consume and not for a fixed period. He also argued that pay-as-you-go is possible in the telecommunication sector because it relies on a two-way communication system, which enables operators to determine when a consumer is connected, the service consumed and duration of connection. He maintained that satellite broadcasters, unlike telecommunications firms, cannot offer pay television services because satellite broadcasting is a one-way system and does not enable broadcasters to determine when a subscriber is connected and/or watching or what channel is being viewed. He had said the pay-as-you-go can only be feasible if there is a total and global remodelling of the satellite broadcasting technical and billing architecture.