 SIR: In a place other than Nigeria, the news of ‘armed robbers’ attack on the residence of a top presidential aide, just some metres away from the president’s official residence, could be very shocking. But since it’s in Nigeria, this is one of the kinds of news citizens are used to. If the news of rats in the president’s office or the news of a snake swallowing millions of money generated from taxpayers could not shock Nigerians, I guess this too could not in anyway. It started like a rumour, the news of armed robbers forcing their way into the residence of Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, President Buhari’s chief of staff. The presidency, issuing contradictory statements–at a point a media aide to the president debunked the rumour–tagging it as ‘fake news’ and later another confirming that the incident has occurred, and as usual, without detailing what actually has happened and how it happened. Monday’s “foolish attempt” (as the presidency described in a statement) to burgle the chief of staff’s residence only tells how insecure everyone is becoming in Nigeria. It’s a known fact that seat of power everywhere in the world used to be the safest city and the residence of the president and its surroundings the safest areas in the city. The three arms zone, and precisely the Villa in Abuja, ought to be the most secured place in the capital. Then why the security threat at Aso Rock? I was opportune to visit Aso Rock twice and used two of its entrance/exit roads and so know the kind of heavy security deployed at both points for checks. In fact, before you would be granted access to drive in, you must inform them the precise site you’re going to–State House, New Banquet Hall, BPP or any of the other offices or residences. That was why it was hard believing when the news of the attempted attack was confirmed,. However, this is Nigeria. One must be willing to believe this kind of stories. I know most Nigerians would have raised these questions about the incident: how it is possible for the perpetrators to pass security check points and the security at the residence’s gate house and force their way in? Was the security guarding the chief of staff’s residence in laxity that thieves could just past them and spend time trying to burgle into the main building? Was there not security alarm that could notify neighbourhood that something was happening in the chief of staff’s residence so that they could call for help? If the residence of the president’s gatekeeper within the Aso Rock could be attacked with all the high presence of security, how safe is the house of an ordinary Nigerian? Gombe.