•Two slump, revived at funeral •Olufade’s father: Military overstressing their pilots
•Attahiru, core gentleman – family members •Crew member predicted crash   Mr. George Olufade, the father of the co-pilot of the ill fated Beachcraft 350, Alfred Ayodeji Olufade, was all sorrow yesterday as he recalled the early years of the young man’s short sojourn on earth. He told of how Alfred, his only son, got married only three months ago in “a well-celebrated wedding”; his intelligence, generosity, humility and how he ended up becoming a pilot. Relations of the late Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, recalled how he was always there for them all. Friends of the plane’s first pilot, Flight Lieutenant Taiwo Olufemi Asaniyi, spoke of how he was preparing for his marriage in October; recollections that drew tears to the eyes of many that came to bid a final goodbye to the 11 victims of the Friday crash of the Nigerian Air Force plane in Kaduna. Such was the emotion that two people in the crowd slumped. They were however revived by the medical team at the graveside, the National Military Cemetery, Abuja. Jennifer, who got married to Alfred Olufade only in February, wept uncontrollably as did Mrs Fati Attahiru (wife of the late COAS), Mrs Oluwatosin Olayinka (wife of the late Provost Marshal, Brigadier General O.L. Olayinka) and Mrs Gift Adesina (wife of Sergeant Adesina). Jennifer held firmly in her hand a framed photograph of her departed husband. A man, who appeared to be a close relative, held her from behind with one hand around her shoulders while another held her by the arm, whispering words of consolation into her ear. Lying a short distance away was the lifeless body of Alfred. Alfred’s coffin was one of the five arranged on a raised platform before the altar. The atmosphere was tense. Also watching in disbelief were the widows of General Olayinka and Sergeant Adesina. Moments before the lowering of the corpses into the graves, the next of kin of each of the departed officers was presented with the Nigerian flag in honor of the dead. As one of them was being led back to her seat, she unexpectedly slumped. She was however immediately revived by the medical team at the venue. Another slumped when the Chief of Defence Staff, General Leo Irabor, was delivering his oration. She too was revived. My son’s death devastating, says co-pilot’s father Recalling the last moment of Ft. Lt. Olufade, his father, George, said he (Alfred) had just returned from an official trip to Maiduguri when he was asked to go to Kaduna again on Friday, which turned out to be his last. He said his son’s death was devastating and asked for prayers to be strong. “The military should take care of their planes. Most of their planes are outdated and not properly taken care of,” he told The Nation in Abuja yesterday after the burial. “They (military) overstress their pilots. He (Alfred) just came back from Maiduguri and he had to fly again. They need to take care of their planes before they lose all their brilliant talents. “Each time he had to fly, he would tell me and I would pray for him. “But this last one, he did not tell me. But God knows better. It was not my prayer holding him, but God who was holding him. “God gave me Ayodeji and He is taking him. May his soul rest in perfect peace. “He just got married three months ago, a well-celebrated wedding. If it (the death) was from God, glory be to Him. If it was from human beings, God will judge. God will definitely judge, and God’s judgment is always bitter and impartial. “His death is devastating. I just need prayers for strength. I pray that God should hold us because he was my only son. “He was very intelligent, generous, extremely humble and dedicated to his duty. He was a giver and a lover of Christ. He was in the seminary before he eventually got into the military school. “He was the only Air force officer in my state. A special child he was. He graduated as the youngest in his set. “When he wanted to join the military, I encouraged him from the beginning to the end because he had passion for flying. I encouraged him and prayed for him.” How his wedding went Ben Television, a British channel launched in 2003, on February 11, 2021 ran a report on Alfred Olufade’s wedding with Jennifer Onyema Attah in Abuja. It said: “The specially designed invitation announced that the ceremony will start 11th February, 2021  in Life Camp Roundabout, area, Jabi, Abuja. “The church and holy solemnization/sword crossing will hold on 13th February 2021 at the HF Catholic Church, Life Camp, Abuja, while reception and presentation of sword will hold by 2pm the same day in Global Estate. Attahiru, core gentleman – family members Some family members of late Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, described him as a patient person and core gentleman. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) quoted the late COAS’ elder brother, Alhaji Sani Musa , 85, as saying  the deceased was always there for the family. Musa added: “Right from his childhood, he was a hardworking, honest person. “Though l left for Bauchi when Ibrahim was in primary school, we kept in touch up to the time Allah took his life.” Another family member, Ibrahim Musa, 83, said the late COAS loved his family and was always patient with them “no matter how you hurt him. “It’s hard for him to be angry. Rather, he would call your attention and tell you what he believed was right.” He said the family would miss him and prayed for Allah to forgive the deceased and grant him Aljannah Firdaus. Attahiru is survived by a wife and three female children. Crew member Adesina shared prediction of bloody May Friends of Sgt Adesina Opeyemi Deeziah, one of the crew members, have been bombarding his Facebook wall mourning him. One said his wife gave birth to a girl a few weeks ago. But more curious is that he died a month after sharing a post in which he predicted a bloody May in Nigeria and asked for prayers for the country. In the April 30 post, he reportedly said: “Something bad is going to happen in Nigeria in May. “This parable is heavy. Me and you need to pray for our country Nigeria.” The first pilot of the plane, Fl. Lt Taiwo Asaniyi, had his marriage introduction recently and the wedding proper was slated for October before death came calling. Tears as victims go home Mournful relations, friends, colleagues and other sympathisers besieged the Nigerian Air Force Protestant Church (NAFPC), Headquarters, the National Mosque, and the National Military Cemetery all in Abuja yesterday for the funeral rites and burial of the victims. Also interred were Brigadier General Abdulkadir Kuliya (Acting Chief of Military Intelligence); Brigadier General MI Abdulkadir (Chief of Staff to the late COAS), Brigadier General OL Olayinka (Provost Marshal), Major LA Hayat (Aide-De-Camp to the COAS) and Major N Hamza. Others were Flight Lieutenant T.O. Asaniyi, the pilot of the ill-fated aircraft; Flight Lieutenant A.A. Olufade; Sergeant O. Adesina; Sergeant Umar and ACM OM Oyedepo. The bodies were frown from 44 Nigerian Army Referral Hospital, Kaduna to the National Mosque and the Nigerian Air Protestant Church in Abuja and later conveyed to the National Military Cemetery at exactly 2:03 pm. The corpses arrived at the Air Force Base at 11.50 am in five ambulances. The one bearing the corpse of the late Provost Marshal of Nigerian Army, Brig. Gen. Olatunji Olayinka, led the others. The corpses were then conveyed into the church with the priests on hand to receive them. The bereaved women sat in the front row of pews where other family members sat. The mood was sober. The choristers, dressed in blue and white robes, sang melodious and sonorous numbers, all in a bid to console, restore confidence and inspire hope. But the pall of gloom that dominated the cathedral did not abate. Two rows of pews were filled with military officers who were resplendently attired in their ceremonial wears. Most of the officers wore black armbands in honour of their departed colleagues. Group Captain Reverend Dogo Gani, in his homily titled “Confidence” and taking his bible passage Psalm 23:1-6, admonished the bereaved families, the Nigerian Armed Forces and the country to have confidence in God to overcome their challenges. Dogo said: “This is indeed another sad moment for us as a country. When things happen, you find it difficult to comprehend. I believe that God himself who allowed this knows the best. “For the family members of the deceased, my prayer is that the mercy of the Lord will speak to your heart. God will never fail you. We cannot question God because he knows why. “Yesterday, I was with one of the families of the deceased, and I saw reactions. In moments like this, there are so many things beyond the fact that someone is dead. “Except God and Him alone, there is no one we can look up to. We must have confidence in God to navigate life. Our God is a God that you and I can depend on. He is trustful. He said I am the good Shepherd and the good shepherd laid down his life for the sheep. “You must look for peace in the Lord. Don’t look for peace in the man of your nation because you will be disappointed. The Lord is the one that sustains you. “Family members, let your confidence be in the Lord. Armed forces, let our confidence be in the Lord. Children of God, let our confidence be in the Lord. The nation, Nigeria, let our confidence be in no other name than God Himself. “And the moment we develop that confidence in the Good Shepherd, no matter the pains we are passing through, no matter the temptations, no matter the trials we are passing through, we will come out victorious one day.  It is just a matter of time.” The service ended at about 1.20pm while the corpses were taken out of the church en-route the National Military Cemetery for interment at about 1.40pm. The Christian funeral service earlier fixed to take place at the National Christian Centre, Abuja was later shifted to the Nigerian Air Force Protestant Church, Sauka Abuja, due to ongoing renovation at the Ecumenical Centre which might not have been considered before sending out invitation for the event. Death of Attahiru, 10 military officers dark moment for Nigeria, says Buhari In a tribute at the service, President Muhammadu Buhari, represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, described the death of Lt-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and the other 10 military officers as a “very dark moment for Nigeria.” He however urged Nigerians not to grieve like unbelievers, saying the future of the nation could only be guaranteed by God. His words: “Yesterday (Friday) was a dark moment for our country. Death has snatched the Chief of Army Staff and 10 other senior officers and men of the Nigerian Army. At this moment of grief, we should not grief as unbelievers. He expressed hope that the fortunes of the country will turn out better irrespective of setbacks like the loss of the officers. He said: “I console members of the immediate families to take heart. Chief of Air Staff, I know this is a very sad moment for you and men of the Nigerian Air Force, because some months ago, we had another accident, and in your heart, you will be asking God why under my watch? “Be confident that God will continue to sustain you and your men in the name of Jesus. Under your watch, we will have a new rest of mind in the name of Jesus. “Don’t doubt God. Don’t ever doubt God. He is the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. Everything will turn out for good. To the families, it is well with your souls.” On his part, the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Isiaka Oladayo Amao, paid glowing tribute to the departed officers and reiterated the determination of the military to continue to protect and defend the territorial integrity of the country. Amao said: “The tragic loss of the Chief of Army Staff, who was not only my course mate, colleague and counterpart but also my very dear friend of close to four decades, as well as the 10 other fallen heroes, left us in palpable shock. We grieve very deeply at this monumental loss. “However, as members of the Armed Forces and citizens of our great nation, Nigeria, we must be consoled at the legacies they left behind and the ultimate sacrifice they paid in service of our fatherland. “We must therefore continue to remember them and never let their sacrifice be in vain. We must also endeavour to emulate the selflessness, courage and commitment they exhibited as we continue to boldly carry out our duties diligently and tirelessly in defence of our great nation. “This solemn event, in addition to honouring the sacrifices and memory of our fallen comrades, offers us all an opportunity for sober reflection as we pray for the eternal repose of their gentle souls. “Their death is a huge loss to the Armed Forces of Nigeria and indeed the entire Nigeria. They will be greatly missed but fondly remembered for their invaluable services to nation and humanity. “Today, as our late colleagues go to their final resting place, may the Lord be with them forever and may they rest assured that the nation will remain ever grateful to them for their services and sacrifice. “For the families of the deceased, I know that at times like this, no word of comfort can sufficiently console or heal your wound. My plea to you, however, is to take solace in God who is the greatest comforter. “I therefore, encourage you to be consoled by the knowledge that the entire nation grieves with you on the loss of these shining, amiable and patriotic Nigerians who have laid down their lives in the service of their fatherland. I also pray that time heals the searing pains of today. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, in a separate condolence message, said the death of the officers while in active service in the defense of our country “reflects the depth of sacrifice our military officers, men and women of the other ranks are often prepared to make.” He said: “We honour the service of the Army Chief and all those involved in this unfortunate accident even as we continue to demonstrate our profound appreciation to all in our military services and in harm’s way. The gallantry of these heroes would always be remembered. “I join the President and Commander in Chief of the Nigerian Armed Forces to commiserate with families, friends and colleagues of these gallant officers and men who died in the crash. “I pray that God grants them the fortitude to bear the loss. May the memories of the departed remain ever blessed.”  Zulum, Shettima, Kyari join VIPs for funeral of late COAS in Abuja Governor Babagana Umara Zulum of Borno State, Senator Kashim Shettima and Senator Abubakar Kyari joined dignitaries and other sympathisers at the jana’iza (funeral prayers) of the late Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru, at the National Mosque. Also there were Senate President Ahmad Lawan; Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State; the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari; Defence Minister Bashir Magashi; the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Saad Abubakar and the Acting Police Inspector General BabaUsman. Bodies of the late COAS and five others were brought by military ambulances to the National Mosque for the funeral prayers that took place immediately after the Zuhr prayers. The late Chief of Army Staff, during his brief tenure, had visited Borno State more than six times to supervise ongoing military operations against Boko Haram. He had also visited different army formations, mobilised and motivated troops on the frontlines in peace building efforts. In his comment, Borno State governor, Prof. Zulum, said the late chief of army staff was evidently committed to the fight against Boko Haram and was determined to significantly contribute to ending the insurgency. “The commitment of the late chief of army staff to the fight against Boko Haram was very obvious. Within the short time he served, he had been to Borno on multiple occasions, meeting operational commanders and troops at battle fronts. “In all his interactions, he regularly motivated troops. The people of Borno thank him and all our gallant fallen heroes for their unquantifiable service to Borno and the rest of Nigeria” Zulum said. Their death will not be in vain, CDS Irabor vows In a graveside oration entitled ‘Love for country’, the Chief of Defence Staff, Gen. Lucky Irabor, said the death of the senior officers was painful but “certainly not in vain”. He said: “Why are we here? Love for country. How did we get here? Love for country. What is the purpose of the oath of allegiance? Love for country. “Yesterday, the 21 day of May, was a very sad day for the Armed Forces of Nigeria. Yesterday was a sad day for the nation as I received with shock and utter dismay the gloomy news of the sudden demise of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru and ten other gallant officers and personnel. “The loss of our gallant and energetic but calm Chief of Army Staff, and other heroes of patriotic zeal and love for our country is painful, but certainly not in vain. “Today, the recruits of depot Nigerian Army were to be on passing out parade to herald their joining the workforce of the Armed Forces of Nigeria. The Chief of Army Staff was to be the special guest of honour at the event. “One of our finest and best pilots was conveying him along with the entourage. After landing at the Kaduna International Airport, the cold hands of death which manifested in the stormy weather ended that journey. “The sting of death, you have not stopped the fight against all forms of insecurity. As we mourn, I remember with a deep sense of pride the life and times of an accomplished General, reliable professional and a dependable colleague. ”It is human for me to recall and with a sense of loss my personal experience with him at the Nigeria Army Training and Doctrine Command. That was where I fondly called him my second in command. “Together, we shared talks on moving the Armed Forces, especially the Nigerian Army, forward. This was actually what we were doing on the day that the COAS and I were called by the honourable Minister of Defence to report to Abuja. “These are moments I will forever cherish. He had a distinguished career and the unique privilege of commanding with distinction along the tactical, operational and strategic levels of military engagement.” President Muhamamadu Buhari, in his speech, described the death of the officers as a national tragedy. Dignitaries at the event included Generals Azubuike Ihejirika and Abdulrahman Dambazzau both of who are former chiefs of army staff; Information Minister Lai Mohammed and Hon Yusuf Zelahi, Speaker Kaduna State House of Assembly, representing the Kaduna State governor. PDP demands probe into plane crash The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday expressed grief over the death of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru and other officers y. The party described Gen. Attahiru and the other officers as heroes who gave their lives for the security of the nation, adding that the tragic incident was a huge blow to Nigeria. A statement on Saturday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said: “Our party commiserates with the military high command, the families of Lt. General Attahiru and the other officers and men who have paid the supreme price for the security of our nation and prays God to give them the fortitude to bear the loss. ”The PDP however demands an extensive inquest into this military plane crash as well as the last two in which lives of officers were lost”. The party urged Nigerians to be at alert and continue to pray for the fighting men and women who are risking their lives at the front to secure the nation. Military takes over plane crash scene in Kaduna, awaits AIB officials for probe Military men yesterday cordoned off the site of the crash ahead of the arrival of officials of the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) to probe the accident. Civilians including members of the management and staff of the Kaduna International Airport were prevented from accessing the scene of the accident, which occurred within the Airport’s perimeter fence. The Nigerian Air Force plane, Beachcraft 350, crashed around 6:00pm on Friday, killing all the 11 persons on board, including the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru. Other victims of the crash were Brig. Gen. Abdurahman Kuliya (Chief of Military Intelligence); Brig Gen MI Abdulkadir (Chief of Staff to the COAS); Brig Gen Olatunji Olayinka (Army Provost Marshal); Maj. L. A. Hayat (ADC to COAS); Maj. Hamza; and the Ordely, Sgt. Umar. The crew members were Flt. Lt. T. O. Asaniyi; Flt. Lt. A. A. Olufade; Sgt. Adesina; and ACM Oyedepo. General Attahiru was coming to Kaduna to serve as the Special Guest of Honour and Reviewing Officer at the passing out parade of the Regular Recruits Intakes from Depot Nigerian Army, Zaria. Speaking to journalists at the Airport yesterday, Kaduna Airport Manager, Mrs. Amina Ozi Salami, said the aircraft was originally billed to land at the NAF base, Kaduna, but was diverted to the civil airport due to bad weather. She however said that though the plane crashed right inside the airport, it did not affect the normal operation of the Airport because it did not affect the runway. She said: “The unfortunate incident happened yesterday at about 5:59pm. We learnt that the aircraft was supposed to land at the Nigerian Air Force Base, but due to bad weather, it was diverted to the civil airport. But unfortunately, it crash landed probably due to bad weather. We do not report yet at the moment. “The AIB will be coming for an investigation, so I really don’t have enough details to give you now. “The military have taken over the site since yesterday. They even slept there and up till now, they are still there. It has been cordoned off and no civilian is allowed access to the site for now. “The incident, contrary to speculations, has not affected our operations because it did not happen right on our runway. It is outside the runway, but it is within our perimeter fence. So, it has not affected our operations at all,” she said. Meanwhile, the passing out parade of the Regular Recruits Intakes billed to hold on Saturday at the Depot Nigerian Army, Zaria was cancelled.