A man was killed on Thursday morning in the violence that broke out in the Gengere area of Mile 12 in Kosofe, Lagos. Sadiq Oloyo was stabbed to death by one Aliyu Shuaibu about 1am, which led to a reprisal by thugs loyal to him, police said. Many persons were injured in the fight. Hoodlums attacked motorists and commuters on the Mile 12 stretch of Ikorodu Road, a typical day in a week marked by violence in the neighbourhood. Some accounts claimed that at least five persons have been killed including two from yesterday’s clash, since warring groups started engaging in street fights last Friday. Clashes linked to supremacy tussle among cult groups, ticketing issues in the market as well as religious violence prompted by alleged blasphemy have been identified as  reasons behind previous wars in the area. Video clips shared on social media by witnesses showed residents and commuters fleeing the area for fear of  attack. It was gathered that some of the hoodlums who were wielding dangerous weapons took that opportunity to dispossess road users of their valuables and inflicted bodily injuries on a lot of people. It was learnt that it took the intervention of additional deployments of policemen and soldiers of Operation MESA to quell the unrest. Narrating her experience, a witness, Tenibejiloju Aruwe said she barely escaped being mugged and robbed. She said the hoodlums were robbing vehicles and passersby between 9am and 10am despite the presence of the police. “It’s a pity for Nigeria. We are in full-blown anarchy. I can’t explain what channeled that bad energy from those boys this morning. They were so many and had a field day. We all parked our cars and sought safety. It’s so sad,” she lamented. Another witness who posted a short video on the incident lamented that he had never seen so many machetes, dangerous weapons in his entire life. Reacting to the incident, the police command in a statement confirmed Oloyo was killed but kept mute on the number of persons injured. Spokesman for the command, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said 48 suspects were arrested, adding that the Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu has ordered 24-hour surveillance in the area. Adejobi said the police’ preliminary investigation revealed that Shauibu stabbed Oloyo and the latter died before medical attention could reach him. “As a result of the incident, some hoodlums, on reprisal attack, went on rampage and caused commotion in the area. “On the strength of this development, the Commissioner of Police Hakeem Odumosu, directed that additional men be deployed to the area to restore normalcy while 48 of them were arrested. “The police boss has ordered that the hoodlums should be made to face the full wrath of the law to serve as a deterrent to others who might want to foment trouble in the state. “CP Hakeem Odumosu has therefore affirmed that the command and other security agencies will adopt 24-hour patrol and surveillance in the area until the culprits involved in the crises are brought to book and total law and order restored in the entire area. “The Commissioner of Police warned that the command will not tolerate any act of violence and lawlessness in any part of the state as all hands are on deck to suppress any criminal act within the ambit of the law,” he said.