Beautiful years past were relived in some thrilling unforgettable moments as the defunct Mo’hits crew, Don Jazzy, D’Banj and Wande Coal, came together to perform live at rapper Ikechukwu’s wedding. The rapper’s wedding was on Saturday with his friends, the Mo’hits crew and other celebrities in attendance. The defunct Mo’hits crew eventually got their time to perform on stage and the viral video that made it out from the wedding shows them singing and vibing along to “Iskaba” by DJ Tunez featuring Wande Coal. The former Mo’hits crew thrilled guests with their performance at the star-studded wedding of the rapper. Dbanj was his ever energetic self, singing and dancing away, Wande Coal matched his rhythm with his sweet vocals while Don Jazzy continued to vibe to their sounds. The trio was indeed a sight to behold as they performed.  Recall the trio, Don Jazzy, D’Banj and Wande Coal were at some point the most sizzling sensation to hit the music industry as they were accepted and loved by all and sundry. The Mo’Hits Records Limited was founded in 2006, signing D’banj as its first recording artist. Don Jazzy was the CEO/President of the label and D’banj was the Co-Owner. The label went on to sign other artists including Wande Coal, Dr SID, D’Prince and K-Switch. However, in March 2012, Don Jazzy confirmed D’banj had left the group. D’Banj’s reason for leaving was cited as difference in interests. Don Jazzy went on to establish another record label known as Mavin. After separation, Mo’hits artistes performed together for the first time on 27 December 2017 in the Davido show tagged “30Billion Concert.”  Meanwhile fans on social media have so many lovely things to say about the trio’s performance together. super.dope_9ja wrote: “Imagine how the collaboration from these guys go be. E go burst Brain.” 9jaonthestreetz said: “D’banj always has that fire blazing energy whenever he’s on stage with Don Jazzy. Who else noticed?” emeksmelody tweeted: “@donjazzy just dey catch cruise, you can’t hate him.” mcgloss stated: “Miss them working together.” iamendyval wrote: “These are Dons not children.” mexil.ng said: “They should come back already!! One more for the road.” 1stnewsonline_ tweeted: “What we love to see.” gadzamaandiya stated: “Big boys of all time.”