 FEELERS reaching Sentry from the meeting room of the lower chamber where the House of Representatives Ad-hoc Committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loot is seating, indicates some heads of anti-corruption agencies are not smiling as we speak. In fact, a couple of them are losing lots of weight owing to the amount of sweat they have shed in the past few days. During the week, the committee grilled top brass of the Economic and Financial Commission (EFCC), the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and the Nigeria Sovereign Wealth Fund over recovered loot. And none of them left the committee room smiling according to those who witnessed what transpired during the interactions. Abdulrasheed Bawa, the EFCC Chairman, after answering dozens of questions from the committee chaired by Adejora Adeogun, drew the ire of the lawmakers when he pleaded to be excused to attend to a pressing engagement. Adeogun reportedly warned him to stop undermining the powers of the committee. Uche Orji, Managing Director of the Nigerian Sovereign Wealth Fund, also had it rough as he was asked to come back for further clarification for failing to provide some documents that could aid in the investigation. This was after he said that no money recovered had been spent but couldn’t back up his claims with relevant documents. The Commandant General of NSCDC, Ahmed Audi, according to the committee members, came unprepared. When asked for his excuse, he said the invitation letter to the corps for it to appear was not sufficiently explanatory and he had to seek interpretation from the agency’s legal department. He asked to return in two weeks better prepared.   In spite of claims from his corner that he has no plan to hijack the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from ‘core party members’ in Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki and his men are not leaving any stone unturned in their quest to put the structures of the troubled party under their control. Across the state, Sentry gathered that the governor’s loyalists are setting up parallel leadership and luring party chieftains and members to abandon the core PDP and join what they now call Obaseki PDP. Trust politicians, leaders and members are said to be switching loyalty in droves. It was gathered that following the failure of the governor’s plan to have the state leadership dissolved so his men can take over, he may have resolved to take the battle for the soul of the party to the streets of Edo State where he intends to fight the current leadership numerically, by having majority of the party men and women on his side. And if reports from the wards and local government areas are anything to go by, Obaseki appears to be going for the kill.