  Worried by the blistering attacks on its assets and offices especially in the Southeast and Southsouth, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has relocated its sensitive materials from vulnerable areas. To prevent the arson on its facilities – not less than 25 of its offices have been attacked – from further attacks, the agency will hold a strategic/technical session tomorrow with the National Security Adviser, Gen. Babagana Monguno, the Acting Inspector-General of Police, Mr. Usman Alkali, the military  and other top security chiefs. Some of those expected at the meeting are the Director-General of the Department of the  State Security Service(DSS), Yusuf Magaji Bichi, representatives of the Nigerian Army and other wings of the nation’s Armed Forces. Chairman of Information and Voter Education Committee of INEC, Mr. Festus Okoye, confirmed that INEC, led its chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, will meet with the security chiefs tomorrow. He said: “We are looking forward to a robust session on why our offices were attacked and  how best to protect our facilities. “As at today, nobody or group has claimed responsibility for these attacks. This is worrisome. The media will be allowed to be part of the opening ceremony before we go into the technical session.”  Okoye added: “We have also taken some preventive measures by moving some of our equipment and sensitive materials from volatile areas.” He explained: “We are resolute to go ahead with our plans to conduct elections in  Anambra, Ekiti and Osun states. The attacks will also not affect 2023 poll. “We are confident we will overcome these challenges. We are going to continue to take proactive steps to minimize these problems. “We will rely on security agencies to assist us to curtail these attacks and protect the ballot system.” An official said:  “Despite the fact that there were security agents in some of the burnt facilities, INEC officials will use the opportunity to get brief from all these top security chiefs on their findings. “The ultimate objective of the session is how to put measures in place to avert these unwarranted attacks and safeguard the electoral process. “Some of these relocated items include vital card-reader machines, database, ballot boxes, generating sets and even vehicles. In fact, in some places the hoodlums razed down empty stores. “We are interested in security tips these security chiefs will give us to protect our facilities from further attacks.” 