By Nwanosike Onu, Awka Five soldiers were feared killed and their operational vehicle destroyed by unidentified gunmen in Ihiala, Anambra State. The incident happened Friday night along Owerri -Onitsha road at one of the checkpoints. As a result, the bridge head in Onitsha is currently blocked by security operatives, a situation that has stopped commuters from going outside the State. Also, commuters from Enugu State are being stopped at Amansea boundary of the two States, while the soldiers are conducting stop and search on every vehicle. The leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, had issued a warning that Ndigbo should observe sit-at-home on Monday. The directive had crippled activities in the region with the majority of schools closed, while residents had embarked on panic buying. When contacted, the Anambra State Police Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, confirmed the incident. However, he did not confirm the number of casualties but said the operational vehicle of the soldiers was destroyed. He said the command was still investigating the matter, adding that at the appropriate time, the public would know. Meanwhile, the Anambra State government has banned the use of tricycles and shuttle buses from operating between 7pm-6am Governor Willie Obiano, said Saturday, it was In view of the need to improve security in the State and address observed incidents of crimes using tricycles, motorcycles and shuttle buses. In a statement made available to reporters in Awka and signed by the Secretary to the State government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu, said shuttle buses were also banned from using tinted glasses. According to the government, “that the earlier ban on the use of motorcycles in greater Onitsha and Awka areas during the day and night, remains in full force. Any motorcycle found within these areas will be impounded and forfeited; “That the use of motorcycles, tricycles and shuttle buses across the State is now banned between 7pm and 6am daily with effect from Saturday 29th May 2021 and for one month in the first instance; “That shuttle buses are henceforth banned from using tinted glasses or curtains while plying on Anambra roads. “All other vehicles either with factory fitted tinted glasses or plain glasses must wind down while approaching any security checkpoint to avoid embarrassment; “Henceforth, any community where Keke is used to Rob or commit any crime, the use of Keke will be banned totally in that area and the union exco sanctioned. The same measures will be applied in the case of shuttle buses and motorcycles. “Government hereby directs full mobilisation of community youths and stakeholders across the state to take ownership of security in their immediate environments and assist the Police and other Law enforcement Agents to enforce these directives and quickly restore law and order in our State,” Obiano said.