The COVID-19 pandemic has affected many an economy. Several agencies have also felt its pang.  For the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), it has been an interesting time, writes OLUKOREDE YISHAU  The beginning of 2020 didn’t tell the world that soon a pandemic was going to shut  it down. A month or so into the New Year, a Coronavirus codenamed COVID-19 had crept into China. It was doing a lot of damage, but not much of it was getting into the international media and the fear of it spreading worldwide was non-existent. But by the third month of 2020, it was clear that what started in China was going to take the world by storm, in a manner only seen some 100 years earlier. Country after country started shutting their doors against travellers. And before long, the disastrous impact of the COVID-19 plague on the global economy made finance experts predict that many Corporations would lose billions. The predictions turned out to be correct as giants had to depend on bailouts from governments across the world to survive the times. The 2020 financial performance of the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA), however, has shown great shock against the global reverberation caused by the pandemic. NSIA manages Nigeria’s sovereign wealth fund. Its assets grew to N981.78 billion in 2020, which represents an increase of N331.93 billion in comparism to the N649.85 billion assets in 2019. Its management ascribed the growth to strategic financial execution, discipline and unswerving implementation of infrastructure investment programmes. One major factor that helped the NSIA was its investments in global capital markets, a development which led to foreign exchange gains. The fact that subsidiaries and affiliates increased their contributions also helped. The NSIA recorded 343 per cent growth in Total Comprehensive Income to N160.06 billion in 2020 as against N36.15 billion in 2019. This does not include a devaluation gain of N51 billion. A core income of N109 billion was recorded in 2020 when only N33.07 billion was raked in in 2019. Orji said the NSIA got improved contributions from subsidiaries/affiliates such as Infrastructure Credit Guarantee Company (InfraCredit), Nigeria Mortgage Refinance Company (NMRC) and Family Homes Funds Ltd (FHFL). The additional contribution received from subsidiaries and affiliates was $250 million. The agency gave the Federal Government a $150 million support from the Stabilisation Fund. For its Innovation Fund, the NSIA launched its Nigeria Innovation Fund to address investment opportunities in Information Technology in areas such as data networking, data centres, software, and services as well as Agri-tech and Bio-tech. The agency also, according to its management, made significant progress on developing the Ammonia and Diammonium phosphate production plants in partnership with OCP and it has changed asset allocation and expanded the hedge fund managers. It has used a portion of the Stabilisation Fund assets in 2020 to meet the $150m redemption that augmented the July 2020 FAAC to all three tiers of government. The Stabilisation Fund performed well given the economic climate and ultra-low interest rates set by CBN. NSIA Managing Director Uche Orji said $311 million of funds recovered from the Abacha loot was given to the agency. This was from the tranche returned to the country by the Department of Justice and Island of Jersey. Orji said the cash was utilised for the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund to complete the Second Niger Bridge, the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano Highway and the Lagos Ibadan Expressway. The Managing Director added that the pandemic affected logistics for infrastructure projects, for example, the toll road projects and the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative through which the Federal Government has saved forex. In 2012, President Muhammadu Buhari approved the PFI to boost agriculture, cut back on foreign exchange spent on fertiliser substitution and importation. After four years, Buhari approved PFI’s restructuring for another four years. The NSIA said by investing in local fertiliser production, over $350 million has been saved from payments on subsidy and import substitution. Orji explained that the agency and a not-for-profit group, the Global Citizen, formed the Nigeria Solidarity Support Fund to further cushion the effect of the pandemic.  It procured and donated oxygen concentrators to twenty-one Teaching Hospitals in the country and provided staffing support for the now-disbanded Presidential Task force on COVID-19. The PFI’s fruits include over 30 million bags of 50kg NPK 20:10:10, fertiliser’s price reduction from over N10,000 to under N5,500, revival of 41 blending plants and creation of 250,000 jobs in the agriculture value chain. The NSIA also completed the 3000 hectares Panda Agric Farm in Nasarawa. PFI Implementing Committee Chairman and Jigawa State Governor Mohammed Abubakar Badaru said: “The programme has in many ways served to augment the Administration’s policy-driven programmes to diversify the Nigerian economy. “The programme has bolstered Nigeria’s industrial base, resuscitated, and strengthened domestic production capacity for fertiliser. It has also eliminated the huge fertiliser subsidy burden placed on Federal Government, created thousands of direct and indirect jobs and alleviated the plight of the domestic farmer by ensuring availability of fertiliser”. “Clearly, the programme is a strong value proposition for the nation in the agriculture space given the variety of socio-economic benefits it presents. We are grateful to Mr. President for creating this programme and look forwards to supporting the next phase as it evolves.” Orji said with the support of the President the PFI has accomplished its principal objectives. “Having fulfilled the establishment, stabilisation, and market discipline phase of PFI, the primary objective of which was to revive the blending plants and create a viable domestic blending industry, we believe the PFI should gradually evolve into the next phase, which is a tactical withdrawal of intervention in the industry and the emergence of a self-sufficient, sustainable, and efficiently operated market. “NSIA is pleased with the Government’s decision and looks forward to seeing the innovation and creativity which will characterize the open market in the sector,” Orji said. Fertiliser Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN) Chairman Thomas Etuh said the restructuring is a welcome development for the group. Thomas said: “The new approach will afford operators the opportunity to build recognisable and trusted brand while ramping up distribution nationwide.” With the restructured PFI, the NSIA is now an upstream player limiting its involvement to importation, storage and the wholesale of raw materials. The blending plants are expected to provide bank guarantees to cover requested raw materials with the Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) engaging the Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) banks to provide credits to blending plants. The CBN is to ensure that the foreign exchange for the programme is provided promptly. The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development will ensure quality control. NSIA said the benefits of the new PFI include unlocking more loans and investments in Nigeria’s fertiliser blending value chain, strengthening market systems and encouraging participation, promoting potential mergers and acquisition, innovation and growth across the industry, reduction of food price inflation and reduction of the high rate of unemployment. Last year, the agency invested additional capital into NG Clearing, the first derivative clearing house in Nigeria. It maintains its shareholding at 16.5 per cent following the company’s rights issue of 2020. The Nigeria Infrastructure Fund, Orji said, achieved key landmarks in motorways, agriculture, and healthcare. Some of its achievements are the NSIA-Kano Diagnostic Centre, the NSIA-Umuahia Diagnostic Centre and the NSIA-LUTH Cancer Centre. It also partnered with the University College London Consult to develop a pharmaceutical investment strategy for direct investments this year.
The NSIA has admitted InfraCo Africa, a PIDG company based in the UK as 33 per cent shareholder in InfraCredit, thus its stake from 50 per cent in 2019 to 33 per cent in 2021.