At 63, would you say you are fulfilled? Yes, to the glory of God almighty who has made me excelled in all my endeavours in good health, I am excellently fulfilled. I thank God who has kept my life till this moment keeping me standing while others fall, He has uplifted me above tribulations and place me at the top of all I do, Yes, at 63, my life is a fulfilled. Why was your birthday celebrated at a low key, are you broke? I’m not broke, I remain Chief Fidelis Okenmor Tilije, an avowed Catholic who believe that the power to make wealth is of the Lord. I am fit by all standard. Why would I be broke? The day am unable to touch lives positively is when I will be broke but such day will never come. Therefore, Okenmor is not broke and the decision to mark my birthday without large gathering  is normal just like you marked yours without large parties. My friends, colleagues, associates, kinsmen, fans…were here in their large numbers to celebrate April 23, with me with superlative wishes; how does that depict a broke man? What is your ambition for 2023 General election? My ambition is how to put in my best in the running of this administration and ensure that Governor (Dr) Ifeanyi Arthur Okowa, succeeds. The success of the government is my major ambition. Come to think of it, isn’t it too early to talk 2023? Are we God? What interests me right now is to see that the laudable pro masses projects of this administration are excellently delivered to the good people of Delta State. Political ambition? Count me out. As one of the illustrious sons of Ndokwa nation, would you say this government has done enough for your people? Human development can never be enough and as you know, the people would always ask for more deservedly but I do know that Governor Okowa is a man with good conscience, he means well for Delta State including my people – Ndokwa nation. He has a lot up his sleeves in terms of quality and life changing projects to unleashe in Ndokwa land. How? The how is that, the remaining days of this administration will witness massive projects in Ndokwa land which is why I keep telling my people especially the youths to be calm, peaceful and maintain their unflinching support for Governor Okowa. He never forgets whatever he plans and I assure my people that, in the fullness of time, Ndokwa nation will smile again. Your birthday message? At 63, I cannot thank my friends and associates enough for being there for me all through the years. My appreciation goes to my colleagues – fellow Commissioners, Senior Officials of this government, my friends home and abroad, my well wishers, my kinsmen and His Excellency Governor Okowa, who repose so much trust and confidence in me. I thank them for their wishes at my birthday. I also cannot afford omitting the Ikolobie Ndokwa Group, who found me worthy of Award Excellence at my birthday. Your message to Deltans? My message is simple: stay peacefully out of trouble, work and pray. This administration is is up in arms against underdevelopment.  You may have seen what the agencies of government are doing to change the narratives. The government you know as well as I do how well the Warri and Udu Environment  Development Agency, WUEDA is doing marvelously in that axis. The Asaba Development Agency and other intervention agencies are making the administration proud and more will come. The people should be patient, show sufficient understanding and support this administration. This Governor is a superlative in character. 