A chairmanship aspirant in Igando/Ikotun Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Ahmed Oseni, has accused party leaders in the council of sponsoring attacks on his supporters. Oseni, who is contesting on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), alleged his supporters were attacked on May 19 during a meeting. The aspirant said he heard news of a planned attack at the meeting and was advised to boycott but he summoned courage and attended the meeting. He said: “The emergency meeting was called. Prior to then, I heard information that there were plans to kill me because I was the only aspirant with grassroots support. “Immediately I heard this, I went to my facebook wall to intimate and advise my supporters to be peaceful at the meeting. “I wanted to avoid the meeting but I summoned the courage to attend because I felt if truly I want to serve the people, now is the time to show it. “My supporters were peaceful at the meeting and when they realised my supporters were more, they invited hoodlums to chase us out. “One of my supporters was shot in the leg while some were stabbed. One of them, a member of the National Union of Road Transport Workers Union (NURTW) and chairman of Egan branch was beaten and hit with a vehicle while trying to escape. He is presently receiving treatment at the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Alimosho General Hospital in Igando. “While I tried to leave, I heard shouts of ‘kill him, kill him, it is when he is alive that he can be chairman’. “Residents of the community tried to stop them but I cautioned them not to take laws into their hands. They vandalised all our buses and beat all occupants. “One of the thugs told me to find my way out but I didn’t leave until I was sure my supporters were all safe.” Oseni said he has, through his lawyer, sent a petition to the APC state chairman and executives and believes the party would intervene. When our correspondent called the Igando/Ikotun LCDA chairman, he said he could not comment as the case was before the police.