Banks have continued to deploy diverse e-payment products and services but have done little to tackle e-payment frauds. COLLINS NWEZE writes that many people who use e-payment channels will also guard their passwords and other secret details to avoid losing their money to e-fraudsters.  The fear of losing money to cyber criminals is one of the biggest hurdles many e-payment users face daily. The financial services sector is, particularly, susceptible to cybercrime given its crucial role of financial intermediation in a highly connected financial system. Aside significant financial losses, the sector is also exposed to potential compromise and loss of customer data, and disruption of operations, which undermine stakeholders’ confidence in financial system stability. Internet/online-banking and automated teller machine/card-related fraud-types reported constituted 92.68 per cent of all the reported cases worth N15 billion yearly. Other miscellaneous crimes such as fraudulent transfers/withdrawals, cash suppression, unauthorised credits, fraudulent conversion of cheques, diversion of customer deposits, diversion of bank charges, presentation of forged or stolen-cheques, among others, also made the list of malpractices. The challenge of banking product security and abuse is impacting the adoption of products. If people find out that digital channels are getting more secured and that there are opportunities they can leverage when they have challenges, there are more chances that they will embrace the channels. But if they discover that the security of the platforms are reducing, this can lead to reduction in the use and adoption of digital services. Cyber-related risks have been a systemic concern for stakeholders since the turn of the century. The deepening integration of digital technologies into almost every facet of people’s lives has transformed the way they communicate, socialise, learn do business and conduct financial transactions. With over 50 per cent of the world’s population online and about one million joining each day; and two thirds owning a mobile phone linked to the internet; rampant spread of fifth generation (5G) networks, quantum computing and Artificial Intelligence, these risk exposures can only better be imagined. As the world switched to social distancing and remote working, remote learning, remote shopping and electronic financial transactions, more opportunities have opened up for cyber criminals to prey on unsuspecting citizens and businesses.  According to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the use of online scams, phishing mail, disruptive malware, data harvesting malware and malicious domains, a number of which are laced with COVID-19-related themes to defraud bank customers is on the rise. It said that Interpol’s last August’s report on the cybercrime COVID-19- impact finds that cyber criminals are developing and boosting their attacks at an alarming rate, exploiting the fear and economic uncertainty created by COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking during the Financial Institutions Training Centre/Nigeria Interbank Settlement System Virtual Think_Nnovation Conference in Lagos, Chief Information Security Officer, FirstBank, Harrison Nnaji, said there are two broad components in the financial services sector- the brick and mortar- over the counter transactions and digital transactions. He said that over the last decade, there have been migration to the digital platforms. “You will not be surprised, that today, there are still some people that do not have payment cards because of fear. You have a situation where customers actually in the real sense do not need security, they need confidence in the digital products that banks offer,” he said. He said that banks that have not abated a fraudulent transaction, are not supposed to be accountable for any loss due to e-fraud but added that financial service providers are expected to make sure that the products they put up are secured enough. On who bears the loss from cyber fraud, he said: “Now, when a customer has not done anything to fertilise a fraudulent transaction on his or her account, such customer should not bear the loss. And there are customer protection opportunities they can leverage on. But when the bank has demonstrated that it has  taken adequate steps to protect its service, and the customer, but because of what we may call family fraud, or friendly fraud- when someone you expect to protect you leverages the information you provided to defraud you the fraud occurred, then the bank may not be liable. For you to recover the money, you will have to prove to the bank that the transaction would not have happened, without you knowingly or unknowingly facilitating it.” Chief Information Security Officer, Zenith Bank Plc, Festus Amede, said that rapid adoption of technology without adequate defense mechanism and pressure on financial institutions to keep costs low remain major challenge facing the the adoption and deployment of digital products. “Most emerging markets have their data centre in-house, only very few are in the cloud. Even tough cloud is where to be, you need to prepare before going to cloud. Account hijacking is also a major concern, especially with people using unsecured channels because of the challenges to grow the numbers. Using channels like USSD exposes bank customers a lot, as their SIM cards can be swapped, or your PIN harvested through fishing among other means,” he said. Ahmad said the CBN is committed to strengthening its regulatory and supervisory framework to boost the resilience of the financial system against cybercrime. The apex bank, she added, issued a Risk-Based Cyber Security Framework for deposit money banks and payment service providers in 2018, which among others, prescribes yearly cyber resilience self-assessments for proactive identification and remediation of weaknesses and mandatory incident reporting to normalise sharing of best practices across the industry.