 Apostles of cyclical history (those who believe that history revolves in a cycle and thus repeats itself) must have heaved a sigh of vindication during the week after the call made by Robert Clarke, a senior lawyer, that President Muhammadu Buhari should temporarily hand over power to the military in order to solve the worsening security and economic challenges that have driven the country to the edge of the precipice. The Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), who spoke during a programme on Channels Television on Sunday, also proposed the division of the country into six states, on the basis of the existing six geo-political zones. Said Clarke: “I don’t know, I may be right or wrong… If anybody feels I’m right, thank God. If they feel I’m wrong, let them tell me. Now there’s no gainsaying that Nigeria is on the way to collapse. Nigeria has to be changed and the only way to change it is to create a state that will make the 1999 constitution ungovernable for its existence. We want a state of emergency to be created in Nigeria today. As it is today, the President, who is the Commander-in-Chief, has the powers to delegate all his powers to the Chief of Defence Staff. Let him now talk to the Senate, House of Reps, state governors and house of assembly speakers that a state of emergency has been created in Nigeria, which means that all governors and legislators must go. Then the military will now set up what we call the six geographical zones. Let us start on that and allow military governance over these states. Reduce Nigeria to six states and I can assure you the day Nigeria is reduced to six states and there’s a state of emergency, 80 percent of the money spent on governance will return to the treasury.” To be sure, it is not the first time a public figure would call for military intervention since the country returned to civil rule in 1999. In February 2000, barely eight months after the country returned to democracy, Joseph Waku, the late senator, who represented Benue North West in the National Assembly, had sparked a major controversy when he granted Tell magazine an interview in which he called on the military to seize power from the then President Olusegun Obasanjo because of the latter’s alleged dictatorial tendencies. Obasanjo, he opined, was the worst leader Nigeria had ever produced. His outburst did not only attract widespread condemnation, it also fetched him a suspension from the upper chamber of the National Assembly. Compared to the outrage that greeted the late Senator Waku’s outburst in 2000, the muffled voices against Clarke’s call for military intervention is an ominous indication of how despondent Nigerians have become about the Buhari administration. While the President’s lieutenants and foot soldiers, including his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Mr. Femi Adesina, would dismiss Clarke’s call as the voice of “disgruntled religious and political leaders” and “misguided politicians who nurse the inordinate ambition to rule this country outside the ballot box” by throwing the country into a tailspin that would compel forcible and undemocratic change of leadership, the fact remains that no Nigerian would have contemplated Clarke’s audacious proposal in the period before Buhari lost his place in the minds of well-meaning Nigerians. Anyone who did would be sure to get more from an enraged public than the few slaps that Clarke has got on his wrist. In the face of the worsening security situation that now leaves the country worse than the set up in George Owell’s Animal Farm, the thinking in many circles is that Clarke’s call for military intervention may be sensational but it is certainly not outrageous. Of what use, they wonder, is a government that cannot guarantee the protection of the lives of its citizens? There is no part of the country now where the people sleep with both eyes closed due to the activities of terrorists, bandits and secessionist groups who are clamouring to break away because they are sick and tired of the jungle the country has become under the Buhari administration. Two months ago, the governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Sule, raised the alarm over the regrouping of bandits and members of the deadly terrorist group, Boko Haram, in some local government areas in the state, some of whom he said were at the border with the Federal Capital Territory. In Niger, another state with high proximity to the Federal Capital Teritory, there were reports last week that Boko Haram, aided by bandits, had hoisted their flag in some of the local government areas, including Shiroro which hosts one of the country’s biggest power stations, seizing many housewives and causing more than 3,000 residents to flee. With a terrorist group to which President Buhari appears to have conceded the Northeast now on the verge of also taking over the North Central and even the nation’s capital city, Clarke’s call for military intervention is nothing but a wake-up call the Buhari government must heed or the consequences will be dire.