The Vice President of Nigeria, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, Monday disclosed that the commitment of health workers across the country restored already declining outpatient consultations in the first four months of the pandemic. Stressing on the need to always set aside funds for public health emergencies, Osinbajo called for continued and improved health security preparedness in diagnosis and response to outbreaks of epidemics and pandemics like COVID-19. The Vice President who was represented by the Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, made these known in Abuja, at the 4th Annual Legislative Summit on Health with the theme: “Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and Health Security (HS): two sides of a coin for an Efficient Health System.” He said: “The attainment of the Universal Health Coverage for all Nigerians and especially for the most vulnerable Nigerians is at the heart of the human capital development initiative of this administration. “Our experience in the last one year of COVID in Nigeria has exposed the vulnerability of our health system and the importance of preparedness, diagnosis and response mechanism. However, there are different understanding of what is meant by the concept of health security. “According to the World Health Organization, global public health security is defined as the activities required, both proactive and reactive, to minimize the danger and impact of acute public health events that endanger people’s health across geographical regions and international boundaries. “One of such proactive steps is to ensure that there are funds set aside always and which can be made available whenever there is a public health emergency. Such fund should only be utilized when a public health emergency is declared, while the legislature must ensure that adequate budgetary allocation is made for preparedness activities. “Reactive and response activities must also include ensuring the continuity of routine services such as immunization, family planning etc., and keeping sight on other diseases like malaria. According to data from the Federal Ministry of Health, outpatient consultations were 15 to 20 percent lower than expected in the first 4 months of the pandemic. This was quickly addressed and with the commitment of our health workers, we have been able to restore these services.” He added: “The Federal Ministry of Health is committed to the achievement of Universal Health Coverage for all citizens through the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF) which has been revised to provide a much richer Basic Minimum Package of Health Services, to meet common healthcare needs of all citizens. With this fund, the poor and vulnerable will have access to essential health services without experiencing catastrophic out-of-pocket expenditure that often spells financial ruin to the average citizen. “Finally, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at the agenda and I could see that it is very diverse and well thought out. As you deliberate, I urge you to critically look at the issues and come up with recommendations that will complement ongoing efforts towards strengthening the health system. I wish you all a fruitful deliberation.”