World leaders met in Geneva, Switzerland, on Friday at the Global Health Summit, co-hosted by the European Commission and Italy, to adopt an agenda to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, an official statement said. The leaders will develop and endorse a Rome Declaration of principles at a time when the virus is surging and spreading uncontrollably in many parts of the world. “With nine people losing their lives to COVID-19 every minute, and as the risk of even more transmissible and dangerous variants increases, the Global Health Summit comes at a critical juncture. The future of the pandemic is in the hands of the G20 leaders,” the statement said. The ACT-Accelerator was launched just over a year ago in response to the G20’s call for a global mechanism to accelerate the development of tests, treatments and vaccines and to ensure their equitable distribution. Hosted by the World Health Organisation, the ACT-Accelerator offers the only end-to-end multilateral solution to speeding up an end to the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic.  “The ACT-Accelerator welcomes the commitments made at the Global Health Summit and will work with countries to rapidly operationalise these pledges, both financially and – crucially – for over 100 million doses of scarce vaccines. Current financial commitments are reflected in the ACT Accelerator interactive funding tracker. However, a significant funding gap remains.” “The Rome Declaration, released at the end of the Summit, reaffirmed leaders’ support for the ACT-Accelerator and underlined the necessity to share the financial burden and close the funding gap, in order for the ACT Accelerator to fulfil its mandate for the equitable allocation and delivery of tests, treatments and vaccines to defeat the pandemic,” the group said. Of vital importance, the group also emphasized its support for global sharing of vaccine doses approved for emergency use by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and through COVAX. Carl Bildt, Special Envoy for the ACT-Accelerator and former Prime Minister of Sweden, said: “Today’s commitments are welcome – but more action is needed now, not in weeks or months, to change the course of the pandemic.” Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director-General of WHO, said: “We now have an opportunity to fix the global imbalance. First, we need to close the 18.5 billion US dollar funding gap for the ACT Accelerator. Second, we need countries to donate tens of millions of doses of vaccines immediately through COVAX – which is the agreed global mechanism for distributing vaccines.” 