A political group, the South West Agenda 2023 (SWAGA) for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has accused Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi of sacking the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman in Ado Ward 8, Mr. Clement Afolabi. Afolabi was removed by the APC leaders in Ado Local Government over his alleged fraternity with the SWAGA and acceptance to coordinate the group’s activities in the council. In a statement by the SWAGA National Chairman, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, the group, which described the action as alien to the APC constitution, said the removal was ‘hand of Esau and voice of Jacob’. He alleged that the APC executives in Ado Council acted dogmatically on a script by Governor Fayemi to edge him out of the party hierarchy on trumped up allegations of anti-party activities. But, the APC Director of Media and SSA to the Governor on Party Matters, Elder Sam Oluwalana, exonerated the party at the state level and Dr. Fayemi of blame. The SWAGA coordinator slammed the party leaders for sacking Afolabi when the ward executives had absolved him of the trumped-up anti-party allegation and passed a vote of confidence in him. Adeyeye described the political happenings in Ekiti under the watch of Fayemi as “a theatre of the absurd by an evil intending vicious leader with a mission to smash the eggs, kill the hen and put the poultry on fire.” “We think it is high time we began to get weary of some strange voices within. While we condemn the recent incisive and damaging statement of the Ekiti governor on our party, we consider the save face measure shoddily adopted in visiting undue punitive measure on Afolabi, who, purportedly, was showing support for the presidential choice of a top notch of the APC, a serious aberration. “SWAGA is aware of the underground plots to frustrate the rising political profile of Asiwaju Tinubu in the Southwest and indeed Nigeria, as the undisputable choice to bring stability into our fragile democracy and lift the nation economically. We have tested the waters to see how a people so traumatised and choked in a party, are frantically wrestling to pull out of the terrible grip of the political dracula of our time for a resting haven they have found in SWAGA. “The ongoing attempt to plunder and decimate our party and then leave the carcass for us to contend with, is not hidden. This we shall resist for the efforts of the builders of this democracy and many other Nigerians, who have toiled in endurance and are waiting to reap the gains. “While we condemn the lingering undemocratic approach of Fayemi to issues in recent times and insist on a call to order, we enjoin our party men and women across the country, to feel free to identify with SWAGA. SWAGA is APC and APC is SWAGA. There is no way a member can commit anti-party offence for favouring the presidential choice of a party man,” he said. Oluwalana said the suspension slammed on Afolabi was undertaken at the ward level, which he said was vested with the power to try any erring member. “This was purely an internal crisis at the ward level. They were not supposed to bring Governor Fayemi into the issue because it was a ward level matter. He has done nothing to warrant the attack. He has not done anything to show he was trying to decimate the party or anti-party as being alleged. “It was wrong and demeaning  for Senators Dayo  Adeyeye and  Babafemi Ojudu, who are respectable members of our party, to think that Governor Fayemi will descend so low to remove a ward chairman or do anything that will decimate our party.” 