President, Tiv Development Association (TIDA) Nasarawa State, Comrade Peter Ahemba has called for more collaboration between Governor Abdullahi Sule of Nasarawa State and his Benue State counterpart, Governor Samuel Ortom to address the current security challenges affecting the two states. Ahemba, who made the call while speaking with reporters on the spate of killings and displacement of Tiv farmers maintained that sustained collaboration between the two state governors was necessary to enhance border security and bring the current wave of killings in the two states to an end. He maintained that “the current security situation in Nasarawa and Benue states requires more synergy from the two governors and other relevant stakeholders from both states to be able to overcome the challenge.” The TIDA President recalled that the Nasarawa State Governor has, since assumption of office in 2019, demonstrated his commitment to partner his Benue counterpart towards the sustenance of peace in the two states, stressing the need for all stakeholders of the affected states to support the peace initiative with every sense of sincerity. Ahemba appealed to Governor Sule to save his kinsmen from the current destruction of their lives and property by suspected herdsmen, regretting that the invaders have, for the past one week, sustained the unprovoked attacks on Tiv villages in Doma and parts of Keana local government areas and killed no fewer than 18 people since the first attack on Ajimaka community in Doma Local Government Area. “As at this moment, more attacks are being launched. Our (Tiv) people are being slaughtered like animals. This is barbaric and we appeal to the government to come to our aid. “Recently, suspected herders again attacked Tor-Abagi Village, another Tiv settlement area in Keana and shut two persons; one died instantly and the other victim in person of Tyonyion Num is currently hospitalised at the Keana General Hospital. “Thousands of our people have been displaced as a result of these unwarranted attacks. What have we the Tiv people of Nasarawa State done to deserve this?” He appealed to the state governor to ensure the deployment of more security personnel in all the affected Tiv villages and at the Internally Displaced Persons camps located in Kadarko, Agbashi, Agyaragu, Keana and Doma towns, just as he urged the state government to intensify efforts towards restoring normalcy to enable them to return to their places of abode.