The police in Enugu State have arrested three suspected criminals, who specialized in robbing shop owners and residents at gunpoint. According to a release issued by the police spokesman in the state, Daniel Ndukwe, two of the suspects, Chidiebere Okoye, 22 and Ede Ifeanyi, 25, both of Onuasata, Enugu, were arrested in Ishielu L.G.A. of Ebonyi State, after they and their fleeing gang members allegedly snatched phones and handbags from their victim at gunpoint. Another suspect, Miracle Ogba, 18, was arrested after he and his gang member invaded a shop at Garriki, Awkunanaw, Enugu, and stabbed one of their victims severally, after robbing them of cash, mobile phones and other personal effects. Similarly, police operatives attached to Nsukka Urban Division in synergy with Neighbourhood Watch Group, on 13/05/2021 at about 2356hrs intercepted a red-coloured Toyota Avenus car with Reg. No. XFST 968 AA, suspected to have been stolen, along Urban Girls High Road, Nsukka. The suspected criminal occupants on sighting the operatives abandoned the vehicle and escaped and upon thorough search of the recovered vehicle, two cut-to-size single-barreled guns, one live cartridge, one TECNO Phone and other incriminating items were further recovered. The release stated, “Operatives of the Command attached to Abakaliki Road Division on 17/05/2021, arrested in Ishielu L.G.A. of Ebonyi State, one Chidiebere Okoye aged 22 and Ede Ifeanyi aged 25, both of Onuasata, Enugu. Their arrest led to the recovery of one locally-made pistol, one dagger and an ash-coloured Toyota Camry car with registration number: GGE 547 GT, the duo and gang members at large, allegedly snatched from their victim at gunpoint on 10/05/2021. The suspects confessed to the crime, while the discreet investigation is ongoing to apprehend other members of the criminal gang. “In another development, operatives attached to Awkunanaw Police Division on 13/05/2021 at about 1600hrs acted on credible information and arrested one Miracle Ogba aged 18, following a report made at the division on 13/05/2021 at about 2000hrs, alleging that armed robbers invaded a shop at Garriki, Awkunanaw Enugu, and stabbed one of their victims severally, after robbing them of cash, mobile phones and other personal effects. The suspect confessed to the crime, while a dagger allegedly used to stab the said victim, who was rushed to a nearby hospital and is responding to treatment, has been recovered”, The release quoted the state commissioner of police, Mohammed Ndatsu Aliyu, as appreciating security stakeholders in the state, including the Neighbourhood Watch Group and law-abiding citizens, whose supports to the police led to the successful arrest of the suspects. While stating that all the suspects would be duly prosecuted in court on the conclusion of investigations, the release assured that discreet investigation was ongoing to fish out the fleeing criminals’ suspects.