English FA Cup is regarded as football’s oldest club competition. Chelsea and Leicester light up the iconic Wembley Stadium for the 140th English FA Cup final on Saturday, 15th of May, 2021. In April 1995, Everton faced Tottenham in a dramatic FA Cup semi-final in history. Amokachi spent only two seasons at Everton and was hardly prolific in either of them. When the ‘damn sexy’ striker Daniel Amokachi substituted himself on and fired Toffees to FA Cup win over Tottenham, the coach said: ‘It was the best sub I never made’ According to report, Amokachi was already halfway onto the field with the sub already made, Coach Royle is said to have ran towards the sideline shouting ‘what the hell are you doing?!’ Having substituted himself, Amokachi scored two quick fire goals to send Everton through to the final where they beat Manchester United 1-0 to lift the cup. Everton legend Joe Royle recalls the sub as “the best he has ever made.” One of the most decorated African footballers of all-time Kanu Nwankwo won three FA Cup titles in his days in the EPL. Kanu won two FA Cup titles with Arsenal before he was handed a free transfer to Portsmouth. As a free agent in 2007-07, he penned signature with Portsmouth, In 2008[second season], Kanu scored in both the FA Cup 1–0 semi-final win against West Bromwich Albion and the 1–0 win in the final against Cardiff City, earning him a third FA Cup winner’s medal. Celestine Babayaro spent the majority of his career playing in the Premier League. An FA Cup winner with Chelsea in 2000 and 2005, Babayaro enjoyed a particularly successful time with the Blues after signing from Anderlecht in 1995. He clinched honours domestically and in the continent with the Pensioners before moving on to Newcastle United. Former Nigeria forward and winger, John Utaka played an integral part in Portsmouth 2008 FA Cup winner. Utaka whipped in a low cross from the right and Cardiff’s Finnish goalkeeper Peter Enckelman could only push it straight into the path of Kanu, who put it back past him to make amends for an earlier miss when he hit a post. Kanu and Utaka earned Portsmouth’s first FA Cup trophy in 69 years. After a lengthy transfer debacle, Mikel joined Chelsea in a £16 million deal back in June 2006. The Nigeria midfielder was a fixture in the Blues side for more than a decade and enjoyed a highly successful time at the London club. Mikel won 11 trophies with the Blues, making him one of the most successful Africans to play in the Premier League. Four of those trophies were FA Cups, and he certainly helped Chelsea become the force they are today. Iwobi at Arsenal was part of the side that defeated Chelsea in the 2017 FA Cup final. He was an unused substitute on that occasion as goals from Alexis Sanchez and Aaron Ramsey took the Gunners past the Blues. In 2018, Chelsea recovers from the 2017 loss to Arsenal. Moses was part of the Chelsea team that dispatched Manchester United 1-0 at Wembley, playing 90 minutes as the Blues got their hands on the historic cup. Four-time runner-up Leicester City defeated Chelsea to lift the 140th FA Cup final at Wembley. Thanks to Youri Tielemans majestic 25-yard strike to beat Chelsea’s goalkeeper. Nigerian duo of Wilfred Ndid and Kelechi Iheanacho has been outstanding for Leicester this season with important parts of Manager Brendan Rodgers.