The Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) in the South-west has said that the Oyo State Governor, Eng. Seyi Makinde has proved critics wrong with his achievements in two years in the saddle. In a statement on Monday by the Zonal Publicity Secretary, Chief Sanya Atofarati, PDP said Governor Makinde has restored confidence in governance by making the people the cornerstone of government’s policies and programmes. The party said the governor has achieved a lot and done creditably well in the areas on which he anchored his electoral promises in spite of the array of problems he met on the ground and the COVID-19 pandemic. It added that the bar of governance has been raised beyond the expectations of the people with the ailing health sector revamped, education resuscitated and the moribund agriculture sector revived as well as other sectors in good shapes. “We are very proud of Governor Seyi Makinde’s awesome achievements in the Pacesetter State since assuming office in May 29, 2019. “Indeed, GSM has proved the critics wrong by hitting the ground running from the blast of the whistle on May 29 2019 giving the dividends of democracy to the people of Oyo State in a manner that was unsurpassable in the annals of the history of the state. “His slogan of lifting the people from Poverty to Prosperity is gradually working magic from workers’ welfare to educational development, primary health care delivery, to gargantuan leap in infrastructure facelift among others; it was glaring even for the blind to see that silent revolution is going on in the state.” While commending Governor Makinde for his approach in tackling insecurity in the state, PDP lauded the governor for jettisoning politics by joining hands with other southwest governors in forming Amotekun security outfit. “It takes the courage and sagacity of a patriotic leader to shun his political affiliation and align with the opposition in the pursuit of peace and security of his people. “We are therefore appealing to the good people of Oyo State to join hands with this exemplary leader, shun any divisive tendencies or distraction so that the dream of Governor Makinde to take Oyo State to the next level is realized,” it added.