 Last Tuesday’s meeting of governors of the Southern states of Nigeria in Asaba, Delta State, is an indication that the country is still evolving in terms of structure, character and form. Nothing is yet settled as political leaders in the various states of the federation are taking position on matters concerning the Nigerian state. The strong issues raised in the communiqué read to journalists at the end of the meeting, suggesting unanimity of the governors on raging controversies in the country is an indication that resolution of certain matters may be closer than envisaged. The governors called on the Federal Government to fast-track the restructuring of the country being demanded by the different geopolitical zones and that had featured in the reports of the various panels and conferences organised by the Federal Government in the past. On fiscal federalism, they all agreed that the revenue sharing formula among the Federal Government and other tiers should be reviewed urgently. In addition, they said the President, as national leader should urgently address the country on the state of the nation, hoping that such address would calm frayed nerves and point to the way forward. One thorny issue raised that has since been generating debate across regional, ethnic and political lines is the decision to ban open grazing of cattle in all states of the country and prohibition of bringing cattle to the South by foot from the North that has been the practice over the years. We agree with the governors that the state of the nation calls for scrutiny by various groups in the country. Besides, the Northern governors have consistently met and volunteered positions on issues agitating the polity. The Tuesday meeting was only the second since President Muhammadu Buhari became the Chief Executive, the first having been held in 2017 in Lagos. The killer herders’ menace has so disrupted economic life and led to the untimely death of many in all parts of the country that it could not have escaped the elected leaders from the South. Kidnapping and arson that have affected lives and livelihoods in the North over the past decade have since seeped to the South without solution. It is unfortunate that many officials of the Federal Government seem to take exception to the position taken by the governors. Both the President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawan, and Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, have voiced their disappointment at the public position canvassed by the states’ Chief Executives. They expressed preference for the governors seeking audience with the President or approaching the National Assembly through their federal legislators, especially with regards to restructuring the federation. It is hypocritical that the National Assembly leaders are complaining because the Southern governors have voiced their collective opinion, while the Northern governors have consistently met, issuing collective opinion on issues without a whimper from the Senate President and the Speaker. This is a point at which it has become anti-people for anyone with a voice on how the polity should run to remain mute on issues of national importance. Nigeria is fast becoming a rogue nation and many people are canvassing positions that could undermine national unity or even lead to disintegration. It is thus apt that the governors step in at this time to check the slide. Economically and politically, it has become clear that the existing structure is unsustainable. A system foisted on the nation by the military with little or no input from the people cannot last long, especially when fundamentally it derogates from the central tenets of federalism as practiced in other parts of the world. There are low hanging fruits from the recommendations of the governors. It costs nothing for the President to address the country. It could take either the form of a nationwide broadcast or wide consultation with groups from various parts of the country. He could move round, address the traditional, religious, women and youth groups, with a view to assuring them that his is a government of the people. This he ought to have done without waiting for a loud cry from the governors. It is not too late. While the governors called for national dialogue, they did not specify the form it would take. It need not take the form of a national jamboree since the reports of previous conferences are available and the issues have only deepened. A small group of people from the component parts of the people could be constituted to study the reports and distill issues on which there is already a consensus of opinion. This would assure all that they have a listening government, especially if it is complemented with another demand that appointments reflect federal character. This is not only a constitutional, but moral issue. We cannot say in one breath that the President is the Father of the Nation while in practice those who constitute the government are largely from one part of the country. The President, as Commander-in-Chief should heed the advice to inject people in command positions in the various security agencies if he wants to engender confidence across board and elicit support from the people in a bid to check the reign of insecurity across the land. Time is running out and action should be taken urgently on the issues raised by the governors, rather than relying on some people from another part of the country to impugn their integrity. The beauty of the gathering that produced the resolutions is that the members cut across partisan, ethnic and religious divides. The ruling All Progressives Congress, the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party, Christians and Muslims were all represented.