Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers has paid N1 trillion to 65,000 retirees since the inception of the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Its Chief Executive Officer, Olumide Oyetan in this interview with OmobolaTolu-Kusimo speaks on how the company has been able grow the pension assets under its management and other issues in the industry  HOW has investments of the fund been in recent times, bearing in mind the  macroeconomic environment? Pension Fund Administrator (PFAs) are rational investors who allocate assets to securities that are considered attractive in relation to the inherent risk of an investment. Due to the macroeconomic environment, we have in recent times witnessed a situation where risk-adjusted returns have been higher on sovereign debt notes, like bonds and treasury bills than from more volatile assets like equities. For context, the annual performance of the equity market has been positive only four times out of the last 10 years while the 10-year Compound Annual Growth Rate (10-Year CAGR) is 9.65 per cent following the over 50 per cent return recorded in 2020.Thus, one can understand the natural preference for safer instruments with higher returns potential. Furthermore, pension funds, being contributory, have grown at an average annual rate of 18 per cent over the last seven years, whereas there has only been a handful of new listings on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) over the same period.This disproportionate growth has significantly constrained the ability of pension funds to increase allocation to the equities markets whereas the issuance of sovereign and corporate debt instruments continues to grow steadily. Transfer Window was recently launched by the National Pension Commission (PenCom). How would you access it? The transfer window is a positive development for the pension industry as it gives Retirement Savings Account (RSA) holders the freedom to change their initial selection of a PFA to their preferred service provider based on attributes that are important to them. For us, as a company, the transfer window has given us the opportunity to welcome new clients and continually improve our technology and services to meet most of our clients’ needs. Leveraging our various educative programmes, the transfer window also gives us the opportunity to enlighten a wider audience, thereby boosting confidence in the pension industry as well as the larger financial services industry. We have carried out significant upgrades across our digital self-service channels and online platform to provide transactional ease and a personalised experience for both new and existing clients. We have also conducted in-house reviews and re-trained staff to equip them with required skills to harness opportunities presented by the transfer window to grow our market share. How have you been able to grow and safeguard pension fund assets under your management? The safety of clients’ pension fund is our priority at Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers.We expertly grow pension assets to deliver sustainable long-term returns using in-depth market research. We also ensure our clients can easily access their retirement benefits when they fall due. Since the inception of the contributory pension scheme, we have paid approximately N1 trillion to more than 65,000 retirees. With many Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) in Nigeria, an obvious question is: why should workers choose Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers? There are several reasons contributors should consider Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers as their preferred PFA. One key factor that stands us out is our rich heritage. As a member of the Standard Bank Group, which is the largest bank in Africa, you can rely on our over 155-years of delivering expert solutions across Africa with a consistent track record of excellence. We also have a dedicated team that ensures that our clients always receive excellent service. Transparency in the management of your pension asset is critical and we ensure that our clients have full access to up-to-date information pertaining to their Retirement Savings Account (RSA) via multiple channels. Our clients can reach us anytime and anywhere via our multilingual call centre, our PensionSolution mailbox, the Stanbic IBTC Mobile App, our 30388 SMS shortcode, our live chat and MyPension Portal on our website. We also have 41 dedicated service locations nationwide for Pension clients who prefer physical interaction. In addition to these, we offer free financial advisory through our Financial Fitness Academy and New School Money programmes which provide our clients and their children with tips on how to manage their savings and expenses, especially at such unprecedented times. Some workers and retirees complain that they are not able to reach pension managers as they would want to. How are you handling this on your part? Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers is uniquely positioned to deliver exceptional service delivery and long-term consistent results to everyone who trusts us with their pension and we are accessible via telephone at 01 271 6000, via email pensionsolution@stanbicibtc.com and via our website stanbicibtcpension.com.