Multiple award-winning singer Davido has reacted to the recent viral video of Nollywood actor, Yomi Fabiyi protesting over the continued detention of his colleague Baba Ijesha. The Nation had reported that popular Nollywood Actor Yomi Fabiyi had called on the police to release his colleague, Olanrewaju Omiyinka aka Baba Ijesha, who was accused of molesting a minor. He demanded the release of Baba Ijesha from detention before Wednesday, May 12th, 2021 following which he will mobilise Nigerians for a protest. Fabiyi, who has been supportive of Baba Ijesha, said on his Instagram page the continuous detention of the actor without trial is a violation of his human rights. Fabiyi led a protest at Panti against the detention of his colleague, Baba Ijesha, who was accused of molesting a minor. During the protest, Fabiyi, accompanied by other protesters marched from Casino bus stop to Panti Police Station. They demanded Baba Ijesha should be released from detention pending when a court would hear his case. The protesters were seen carrying placards and banners with different inscriptions such as ‘denial of bail of bail of bailable offence is human rights violation’, ‘Nigeria police, please allow the law to dictate to you, not Iyabo Ojo, Princess and co’, ‘release Baba Ijesha’, and ‘Nigeria police must respect human rights and honour bail for bailable offence’. The 30BG boss, who has been enjoying encomiums from notable personalities, colleagues and fans alike on hitting a decade on stage, reacted to Yomi’s protest video via his social media account. “Omo Baba Olowo” crooner while reacting to the video called Yomi a stupid fellow noting that he was the only one not wearing a mask among the protesters. Davido tweeted Yomi Fabiyi’s protest video with accompanying words that read: “Notice he the only one without a mask .. mumu.” Tweeps have also reacted to the video, affirming Davido’s claim about Yomi Fabiyi. @Dovelay22 tweeted: “Mumu of the highest order!! He’s trying to prove a rubbish point. Can he still carry placard if that little girl is his daughter, Oluya bi machine obioma!!!!” @Akpofure_willy stated: “Better mumu man ! Imagine the kind of society we now leave in!.” @Black_finest1 said: “For the minds of those ones wey follow em hold banner , den be like ” werey do quick pay us our money make we move…” @hardewumipaul tweeted: “Mumu unlimited.” @Brightken6 stated: “I’m a Wizkid fan, I swear I love you so much for this Davido. Na mumu be that and I know it will also happen to his daughter then he will know how it’s.” @Nellilking tweeted: “Obo wen dis happen to his own daughter, him go know better , na really Mumu him be.”