Afrobeat musician Seun Kuti has said that division of Nigeria can be achieved without going to war or killing one another. The activist and leader of Movement of The People (MOP) noted instead of choosing destruction to achieve Yoruba Nation or Biafra, the people should negotiate to achieve a common goal. He said this during a live video on Instagram while fielding questions on when ESN and Ebubeagu, a security outfit, would start a war among themselves. Kuti reminded his viewers that England recently left the European Union without fighting. “England just left the EU recently; did they fight anyone before leaving? The Scottish are agitating to leave England. Why are they not saying they want to fight war before they can leave England? Don’t get me wrong, I’m not saying these people don’t fight but understand the narrative. “Must it be a fight if we no wan do again, wey our elites? Why are they not agitating for a referendum? “Referendums now put the decision in the hands of the people. They want a constitutional conference, they should pick among themselves to help us divide. “If Nigeria truly wants to divide we must pose it in a referendum program, yes or no vote to all the people in this country so that we can make our argument for and against and the people would be carried along every step of the way because we will need them to make the final decision. “Even before we do constitutional conferences, democratically in any country, before you do a constitutional review, you must put it to the people, the people will now decide a yes or no vote for the review before you carry your review forward. “But when only a handful of people want to make decisions for hundreds of millions of people, this is what you now get. Everybody is only discussing one angle, one way of separating Nigeria which will kill millions of us in the name of separating Nigeria. “If the Yoruba people want to leave Nigeria, it is not overnight. Anybody wey tell you say Yoruba people can leave Nigeria over ten year period, that person is trying to put you in another long jump. Our problem needs like Fifty years of dedication to see front before everything balance,” he said. 