 Prelate of Methodist Church Nigeria, His Eminence Dr. Kanu Uche has faulted agitations for secession, saying Nigeria is always better off as one. He urged political leaders to find lasting solutions to the security challenge to prevent disintegration. Uche, who spoke with reporters in Lagos, relayed the communiqué issued at the 38th Council of Bishops of the church in Calabar, Cross Rivers State penultimate week. He cautioned agitators not to use religion and ethnicity to divide the nation, stating that no tribe should monopolise power. The cleric noted that the agitations rocking the country were fallouts of perceived suspicion that a certain tribe has cornered all the important positions in the nation’s political structure. “I must also point out that no tribe should monopolise power; every tribe must be involved in the governance structure of the country.  “As it is, a certain tribe considered as a minority is holding on to all the sensitive positions in the country. These are the causes of agitation. If the present administration gets the courage to do the right thing, I can assure you all the agitation will stop,” he stressed. The cleric added: “President Muhammadu Buhari must show by acts and deeds that he is a detribalised leader and not having any hidden agenda. But I know Nigeria will not disintegrate and anybody trying to create problems for Nigerians will not succeed because God is with the people of this country.” On some of the issues raised at the 38th Council of Bishops, Uche said the council urged the Federal Government to take bold and intentional steps towards restructuring the nation, including consideration of the recommendations of the 2014 National Conference. He said the council expressed the needs for establishment of state police and firming up the present structure of community policing as part of efforts in tackling insecurity in the country. “Council appeals to the Federal Government to ensure the independence of the judiciary, which is the last hope of the common man, knowing full well that adherence to the rule of law, assures investors, both locally and foreign of a stable environment for investment and profits,” he added. The Prelate also said the Council of Bishops applauded the 17 Southern Governors for resolutions on the ways forward. 